-- Danone Dairy Growth Shrinks Amid Declines in Spain, France
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-17T15:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/danone-third-quarter-revenue-rises-on-bottled-water-baby-food.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, reported third-quarter revenue that missed estimates as
declines in  Spain  and  Greece  caused the weakest growth in sales
of dairy products in more than three years.  Revenue adjusted for acquisitions, divestments and currency
swings rose 5 percent, the Paris-based maker of Activia and
Actimel said today. That trailed the 6.1 percent average of
15  analysts’ estimates . The stock fell  the most  in 11 weeks.  Danone, which cut its profitability forecast June 19, said
it has faced a “swift deterioration in consumption” in
southern  Europe  “that has proven steeper than anticipated.”
Sales of dairy products slid more than 10 percent in both Spain
and Italy. The miss may mean the company will only narrowly meet
its full-year target for adjusted sales growth of 5 percent to
7 percent, said  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  “Danone might just limp over the finishing line,” Wood
wrote in a report. The “fundamental” and “structural” issues
faced by the European fresh dairy business “are more serious,
and could take longer to repair, than previously believed.”  Regulators in Europe have barred dairy companies from
advertising some purported health benefits of their products,
making it “very difficult for Danone to justify a big price
premium versus private labels,”  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at
Societe Generale SA, said in an e-mail to clients today. The
results reinforce the view that “fresh dairy in Europe is a
commodity - or rapidly becoming so,” Ackerman said.  Share Performance  The  stock declined  3 percent to 47.33 euros after tumbling
as much as 5.3 percent earlier in the day. Danone’s stock has
risen 7 percent in 12 months.  Like-for-like sales at Danone’s fresh dairy products
division rose 0.7 percent, the weakest growth since the second
quarter of 2009. That missed estimates of 3 percent from
Barclays Plc and 2.5 percent from Liberum Capital.  The growth was due entirely to higher prices, with the
volume of dairy products sold falling 0.7 percent, Danone said.  “The dairy division again saw a negative volume momentum
that was disappointing,”  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at ING Bank
NV in Amsterdam, said in a telephone interview.  The climate in Europe will “not be very different in
2013” to what it was in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Pierre- Andre Terisse said on a conference call with analysts.  “I would expect the same kind of weakness we have seen in
both dairy and medical” in the fourth quarter, Terisse said in
the call. The environment in Spain is “at the higher end of
what we expected in terms of difficulties,” he said.  The situation in Italy is “very similar” to Spain, the
CFO said. The company is working on managing price points and on
ways to reduce the cost base in  Italy , the CFO said.  The yogurt maker said in July it raised its stake in its
Spanish unit for about 382 million euros ($501 million).  Danone reiterated its  guidance  for the year, saying the
operating margin will probably narrow by 0.5 percentage points
on a like-for-like basis. The company has “confidence” in the
forecast, Terisse said on the call.  Third-quarter sales rose 9.3 percent to 5.26 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  