-- Datatec Full-Year Sales May Reach $5.8 Billion on Global Growth
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-17T08:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/datatec-full-year-sales-may-reach-5-8-billion-on-global-growth.html
Datatec Ltd. (DTC) , a networking equipment
and services company that operates in more than  50 countries ,
predicted fiscal full-year revenue will climb to $5.5 billion to
$5.8 billion after acquisitions enhanced its global reach.  Sales had been predicted at $5.7 billion, according to the
average estimate of  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. First-half
sales through August rose 7.5 percent from a year earlier to
$2.62 billion, with 35 percent of revenue coming from outside
 North America  and  Europe , the Johannesburg-based company said in
a statement today. Full-year underlying earnings per share will
rise to about 55 cents from 47.9 cents, Datatec said.  “Overall revenues and underlying earnings are continuing
to improve but the rate of growth has slowed as the macro-
economic climate has become more uncertain,” Chief Executive
Officer Jens Montanana, said in the statement. “The diversity
of our business streams and our global footprint continue to be
strong assets.”  Datatec has expanded global operations through
acquisitions. In July, it announced the purchase of Afina Group,
a security and datacenter company with operations in 12 Latin
American, Caribbean and North African countries. In the first
half, Datatec also bought security company Triple AcceSSS IT
GmbH, based in Neudorf,  Austria , Indonesian security company PT
Netpoleon and Brisbane-based IT services company Corpnet.  Datatec shares fell 1.4 percent to 54.25 rand at 9:45 a.m.
in Johannesburg trading.  The company had sales of $5.03 billion in the last fiscal
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  