-- Deepwater Permits in U.S. Gulf Exceed Pre-BP Spill Level
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-10-17T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/deepwater-permits-in-u-s-gulf-exceed-pre-bp-spill-level.html
The Obama administration has issued
this year the most deep-water oil-drilling permits for the Gulf
of Mexico since 2007 as high crude prices revive exploration
slowed by the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  spill.  The pace of issuing permits under President  Barack Obama 
drew criticism from his Republican rival  Mitt Romney  last night
and from energy lobbyists during the campaign who say the
policies slowed oil and gas production on federal land. Obama
had suspended drilling after BP’s Macondo well exploded 40 miles
off  Louisiana ’s coast, killing 11 workers and sending an
estimated 4.9 million barrels of oil into the Gulf.  “We’re just now seeing the permitting return to pre-
Macondo levels,” said  Andy Lipow , president of the Houston-
based consulting firm Lipow Oil Associates LLC. “With  oil
prices  hovering around $90 to $100 a barrel, it makes sense to
look for oil in that area.”  Environmental groups including Washington-based Oceana say
regulations aren’t sufficient to prevent another disaster and
have asked the administration to stop further leasing in the
Gulf, the largest source of domestic oil in the U.S.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and BP are among
companies exploring for oil in mile-deep waters in the Gulf. The
producers are using equipment that meets the tougher safety
standards adopted after the BP spill.  The U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement,
which regulates offshore drilling, has as of yesterday issued 89
permits this year for new wells in waters deeper than 500 feet
(152 meters). The U.S. issued 76 for all of 2009, 32 in 2010 and
38 last year, according to the agency’s  website . In 2007, 106
were issued.  Tougher Standards  “Even if they’re up, there are not up as much as they
would have been if it weren’t for the policies that this
administration has in place ,”  John Felmy , chief economist at
the Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute , said in a
phone interview. “We would like to see even more.”  The group has promoted pro-development policies through
radio and television ads in its Vote4Energy campaign.  While total output increased under Obama, API and
Republicans including Romney have said administration policies
hinder growth. Production on federal lands triggered a tense
exchange during last night’s presidential debate as Romney said
Obama cut permits in half. Obama said “it’s not true” that
permits are down. Instead, oil production is at the highest
level in 16 years and natural gas output is “the highest it’s
been in decades,” Obama said. Total permits were down 37
percent in 2011 compared with the final year of the  Bush
administration .  ‘Accident Waiting’  “We think the reopening of the Gulf, especially with
regard to deep-water drilling, is an accident waiting to
happen,” Jacqueline Savitz, deputy vice president for U.S.
campaigns at Oceana, said in a phone interview. “What we’ve
been asking the government is: don’t sell more leases.”  The Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement in a
statement said every permit application is examined and approved
when an applicant has fully complied with “rigorous safety and
environmental requirements” and shown the ability to contain a
subsea spill.  BP, the largest holder of leases in the Gulf’s deep waters,
joined the  energy industry  in developing systems in response to
the spill that would cap a runaway well and collect oil. The
Obama administration added standards on well design.  Oil Sheen  The U.S. Coast Guard determined last week that a sheen BP
reported last month near the Macondo blowout site matches
samples from the 2010 spill. Brett Clanton, a BP spokesman, said
in an Oct. 11 e-mail that the oil most likely came from the bent
pipe that once connected the Deepwater Horizon rig to the well
head about 5,000 feet underwater.  API is urging the administration to open additional areas
to drilling and says the Gulf would be even busier if the Obama
administration didn’t slow down issuing the permits.  “We have seen numerous examples of regulatory decisions
that simply move in the wrong direction,” Erik Milito, the
director of upstream for the petroleum institute, told reporters
last month.  The deep water Gulf “is very important for the U.S.’s
energy security,” London-based GlobalData Ltd. said in a report
issued this month. The company, which provides analysis and
research, expects oil production in the  Gulf of Mexico  waters
deeper than 1,000 feet to increase at an average annual rate of
2.2 percent through 2020.  Crude oil for November delivery rose 24 cents to $92.09 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. The
commodity is down 37 percent from $145.29 reached in July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  