-- Demand for U.K. Inflation Debt ‘Very Good,’ Stheeman Says
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-17T14:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/demand-for-u-k-inflation-debt-very-good-stheeman-says-1-.html
Demand for U.K. index-linked gilts
is “very good” even as the Statistics Authority considers
changing how retail-price inflation is calculated, according to
Debt Management Office Chief Executive Robert Stheeman.  Inflation-linked bonds, which pay investors based on
changes in the retail-price index, have handed investors a loss
of 4.2 percent this year, while conventional gilts returned 2.2
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Investors bid for 2.6 times the amount sold when
the U.K. auctioned 1.5 billion pounds ($2.42 billion) of so-
called linkers on Oct. 11.  “Last week’s auction indicates one thing and that is there
is fundamentally still very good underlying demand for
inflation-linked gilts,” Stheeman said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson  in  London .
“A fair bit of any possible changes, were they to be
implemented, have already been discounted in the market.”  The Bank of England sets its benchmark  interest rate  based
on consumer-price inflation, which has been lower than retail-
price inflation on average for the past two decades. The
Consumer Prices Advisory Committee said Sept. 18 there is
“sufficient evidence to consider change” to inflation
calculations and it’s examining any “unjustifiable” gap between
the two measures.  Consultation Document  The National Statistician published a consultation document
on Oct. 8 and responses are due by Nov. 30. The Consumer Prices
Advisory Committee advises the  Statistics Authority  on potential
changes to the inflation measures.  “Absolutely nothing has been decided yet,” Stheeman said.
“This is not driven by government, not by ministers, but by the
independent Statistics Authority, which enjoys statutory
independence, and which has a mandate to produce the best
quality statistics for the country.”  Changing how inflation is measured may endanger the U.K.’s
safe-haven status, Michael Amey, a portfolio manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in London, said last month.
from the National Statistician are due by Nov. 30.  The U.K. gilt market may remain resilient even if the  Bank
of England  pauses its bond-purchase program when its current
round of so-called quantitative easing ends in November,
Stheeman said.  “My suspicion is that is may not change a huge amount,”
he said. “Don’t forget we have been here before. The bank has
paused QE previously back in 2010. The market took all that very
much in its stride.”  Pension Funds  Demand for inflation-linked securities from pension funds
has been one of the reasons the Debt Management Office has been
boosting sales of the securities, Stheeman said.  “We’ve increased the issuance of inflation-linked debt
over the last few years dramatically in absolute terms,
certainly in percentage terms the highest we have ever done,”
he said. “We are very conscious of that demand. It is providing
good cost-effective funding for the U.K.”  The 30-year  break-even rate , the difference in yield
between conventional and index-linked bonds, widened three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.9 percentage points at
3:10 p.m. in London after shrinking to 2.75 percentage points on
Sept. 27, the narrowest since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  