-- Diageo Says It Doesn’t Plan to Make Europe Political Donations
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-10-17T17:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/diageo-says-it-doesn-t-plan-to-make-europe-political-donations.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said today that it didn’t intend to make political
donations in  Europe  even as proxy shareholders voted ahead of
its annual general meeting to allow political funding.  While the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky and
Smirnoff vodka asked to be allowed to make donations of as much
as 200,000 pounds a year ($323,120) in countries in the European
Union, it said such sums wouldn’t be for political causes.  “We have not, will not, and it’s not our intention to make
any political contributions in Europe,” Chairman Franz Humer
said today at the AGM in  London . The distiller hasn’t made any
contributions in the U.S. to the presidential campaign for any
parties, he said, adding that any political spending in the U.S.
was “indiscriminate of political affiliation” and intended to
support its business interests in the country.  About 98 percent of proxy voters approved the motion ahead
of the AGM today and 93 percent of proxy voters approved the
remuneration report. London-based Diageo said that Chief
Executive Officer Paul Walsh’s remuneration more than doubled in
the year ended June 30 after he received shares under incentive
plans.  Diageo today reported first-quarter sales that grew at a
slower pace in Asia than analysts had estimated, dampening the
effects of better-than-expected trading in Europe. Its shares
declined 0.8 percent today.  Emerging Markets  Diageo’s seeking growth in  emerging markets  as economic
growth in countries including  China  enable consumers to spend
more cash on alcohol. It’s in talks to take a stake of about 20
percent in India’s United Spirits Ltd., two people with
knowledge of the discussions said Oct. 16, aiming to tap further
into high consumer demand for whiskeys in the country. The
company declined to comment further on the talks, but said that
its acquisition of  Turkey ’s Mey Icki raki business for about
$2.1 billion last year was a good example of its mergers and
acquisitions strategy.  “That’s a model we like,” CEO Walsh said today. ‘Buying
good local brands with good routes to market. You can conclude
that could be a strategy we could use in  India .”  The company announced it was in discussions with United
Spirits in a statement issued on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  