-- Drug From Chinese ‘Thunder God Vine’ Slays Tumors in Mice
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-17T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/drug-from-chinese-thunder-god-vine-slays-tumors-in-mice.html
A drug made from a plant known as
 “thunder god vine,”  or lei gong teng, that has been used in
traditional Chinese medicine, wiped out pancreatic tumors in
mice, researchers said, and may soon be tested in humans.  Mice treated with the compound showed no signs of tumors
after 40 days or after discontinuing the treatment, according to
researchers at the University of Minnesota’s Masonic Cancer
Center. The research, funded by the university and the  National
Institutes of Health . was published today in the journal  Science
Translational Medicine .  “This drug is just unbelievably potent in killing tumor
cells,” said  Ashok Saluja , vice chairman of research at the
center and the study’s leader, said in a telephone interview.
“You could see that every day you looked at those mice, the
tumor was decreasing and decreasing, and then just gone.”  The plant, also known as Tripterygium wilfordii, contains
triptolide, which earlier studies have shown can cause cancer
cells to die. In traditional Chinese medicine, the plant is used
as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. While the researchers
hope to start human trials in six months, Saluja said it’s still
a long leap from mice to people.  “Does that mean it will definitely work in humans?” he
said. “We can definitely not say that.”  The results pave the way for clinical trials in patients
with pancreatic cancer, one of the most lethal malignancies, the
researchers said in the study. About 44,000 new cases of the
disease are diagnosed each year in the U.S., according to the
U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. Only
about 20 percent of patients survive a year after diagnosis,
Saluja said.  Survival Odds  Even for patients diagnosed at the earliest stages of their
cancer when the odds are better, only about  14 percent  survive
five years or longer, according to the  American Cancer Society .
The current treatment is Eli Lilly & Co.’s  Gemzar (LLY) , which sold
$452 million last year. A generic version of the drug became
available in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It adds six weeks -- it’s nothing,” Saluja said.
“There’s definitely a need to discover and develop more
strategies for pancreatic cancer.”  The researchers dubbed the drug Minnelide, a combination of
Minnesota and triptolide. They developed a water soluble version
that could be injected into mice, and in the future administered
to patients intravenously.  Saluja and his group have formed a company, Minneamrita
Therapeutics, which will attempt to take the drug into the first
of three stages of human clinical trials that are generally
required before U.S. regulatory approval. Saluja said the
company has discussed the trials with the  Food and Drug
Administration .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  