-- Dutch Funds See Scope for Inflation-Linked Investments at Home
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-10-17T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/dutch-funds-see-scope-for-inflation-linked-investments-at-home.html
Dutch pension funds, seeking
inflation-linked investments in their home market, could ease a
credit shortage if the right instruments are offered, according
to APG Groep Chief Investment Officer Angelien Kemna.  “We are willing, there is scope, if there is an alignment
of parties involved,” including retirement plans, their asset
managers, the government and banks, Kemna said at a seminar in
The Hague today. “There has to be trust and an acknowledgment
of the need for an attractive return for all parties involved.”  The Netherlands has the euro area’s biggest pension
industry, with 950 billion euros ($1.25 trillion) in assets at
the end of the second quarter,  data  from the Dutch and European
central banks show. The assets are held in collective plans run
by industry, company and occupational pension funds. APG manages
314 billion euros for pension funds including the country’s
biggest, Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP.  Because a large part of Dutch savings is tied up in pension
funds, lenders are reliant on market funding. The “funding
gap,” or amount of loans banks can’t fund with deposits, was
more than 450 billion euros at the end of the second quarter,
according to a Dutch central bank report dated Oct. 9. Pension
funds in 2011 invested about 15 percent of assets in their home
market, Dutch central bank director Joanne Kellermann said
today.  APG’s Kemna said funds would be interested in investing
more in infrastructure projects offering Dutch inflation-related
compensation. The Dutch state doesn’t offer inflation-linked
bonds because it can borrow cheaply through conventional bonds,
she said.  State Guarantee  Retirement plans and their asset managers would also be
interested in investing in securitized loans to small- and
medium-size companies as well as securitized residential
mortgage loans with a state guarantee, if these were offered,
she said.  Dutch banks haven’t been willing to meet pension funds’
conditions for increasing their investments, Kemna said.  Retirement funds, which have suffered as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and low interest rates hurt government bond yields and
drove up liabilities, could benefit from increased margins on
mortgages, Eloy Lindeijer, head of investment management at
Dutch investor PGGM NV, said in June. Investors could use Dutch
residential mortgage-backed securities to hedge interest-rate
risks, he said.  Kellermann said that as their supervisor she doesn’t oppose
pension funds increasing their investments in the Netherlands as
long as risks are properly managed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  