-- LTE Demand Drives Softbank’s $20 Billion Sprint Purchase: Q&A
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-17T01:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/lte-demand-drives-softbank-s-20-billion-sprint-purchase-q-a.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  agreed to buy a stake
of about 70 percent in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1 billion,
seeking growth outside its own saturated domestic market.  With the deal, announced Oct. 15, Japan’s third-biggest
mobile-phone operator is looking to benefit from a shift to
faster mobile networks using long-term evolution, or LTE.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
LTE. The information is drawn from research by the International
Telecommunications Union under the UN, IHS iSuppli, ABI Research
and NgnGuru Solutions’ LTEWorld.org Website.  Q: What is it?  LTE is a standard for higher-speed mobile services being
adopted by carriers around the world. The technology offers peak
download rates of at least 100 megabits per second that can go
as high as 300Mbps, compared to a maximum of 50Mbps for current
3G standards, according to the  ITU . Upload rates are at least
50Mps and as high as almost 100Mbps, compared with a maximum of
less than 30Mbps for 3G. Latency, or round-trip delay, is 50
percent to 80 percent shorter than existing standards.  The latest versions of LTE, known as LTE-Advanced, have
been  designated by the ITU  as 4G technologies with earlier
iterations considered to be 3.9G.  There’s also a competing 4G technology called WiMAX
originally backed by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Carriers, including Sprint
Nextel Corp., that announced a plan in 2006 to build a
nationwide WiMAX network now favor LTE because it’s faster and
more compatible with existing 3G mobile standards.  Q: What can it do for consumers?  LTE offers faster downloads and streaming, allowing users
to quickly load videos from websites such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube and watch high-definition clips without a hitch. To put
it in context, you can enjoy downloads and Internet browsing
that seem as fast as WiFi connections at home. The faster
service comes with a price -- LTE plans cost consumers about 20
percent more than similar 3G products,  according to  ABI
Research.  Q: Who offers it?  Mobile operators globally, from Sprint in the U.S. to  NTT
Docomo Inc. (9437)  in Japan to  SK Telecom (017670)  in  South Korea , have rolled
out LTE networks, with more deployments to follow in the next
two to three years, according to ITU.  You need devices designed to run on LTE networks to enjoy
the service.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPhone 5 supports LTE, while
other phone makers including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)  have also introduced LTE phones.  There will be more LTE devices:  Asustek Computer Inc. (2357) ,
maker of the Eee PC, will offer LTE when it becomes one of the
first companies to offer tablets running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows RT platform this month.  Nokia Siemens Networks Oy is the largest maker of LTE
equipment bought by operators, followed by Huawei Technologies
Co. and Ericsson,  according to   ABI Research . LTE will be the
main driver of an 8.3 percent growth this year in mobile network
equipment revenue to $45.5 billion,  according to  IHS iSuppli.
Fourth-generation infrastructure will rise from $8.6 billion
globally this year to $25.2 billion next year, comprising the
majority of all expenditure, IHS said.  Q: Why is this a big deal?  As more people download apps, games and movies on their
mobile devices, faster mobile connections will be required to
serve the data. The average size of an Apple iOS app grew 16
percent in the six months to September, with games getting 42
percent larger, ABI  said . Global LTE subscriptions will reach
1.2 billion by 2016, compared with 16.9 million in 2011,
according to IHS iSuppli.  New mobile networks cost carriers billions of dollars a
year, hence the financial support Sprint sought from its deal
with Softbank. The agreement allows Sprint to fund a faster
expansion of LTE networks and take on bigger competitors  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  