-- The Decline and Fall of the Yankees Empire
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-10-17T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/the-decline-and-fall-of-the-yankees-empire.html
Nothing heralds the decline of an
empire quite like the construction of an  expensive new
headquarters .  Louis XIV built Versailles after his power had peaked, and
before much of  Europe  united against him. Park Avenue’s Pan Am
Building went up not so many years before the iconic company
went under. Enron was still completing its postmodern skyscraper
in Houston when it filed for bankruptcy in 2001.  All of which brings us to the  New York Yankees  and their
$1.5 billion-plus stadium, baseball’s monument to America’s pre-
crash hubris. Entire sections of the ballpark, opened in 2009,
 sat empty  during the opening two games of the American League
Championship Series last weekend against the  Detroit Tigers .
Those fans who did show saved their boos for the home team.
“This is a very easy place to play now,” Tigers outfielder
Quintin Berry  said  after Game 2, issuing the ultimate
indictment.  It’s easy to dismiss fan apathy and even resentment as
simple disgust with a $200 million team that’s hitting a
collective .200  in the postseason  and faces elimination in
Detroit tonight. But there’s something larger at work here,
something the Yankees should have seen coming when they broke
ground on the new stadium in 2006.  Limestone Legacy  The new stadium was never just about  George Steinbrenner ’s
desire to cement his legacy in limestone. It was meant to serve
as the centerpiece of his franchise’s new economic model, one
based on the delusional assumption that success ad infinitum was
a given. It was this same assumption that led the Yankees to re-
sign the 32-year-old  Alex Rodriguez  to a 10-year, $275 million
contract after the 2007 season. (Actually, A-Rod costs the
Yankees much more than that. Because of baseball’s luxury tax,
they have to cough up an extra 40 cents for every dollar they
pay him.)  What did that matter? The Yankees had a plan. The new
stadium -- with its 51 luxury suites, countless corporate
sponsorship opportunities, 12,000 square feet of retail space
and extortionate ticket prices -- would dispense money like a
giant ATM; A-Rod would chase a variety of baseball milestones,
most notably the career home-run record, in pinstripes; and the
Yankees would add to their collection of 26 world championships.
Everyone would be happy.  The Yankees, you see, were no longer a baseball team. As
Randy Levine, the team’s president,  told me  in 2008: “The
Yankees today are an entertainment company with a baseball team
at its core.”  It stands to reason, then, that consumers of this
entertainment would be valued not so much for their loyalty as
for their potential to generate revenue. In other words, they
would be squeezed for every last dollar.  Professional sports teams are always trying to maximize
their revenue, of course, but nobody does it with the audacity
of the Yankees. For years, I shared a package of season tickets
with a group of friends. I eventually bailed out, but they still
had their tickets when the new stadium opened. In order to keep
the same seats -- which went from $45 a ticket to $100, in large
part because they gave ticket holders access to a cheesy stadium
bar called the  Jim Beam Suite Lounge  -- they had to sign a two-
year contract. My friends initially balked, but eventually
relented after being assured they would have no trouble
reselling tickets on the secondary market.  As it turned out, the Jim Beam Suite Lounge wasn’t such a
big draw. People weren’t willing to pay a premium for the
tickets, and my friends had to sell their extras at a discount.
At the end of the season they informed the Yankees that they
wanted to move to cheaper seats. They were told they couldn’t,
and the Yankees threatened them with litigation if they didn’t
pay up.  Expensive Seats  Yankee Global Enterprises LLC  is not exactly in financial
trouble. The team is worth some $1.7 billion. Its regional
sports channel, the YES Network, with its obscenely high
subscriber fees, is the most profitable such channel in the
country. All of those seats may be empty, but someone -- or some
corporation, anyway -- has paid for them. The Yankees will never
need a taxpayer bailout; anyway, they’ve already soaked the
city’s taxpayers to the tune of $1.2 billion for their new
stadium, according to Neil deMause, co-author of  a book  about
publicly funded stadiums called “Field of Schemes.”  Still, you have to wonder. How many season-ticket holders
will continue to re-up? The Yankees are stuck with A-Rod for
five more years. Not only is he having trouble cracking the
postseason lineup, it’s looking increasingly unlikely he’s going
to break that home-run record. (He’s 115 away, and has hit a
combined 34 over the past two seasons.) Even if he does, don’t
expect much of a celebration now that he’s an  admitted steroid-
user .  All of this will probably be forgotten if the Yankees can
turn things around. Those empty seats will once again be filled,
 New York ’s biggest ATM back in service. The A-Rod contract will
always be a mistake, but in the grand, multibillion-dollar
scheme of things, one that the franchise can easily afford.  That’s a big if, though. The math is simple: The Yankees
can buy all of the players they want, but they can’t make them
hit. If they don’t hit, the team will lose, and Yankees fans --
having emptied their wallets to see a winning team -- will lash
out, or simply stop buying tickets and merchandise altogether.  Last weekend, we witnessed the first rumblings of a mutiny.
If things continue at this rate, the new Yankee Stadium may
ultimately become just another symbol of an empire in decline.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A longtime contributor to the New York Times Magazine, he is the
author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is
Burning,” “The Challenge” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what the presidential
candidates  aren’t saying about coal power  and on the right way
 to plug national security ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things the
Republicans won’t tell you ;  Ezra Klein  on how Obamacare is still
 the best thing about Obama ; Fouad Ajami on  Malala and
the history of Pakistan ; Phil Zuckerman on why  secular voters
may be more powerful  than you think.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 