-- The Five Worst Ideas Romney and Obama Agree On
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-10-17T17:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/the-five-worst-ideas-romney-and-obama-agree-on.html
Mitt Romney  and President  Barack Obama  disagreed a lot in last night's
debate, but they don't disagree on everything. Unfortunately, Romney and Obama
share affection for a number of terrible, terrible ideas. Here are the five worst: 1.  Coal is awesome.  Last night, the two candidates fell over
each other in claiming their support of coal. First Obama bragged about "increases in coal production and coal employment."
Then Romney complained that Obama isn't pro-coal enough: "What we don't need is
to have the president keeping us from taking advantage of oil, coal and gas. ...
I was in coal country. People grabbed my arms and say, please, save my job." But Obama said it's Romney who is the real enemy of coal: When I hear  Governor Romney  say he's a big coal
guy -- and keep in mind when -- Governor, when you were governor of
 Massachusetts , you stood in front of a coal plant and pointed at it and said,
this plant kills, and took great pride in shutting it down. And now suddenly
you're a big champion of coal. Obama is even running a  radio ad  in  Ohio , touting his record of increasing
coal production and attacking Romney for shutting down that coal plant. In fact, coal is the dirtiest major fuel we use. Its use  is on the downswing 
because natural gas is a cleaner and, increasingly, cheaper alternative. Letting
coal production fall would be a good thing for the environment and the economy.
But neither candidate wants to say so. 2.  Let the payroll tax holiday expire.  This is such an area
of agreement that it didn't even come up in last night's debate. For the last two years, the payroll tax has been reduced by 2 percentage
points in order to encourage  job creation  and stimulate consumer demand. That
tax holiday is set to expire at the end of December, and as Annie Lowrey
 reported  last month for the  New York  Times, nobody seems eager to extend it. Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  told the Senate Budget Committee in February,
"I don't see any reason to consider supporting its extension," and the White
House has not signaled support since. Romney and other Republicans also are not
calling for an extension. Allowing the payroll tax holiday to expire will shrink consumer demand and
therefore the economy.  Mark Zandi  of Moody's estimates it will take 0.6
percentage points off of GDP; the  Economic Policy Institute , a liberal think
tank, bets on a larger Keynesian multiplier and says it will cost GDP 0.9
percent. With  interest rates  in the basement, this is essentially a free lunch: The
federal government can borrow almost for free to replace the lost revenue. So
why won't any candidate stand up for this  tax cut ? Sean West, the head of U.S. research for Eurasia Group, the global political
risk firm, says it's because neither side sees political advantage in this good
policy: For Democrats, supporting the tax cut opens them
up to claims of relying on "sugar high" stimulus measures and to accusations of
destabilizing  Social Security  (which is funded by the payroll tax). For
Republicans, supporting the cuts would entail endorsing a signature Obama
measure and reopening wounds between House and Senate Republicans, who had a
showdown over the issue last year. Unfortunately, neither Candy Crowley nor Jim Lehrer pressed the candidates to
explain what they would do on the issue. (Disclosure: I am a consultant to
Eurasia Group on fiscal issues.) 3.  Don't raise income taxes on anyone making less than
$200,000.  While both candidates are overly willing to let payroll taxes
rise in the short term, they also inappropriately rule out a medium-term
increase in income taxes for the middle class. Obama attacked Romney for wanting to continue the fiscally irresponsible
legacy of the Bush tax cuts. "The centerpiece of his economic plan are tax cuts.
That's what took us from surplus to deficit." Yet Obama wants to make the
portion of the Bush tax cuts applying to incomes under $200,000 -- about 80
percent of the total -- permanent. Romney insists, with increasing vociferousness, that his tax plan won't raise
taxes on the middle class, either -- indeed, he says he'll cut taxes on
them. Our long-term budget gap is  simply too large  to be closed with tax increases
just on the rich. And if the activities of the federal government are truly
valuable, politicians should be able to make the case that the middle class
should pay for them. Telling 97 percent of Americans that they can have more
government and not pay more taxes is irresponsible and unsustainable. 4.  We need to "get tough" on  China .  Romney says he will
label China as a "currency manipulator" and impose retaliatory tariffs if China
does not let its currency, the  renminbi , appreciate. Obama says his
administration already is tough on China, applying "unprecedented trade
pressure," including a tariff to stop China from flooding the U.S. market with
cheap tires. Picking a trade war with China is a terrible idea. Yes, the renminbi is
undervalued, but as  Evan Soltas notes , it's a lot less undervalued than it used
to be because the Chinese have been gradually letting it rise. That undervaluation is also a mixed bag for the U.S. -- it makes our
manufacturers less competitive, but it also makes the products we buy cheaper.
We shouldn't take costly steps to force China to adjust its currency faster. As Matt Yglesias  notes , if you impose tariffs on Chinese goods, "first you
reduce Americans' real income by subjecting them to higher taxes, and second
you'll hurt U.S. exports to China when the inevitable retaliation comes." For
this reason, the tire tariff Obama touted  cost U.S. consumers  at least $900,000
for every job it saved, according to the Peterson Institute for International
Economics. Romney opposed the tire tariff but is implicitly promising more,
similar actions. In their presidential debates in 1992,  Bill Clinton  attacked  George H.W. Bush 
for coddling China in the wake of  Tiananmen Square . Bush, to his credit,
responded that pushing China too hard would be reckless and that it was
important to foster a collaborative relationship with the world's most populous
country. It would be nice if Romney or Obama would stand up for that idea
today. 5. Housing policy isn't important.  There was no discussion
of housing policy in last night's debate. There was a little in the first
debate, but it was incidental: a discussion of how Dodd-Frank has affected the
mortgage market. Don't blame the moderators. Yes, they didn't ask specifically about housing,
but if the candidates thought it was important, they could have brought it up.
For example, when Crowley asked how the candidates would bring unemployment
down, "I will implement a better housing policy" would have been a good
answer. President Obama nominally favors government action to restructure home
mortgages, but his administration's actions have been disappointingly tepid. One
initiative was blocked by Federal Housing Finance Agency head Ed DeMarco, who is
not an Obama appointee. But Obama passed on an opportunity to replace DeMarco
with a recess appointment, which would have removed him as an obstacle. One of Romney's top advisers,  Glenn Hubbard , has his own aggressive mortgage
restructuring plan. But Romney has not indicated that he supports such a plan or
would implement one as president. His  59-point economic plan  has a lot of detail
in some areas, but says nothing about housing. Homeowners trapped with underwater mortgages -- unable to relocate to take
new jobs; devoting their income to deleveraging instead of consumption -- are a
key reason the economy is lagging. But both candidates act like the issue isn't
important. They are both wrong. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .