-- Mealamu Picked to Play His 100th All Blacks Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-17T23:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/mealamu-picked-for-100th-all-blacks-test-as-faumuina-gets-start.html
New Zealand hooker Keven Mealamu
will become the third All Black to play 100 Tests in this
weekend’s Bledisloe Cup rugby finale against  Australia , which
had to make its second injury-enforced change for the match.  Mealamu, whose inclusion in the starting lineup was one of
two changes from the team that won in South Africa 12 days ago,
follows captain Richie McCaw and former full-back Mils Muliaina
in playing a century of matches for New Zealand. Prop Charlie
Faumuina was named for his first start in place of Owen Franks.  The All Blacks’ 32-16 victory in Soweto secured a six-game
sweep of the southern hemisphere’s inaugural Rugby Championship
and extended their winning streak to 16 Tests. They last lost at
Brisbane’s Suncorp Stadium 14 months ago in the deciding game of
the final Tri-Nations tournament.  New Zealand’s winning run is one short of the top-tier
record of 17 straight Test victories it shares with South
Africa. Lithuania holds the outright record of 18 wins in a row,
according to the International Rugby Board.  Australia prop Ben Alexander was today ruled out of the
match because of a wrist injury and will be replaced in the
starting lineup by James Slipper, the Wallabies said. Sekope
Kepu was called up to the reserves’ bench.  Alexander’s withdrawal is the second change to the 22-man
squad named two days ago. Replacement hooker Saia Fainga’a
withdrew after breaking a bone in his hand in training.  Australia was already missing players including lock and
regular captain  James Horwill , scrum-half Will Genia, openside
flanker David Pocock, hooker Stephen Moore and backs James O’Connor and Berrick Barnes.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Cory Jane, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Hosea Hear, Dan Carter, Aaron Smith, Kieran Read, Richie
McCaw (captain), Liam Messam, Samuel Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Charlie Faumuina, Keven Mealamu, Tony Woodcock.  Reserves: Andrew Hore, Owen Franks, Luke Romano, Victor
Vito, Piri Weepu, Aaron Cruden, Ben Smith.  AUSTRALIA: Mike Harris, Nick Cummins, Ben Tapuai, Pat
McCabe, Adam Ashley-Cooper, Kurtley Beale, Nick Phipps, Wycliff
Palu, Michael Hooper, Scott Higginbotham, Nathan Sharpe
(captain), Sitaleki Timani, James Slipper, Tatafu Polota-Nau,
Benn Robinson.  Replacements: James Hanson, Sekope Kepu, Kane Douglas, Dave
Dennis, Liam Gill, Brett Sheehan, Drew Mitchell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  