-- Apollo Exit From Nine May Take Until 2014 as Ad Market Cools
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-18T07:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hedge-funds-face-long-wait-on-nine-exit-in-australia-media-slump.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
 Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the U.S. investment groups taking
control of  Australia ’s second-largest broadcaster through a
A$2.3 billion ($2.4 billion) debt-for-equity swap, may have to
wait until at least 2014 to exit the business.  Stagnating advertising revenue in Australia will make it
difficult for the funds to convince investors to buy shares in
Nine Entertainment Co. before then, said Alice Bennett, an
analyst at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . Peter Cox, an
independent media analyst with Cox Media, estimates an initial
public offering may not happen until at least 2015.  “The  hedge funds  are now the parties at risk in this,”
Cox said by phone. “If Nine performs well and the ad industry
turns round they would be able to sell into a stronger market,
but you’re looking at three to five years for a float.”  Nine’s enterprise value was written down to A$2.3 billion
in the deal reached yesterday between senior lenders and so-
called mezzanine debt holders, including funds managed by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  That’s about 60 percent less than the
A$5.75 billion of debt and equity invested when CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. bought the television company from billionaire
James Packer’s Publishing & Broadcasting Ltd. in a series of
transactions starting in 2006.  Apollo and Oaktree have no immediate plans to sell Nine,
said a person with knowledge of the funds’ deliberations. A new
board will be appointed, and Nine managers will be given time to
implement a plan to gain market share from its Australian
rivals, according to the person. Officials at the funds didn’t
immediately respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  ‘One Alan Bond’  Apollo, run by  Leon Black , operates private-equity and
hedge funds and also makes investments in areas related to real
estate, according to its website. Oaktree is the world’s largest
distressed-debt investor.  CVC isn’t the first investor to lose money on Nine.  James
Packer ’s father Kerry sold the network to Australian investor
Alan Bond in 1987 for A$1 billion, and bought it back for A$250
million when Bond went bankrupt less than three years later.  “You only get one Alan Bond in your lifetime,” Kerry
Packer remarked, according to Paul Barry’s 1993 biography “The
Rise and Rise of Kerry Packer”.  Sydney-based Nine owns Australia’s second-most watched
television channel as well as the country’s largest indoor music
venue and Ticketek, an event ticketing company. Its most popular
television programs include the Australian version of Big
Brother, British motoring show Top Gear, and CBS Corp.’s crime
drama the Mentalist.  TPG, Sloan  The debt-for-equity swap wipes out CVC’s original equity
investment of about A$2 billion and most of the A$1 billion in
mezzanine debt held by funds represented by Goldman Sachs. The
senior lenders including Oaktree and Apollo will get 95.5
percent of the new company and mezzanine holders will receive
4.5 percent, Nine said in a  statement  yesterday.  Some potential buyers have eyed Nine. TPG Capital, the U.S.
private equity firm run by  David Bonderman , is considering
making a bid for the company together with former Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer Inc. Chairman Harry Sloan’s Global Eagle Acquisition
Corp., a person with knowledge of the matter said in July.  Offshore phone companies, including Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd., BT Group Plc, and Deutsche Telekom AG
may also show an interest in the company as a way to diversify
away from their slower-growing core businesses, said Jeremy
Hook, who helps manage A$250 million as investment director of
TMS Capital Pty.  “There’s a logic to owning network and content if you can
nut out how it works,” he said by phone from Sydney.  Rupert Murdoch  A local trade buyer is less likely, he said.  Rupert
Murdoch ’s  News Corp . and  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) , Australia’s
most-watched television channel, would likely be blocked by
competition regulators given their existing broadcast holdings.  News Corp. will take over pay-television operator
Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd. after shareholders, including
James Packer and Seven West chairman  Kerry Stokes , backed the
A$1.94 billion offer with their shares representing about 75
percent of  voting rights .  Gina Rinehart , the mining billionaire with stakes in
newspaper publisher Fairfax Media Ltd. and third-ranked
broadcaster Ten Network Holdings Ltd., is unlikely to see a
reason to buy into Nine, Hook said.  “Her purpose is predominantly to leverage a position in
media to push a pro-mining, conservative agenda,” he said,
“rather than a pure investment-driven logic.”  Political Influence  A mainstream television network such as Nine is less suited
to that objective than a newspaper publisher such as Fairfax,
which has more political influence relative to its market value,
Hook said.  Mark Bickerton, a Perth-based spokesman for Rinehart’s
Hancock Prospecting Pty., didn’t immediately respond to a phone
message and e-mail seeking comment.  Any company returning to the stock market would face weak
conditions for initial public offerings. Australia’s IPO market
has seen just $398 million of offerings since the start of the
year according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
$1.16 billion over the same period of last year, the data show.  The A$2.3 billion valuation after the debt restructuring is
also higher than equity investors would be willing to pay now,
according to Samantha Carleton, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG.  “There’s a possibility of Nine coming to market before the
advertising market recovers, but in terms of valuation it would
be compared to current media companies listed,” Carleton said.  London Olympics  Seven West Media  will earn  A$468 million before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months through
June, according to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. That would value the company’s  debt and equity  of
A$3.38 billion at about 7.2 times its expected earnings on that
basis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nine, which told lenders during the restructuring process
that it was forecasting A$250 million of Ebitda for the same
year, carries a multiple of 9.2 times under yesterday’s deal.
That compares with an average of 8.9 times in 17 media takeovers
worth more than $1 billion over the past four years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nine has made efforts to regain the ratings lead it lost to
Seven in 2007, winning the rights to broadcast the 2012 London
Olympics and paying A$1.02 billion with pay-television company
Fox Sports in August for five-year rights to show rugby league
matches. Payment of Nine’s first A$30 million funding under the
broadcasting agreement was agreed yesterday, Australian Rugby
League Commission interim chief executive Shane Mattiske said in
an e-mailed statement.  Hits and Misses  Even so, the company’s new owners will wait for a recovery
in Australia’s advertising market and the  consumer spending  that
sustains it before selling, Commonwealth Bank’s Bennett said.  “They’ll wait until advertising markets have improved,
which we’re forecasting in 2014,” Bennett said. “Nine have
done well this year in terms of ratings but they’ve had some big
hits and misses. They need to develop a bit more consistency.”  Australia’s households, which never saved more than 5.1
percent of their income in the decade to September 2008, haven’t
put aside less than 8.1 percent of earnings since then, a rate
more than double  that in the U.S . The rising propensity to save
has hurt demand for  consumer goods .  Newspaper Dynamic  Advertising bookings in Australia’s metro television
market, where Nine has the biggest audience after Seven West,
have stagnated over the past five years.  Bookings reached A$1.93 billion in the nine months through
September 2007 and averaged A$1.90 billion in the same periods
of the five years since, according to research group Standard
Media Index.  Consumer prices  have risen 13 percent over the same
period.  Television stocks have slumped as a result. Seven West has
fallen 56 percent in the  past year . Ten Network declined 61
percent in the same period and hit a record low yesterday after
Champ Private Equity said it’s ending plans to buy the
broadcaster’s Eye Corp. billboard unit.  Ten posted its first annual loss in three years today as it
wrote down the billboard unit. The net loss was A$12.9 million
in the 12 months ended Aug. 31 compared with net income of
A$14.2 million a year earlier, the Sydney-based company said in
a statement.  Investors who soured on the prospects for newspaper
publishers as  Internet advertising  eroded their revenue are
growing concerned that the same dynamic is also emerging in
television, said Simon Cox UBS AG’s Sydney-based head of  equity
capital markets .  “Investors would traditionally wait until there’s clear
signs of an upswing in the ad market but there’s ongoing
nervousness about the structural changes affecting all media
companies,” he said. “The impact on print media is now obvious
and they may seek to extrapolate that to TV.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  