-- Egypt Likely to Maintain Benchmark Rate on Currency Concern
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-10-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/egypt-likely-to-maintain-benchmark-rate-on-currency-concern.html
Egypt ’s central bank is likely to
maintain its benchmark interest rate steady at its highest in
over three years due to pressure on the local currency.  The Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, headed by
Governor Farouk al-Okdah, meets later today to discuss the
deposit rate, currently at 9.25 percent, days before an
 International Monetary Fund  delegation is due to arrive in Egypt
to consider the country’s $4.8 billion loan request.  The bank has kept the deposit and lending rates unchanged
since November, as pressure on the Egyptian pound grew during
the economic downturn that followed last year’s ouster of former
President  Hosni Mubarak . Foreign reserves have dropped by almost
58 percent, to $15 billion, and the budget deficit widened last
year to 11 percent. The currency, subject to a managed float,
has weakened by 4.2 percent since the uprising.  Interest rates are likely to remain unchanged “given the
need to support the local currency, even with the easing of
inflationary pressures,” said CI Capital’s Alia Mamdouh, one of
five economists surveyed by Bloomberg who forecast the rate to
remain unchanged.  Political insecurity remains, with a constitution yet to be
finalized and rifts deepening between secular parties and
Islamists backing President Mohamed Mursi which have weighed on
efforts to revive the economy.  Slowing Growth  Economic growth in the country of 82 million fell to a 19-year
low of 1.8 percent last year, a figure that will barely recover
to 2 percent this year, according to the median estimate of 13
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Based on current reserves, “the government still has room
to further defend” the pound until the end of the year, Pharos
Holding analysts Monsef Morsy and Mona El Shazly wrote in an
Oct. 14 note.  Egyptian officials say they hope to get the IMF to sign off
on the government’s economic program during a visit by the fund
to Cairo later this month. The government is looking at subsidy
changes as part of an effort to cut costs and narrow a deficit
that Standard Chartered Bank said would likely miss its target
and be at least 10 percent of gross domestic product.  The Arab world’s most populous nation has been forced to
rely on domestic sources of credit and aid from neighoring
states as foreign investors fled after the mass uprising and
tourism revenues declined. The most recent Central Bank data
shows that foreign investments in Egyptian treasury bills in
July were 760 million pounds, or 1.2 percent of their December
2010 level of 59.3 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  