-- Eight Bidders Look to Help Croatia Find Highway Operator
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-10-17T13:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/eight-bidders-look-to-advise-croatia-in-finding-highway-operator.html
Croatia  collected eight bids to
advise the government to select an operator for its new highway
system, said Transport Ministry official Marija Hrebec.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Goldman Sachs International (GS) ,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , N M Rothschild & Sons, submitted individual bids to
advise the search for strategic partners for the project, Hrebec
said in the capital Zagreb today. Offers ranged from 50 million
kuna ($8.7 million) to 86 million kuna, she said.  “As a global specialist, we’ve made a strong decision that
Croatia is the market we want to be present in,” Mark Dooley,
Macquarie’s senior marketing director, said in an interview
today.  The former Yugoslav republic is trying to upgrade its
infrastructure and transport links as it prepares to join the
European Union in 2013. The future operator will run the highway
system for 30 to 35 years in exchange for as much as 3 billion
euros ($3.9 billion), Transport Minister Sinisa Hajdas Doncic
said on Sept. 11.  Zagrebacka Banka d.d., a unit of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , and  JP
Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  made a joint bid, as did  Erste Bank Group AG (EBS) 
and Deloitte and Touche and a group made up of Lazard Freres,
Watson Farley and Williams LLP Paris, according to Hrebec.
Odvjetnicko Drustvo Bardek, Lisac, Musec, Skoko, Sarolic d.o.o.
is the final bidder in a joint bid with CMC Reich-Rohrwig GmbH
Vienna and the Economy Institute of Zagreb, she said.  Macquarie,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank, in
September also bid to build a thermoelectric plant in the Istria
peninsula. It expressed interest in May to help arrange 1
billion euros in financing for construction and renovation of
Croatian schools and public buildings.  The government will tell the bidders its decision in 45
days, and make a public announcement 15 days later, Hrebec said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  