-- Chinese Company May Still Pursue A123 After Bankruptcy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-17T23:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/electric-car-battery-maker-a123-systems-files-bankruptcy.html
The Chinese auto-parts maker that
previously bailed out  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , the U.S. electric-car
battery maker that filed for bankruptcy protection this week,
said it’s still interested in taking over the company.  The bankruptcy filing may turn A123 into a more attractive
investment because the court proceedings would clear out legal
risks, Ni Pin, president of Wanxiang Group Corp.’s U.S.
operations, said in a phone interview yesterday. The automotive
business assets that A123 announced this week it would sell to
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  are separate from what Wanxiang had
targeted, Ni said.  “ Bankruptcy court  is like a filter that lets a dirty big
boy covered with mud go through it and turn himself into a clean
boy,” Ni said. “Even though the boy may become smaller, he
doesn’t have the obligations he used to have.”  A123, the recipient of a $249 million federal grant, said
that it scrapped the previous agreement with Wanxiang as it
filed for  bankruptcy protection  and agreed to sell its
automotive business assets to Johnson Controls. The Chinese
company, the nation’s biggest auto-parts maker, earlier this
year agreed to provide A123 with as much as $465 million in
loans and bonds convertible into an 80 percent stake.  Wanxiang’s deal was structured to protect itself against
A123’s potential bankruptcy, Ni said. Still, the court
proceedings may result in Wanxiang facing competing suitors,
which may drive up the cost of A123, he said.  The Johnson Controls deal doesn’t clash with Wanxiang
because the Chinese company is interested in all of A123, not
part of its assets, Ni said.  Targeting China  The earlier deal between the Chinese company and A123,
announced in August, had drawn opposition from Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida
Republican, who cited possible national security concerns.  Ni said Wanxiang hasn’t faced any U.S. regulatory
opposition and that the company may have drawn attacks from
politicians because the deal came during an election year.  “In a two-party system, they have to figure out an enemy
and  China  is the easiest one to target,” Ni said. “This is
just the reality.”  The bankruptcy filing gave Republican  Mitt Romney  fresh
ammunition to criticize President  Barack Obama ’s record on the
economy.  “A123’s bankruptcy is yet another failure for the
president’s disastrous strategy of gambling away billions of
taxpayer dollars on a strategy of government-led growth that
simply does not work,” Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement this week.  ‘Orderly Sale’  Federal grants and loans to companies including A123,
Fisker Automotive Inc. and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  have drawn scrutiny
from congressional Republicans following the September 2011
bankruptcy filing of solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC two years
after it received a $535 million loan guarantee from the U.S.
Energy Department.  For A123, this week’s move may pave the way for an
“orderly sale” of the company, it said in a statement. Johnson
Controls plans to acquire A123’s automotive-business assets in a
deal valued at $125 million and will provide financing of $72.5
million to support A123’s operations, according to the release.  The company listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of
$376 million as of Aug. 31 in Chapter 11 documents filed in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Financial Lifeline  A123 needed a financial lifeline after struggling with
costs from a recall of batteries supplied to Fisker, the plug-in
hybrid luxury carmaker. Temporary relief came in August, when
the company announced a non-binding agreement with Wanxiang.  A123 Chief Executive Officer  David Vieau  said in this
week’s statement that the company scrapped its deal with the
Chinese company because of “unanticipated and significant
challenges to its completion.”  Johnson Controls plans to acquire A123’s automotive
business assets, including its facilities in Livonia and
Romulus,  Michigan . The Milwaukee-based company also will obtain
A123’s cathode powder plant in China and its equity interest in
Shanghai Advanced Traction Battery Systems Co., A123’s joint
venture with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  