-- Telefonica Germany IPO Said to Be Boosted by Tax Credits
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-10-17T09:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/telefonica-germany-ipo-said-to-be-boosted-by-tax-credits.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s German unit, seeking
to raise as much as 1.68 billion euros ($2.2 billion), can skip
paying taxes the next three years because of tax credits that
may make its initial public offering more attractive.  The allowances, stemming mostly from losses related to
mobile-phone licenses acquired at the beginning of last decade,
will enable Munich-based Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG to
fully offset taxable earnings through 2015, according to its IPO
 prospectus . The tax credits have a net present value of 2.1
billion euros, or about 21 percent of the unit’s equity value,
according to documents prepared by one of the banks managing the
sale and seen by  Bloomberg News .  From 2016 onward, the effective  tax rate  may be 12 percent
to 13 percent, another document shows. That compares with the 34
percent tax rate for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  had last year and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 25 percent, both based on adjusted
earnings. Under German law, 60 percent of taxable income can be
offset against tax losses carried forward.  “The fact that Telefonica Deutschland will be able to
benefit from not having to pay taxes in coming years makes the
asset much more attractive to investors, as the company will be
able to use that cash for further investments in the business,”
said Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $55 billion at
Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management. Braendle said he
hasn’t decided whether he’ll buy shares in the unit.  Debt Reduction  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is selling
almost a quarter of the German unit’s stock as part of the
Madrid-based former phone monopoly’s effort to reduce more than
58 billion euros of net  debt .  As many as 258.8 million shares of Telefonica Deutschland
are being offered at 5.25 euros to 6.50 euros each. The IPO
values the German business at as much as 7.3 billion euros.  Albert Fetsch, a spokesman for Telefonica Deutschland,
confirmed that the post-tax losses so far come from the
amortizations of so-called UMTS wireless licenses. The rules are
the same for all phone companies that post such losses, he said.  The share sale starts today and end Oct. 29, with trading
debut in Frankfurt scheduled for Oct. 30. Telefonica will sell
225 million shares, with an option for an additional 33.75
million shares to meet strong demand, bringing the IPO to as
much as 23.17 percent of the German unit.  Earnings Rise  Telefonica Deutschland’s second-quarter operating income
before depreciation and amortization rose 12 percent to 333
million euros. Wireless-service revenue in the period totaled
789 million euros, almost the same as  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus
wireless brand in Germany.  The unit may say net income more than doubled to 200
million euros this year from 71 million euros a year ago,
according to one of the documents. Net income may exceed 630
million euros in 2015, it shows.  Telefonica Deutschland will pay the banks acting as
underwriters a base fee of 1.375 percent of the offering’s
aggregate gross proceeds, as well as a possible additional
discretionary fee of as much as 1.125 percent of the proceeds,
according to the prospectus.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the IPO, with
help from  Bank of America  Corp.,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The German operator, which is considering “strategic
options” for its Telefonica Germany Online Services unit, had
854.4 million euros of billed trade receivables from customers,
of which 106.6 million euros, or 12.5 percent, were more than 60
days overdue, the prospectus shows.  Regulatory changes may pose a risk for both the company and
investors, even as Germany’s economic environment is less
volatile than southern European countries, according to
Swisscanto’s Braendle.  “I’m concerned that regulation may change in the future
because of the European debt crisis and the government could end
up scrapping the tax deduction,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  