-- Telus Investors Back Plan to Scrap Dual-Share Structure
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-18T01:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/telus-investors-back-plan-to-scrap-dual-share-structure.html
Telus Corp. (T)  shareholders approved
the Canadian wireless carrier’s plan to scrap its dual-class
share structure over opposition from investor Mason Capital
Management LLC.  “Telus shareholders have voted strongly in favour of a
proposal to exchange the company’s non-voting shares for common
shares on a one-for-one basis,” the Vancouver-based company
said in a statement today. None of Mason Capital’s four
resolutions received sufficient support from shareholders at the
meeting held today, it said.  “Fundamental Telus investor views dominated, prevailing
over a self-serving hedge fund engaging in a troubling empty
voting trading strategy, negative publicity campaign and
multiple court challenges to try to defeat this proposal for
their own profit,” Chief Executive Officer Darren Entwistle
said in the statement.  Today’s vote is the culmination of a six-month legal battle
waged between Telus and the hedge fund over the carrier’s plan
to eliminate its dual-share structure by converting all non-
voting shares into voting stock on a one-to-one basis. Telus has
said it was trying to boost the appeal of its stock as the
carrier competes in Canada’s wireless market with larger rivals
 BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)   Original Vote  Mason Capital, based in  New York , opposed the plan because
it would dilute the value of the voting shares it had bought. An
original vote on the issue was abandoned by Telus in May after
it became clear that the hedge fund could use its stake to block
the plan. Mason Capital said in July it had raised its stake in
Telus to 19.98 percent, without giving a previous figure.  Telus said in a separate e-mailed statement today that 81
percent of shareholders approved its plan. Excluding Mason
Capital, 93 percent endorsed the move, the company said.  Pamela Blum, a spokeswoman for Mason Capital with Sard
Verbinnen & Co., didn’t immediately comment on the voting
result.  The final hearing before the British Columbia Supreme Court
to approve the share exchange is set for the week of Nov. 5,
Telus said.  Telus’s  voting shares  were little changed at C$62.89 at the
close in Toronto before the vote. The  non-voting shares , which
have historically traded at a discount to the voting stock,
slipped 0.1 percent to C$62.28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  