-- Emerging Stocks Rise to One-Month High on China Outlook
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-17T21:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/emerging-stocks-rise-to-one-week-high-on-china-spain.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to its highest level in a month, on
speculation  China ’s economy is stabilizing and as Moody’s
Investors Service retained Spain’s investment-grade rating.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which gets about 35 percent of its
revenue from  Europe , climbed to the highest since March in Hong
Kong. Chinese banks including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  rose after upgrades by Credit Suisse Group AG.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index advanced for a fourth day as  OGX Petroleo
& Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  rose. OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s largest
natural-gas producer, gained and Poland’s  Telekomunikacja Polska
SA (TPS)  tumbled 15 percent after cutting its dividend and earnings
forecast.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,010.85 at the close of trading in New York, the highest level
since Sept. 17. Credit Suisse said the Chinese economy is
probably bottoming and Premier Wen Jiabao said the country’s
economic situation last quarter was “relatively good.” The
European Central Bank’s willingness to buy Spain’s debt lowered
the risk of losing access to credit markets, Moody’s said
yesterday. A U.S. report today showed new-home construction rose
to a four-year high in September.  “Emerging markets are getting buoyed by a confluence of
favorable factors that are neutralizing the outlook of a global
slowdown,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “A bottoming China and rising
U.S. industrial output will boost global demand while an
investment grade raises the chances of a bailout for Spain.”  Rating Upgrades  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.8
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 2.4 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprise Index (HSCEI)  advanced 1.2 percent
to the highest close since May 8. The  Kospi index  climbed 0.7
percent after Macquarie Group Ltd. raised South Korea to an
equivalent of buy. Russia’s Micex Index rose 1.3 percent and the
BSE  India  Sensitive Index added 0.2 percent after Macquarie
upgraded India to neutral.  The Bovespa rose 0.6 percent on its fourth day of gains,
the longest winning streak in a month. Credit card processor
 Cielo SA (CIEL3)  gained 2.9 percent while OGX, controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , rose 1.8 percent.  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , also controlled
by Batista, surged 8 percent after Batista announced he will buy
$500 million of new voting stock by March and may buy an
additional $500 million within another year, according to a
regulatory filing today.  Top Gainers  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index climbed 0.6 percent,
advancing for a 10th day, its longest winning streak since June.
Thailand’s SET Index added 1.1 percent after the country’s
central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rate for
the first time since January.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index rose for a fifth
day to its highest close in eight months. The  yuan  advanced to
its highest since 1993. The ruble climbed for a second day.  Measures of industrial and energy stocks led gains among
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 10 industry groups. The
 broader gauge  has risen 10 percent this year, trailing a 13
percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed countries.
The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.4, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 30 percent of their exports to the European Union on
average and 13 percent to the U.S., according to data compiled
by the World Trade Organization.  China Data  China’s worst is probably over as infrastructure
investment, housing starts, retail sales, manufacturing indexes
and construction machinery sales all indicate the economy is
stabilizing, Vincent Chan and Peggy Chan, analysts at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a report dated yesterday. Credit Suisse raised
its recommendation on the banking, material and transportation
industries to overweight.  China is scheduled to release third-quarter gross domestic
product data tomorrow. The economy probably expanded 7.4
percent, the slowest pace in more than three years, according to
the median estimate of 43 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “China’s economic growth has started to stabilize,” the
official Xinhua News Agency said today, citing meetings Premier
Wen held Oct. 12-15 with industry leaders, company executives
and some local government officials.  Cosco Advances  Cosco Pacific, which operates container terminals, rose 5.8
percent. Industrial & Commercial Bank gained 1.8 percent, ending
a two-day retreat.  “Growth is continuing and doing very well” in China, Mark Mobius, who oversees about $48 billion as the executive chairman
of Templeton Emerging Markets, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move Asia” with  Rishaad Salamat . Mobius
said he’s buying Chinese consumer shares, including retailers.  Hungary ’s BUX index sank 0.7 percent after Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  told reporters today the government won’t meet
its pledge to banks to halve the tax on lenders next year.
Hungary will increase a separate tax on financial transactions
and introduce a levy on utility infrastructure to shrink the
budget deficit, he said. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, fell 3.7 percent.  TPSA Tumbles  Telekomunikacja Polska, Poland’s biggest phone company,
dropped the most on record, dragging the benchmark WIG20 index
in Warsaw to its first loss in three days. TPSA, as the France
Telecom SA unit is known, expects sales to drop 4 percent to 5
percent this year, compared with an earlier forecast for a 3
percent decline, according to a regulatory statement late
yesterday. The company will recommend paying a dividend of 1
zloty per share from its 2012 profit, down 33 percent from an
earlier proposal.  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-biggest producer, fell 2.8
percent in Mumbai after the Central Bureau of Investigation
filed charges related to illegal mining of iron ore against the
company and two of its executives. Chief Executive Officer Vinod Nowal and Vikas Sharma, a senior vice president, were named in
the charges, two CBI officials said yesterday, requesting
anonymity because they aren’t authorized to speak on the
subject.  “There is absolutely no illegality or immorality in what
we have done,” Nowal said today in a phone interview. “We
haven’t received any favors from anybody nor have we extended
any favors to anyone. We’ll present our case strongly and expect
the court to do justice.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 269, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  