-- England Soccer Body Reports Racist Chants, Brawl in Serbia
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-17T17:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/england-soccer-body-reports-racist-chants-brawl-in-serbia-1-.html
England ’s Football Association
complained to  European soccer’s  governing body that its under-21
team was subjected to racial abuse and stone-throwing from
Serbia fans in a match that ended in scuffles.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  was “appalled” by the
incidents, his spokesman said. Serbia’s Sports Minister Alisa
Maric said she’s asked for a report from the country’s soccer
federation, which denied there was any racist behavior before or
during the game last night.  England won 1-0 on a Connor Wickham goal in second-half
stoppage time. The referee’s final whistle prompted brawling
between players and officials from both teams as England
advanced to a record fourth straight European Under-21
Championship finals. England’s Danny Rose, a black player, was
sent off after the game in Krusevac, Serbia, when he kicked the
ball away and got a second yellow card.  “The F.A. condemns both the scenes of racism and the
confrontation at the final whistle during which time our players
and staff were under extreme provocation,” the governing body
said in a statement. “The F.A. has reported a number of
incidents of racism to UEFA. These were seemingly aimed at a
number of England’s black players by the crowd. The matter is
now with UEFA.”  UEFA said it started disciplinary proceedings against the
F.A. and the Serbian federation for the “improper conduct” of
their players, and against the Serbian body over alleged racist
chanting by spectators.  Rose Attacked  Rose, a Tottenham player on loan at Sunderland, left the
field making a gesture to the crowd suggesting he had been
racially abused. Last night’s scenes bore echoes of a match
between the two teams in 2007 after which Serbia was fined
20,000 euros ($26,000) when fans racially abused England
defender  Nedum Onuoha .  “I had two stones hit me in the head when I went for a
throw-in,” Rose, 22, told  Sky Sports . “After 60 minutes my
mind wasn’t really on the game. I was just so angry and it was
so hard to concentrate.”  The defender said after the winning goal he “expressed my
emotions.”  “Next thing I know, all the Serbia players were
surrounding me, pushing me,” he said. “I remember getting
slapped twice. I got ushered away and that’s when I kicked the
ball -- and then the referee sent me off.”  England won 2-0 on aggregate over two matches.  Cameron Condemnation  Cameron condemned the incidents and endorsed the F.A.’s
protest.  “He was appalled by the scenes that we have seen in
 Serbia ,” his spokesman Steve Field said. “We are determined to
stamp out racism overseas and at home and we are giving full
backing to the F.A.’s complaint. If we are going to stamp out
racism from football then it is no good handing out derisory
fines as has happened in the past.”  Serbian soccer officials laid the blame on Rose, saying his
reaction after the match led to the brawl. Still, they’ll have
to answer to Sports Minister Maric, who has convened a meeting
of Serbia’s National Council for the Fight Against Violence in
Sports.  “I strongly condemn any sports event turning into
provocation and insult,” she said. “I decisively oppose any
form of violence and discrimination, particularly in sports
events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  