-- House Seeks FDA Reports on Pharmacy Tied to Meningitis
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/meningitis-deaths-linked-to-steroid-shot-rise-to-19-cdc-says.html
Lawmakers probing the U.S.
meningitis outbreak are focusing on why the pharmacy linked to
this year’s infections didn’t receive greater scrutiny when
potential regulatory violations were found six years ago.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee sent a  letter 
yesterday to  Margaret Hamburg , the commissioner of the  Food and
Drug Administration , asking her about inspections at New England
Compounding Center dating to 2004. The committee cited an FDA
warning in 2006 of “potential microbial contamination” and
asked the agency to document what follow-up occurred.  At least 14,000 people have been injected with doses of the
pain-killing steroid methylprednisolone acetate that were
apparently contaminated during the mixing process at facilities
owned by New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., which operates
as New England Compounding Center. The company suspended
operations this month and recalled 17,676 doses of the drug
after reports of fungal meningitis infections.  There have been 247 reported cases of infections in 15
states traced to the tainted shots, including 19 deaths, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said  yesterday. The
drug is mainly administrated through an injection into the
spinal cavity to relieve neck and back pain. Meningitis is an
inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord.  The  Justice Department  is investigating the company. The
House committee, led by Chairman  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican, and Representative  Henry Waxman  of  California , the
top Democrat on the panel, also is probing the outbreak.  House Briefing  FDA officials briefed the committee on Oct. 12. Officials
said the agency inspected the Framingham, Massachusetts-based
pharmacy from September 2004 through January 2005, according to
the committee’s letter released yesterday.  Regulators sent New England Compounding Center a warning in
December 2006, saying the pharmacy was using unauthorized
practices that included “manipulation of a sterile injectable
product.” They also questioned whether the company was
operating as a traditional compounding pharmacy, or on a larger
commercial scale.  The company responded a month later to assure the FDA it
was in compliance. The House committee is asking for more
details by Oct. 31 of that correspondence, inspection reports
and other records to determine why the FDA couldn’t confirm
whether additional checks were conducted to verify the company’s
claims.  Compounding pharmacies are exempt from strict FDA
oversight, since they’re only supposed to prepare individual
prescriptions unavailable through regular avenues, such as those
with a unique dosage. The drug linked to the meningitis outbreak
was mixed by the company and sold to 75 hospitals and clinics in
23 states, the CDC has said.  New Regulations  Madeleine Biondolillo, director of the Massachusetts
Department of Public Health’s Bureau of Health Care Safety and
Quality, said last week that the company violated state
regulation that forbids such pharmacies from mass-producing
drugs. The House committee has requested a briefing from the
compounding pharmacy by Oct. 18.  The FDA said last week it will work with Congress on new
regulations that would grant the agency greater oversight of
such compounding pharmacies.  “We want to sit down with pharmacists and lawmakers and
think about a scheme that recognizes that the industry and
practice of pharmacy have evolved over time, and put in place a
risk-based scheme,” Deborah Autor, deputy FDA commissioner for
global regulatory operations and policy, said Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  