-- Five Things Republicans Won’t Tell You
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-10-17T22:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/here-are-five-things-republicans-won-t-tell-you.html
Mitt Romney  passed the likeability
test at the first presidential debate on both an absolute and a
relative basis. It wasn’t even a contest between the Republican
nominee and the  Barack Obama  impersonator who showed up to play
the president in Denver on Oct. 3.  At the second, town-hall debate on Tuesday, it was the
feisty Obama who took to the stage to level accusations at
Romney and fend off counterattacks. If the public could glean
anything more than a to-do list from either candidate -- the
how-to list comes later -- my congratulations.  Last week, I revealed some of the  Democrats’ secrets . Now
it’s the Republicans’ turn. Here are five things they don’t want
you to know.  No. 1: Romney isn’t a true conservative.  Democrats can’t decide if Romney is a flip-flopper, a
centrist or “severely conservative,” as he described himself.
Neither can Romney.  I’d bet against “severely” for the simple reason that
“governor of Massachusetts” isn’t a conservative credential.
The state is among the bluest of the blue, voting for the
Republican  presidential candidate  only four times since 1928:
twice for Dwight Eisenhower and twice for  Ronald Reagan . Yes,
Massachusetts has had its share of  Republican governors ,
including William Weld (1991-1997) and Romney (2003-2007). But
in general, the Bay State prefers its conservatives “lite.”  As governor of Massachusetts, Romney was for a woman’s
right to choose before he was against it. Ditto reducing
 greenhouse gases . His signature achievement? Universal health
care, complete with an individual mandate.  Romney veered right during the primaries before tacking to
the center during the first debate. Romney the centrist did
better in the  polls . A centrist president would be a
disappointment to the  Tea Party , which came to see Romney as its
best shot to defeat Obama.  Social conservatives might find themselves on the
sidelines, as well. If elected, Romney will face so many fiscal
cliffhangers that overturning Roe v. Wade will be the last thing
on his mind -- and his agenda.  No. 2: Don’t hold your breath on those loopholes.  Much of the criticism of Romney’s tax-reform plan is
directed at his budget math. Romney wants to lower corporate and
individual income-tax rates and do away with the estate and
alternative minimum taxes. He says he will make up the lost
revenue by closing loopholes. And he will do all of this without
adding to the  deficit , raising taxes on the middle class or
changing the progressivity of the  tax code . Good luck with that.  Romney’s critics want to know exactly which deductions and
exemptions he plans to eliminate, but he’s not telling. Why?
Because he isn’t going to get rid of entire categories of
loopholes since each one has a powerful (read: voting)
constituency behind it.  Imagine a candidate running on the following platform:
“Vote for Mitt Romney and kiss your mortgage-interest deduction
goodbye!” It sounds like a negative campaign ad, and would
probably have the same effect.  Romney has said clearly -- apparently not clearly enough --
that he will limit the amount of deductions that high-income
earners can take while preserving them for the middle class.  He
also said  at the first debate that he wouldn’t implement a  tax
cut  that adds to the  deficit .  Eliminating all the loopholes in the tax code, including
the mortgage deduction and exemption for employer-provided
health care, would generate  $1.3 trillion of revenue  annually,
according to Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation. Now you’re
talking real money. You’re also talking pipe dream.  No. 3: A big tent is better than a small lean-to.  Whatever happened to the Grand Old Party? Who folded Ronald
Reagan’s Big Tent, which could accommodate  Arlen Specter  and
 Rick Perry ,  Olympia Snowe  and  Michele Bachmann ? Nowadays, RINOs
-- Republicans in Name Only -- aren’t welcome.  Polls confirm that the U.S. is still a  center-right nation .
Surely Republicans understand that center-right is left of hard-
right. So many people are turned off by conservatives’ hard-line
positions on gay marriage and abortion, they vote Democratic on
that basis alone.  Centrist Republicans, like centrist Democrats, are a dying
breed. If the  Republican Party  is to survive, it may need to
update its philosophy for the 21st century. The party that wants
to ban government from the boardroom should think twice before
inviting it into  the bedroom .  No. 4: Made in America isn’t made for Americans.  Politics and trade make lousy bedfellows. Everyone
remembers when free-trader  George W. Bush  succumbed to politics
and slapped tariffs on various steel imports in 2002 to help
domestic producers -- not to mention his re-election prospects
in certain steel-producing states.  Romney has accused Obama of being a wuss when it comes to
 China ’s unfair trade practices and says he will declare China a
currency manipulator on day one, the first step in imposing
tariffs on imports.  Bad idea, and Romney knows it. And not because China will
dump its dollars -- dollars that are the byproduct of its
 exports to the U.S.  Protectionism hurts consumers, who end up
paying higher prices. Centuries after the benefits of free trade
were outlined by  David Ricardo  and  Adam Smith , politicians are
still drawn to the magic of mercantilism.  No. 5: About that pledge never to raise taxes…  One of the more memorable moments of the  Republican primary
debates  took place at  Iowa State University  on Aug. 11, 2011.
The moderator asked the eight candidates if they would reject a
deal that included $1 of tax increases for every $10 of spending
cuts. All eight raised their hand.  Everyone who knows or has worked with Romney talks about
his strengths as an executive, his ability to get things done.
As chief executive of USA Inc., if Romney had a deficit-
reduction agreement on the table with a 10-1 trade-off, I bet he
would take it and double down.  Four years ago, I penned a pair of “Five Things” columns.
Reading them today, it appears little has changed: The dates and
names may be different, but the issues are still the same. I
suspect that will be true four years from today.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what the presidential
candidates  aren’t saying about coal power  and on the right way
 to plug national security ;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s biggest
problem ; Jonathan Mahler on the  decline and fall of the New York
Yankees ; Fouad Ajami on  Malala and the history of Pakistan ; Phil
Zuckerman on why  secular voters may be more powerful  than you
think.  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  