-- EU Fraud Watchdog Says Dalli Was Aware of Bid to Sell Access
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-17T13:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/eu-fraud-watchdog-says-dalli-was-aware-of-bid-to-sell-access.html
European Union  anti-fraud
investigators  said  John Dalli , who resigned yesterday from the
European Commission, was aware of attempts by a Maltese
entrepreneur to sell access to him, amid confusion over whether
Dalli was pushed to stand down.  Dalli, whose responsibilities were for EU health and
consumer policy, said today in a video interview with  New Europe 
that he “refuted completely” the allegations made against him
and was asked for his resignation by  Jose Barroso , the
commission’s president. While the commission declined to name
the businessman involved, Dalli identified him as Silvio Zammit.
The commission yesterday said Dalli had decided to resign to
concentrate on fighting the claims made against him.  Giovanni Kessler, director general of the EU’s anti-fraud
office, OLAF, told reporters today in Brussels that the agency
had uncovered “a number of unambiguous pieces of circumstantial
evidence” indicating that Dalli was aware that a Maltese
entrepreneur was seeking to sell access to the commissioner to
lobbyists.  “At no stage did Commissioner Dalli take action to prevent
or dissociate himself from the facts or to report the
circumstances of which he was aware,” Kessler said. “He was
aware of this and he didn’t do anything to prevent, stop, report
this.”  Dalli’s resignation is the first time that a European
commissioner has stood down over corruption allegations since
the body’s entire membership resigned in 1999, after several
members were accused of financial wrongdoing.  Swedish Match  OLAF’s probe into Dalli concerned a complaint by tobacco
producer  Swedish Match  that the entrepreneur had offered to help
them influence EU tobacco policy, notably regarding the
smokeless-tobacco product snus, by “using his contacts with Mr.
Dalli.”  “No transaction was concluded between the company and the
entrepreneur and no payment was made,” the commission said.
“The OLAF report did not find any conclusive evidence of the
direct participation of Mr. Dalli but did consider that he was
aware of these events.”  News website  Malta Today  identified Zammit as a former
elected official for the Maltese Nationalist party, the same
political affiliation as Dalli. The newspaper cited a copy of an
e-mail showing Zammit’s lobbying activities.  There is “no proof at all that I was involved,” Dalli
said today in his interview with New Europe. The video of the
interview was posted on the newspaper’s website.  EU Lawmaking  Dalli’s resignation “highlights the need for stronger
measures to regulate EU lobbying,” Corporate Europe
Observatory, a group seeking to monitor how special interests
influence EU lawmaking, said in a statement on its  website . The
group’s statement also names Zammit as the entrepreneur at the
center of the allegations.  “The European Commission is the focus of intense lobbying
and many business lobbyists benefit from easy access and close
contacts,” the group said in its statement. “This opens the
door to the potential for corruption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  