-- European Union Seeks to Cap Food-Based Biofuel Production
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-17T12:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/european-union-seeks-to-cap-food-based-biofuel-production-1-.html
The European Union wants to limit
the contribution of crop-based biofuels toward the bloc’s
renewable energy target to avoid competition with food and spur
the development of clean fuels made from non-edible crops.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm in
Brussels, proposed today that first-generation biofuels made
from crops such as sugar, starch or vegetable oils provide 5
percent of the EU target for transport fuel. The current EU
requirement that at least 10 percent of energy for road and rail
transport in 2020 come from renewable sources in all member
nations risks causing side-effects that undermine the battle
against global warming, environmental groups have said.  “We must invest in biofuels that achieve real emission
cuts and do not compete with food,” EU Climate Commissioner
Connie Hedegaard said in a statement. “We are of course not
closing down first-generation biofuels, but we are sending a
clear signal that future increases in biofuels must come from
advanced biofuels. Everything else will be unsustainable.”  The draft legislation needs approval by EU national
governments and the European Parliament to enter into force.
Biofuels including ethanol and biodiesel are the main renewable
energy for transport and offer the prospect of reducing the use
of fossil fuels blamed for climate change.  Food Crops  Biofuels, mainly first-generation, accounted for about 4.7
percent of EU transport fuel consumption in 2010, according to
the commission.  The commission’s proposal would also require reporting of
estimated emissions linked to indirect land-use change. Greater
use of crops for biofuels would displace food production and
that would threaten to spur the conversion of forest and
peatland, which store carbon dioxide, into land for food crops.  While capping the production of crop-based biofuels is a
step in the right direction, the failure to hold biofuel
suppliers accountable for the emissions from indirect land-use
change is the “most serious flaw” in the commission proposal,
according to Greenpeace.  “Fuel suppliers can still use harmful biofuels like palm
oil from  Indonesia  and claim credit for cutting emissions,”
John Sauven, executive director of Greenpeace, said by e-mail.  ‘Substantial’ Savings  The proposed obligation to monitor emissions stops short of
solving “the key environmental issue of halting production of
unsustainable biofuels that are, in some cases, more harmful to
the climate than fossil fuels,” environmental lobby Transport &
Environment said in an e-mailed statement today.  Today’s proposal doesn’t affect the ability of the EU’s 27
member states to provide financial incentives for biofuels.
After 2020, biofuels should only qualify for aid if they lead to
“substantial” savings of greenhouse gases that scientists
blame for global warming and are not produced from crops used
for food and feed, according to the EU.  “This proposal will give new incentives for best-
performing biofuels,” EU Energy Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger 
said today. “In the future, biofuels will be saving more
substantial greenhouse gas emissions and reduce our fuel import
bill.”  Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest maker of enzymes for
biofuels, said that while it strongly supports the commission’s
intention to accelerate the deployment of advanced biofuels, the
effectiveness of the proposed instruments is questionable. It
urged the commission to push for more ethanol in the fuel pool
to start a transition towards most sustainable transport fuels.  Sustainable Biofuels  “Capping all conventional biofuels without distinction and
failing to promote the best performing ones will not help
address indirect land-use change,” Lars Christian Hansen,
president of Novozymes for  Europe , said by e-mail. “Today’s
proposal is not providing the necessary signals that sustainable
biofuels will be part of the EU energy mix.”  The commission’s proposal would lead to a “rapid kill” of
the biofuels industry, Nathalie Lecocq, director general of
Fediol, which represents the European Vegetable and Proteinmeal
industry, said by phone. Investors in first-generation fuels are
often the same as those in second-generation fuels, she said.  “If you discourage fully the first generation biofuels
then there is doubt around second generation biofuels which
means investors aren’t going to feel confident to continue their
investment,” said Lecocq.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  