-- EU Carbon for 2012 Rises to 5-Week High as Volume Reaches Record
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-17T16:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/european-union-carbon-permits-for-2012-rise-to-five-week-high.html
European Union carbon permits for
December rose to their highest level in more than five weeks as
volumes traded set a record for the contract.  The contract jumped 3.5 percent to close at 8.28 euros
($10.87) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London, the highest since Sept. 7. United Nations Certified
Emission Reduction credits rose at a slower pace, driving the EU
premium over the offsets to a record 6.70 euros a ton.  Traders appear to be betting the European Commission may
have some success in dealing with a glut of supply through 2020,
said Matteo Mazzoni, an analyst for NE Nomisma Energia Srl in
Bologna,  Italy .  “The market tries to anticipate what’s going on in
Brussels,” he said today by phone. “I’m quite surprised to see
prices so high.”  The European Federation of Energy Traders, a lobby group
that represents about 100 power, coal and oil companies,
suggested the region could boost the pace of yearly carbon-
reduction cuts in its emissions market to help deal with the
glut of allowances and ease cuts needed after 2020.  “If the trajectory were to be aligned with the EU long-
term targets in 2013, this could already be met with relatively
modest efforts and a reduction factor of 2.2 percent,” the
lobby group said in a  position paper  published on its website
and dated Oct. 16. Under current rules, the factor is 1.74
percent a year.  The commission should only proceed with its plan to
temporarily curb supply if that’s a first step toward more
permanent fixes, the lobby group said. That plan is known as
backloading because the supply would probably be returned later
in the decade.  “Frequent market interventions or the rumors of such to
mitigate the effect of the respective preceding market
intervention would completely destroy the trust of market
participants in an orderly functioning market and would be the
worst possible result,” the lobby said.  The December volume of EU contracts jumped 22 percent to a
record 31 million tons. The front-December-contract record of
52.2 million tons was reached on June 23, 2011, ICE data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  