-- European Stocks Climb on Spain Debt Rating, U.S. Housing
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-17T16:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/european-stocks-little-changed-before-u-s-housing-data.html
European stocks  rose for a third
day, the longest winning streak in five weeks, as Moody’s
Investors Service kept its investment-grade debt rating on  Spain 
and U.S. new-home construction surged to a four-year high.  Bankia led a rally in Spanish banks, jumping 19 percent.
Waertsilae Oyj soared 8.1 percent as the world’s largest maker
of ship engines and  power plants  raised its forecasts. PSA
Peugeot Citroen advanced 4.1 percent as Le Figaro said the
French government and banks may bail out the automaker’s credit
unit. Danone SA sank the most in two months as the food company
reported revenue growth that missed analysts’ estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent to 275.66 at
the close of trading, the highest level in three weeks. The
gauge has rallied 18 percent from its 2012 low on June 4 as
European Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-
buying program and the  Federal Reserve  unveiled a third round of
quantitative easing.  “There appears to be positive news regarding Spain,” said
Jakup Petur Baerentsen, a chief equity adviser at Nordea Private
Bank in Copenhagen. “The market has consolidated and we think
that it will continue upwards.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  gained 0.7 percent,
Germany’s DAX increased 0.3 percent and France’s CAC 40 climbed
0.8 percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 surged 2.4 percent.  Spain Rating  Moody’s kept an investment-grade  credit rating  on Spain
late yesterday, citing a reduction in the risk of losing  market
access  because of the ECB’s willingness to buy the nation’s
debt. Moody’s assigned a negative outlook on the country’s Baa3
sovereign debt, one step above junk, as it concluded the review
for a possible further downgrade of its rating that it had
initiated in June.  Spain avoided joining Cyprus, Portugal, Ireland and Greece
in being rated below investment grade. S&P has a negative
outlook on its BBB- rating, also one step above junk, and  Fitch
Ratings  has Spain at BBB, two levels higher than junk.  New-home construction in the U.S. surged in September to
the highest level in four years. Starts jumped 15 percent to an
872,000 annual rate last month, the most since July 2008 and
exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists,
Commerce Department figures showed today. The  median estimate  of
81 economists surveyed called for a reading of 770,000.  U.K. Unemployment  In the U.K., jobless claims unexpectedly fell in September
and a wider measure of unemployment dropped to the lowest rate
in more than a year as the London Olympics helped push
employment to a record.  Bank of England  policy makers split on the need for more
stimulus, according to minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s Oct. 3-4 meeting published today.  Bankia jumped 19 percent to 1.24 euros, the biggest gain in
two months, to lead Spanish banks higher.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
the nation’s biggest lender, climbed 3.8 percent to 6.13 euros,
a one-month high.  Waertsilae soared 8.1 percent to 29.02 euros in Helsinki,
the biggest increase since November. The company reported third-
quarter earnings that exceeded estimates and boosted its full-
year sales-growth forecast.  Peugeot climbed 4.1 percent to 6.03 euros. Banks may delay
the repayment of 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in loans from
Peugeot’s credit division, Banque PSA Finance, Le Figaro
reported, without saying where it got the information. The
automaker is examining funding options for the unit, said Jean-
Baptiste Mounier, a spokesman for  Peugeot. (UG)   RBS Advances  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  rose 2.2 percent to 286.1
pence as Britain’s biggest government-owned bank agreed to exit
the U.K.’s Asset Protection Scheme after paying 2.5 billion
pounds ($4 billion) to the government to insure its most risky
assets. RBS was in 2009 the only lender to join the program,
which covered potential losses on 282 billion pounds of loans
and derivatives. RBS never had to draw on the policy.  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  gained 3.6 percent to
37.5 pence as the company said it’s in talks to sell its 51
percent stake in Cia. de Telecomunicacoes de Macau, S.A.R.L. to
China’s Citic Pacific Ltd.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  climbed 7 percent to 80 euro cents.
France’s biggest phone-equipment supplier said its China unit,
Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell, won a contract to deploy the
largest share of China Mobile’s new TD-LTE trial network rollout
as it extends services to 10 cities.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh metals producer,
added 7.3 percent to 352.2 pence and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-
biggest platinum producer, jumped 6 percent to 520.5 pence. A
gauge of basic-resources companies gained the most among the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Danone Declines  Danone (BN)  dropped 3 percent to 47.33 euros, the largest
decrease since Aug. 2. The world’s biggest yogurt maker reported
third-quarter revenue growth that missed analysts’ estimates as
sales of dairy products in Spain and Italy fell. Revenue
adjusted for acquisitions, divestments and currency swings rose
5 percent, the Paris-based company said, trailing the 6.1
percent average of 15 forecasts.  ASML (ASML)  Holding NV dropped 5.3 percent to 39.15 euros as
 Europe ’s biggest semiconductor-equipment maker forecast fourth-
quarter sales of about 1 billion euros, trailing estimates of
1.16 billion euros. The company’s gross-margin outlook was 41
percent, compared with a 42.6 percent estimate. Separately, ASML
agreed to buy Cymer Inc. for 1.95 billion euros.  U.S. technology companies Intel Corp. and International
Business Machines Corp. fell in  New York  trading. The world’s
largest chipmaker forecast fourth-quarter gross margins that
missed analysts’ estimates and the biggest computer-services
provider reported third-quarter revenue that fell short of
projections.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Sweden’s biggest phone company, slipped 1.6
percent to 45.40 kronor after it reported third-quarter earnings
that missed analysts’ projections because of slowing sales in
the Nordic region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  