-- Yen Weakens to Two-Month Low on BOJ Easing Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-18T21:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/euro-near-month-high-on-eu-summit-crisis-progress-outlook.html
The yen slipped to the weakest level
in almost two months versus the dollar as speculation that the
Bank of  Japan  will boost stimulus measures sapped demand for the
nation’s assets as a haven.  Japan’s currency was set for its longest run of declines
against the dollar since April 2011 as Treasury two-year yields
reached the highest in two months relative to Japanese peers.
The euro snapped a two-day gain versus the dollar as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the region’s debt crisis won’t be
quickly solved. The krona rose to a two-week high versus the
euro as  Sweden ’s central bank governor said there are risks in
keeping interest rates low.  “The rise in U.S. bond yields is certainly consistent with
a weakness in the dollar-yen,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “That’s a dynamic that’s been relevant for
price action over the last few days.”  The yen fell 0.4 percent to 79.28 per dollar at 5 p.m. New
York time after touching 79.47, the weakest since Aug. 21. It
hadn’t fallen on six consecutive days since the period through
April 1, 2011. The Japanese currency was little changed at
103.57 per euro.  Euro Levels  The 17-nation common currency slipped 0.4 percent to
$1.3067, after rising to $1.3140 yesterday, the strongest since
Sept. 17.  The euro may climb to more than $1.35 before the end of
this year after trading above its 200-day moving average in the
past month, Miller Tabak & Co. said, citing trading patterns.  U.S. two-year note yields  exceed  similar maturity Japanese
securities by 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage point, close
to the most since August. The U.S. two-year note yields 0.29
percent, while Japan’s two-year debt yields 0.11 percent.  Sweden’s krona appreciated 0.8 percent to 8.5782 against
the euro, after rising to 8.5662, the strongest level since Oct.
5. It gained 0.4 percent to 6.5652 versus the dollar, after
reaching 6.5320, the most since Sept. 28.  There are risks in keeping rates low for a long time that
“can’t be ignored” as policy makers must take heed of
financial stability and debt growth, Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves wrote in an opinion article today in
 Svenska Dagbladet . The Riksbank last month predicted it would
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 1.25 percent over the next
year and then raise rates as the global economy recovers.  Rand Swings  South Africa ’s rand reversed earlier gains after reaching
the strongest level in almost two weeks on rising metal prices.
Data showed  China ’s industrial production accelerated in
September, which temporarily boosted prospects for exports.  The currency fell 0.6 percent to 8.6544 per dollar after
gaining as much as 0.7 percent.  In Japan, central bank board members will release updated
economic projections for the 2012 and 2013 fiscal years at
month-end, along with the first set of forecasts for the 12
months beginning in April 2014. At their last meeting that ended
on Oct. 5, BOJ officials held off from more easing after adding
to stimulus in September.  “You have a lot of people speculating on the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
easing,” said Kiran Kowshik, London-based currency strategist
at BNP Paribas SA. “The yen weakness as well is about risk
sentiment and we’ve seen Japanese investors, in terms of data,
have been buying more foreign bonds. You could see upward
pressure on yen crosses in anticipation of BOJ easing.”  Currency Indexes  The yen weakened 4.5 percent in the past three months, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
fell 3.6 percent, the second biggest decline, while the euro
rose 3.3 percent.  “The BOJ and Minister of Finance in Japan are not highly
aggressive like the Fed is,” Sebastian Galy, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “If they were doing their job in a very aggressive
fashion, we would be moving higher in a vertical fashion.”  France ’s President  Francois Hollande  called on the EU to
press ahead on forming a banking union, provide economic help to
countries that rein in budget deficits, and show investors that
 Greece  will be able to stay in the monetary union if it keeps
its commitments.  “We need to begin to execute these things, rapidly,”
Hollande said in a joint interview published yesterday by six
European newspapers. “ Europe  can’t afford to be late anymore.”
Hollande and his 26 counterparts from other EU nations are
holding a two-day summit in Brussels.  Merkel, addressing German lower-house lawmakers before the
EU leaders’ meeting, proposed a European Union “solidarity”
fund to bolster competitiveness in struggling member countries.  “The EU summit is unlikely to deliver any near-term,
market-moving announcements but it is likely to build on the
long-term framework for the Economic and Monetary Union,”
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto, wrote today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  