-- Euroclear’s Wicks Replaces Barclays’s Agius as BBA Chairman
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-10-17T09:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/euroclear-s-wicks-replaces-barclays-s-agius-as-bba-chairman-1-.html
The British Bankers’ Association,
the lobby group that oversees Libor, said Euroclear SA’s Nigel Wicks will replace Marcus Agius as chairman in the wake of the
rate-rigging scandal.  Wicks’s appointment was announced today at the BBA’s
international banking conference in  London , the group said in a
statement. Wicks, a former British civil servant, is chairman of
Brussels-based Euroclear and is due to retire from the trade-
settlement company in January.  He “is highly respected in the City, Whitehall and
Brussels,” BBA Chief Executive Officer Anthony Browne said in
the statement. “There is no one better qualified to help
restore trust and confidence in banking at this critical time
for the industry.”  Agius, 66, stepped down as chairman of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the
BBA after regulators fined his bank a record 290 million pounds
($469 million) in June for rigging the London interbank offered
rate. The BBA, which represents more than 200 banks and lobbies
policy makers and regulators on behalf of the industry, will be
stripped of its role in managing the benchmark rate for more
than $300 trillion of securities under plans announced by
British regulators last month.  As a civil servant, Wicks, 72, was private secretary to
three British prime ministers,  Margaret Thatcher , James Callaghan and Harold Wilson. The former U.K. executive director
of the  World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  was also a
member of the European Union’s so-called Committee of Wise Men
on European Securities Regulation from 2000 to 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  