-- Fairfax Reveals No. 1 Relative as Liabilities Soar: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/fairfax-reveals-no-1-relative-as-liabilities-soar-muni-credit.html
Fairfax County,  Virginia , credits
Bridgewater Associates LP, the world’s largest hedge fund, with
helping it generate a 19.3 percent annual return since 2009, the
best performance among the biggest U.S. public pension systems.  Even so, the second-richest U.S. county is coming up short
in funding its retirement promises. Fairfax County, home to 10
Fortune 500 companies, has seen its pension gap more than double
since 2005, underscoring how even the most affluent communities
are struggling to keep pace with retiree obligations.  At issue is how much the county allocates for pensions.
Over the past three years, its contributions were about $120
million below the amount recommended by Governmental Accounting
Standards Board formulas, according to a 2011 annual report.
County officials say the deficit started to grow in 2003 after
they adopted an approach that reduced the volatility of annual
payments.  “What’s been so frustrating to me is that we do very well
on the investment side and we still have this funding gap,”
said Robert Mears, executive director of the Fairfax County
Retirement Administration Agency. “But we’re wrestling with
very difficult budget times and a lot of austerity, so the
county is trying to address limited revenues and a tremendous
amount of needs.”  Double Challenge  States and localities are grappling with the challenge of
mending their finances after the recession that ended in 2009
while also keeping up with retirement promises. Those
obligations were made more difficult by the  Standard & Poor’s (SPX) 
500 Index’s 48 percent slide from October 2007 to March 2009.  In 2011 more than 30 states had less than 80 percent of the
assets needed to meet pension obligations, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That left them short of the threshold for
sustainable  retirement plans .  Fairfax, with the highest credit grades from the three
major rating companies, borders the nation’s capital and is home
to 1.1 million people as well as Northrop Grumman Corp. and
General Dynamics Corp. Both are among the top five U.S. defense
contractors, leaving the region among those vulnerable to $1.2
trillion of possible federal spending cuts set to start in
January unless Congress acts.  Matching Rally  Investors have yet to penalize Fairfax debt, which is
keeping pace with a rally in AAA municipal bonds. A 10-year
county bond yielded 1.67 percent in trading last week, about
even with a  benchmark  of nationwide AAAs, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The county also achieved yields in line with the
AAA benchmark when it issued the securities in January.  The county, across the Potomac River from  Washington , had
unfunded obligations to its almost 27,700 government, police and
fire employees and retirees of $1.7 billion as of July 1, 2010,
up from about $700 million in 2005, according to county filings.
It also had a deficit of about $560 million in a separate
retirement system for about 32,000 teachers and school retirees.  “The county has consistently funded at a rate determined
by our actuary,” said Mears, who is based in the city of
Fairfax. “We always fund what it is, though that is not in
accordance with GASB standards.”  ‘Full Contribution’  By eschewing the GASB approach, “they’ve not been paying
their full contribution,” said  Keith Brainard , chief of
research for the National Association of State Retirement
Administrators, based in Essex,  Connecticut . “That adds up to
hundreds of millions of dollars over the years when you include
the compounding effect.”  Fairfax County’s funding gap would be larger if not for the
success of its pension investments.  The $3.6 billion Fairfax County Employees Retirement Fund,
the county’s main fund, averaged a 19.3 percent annual return in
the three years through June 30, said Chief Investment Officer
Larry Swartz. That topped 62 other public pension funds with
more than $1 billion in assets, according to Bank of  New York 
Mellon Corp.  Fairfax relies on outside managers selected by Swartz and
agency boards. He credits Bridgewater, the Westport,
Connecticut-based fund started by  Ray Dalio  that manages about
$130 billion, for boosting returns. Bridgewater’s Enhanced TIPS
Index fund and Enhanced Multi-Asset Real Return fund managed a
combined 21 percent of the fund’s assets as of June 30, 2011.  Asset Shift  Bridgewater declined to comment, said Russell Sherman at
Prosek Partners, a New York public relations company that
represents the  money manager .  Fairfax County in 2004 started shifting from stocks to
bonds and alternative investments, Swartz said. Fixed-income in
July 2011 comprised 43 percent of assets, to 26 percent for
equities, while real-estate securities, commodity futures and
absolute-return funds made up a combined 25 percent, according
to a county filing.  Nationally, corporate and public pensions had 44 percent in
stocks, 31 percent in bonds and 25 percent in alternative
investments, according to a January 2012  study  by  Towers Watson
& Co. (TW) , a benefits consultant based in New York.  County supervisors this year agreed to boost the funding
ratio to 91 percent over the next 15 years from about 70 percent
now. To close the gap, Fairfax County is counting on investment
results rather than bigger contributions.  “We have confidence the market will sustain our funding
level over the long term,” Mears said.  Longer Lives  The county’s funding gap worsened because pension costs for
its employees are proving more costly than estimated, said Gene
Kalwarski, chief executive officer in McLean, Virginia, for
Cheiron Inc., the actuarial consultant that advises Fairfax
County. The higher costs stem partly from retirees living longer
than expected and limited turnover, he said. Longer-serving
employees typically raise pension costs.  After growing at 15 percent annually from 2002 to 2007,
property values peaked in 2009, then declined 10 percent in
2010, Moody’s Investors Service said in a January 2011 report.  Fairfax County responded by raising property taxes in 2009
and 2010, cutting 481 positions and freezing pay, according to
Moody’s. Last month, the county capped sick pay and boosted its
 retirement age  to 55 from 50 for workers hired after July 1,
2012, said Sharon Bulova, chairwoman of the county’s Board of
Supervisors.  The  county  had median household income of about $106,000 in
2011, trailing only neighboring Loudon County, and double the
national average of $50,054, according to U.S. Census Bureau
data. The  unemployment  rate was 4 percent in August, compared
with 8.1 percent nationally.  Pension Feasibility  Fairfax County decided this year against more extensive
pension changes, including converting to a 401(k)-style defined-
contribution plan, Bulova said.  The county will eventually revisit the issue because
traditional pension plans aren’t feasible, said Pat Herrity, a
Republican county supervisor.  “If you don’t deal with the underfunding today, it becomes
a bigger issue that you have to deal with,” said Herrity, chief
financial officer of Gap Solutions Inc., a Reston, Virginia,
staffing company. “I’d rather have a plan that is sustainable
so we can keep our promises to our employees.”  In the $3.7 trillion muni market yesterday,  yields  on
benchmark 10-year tax-exempts were little changed at about 1.65
percent, a Bloomberg index shows. The index dropped to 1.63
percent on July 27, the lowest since it began in January 2009.  Following are pending sales:  DALLAS-FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT plans to sell $301
million of revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund debt. (Added Oct. 17)  CALIFORNIA plans to sell about $550 million in general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as Oct. 23, according to the
state treasurer’s website. The debt will be sold via auction.
(Added Oct. 15)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  