-- New York Fed Alleged Target of FBI Bomb Plot Sting
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/fbi-says-man-arrested-in-plot-to-bomb-new-york-fed.html
A Bangladeshi man was arrested on
charges he plotted to bomb the  New York  Federal Reserve in lower
 Manhattan  as part of a sting operation by federal authorities
who provided the suspect with fake explosives.  Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, was arrested
yesterday in an undercover effort after he attempted to detonate
what he believed to be a 1,000-pound bomb, according to the
FBI’s Joint Terrorism Task Force. Located at 33 Liberty Street,
the bank is just a few blocks from the site of the former twin
towers at the World Trade Center, which were destroyed in the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.  “Terrorists have tried time and again to make  New York
City  their killing field,” New York Police Department
Commissioner Raymond Kellysaid yesterday in a statement, adding
that the city has faced 15 terror plots since the 2001 attacks.
“Vigilance is our watchword now and into the foreseeable
future.”  Some of the alleged terror plots, like this one, were
disrupted by sting operations or informants, including a plan to
bomb the Herald Square subway station in Manhattan in 2004, a
2007 conspiracy to destroy fuel tanks and pipelines at  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  and a scheme to bomb synagogues in
the Bronx in 2009.  Terrorism Cases  Almost half of the federal terrorism cases brought in the
U.S. from 2009 to September 2011 involved informants, and at
least 15 percent of those cases can be considered stings,
according to the  Terrorism Trial Report Card  from the Center on
Law and Security at New York University’s School of Law.  Defense lawyers and legal experts have said that such
initiatives may constitute entrapment of individuals who were
not predisposed to committing a crime. To prevail as a defense,
the accused must show they would not have committed the crime
without being urged on.  At least 10 terrorism defendants caught in sting operations
since the Sept. 11 attacks have presented the entrapment defense
in court proceedings, yet it hasn’t been successfully argued in
a post-Sept. 11 trial, according to the center’s report, which
was published in September 2011.  The government said yesterday that Nafis came to the U.S.
in January with the intent to carry out a terrorist attack on
U.S. soil, and sought out individuals to assist.  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation agents posed as co-conspirators, the government
said.  “It is important to emphasize that the public was never at
risk in this case, because two of the defendant’s ‘accomplices’
were actually an FBI source and an FBI undercover agent,” Mary Galligan, acting head of the FBI’s New York office, said in a
statement. “The FBI continues to place the highest priority on
preventing acts of terrorism.”  Mass Destruction  Nafis is charged with attempting to use a weapon of mass
destruction and provide material support to the terrorism group
al-Qaeda, according to the U.S. attorney’s office in  Brooklyn ,
New York. If convicted, he faces a sentence of as long as life
in prison, according to the office.  Appearing yesterday in Brooklyn federal court before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Roanne L Mann, Nafis wore a T-shirt and jeans
and said little during the proceeding. He didn’t request bail.
 Heidi Cesare , his court-appointed defense lawyer, declined to
comment to reporters after the brief hearing.  Student Visa  Nafis, who came to the U.S. using a student visa and has
been living in Queens, New York, told an informant for the FBI
in July that he wanted to wage “jihad” and had plans for a
terror attack, according to a criminal complaint. He
communicated with co-conspirators, including the informant, on
the phone and on the social media website  Facebook (FB) , according to
the filing.  After Nafis expressed interest in receiving help from al-
Qaeda for his plot, the informant referred the would-be bomber
to an undercover FBI agent, who was posing as a member of the
group, according to the complaint. At a meeting in September,
Nafis told the agent that he hoped his attack would disrupt the
presidential elections, according to the complaint.  Before Arrest  Before Nafis was arrested yesterday, he and the agent
brought a van loaded with inert explosive materials to the Fed,
parked it, and went to a nearby hotel, where Nafis attempted to
detonate the bomb using a cell phone, according to the
complaint.  “The defendant thought he was striking a blow to the
American economy. He thought he was directing confederates and
fellow believers,” Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said in
a statement. “At every turn, he was wrong, and his extensive
efforts to strike at the heart of the nation’s financial system
were foiled by effective  law enforcement .”  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Nafis, 1:12-mj-00965, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  