-- Fiera Hunts Acquisitions as Stock Outperforms
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-17T13:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/fiera-hunts-acquisitions-as-stock-outperforms.html
Fiera Capital Corp. (FSZ) , the best-
performing wealth manager among its North American peers this
year, is looking for acquisitions of companies with assets of up
to C$2 billion ($2.04 billion), President and Chief Operating
Officer Sylvain Brosseau said.  Fiera, which oversees about C$54 billion, has climbed 22
percent this year, the most among 11 North American investment
managers with market values of C$100 million to C$1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that we have been in alternative asset
management for a number of years has made us a player,”
Brousseau said in a telephone interview from Montreal, where the
firm is based. “We get a lot of calls from people wanting to
sell their business, and right now are looking at deals both in
 Canada  and the U.S.”  Fiera bought  National Bank of Canada ’s Natcan Investment
unit in April for C$309.5 million and agreed this month to buy
the Canadian wealth management unit of  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
giving it exposure in western Canada for the first time. Fiera
invests in so-called “alternative”  assets  such as
infrastructure and real estate.  Brosseau said many firms reach C$1 billion to C$2 billion
in assets and then need to sell their operations in order to
stay competitive. He didn’t identify specific acquisition
targets.  “Most of them hit a growth wall when they get big,” he
said. “This is really the sweet spot for us.”  ‘Difficult Undertakings’  Wealth-management firms in Canada had assets of C$167.8
billion at the end of June, according to Investor Economics, a
Toronto-based research firm. Canada’s six largest banks
accounted for 46 percent of assets, Investor Economics said.  “While acquisitions in the industry are widely believed to
be difficult undertakings, Fiera appears to be continually
successful with its growth by acquisition strategy,” said Phil Hardie, an analyst at Scotiabank Global Banking and Markets in
Toronto.  Michael Smedley , chief executive officer of Morgan Meighen
& Associates, which runs about C$1 billion, said  Jovian Capital
Corp. (JOV)  might be a potential target for Fiera.  “The first thing that comes to my head as a publicly
traded company is Jovian,” Smedley said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Toronto office yesterday.  “Jovian is intriguing.”
Smedley doesn’t own Fiera shares.  Jovian had client assets of C$6.2 billion under management
at June 30, and owns Leon Frazer Associates, which had C$1.9
billion under management. Don Sangster, a spokesman for Jovian,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail message seeking
comment yesterday.  Western Foothold  The Societe Generale purchase, scheduled to close by the
end of the year, will add about 20 employees to Fiera’s current
staff of about 230. It will be the company’s first foray into
western Canada, where Fiera is targeting the oil-rich province
of  Alberta . Albertans had the highest per-capital income in
Canada last year, said Brosseau.  “If they’re looking for a new platform for growth, private
wealth makes a lot of sense,” said  Brandon Snow , who manages
the C$1.3 billion Cambridge Canadian Equity Fund at Cambridge
Advisors in Toronto, which includes Fiera shares. “The Canadian
wealth management acquisition is entirely consistent with what
they’ve been doing.”  Organic Growth  Output in Alberta averaged C$67,756 per person in 2010,
about 47 percent more than the Canadian average, Statistics
Canada  data  show.  Fiera Chief Executive Officer Jean-Guy Desjardins said in
April, following his purchase of Natcan, that the company plans
to double its assets by 2016 “purely on an organic basis.”  The Natcan purchase gave Fiera access to National Bank’s
distribution network, which included at the time 2,000 financial
advisers and about 440 branches across Canada. National Bank is
the country’s sixth-largest bank by assets.  Fiera declined 1 percent to C$7.65 at 9:43 a.m. today for a
market value of C$434 million.  In the U.S., Fiera would like to add “emerging market
assets capabilities, as well as global fixed income,” said
Brosseau.  “That’s the focus of our strategic activities,” said
Brosseau. “There’s a lot of activity on that front.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  