-- Fitschen Says Steinbrueck’s Bank Split Plan Would Reduce Lending
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-10-17T16:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/fitschen-says-steinbrueck-s-bank-split-plan-would-reduce-lending.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer  Juergen Fitschen  said German Social Democrat chancellor
candidate  Peer Steinbrueck ’s plan to split the firm’s securities
unit from its consumer bank would cut funding for companies.  “If this system is implemented, Mr. Steinbrueck, the one
part will require so much more capital that it won’t be able to
deliver,” Fitschen said today at a conference with Steinbrueck
in Berlin. “Not just the conditions, but liquidity for mid-
sized companies, which also rely on it, would be limited.”  Steinbrueck, who will challenge Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in
elections next year, has called for Deutsche Bank to protect
taxpayers and depositors by creating a firebreak around its
investment bank. Fitschen said that while he shares
Steinbrueck’s desire to create a stable environment for banks to
provide credit to companies and consumers, handicapping the unit
would harm  Germany  as an export-oriented economy.  “Let’s not kid ourselves, the tendency will be that banks
reduce balance sheets, become notably more careful on returns
goals, that some business becomes more expensive and that also
conditions and credit deteriorates for the real economy,” said
Steinbrueck. “But no one in this room should have the
impression that things would go on as they had until now.”  Steinbrueck, a former finance minister who spearheaded bank
rescues, proposed last month that Deutsche Bank divide
individual businesses under one holding in order to continue to
offer investment banking services to clients.  Banking Services  “What’s being called devilish is essential for the
Mittelstand,” Fitschen said, referring to the importance of the
investment bank’s services for Germany’s mass of small and mid-
sized companies. “The same people lambasting derivatives use
them for their own purposes on a daily basis.”  Separately, Fitschen said that while he considers the
formation of a common European banking regulator next year to be
possible, leaders should implement joint deposit protection in
the “mid-term.”  “It is a very sensitive issue,” he said. “It is the
right idea, but we have to implement it with the appropriate
patience because if we’re too hasty, we’ll damage ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  