-- Flamand’s Hedge Fund Said to Suffer Partner Exits as Assets Fall
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/flamand-s-hedge-fund-said-to-suffer-partner-exits-as-assets-fall.html
Two partners at former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trader Pierre-Henri Flamand’s hedge fund will leave
the firm after it lost money and assets shrank, two people with
knowledge of the decision said.  Oliver Haslam and Casper Lund will depart as London-based
Edoma Partners LP cuts costs in the face of investor
redemptions, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the firm is private. Edoma’s assets fell by about half
over the past year to $1.17 billion, according to a note to
clients this month that was obtained by  Bloomberg News . Its
capital will decline further as the total excludes investor
redemption requests that haven’t yet been met, said the people.  Flamand, 42, founded Edoma in 2010 after stepping down as
the head of  Goldman Sachs’s (GS)  biggest proprietary trading unit
amid a government backlash against banks betting on markets.
Expectations that Flamand would continue his success as a hedge-
fund manager helped him to raise more than $2 billion from
investors. The fund has declined 6.9 percent since it started
trading in November 2010, according to a note sent to clients
this month.  Haslam, 38, and Lund, 40, didn’t return messages to their
Edoma e-mail addresses and phone numbers seeking comment. Edoma
Chief Operating Officer Martina Slowey declined to comment while
Flamand didn’t respond to an e-mail.  Investment Team  Haslam and Lund are part of Edoma’s six-person senior
investment team and are listed as partners at the firm,
according to Edoma marketing documents from May that were
obtained by Bloomberg. Haslam previously worked at hedge funds
including  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC and  Paul Singer ’s Elliot
Management Corp., the document said. Lund, who focused on
investing in European stocks at Edoma, was previously employed
by Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs.  Among Edoma investors who’ve put in requests to pull money
from the hedge fund are New York-based  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private-equity firm, said the people. Blackstone
spokesman  Peter Rose  declined to comment.  Flamand has been partly hurt by poor timing. His hedge fund
focuses on so-called event-driven investing in which traders try
to predict triggers for stocks and bonds such as corporate
restructurings, mergers, management changes and share sales.  Event-driven hedge funds  gained 4.6 percent on average
since Edoma started trading two years ago as concern over
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis led to periods of high
correlation between asset prices, making it difficult to predict
price moves for individual companies, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Lehman Brothers  The corporate deal-making that Edoma bets on also hasn’t
returned to the level seen before the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global financial crisis in
2008. Global companies have announced mergers and acquisitions
valued at $1.6 trillion so far this year compared with $2.4
trillion for all of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In 2007, there were $4 trillion of mergers.  Edoma has trailed rival hedge funds and stock indexes,
prompting investors to lose patience, said the people. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 27 percent since Edoma’s
inception and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 8.8 percent.  When Flamand started Edoma, he set up two share classes
with different fees and investing terms, according to the
marketing documents. Investors in Class A were charged a 2
percent management fee and a 20 percent performance fee, and
could redeem in the first year as long as they were willing to
let Edoma keep 3 percent of their money. The penalty expired
last October for Class A clients who were first-day investors,
the documents show.  Proprietary Trading  Class B clients were required to invest at least $75
million and charged discounted management and performance fees
of 1.8 percent and 18 percent, respectively, according to the
documents. In return, they were barred from pulling any money
within 12 months of their investment.  Class B investors were for the next 12 months subject to
the 3 percent withdrawal penalty, a restriction that starts to
expire at the end of this month. Clients who want their money
back by the start of 2013 are required to give Edoma 60 days
advance notice, the marketing documents say.  Flamand, who led Goldman Sachs’s principal strategies
group, was among the first proprietary traders to leave amid a
debate in the  U.S. Congress  to rein in risk taking by lenders
following a $700 billion taxpayer rescue of financial companies.
Employees of the principal strategies unit who joined him at
Edoma include Ali Hedayat, Emmanuel Niogret and Evan Pearce.  Barack Obama  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation in July 2010 that
included a provision called the Volcker rule, named for its
advocate, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker . The
measure restricts banks with customer deposits backed by the
U.S. government from using their own money to make speculative
bets on markets.  Goldman Sachs decided within weeks of the Volcker rule’s
approval to shut down the principal strategies group. Other
traders who worked on the desk and have since left to form hedge
funds include Morgan Sze, who briefly replaced Flamand as global
head, and Daniele Benatoff and Ariel Roskis, who started trading
at London-based Benros Capital Partners LLP in June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  