-- Forint, Bonds Snap Rally as Hungary Increases Financial Taxes
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-17T14:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/forint-hungarian-bonds-snap-rally-as-hungary-increases-taxes.html
The forint retreated from the
strongest in seven weeks and Hungarian bonds slumped after Prime
Minister Viktor Orban’s government said it will increase taxes
on financial services to curb the nation’s budget deficit.  The currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 278.9 per euro by
4:24 p.m. in Budapest, snapping a five-day rally. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 6.753 percent, the first advance since
Oct. 3.  Hungary  won’t meet its pledge to halve a special tax on
banks next year and will increase a separate tax on financial
transactions as well as introduce a levy on utility
infrastructure to keep the budget deficit within 3 percent of
gross domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told
reporters today. The measures will hinder the nation’s recovery
from recession, said the Hungarian Banking Association, whose
members include  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)   “Orban’s government continues to cripple any prospects of
medium term growth rebound in Hungary,” Luis Costa, a London-
based emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc., wrote by e-
mail on the budget announcement. “They just don’t get it.”  The forint has rallied 13 percent this year, the most among
more than 100 currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as the government
yielded to demands from the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union to scrap laws threatening the central bank’s
independence and as global demand for higher-yielding assets
increased.  Risk Insurance  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell eight basis points to 239 today, the
lowest since May 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline in cost of insurance against Hungary’s bond
risk has been amplified by EU rules forbidding the holding of
default swaps without the underlying bonds starting next month,
 Gyula Toth , who helps manage $288 million at Ithuba Capital in
Vienna, told a conference in Budapest yesterday.  Orban’s Cabinet has taken over $14 billion in privately-
managed pension assets, levied special taxes on the energy,
retail, banking and telecommunications industries and forced
banks to take losses on foreign currency loans since taking
office in 2010.  The budget measures announced today are “relatively
unfriendly to business,” Daniel Hewitt, a London-based
economist at Barclays Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  “Given that this particular set of measures appears to be
less growth friendly and leaning more on unorthodox polices, the
new package could strain relations with the IMF,” Hewitt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  