-- Mestrallet Says GDF Suez Might Bid for Repsol’s LNG Assets
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-17T12:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/gdf-suez-weighs-offer-for-repsol-liquefied-natural-gas-assets.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the biggest buyer of
gas in  Europe , is considering a bid for Repsol SA’s liquefied
natural gas assets, according to Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet.  France ’s largest supplier of the fuel has been looking at
the properties, Mestrallet said yesterday in an interview. It’s
“normal” to look at holdings such as Repsol’s because they are
similar to those GDF Suez already owns, he said. “We haven’t
yet decided to put an offer on the table,” Mestrallet said in
Palmas,  Brazil .  Repsol said earlier this year it will take bids on
liquefied natural gas stakes as it seeks to cut debt. The
company announced in July the sale of its Chilean liquefied
petroleum gas unit for about $540 million. The Madrid-based oil
producer aims to raise as much as 4.5 billion euros ($5.9
billion) from asset sales over a five-year period.  GDF Suez rose as much as 1.4 percent and was trading 9
cents higher at 17.85 euros as of 1:58 p.m. in Paris. The Euro
Stoxx Utilities index climbed as much as 1 percent.  The French company would join OAO Novatek in looking at
 Repsol (REP)  LNG assets after Leonid Mikhelson, chief executive
officer of the Russian energy company planning a $20 billion LNG
plant in the Arctic, said he is “interested.”  Mestrallet’s comments on Repsol are “not a surprise given
the GDF Suez focus on the global gas and LNG markets,”
Citigroup Inc. analyst Sofia Savvantidou said in a report today.  Repsol Profit  “We received a document describing the assets that could
be sold,” Mestrallet said on a later conference call on which
he reiterated no decision has been made on a possible bid.  Repsol LNG’s operating profit more than tripled to 386
million euros last year after commissioning of a plant in Pampa
Melchorita, Peru, which has an annual capacity of 4.4 million
tons, according to the company’s  website .  In addition to having exclusive marketing rights over this
production, Repsol LNG also has stakes in the Canaport LNG plant
and the Atlantic LNG plant in  Trinidad and Tobago  and is in an
alliance with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Galp
Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  for studies for a floating liquefaction plant in
Brazil’s pre-salt area.  GDF Suez, based in Courbevoie, France, is also considering
a partnership with Petrobras, to which it supplies LNG, to
develop a natural gas business in Brazil, Mestrallet said. The
business could be gas production as GDF Suez is already a
producer in other parts of the world, he said.  Activities in Brazil  “All opportunities to develop our activities in Brazil
other than electricity will be looked at with a lot of attention
and interest,” he said on the conference call.  While GDF Suez’s gas operations, which include production
and distribution of LNG and distribution of natural gas,
represent about a third of global operations, it hasn’t yet
entered that market in Brazil, where it is an independent
electricity producer.  Mestrallet was in Brazil to inaugurate the 1,087-megawatt
Estreito hydropower plant on the Tocantins river. GDF Suez has a
40 percent stake in the project through its Tractebel Energia
unit.  The French utility reported 2.1 billion euros in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization last year in
its global gas and LNG division with a 60 percent jump in the
number of cargoes to  Asia  from the previous year. It wants to
double LNG sales to third parties by 2020 mainly in  emerging
markets .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  