-- Geneva Banks Reduce Staff Following Jobs Cuts, Relocations
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-10-17T15:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/geneva-banks-reduce-staff-following-jobs-cuts-relocations-1-.html
Geneva’s banks employed 502 fewer
people at the end of June compared with a year earlier as
foreign wealth managers cut jobs and shifted employees to other
locations, a survey by the city’s financial lobby group shows.  The number of banks in the Swiss city dropped to 133 from
140 a year earlier following acquisitions,  Geneve Place
Financiere  said today in a report, after surveying Lombard Odier
& Cie., Union Bancaire Privee and other wealth managers. Those
banks employed 20,123 people at the end of June compared with
20,625 a year ago.  “It’s partly the foreign banks and partly a result of
mergers,” Bernard Droux, president of Geneve Place Financiere
and a managing partner at Lombard Odier, said in an interview
today. “There are also job losses at smaller independent asset
managers with people exiting the market as costs increase.”  Lloyd’s Banking Group Plc’s Swiss unit relocated almost 300
people, mainly in back office operations and asset management,
from Geneva to Nyon in the neighboring Swiss canton of Vaud. UBP
said in June that it cut about 100 jobs as it integrated ABN
Amro Bank NV’s Geneva unit.  Julius Baer  Group Ltd.’s acquisition of Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch wealth units outside the U.S., including a
Geneva-based business, will probably result in job losses in the
city, according to Droux.  “When there are roles duplicated in operations and
information technology you’ve logically got to make cuts.”  Job Cuts  Julius Baer said last week that it may cut more than 1,000
jobs as the Zurich-based bank integrates the Merrill business,
while Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said in August that
some positions will be moved from Geneva to Zurich.  Julius Baer declined to comment today on which locations
would be subject to job cuts.  Profit at Geneva banks with more than 200 employees will
probably decline this year and be little changed in 2013,
according to Geneve Place Financiere’s report. Most firms
benefited from net inflows, mainly from foreign customers,
helping to increase assets under management during the first
half of the year, the survey shows.  Implementing bilateral tax accords with  Germany , the U.K.
and  Austria  will hurt “results” over the next two years,
according to almost 64 percent of larger banks in Geneva.
 Switzerland  has signed bilateral agreements to impose a levy on
past undeclared assets held by nationals of those three
countries in Swiss offshore bank accounts and withhold tax on
future investment income and  capital gains  from 2013.  While  France  is also in talks with Switzerland to review
the two countries’ double-taxation agreement, withholding tax
negotiations aren’t taking place.  The accord with Germany has yet to be ratified by the
German Parliament amid opposition from the country’s  Social
Democratic Party .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  