-- Germany Rejects Euro-Area Pooled Debt on Eve of EU Summit
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-17T12:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/germany-rejects-euro-area-pooled-debt-on-eve-of-eu-summit.html
Germany  rejected a proposal for
shared euro-area debt one day before European Union leaders hold
talks on steeling  Europe  against financial crises.  Germany’s aim is to keep debt-pooling off the list of
topics for further discussion at the end of a two-day EU summit
starting in Brussels tomorrow, a German government official said
in an interview today, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the leaders’ talks are private.  The heads of state and government will consider a report by
EU President Herman van Rompuy that lays out options for closer
economic and fiscal union in the 27-nation bloc. The “pooling
of some short term sovereign funding instruments (e.g. treasury
bills) on a limited and conditional basis could be examined
further” as a way to break the link between banks and public
finances, the report says.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told German lawmakers yesterday
she rejects parts of the report that deal with shared liability,
according to two participants who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the meeting was closed.  Wrangling over enlisting Germany’s economic might to help
lower borrowing costs for other euro-area countries reflects
divisions between the region’s northern and southern tier over
how to quash the three-year-old debt crisis. There’s “no other
option” than “arduous” economic overhauls in the euro area’s
less-competitive nations, Merkel said on Oct. 13.  Banking Oversight  Germany also says it won’t be rushed into EU-wide banking
oversight. No agreement on the so-called banking union is
expected at the EU summit as finance ministers need to do more
work on the topic, two German government officials said in
Berlin today, speaking to reporters on condition of anonymity
because the pre-summit deliberations are private.  “Quality comes before speed, which doesn’t mean that we
don’t want to work quickly, but we need to arrive at the end at
better banking oversight then we have today,” Merkel said
before talks with Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt in
Berlin yesterday.  Spain will have to accept terms for any European financial
aid and those conditions will have to be negotiated, the
officials said. It’s impossible to say what the conditions might
be, they said.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s government has said
it won’t request bailout funds, a condition for triggering
European Central Bank help to lower borrowing costs, until the
terms are clearer.  Spain Credit  “We’d have to look at any application that Spain made,
whether for a precautionary credit or a full program,” Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Whatever is
requested, it won’t be without conditions.”  Greece  will be discussed on the summit sidelines, with
talks between the Greek government and the so-called troika of
international inspectors far advanced, the German officials
said. An acceptable troika report, a requirement for the next
aid installment, is in sight, they said. Even so, the summit
won’t make decisions on Greece, they said.  Stronger oversight of euro-area budgets is required, and
the EU needs more powers over member state budgets, the
officials said. More EU integration will probably mean treaty
changes, they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  