-- Germany Extends Soffin Bank Rescue Fund as Bank Union Pace Slows
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-17T10:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/germany-extends-soffin-bank-rescue-fund-as-bank-union-pace-slows.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet
extended by two years a facility for troubled German banks to
seek government aid as efforts to form a pan-European bank-
rescue fund drag on.  Banks will be allowed to seek assistance from Germany’s
Soffin fund until the end of 2014, ministers meeting in Berlin
today decided. Under current legislation, the fund would have
stopped taking applications at the end of this year.  “Given the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro area,
there continue to be potential hazards for financial
stability,” the  Finance Ministry  said in a document prepared
for ruling coalition lawmakers. European resolution rules for
banks won’t be in place before “the beginning of 2015.”  Germany  reopened Soffin in February to counter the threat
of financial-institution failures during the debt crisis, after
allaying lenders’ concerns that they would bear the brunt of the
cost. The new rules, which require parliamentary approval, will
only give access to those banks that pay a fee to replenish the
fund, according to the document. Banks may be required to fill
any financing gaps when Soffin expires, the paper shows.  “The law will improve the supervision of financial
stability in Germany,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach and Ralph
Brinkhaus, lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian Union bloc, said in
an e-mailed statement. “Germany is making a contribution toward
more stable financial markets at European and international
level as well.”  Wolfgang Schaeuble , the German finance minister,
recommitted to common rules for  Europe ’s banks to help them
survive future market turmoil two days ago as he sought to
reassure investors that the banking union will come into force.  His comments, in a speech to the second Bank of Thailand
Policy Forum in Bangkok, marked a shift in tone after Schaeuble
led criticism last month of the euro area’s rush toward a single
bank supervisor. Setting up European Union-wide banking
supervision is on the agenda at this week’s EU summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  