-- Glencore Target Xstrata’s Coal Output Up as Mines Resume
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-10-17T16:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/glencore-target-xstrata-s-coal-output-climbs-as-mines-resume-1-.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , target of a $32.7
billion takeover bid by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  that’s partly
driven by growing coal demand, said third-quarter output of the
fuel used in power plants rose 6 percent as mines restarted.  Thermal-coal volumes climbed to 21.2 million metric tons
from 20 million tons a year earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based
company said today in a statement. Total output, including semi-
soft coal, advanced 1.7 percent to 24 million tons.  Xstrata resumed operations at the Blakefield South mine in
New South Wales, it said. Early stage production volumes from
the Ulan and Ravensworth North open-cut projects also
contributed to the increase in coal output. In addition, the
Mangoola thermal-coal mine in New South Wales and the
Goedgevonden project in  South Africa  started up this year.  The company advanced 3.1 percent to 993.6 pence by the
close in London, valuing it at 29.8 billion pounds ($48
billion).  Xstrata, seeking to boost  production  by 50 percent through
2014, on Oct. 1 recommended shareholders vote in favor of a
sweetened Glencore offer after Qatar Holding LLC, with a 12
percent stake, said an original proposal was too low. Glencore
raised its bid to 3.05 of its own shares for each one in
Xstrata, up from 2.8. Xstrata gave no update on the deal today.  Xstrata settled annual thermal coal contracts with Japanese
customers at $97 a ton, it said. The figure was $126.50 a year
ago. Lower coking and spot thermal-coal prices hurt the coal
division earnings in the period from July 1, the company said.  Below Estimates  “Thermal coal-prices received look relatively weak,
between 4 percent to 7 percent below our estimates,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. said in a note. “On balance key divisions were
weaker than expected and we see scope for 5 percent to 10
percent downgrades to our second-half net earnings.”  Japan ,  Asia ’s second-largest importer of thermal coal, may
raise purchases 4 percent this year as nuclear power plants are
shuttered,  Australia ’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics
said last month.  Xstrata’s coal division has begun to restructure operations
in Australia and will cut about 600 contractor and permanent
jobs, according to the statement. Coal accounted for 34 percent
of Xstrata’s operating income last year, and copper 47 percent.  Mined-copper output slid 16 percent to 187,849 tons as the
company replaces older, end-of-life mines with new, lower-cost
operations, it said. Production of copper cathode, a finished
form of the metal, dropped to 156,864 tons from 163,683 tons.  Southern Peru  Copper production at the Tintaya mine declined 31 percent
mainly because of planned lower copper grades in the final phase
of operations, Xstrata said. Output at the Mount Isa underground
mine fell 14 percent “due to localised geotechnical issues.”  The $1.47 billion Antapaccay project in southern  Peru  will
begin production by the end of the month, Xstrata said. It will
produce an average of 160,000 tons of copper annually over the
first five years, it said.  Xstrata has still to set a date for shareholders to vote on
the planned combination with Glencore. The vote was postponed on
Sept. 7 when Glencore, the world’s biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier, increased its offer.  Shareholders with a combined stake of as little 16.5
percent of Xstrata would be able to block the deal. U.K.
takeover rules prevent Glencore voting its 34 percent Xstrata
stake to approve the deal, which requires 75 percent consent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  