-- Google Exec Builds YouTube for Good With 20 Percent Time
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-17T16:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/google-exec-builds-youtube-for-good-with-20-percent-time.html
Officially, Hunter Walk has fewer
than a dozen engineers working for him at YouTube on developing
services for nonprofits and activists. Unofficially, the
longtime  Google Inc. (GOOG)  executive has amassed an army of about 200.  Over the past year, Walk has been quietly evangelizing
within Google for his initiative called YouTube for Good. He has
convinced about a fifth of the online video site’s 1,000 or so
employees, as well as some from Google’s headquarters in
 Mountain View ,  California , to set aside a chunk of their time to
build online tools used by organizations including the  United
Nations World Food Program  and  Charity: Water .  Walk pulled this off by taking advantage of Google’s “20
percent time,” the well-known program that allows employees to
devote a day a week to a side project, Bloomberg.com reported on
its Tech Blog. He promoted his effort as a way to make YouTube,
which Google  bought  in 2006, a place to learn about serious
topics, not just a venue to watch music videos and animal clips.  “There is a real desire for YouTube to be a global
classroom and a global town square, not just a global living
room,” Walk said in an interview. “I just needed to make a
compelling, enthusiastic pitch.”  Since joining almost nine years ago, Walk has helped shape
Google’s advertising network and grow YouTube into an online
video giant with more than 800 million viewers a month.  While he has become an expert at harnessing 20 percent
time, discretion is a virtue, Walk has learned.  “I don’t tell people my headcount,” he said. “I know the
organization. I know how to get things done.”  Risk Taking  While 20 percent time continues today, questions arose last
year about whether it would be shut down after Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Page  closed Google Labs. That part of the website
housed many of the experimental online tools that came out of
the program.  “A lot of 20 percent projects satisfy the need of having
that risk in your life,” said Jason Shellen, a former employee
at the online search company who started Google Reader as a side
project. “That’s why I was drawn to 20 percent projects. It’s a
lot like a startup.”  Hit products including Gmail and Google News were also
created out of the 20 percent program.  With YouTube for Good, its innovative efforts have
benefited the entire video site. For example, the use of live
streaming, such as for last year’s AIDS symposium by the  ONE
Campaign , was first tested with nonprofits. Walk’s group has
also developed new tools such as automatic face blurring —
designed to protect activists appearing in protest videos — that
was later adapted broadly across the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  