-- Greek Creditors See Agreement in ‘Coming Days’ on New Measures
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-17T17:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/greek-creditors-see-agreement-in-coming-days-on-new-measures.html
Greece ’s creditors, known
collectively as the troika, said they expect a staff-level
agreement in coming days that would pave the way for the next
payment of aid funds to the debt-stricken country.  The European Commission, European Central Bank and
International Monetary Fund said “most of the core issues”
have been settled, according to a joint statement e-mailed
today.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras faced down a growing revolt
among coalition partners over changes to labor rules demanded by
the troika as he has tried to come up with an additional 13.5
billion euros ($17.7 billion) of austerity to appease Greece’s
creditors. The endorsement may bolster Samaras as he attends his
first European Union summit tomorrow where he will begin
lobbying for a two-year extension of the country’s bailout
target.  “The authorities and staff teams agreed on most of the
core measures needed to restore the momentum of reform and pave
the way for the completion of the review,” the statement said.  A final deal will help unlock a 31 billion-euro aid
installment that the country needs to avoid a second default.
Greece remains on life support with the country mired in its
fifth year of a recession that has shrunk the economy by almost
20 percent.  Samaras faces growing dissent within his multi-party
coalition over the troika’s demand to overhaul some labor market
rules.  ‘Playing with Fire’  Evangelos Venizelos  of the socialist Pasok party and the
Democratic Left’s Fotis Kouvelis, whose parliamentary seats give
Samaras the majority in Parliament he needs to govern, both said
they wouldn’t accept further changes to labor laws after a
three-hour meeting with the prime minister in  Athens  yesterday.  “Further interventions on labor issues don’t help
productivity, competitiveness or employment,” Venizelos told
state-run NET TV. “We must look elsewhere now and the
insistence on this is wrong,” he said, adding some EU members
were “playing with fire.”  Samaras is seeking to spread pension and wage cuts over
four years rather than two to smooth the impact
His New Democracy party has only 128 seats in the 300-seat
Parliament and relies on Pasok and Democratic Left’s combined 50
seats to turn any pledge to lenders into law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  