-- Greek Prime Property Yields Rise on Pessimism, Colliers Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-10-17T11:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/greek-prime-property-yields-rise-on-economy-gloom-colliers-says.html
Yields on  Athens  prime commercial
property climbed this year as pessimism over Greece’s economy
and the prospect of banks selling assets depressed real estate
values, according to Colliers International.  Yields on the best office properties in the Greek capital
rose to 8 percent this year from 6.9 percent in 2009 and prime
shopping-mall yields increased to 8.5 percent from 6.3 percent,
said Ana Vukovic, the broker’s  managing director  for Greece.
Yields from income-producing real estate move in the opposite
direction of property values.  “Prime yields are moving upwards in 2012 driven by the
high cost of money and low availability of capital combined with
suppressed demand” and pressure on banks to sell properties to
bolster their balance sheets, Vukovic said.  The country’s economic crisis is prompting local
businesses, banks and other commercial real estate owners to
close stores and branches, opening opportunities to investors.
 Greece  has pledged to raise 50 billion euros from state assets,
around half of which is real estate, by 2020 to meet conditions
tied to 240 billion euros in foreign aid pledged over the past
two years.  Prime office vacancy rates in Athens doubled to 16 percent
this year and rents fell to about 21 euros per square meter a
month from 32 euros per square meter in the peak, according to
Colliers. Prime retail rents fell to 150 euros per square meter
a month, from as much as 280 euros per square meter a month at
the peak in 2006 and 2007.  Prime London  By comparison, yields for commercial property in the City
of  London  financial district were unchanged for the 12 months
through June at 5.25 percent, according to Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. In London’s West End, prime yields for sites valued below
10 million pounds were stable at 4 percent, the Chicago-based
broker said in a  report .  Greek gross domestic product may drop 3.1 percent in 2013
and 0.3 percent in 2014, according to Bloomberg survey released
on Oct. 1. With the economy heading for its sixth year of
recession, companies may continue to shed jobs even with
unemployment at 25.1 percent, the highest in the euro zone.  Greece is overhauling its banks after they sustained losses
on domestic  government bonds  in the country’s debt swap, the
biggest restructuring in history. Greece obtained a 130 billion-
euro bailout in March from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  that earmarked 50 billion euros for
recapitalizing lenders.  Yields Stabilizing  Colliers, based in  Seattle , predicts prime commercial
property yields will stabilize next year as Greece pays down
debt, sovereign risk abates and investor appetite picks up as
the government introduces fast-track legislation to make
investing in state property easier.  Greece’s state asset-sales fund last month chose a  Lamda
Development SA (LAMDA)  unit to lease the  International Broadcasting
Center  in Athens for 90 years. Lamda made an 81 million-euro bid
in a public tender in the first real estate privatization in the
country’s plan to raise about 25 billion euros from the sale or
lease of public property. Colliers, based in Seattle, provided
an independent valuation of the property.  “This first privatization deal is expected to speed up
privatization projects and plans, sending a message for a
business friendly framework that can upgrade the role of Greece
and its potential for economic recovery,” Vukovic said.  The broadcast center was built for the 2004  Olympic Games 
and includes the Golden Hall shopping mall with a total area of
132,200 square meters (1.4 million square feet) and an
additional vacant area of 21,600 square meters.  Greece’s Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund in
December started a public tender process for a majority stake in
Hellinikon SA, the company with the right to manage and develop
Athens’s former international airport under a long-term lease
that covers 6.2 million square meters of land. Last month, the
fund chose Qatari Diar Real Estate investment Co., London &
Regional, Elbit Cochin Island Ltd. and Lamda Development for the
second round of bidding to buy a majority stake in Hellenikon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ; 