-- Li Ning Falls as Founder Cuts Direct Holdings: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-17T09:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/li-ning-falls-as-founder-cuts-direct-holdings-hong-kong-mover.html
Li Ning Co. (2331)  dropped the most in
almost two months in Hong Kong trading after its founder sold a
25 percent direct stake in the sportswear retailer to  Viva China
Holdings Ltd. (8032) , a company he partially controls.  Shares of the company founded by the Olympic gymnast of the
same name fell 4.8 percent to HK$4.60, the largest drop since
Aug. 27, after resuming trading today following a halt since
Oct. 15. Viva China shares almost doubled to 12 Hong Kong cents.  Companies fully owned by Li Ning and his brother are
selling 266.4 million shares in the retailer to Viva China, a
holding firm that is 56 percent controlled by the family, the
retailer said in a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange
today. Viva China is involved in sports talent management and
has property investments, according to its annual report.  Viva China could sell some of its  Li Ning  shares if it
needs to raise funds, said Forrest Chan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at  CCB International. (CIRMBFI)   “What worries investors is Viva China’s track record in
property investments,” said Chan. “Viva China may require
further capital investments or fundraising. The deal puts Li
Ning investors at a disadvantage should Viva China need to raise
funds in the future.”  Property Investments  Viva China in May 2011 bid 1 billion  yuan  ($159.8 million)
for a parcel of land for a residential and commercial complex in
the northeastern Chinese city of Shenyang, it said in an August
interim report to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The holding
company has paid HK$230 million ($29.7 million) as a deposit and
has other capital commitments of HK$1 billion for the property,
it said in August.  Viva China will pay HK$1.36 billion ($175 million) to buy
the 25 percent stake in Li Ning from Victory Mind Assets Ltd.
and Dragon City Management Ltd., both owned by the gymnast’s
family, it said in a statement to the exchange.  Li Ning reported a 65 percent profit drop last year as
competition escalated from  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Adidas AG (ADS) , and  Anta Sports
Products Ltd. (2020)  The Beijing-based company has said it will seek to
improve results through marketing investments, and by clearing
its inventory.  Gymnast Li Ning was the final torchbearer at the opening
ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games. He won three gold,
two silver and one bronze medals in the 23rd Los Angeles Olympic
Games in 1984, and founded the company after retiring from
athletics, according to the retailer’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  