-- Michelin Names 70 Good-Value Restaurants in San Francisco
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-17T16:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/michelin-names-70-good-value-restaurants-in-san-francisco.html
Old Mandarin Islamic, a halal
restaurant specializing in Chinese cuisine, is one of 70
establishments in the  San Francisco  area honored today by
Michelin for serving good-value, quality food.  The French guide picks its Bib Gourmand winners one week
before publishing the 2013 San Francisco guide, when chefs and
restaurateurs learn if they have been awarded stars.  A total of 21 cuisines are represented in the value-for-
money category, which recognizes venues that serve two courses
and a glass of wine or dessert for $40 or less, plus tax and
tip. The list covers the  Bay Area  and Wine Country.  Others honored include Comal, a modern  Mexican  restaurant
in Berkeley; Gajalee, which specializes in Indian seafood; Thai
House, serving Thai food in Danville; and Marlowe, a
neighborhood bistro. Old Islamic’s dishes include mandarin lamb
and tomato egg flower soup,  allmenus.com  says.  Michelin & Cie (ML) , the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
produced its first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until
1920 and intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  Halal means in accordance with Islamic law, which in the
case of food covers the type of meat or fish, the method of
slaughter and the preparation of dishes.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  dining and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 