-- Tigers, Verlander Beat Yankees for 3-0 Lead in MLB Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-17T15:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/tigers-verlander-beat-yankees-2-1-for-3-0-lead-in-mlb-series.html
Justin Verlander  took a shutout into
the ninth inning as the Detroit Tigers beat the New York Yankees
2-1 to move within a win of reaching the World Series.  Verlander allowed one run over 8 1/3 innings to win his
seventh straight start and  Delmon Young  hit a solo home run in
Detroit for the Tigers, who have a three-games-to-none lead in
the American League Championship Series.  The Tigers can complete a four-game sweep with a win
tonight at Comerica Park. The Yankees haven’t been swept in
 Major League Baseball ’s postseason since the 1980 ALCS, when
they lost three straight games against the Kansas City Royals in
a best-of-five series.  “You can’t ever feel comfortable, especially against a
team like the Yankees,” Verlander said. “They’re always
capable of big things. We’ve seen it in the postseason in the
past. We’ll never be complacent as a team. Our guys take the
mentality that every game is a must-win.”  New York has failed to score in 28 of 30 innings against
Detroit in the ALCS and now has a .198 team batting average this
postseason.  To maintain its chances of winning a record-extending 28th
World Series title, the Yankees will have to join the 2004
Boston  Red Sox  as the only major-league team to rally from a 3-0
deficit in a postseason series.  “We’ve gotten good pitching all throughout the playoffs
and we’re going to need it again if we want to live another
day,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said at a news conference.  The National League Championship Series resumes today in
 St. Louis  with the Cardinals and  San Francisco Giants  tied at 1-
1 after splitting the first two games in San Francisco.  Shuffled Lineup  The Yankees sought to spark their slumping offense by
benching third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  and outfielder  Nick Swisher  last night against Verlander, the 2011 American League
Most Valuable Player and Cy Young Award winner.  Instead, New York only avoided its second straight shutout
when  Eduardo Nunez  hit a solo homer off Verlander to lead off
the ninth inning. It was the first earned run allowed by the
Tigers’ starting pitchers in 37 innings.  Verlander, who allowed three hits with no walks and three
strikeouts, was taken out after throwing 132 pitches. He was
replaced by Phil Coke, who gave up consecutive two-out singles
to  Mark Teixeira  and  Robinson Cano  before striking out  Raul Ibanez  to end the game. Cano’s hit snapped his 0-for-29 slump,
yet Ibanez wasn’t able to deliver another clutch hit after
hitting three homers from the ninth inning on this postseason.  “I had faith in our bullpen,” Verlander said. “I don’t
think they’re just going to leave me out there and sacrifice the
rest of the postseason just for this game, especially when Coke
has been throwing the ball extremely well.”  A-Rod Benched  The Yankees sat Rodriguez -- the sport’s highest-paid
player with a 10-year, $275 million contract -- in favor of  Eric Chavez , who last year considered retiring. Rodriguez entered the
game hitting .130 with 12 strikeouts in 23 at-bats and was
hitless in 18 at-bats against right-handed pitchers.  Chavez went 0-for-3 against Verlander and also made an
error at third base.  Girardi also opted for  Brett Gardner  over Swisher even
though Gardner had only three at-bats since April because of an
elbow injury that required surgery. Swisher was hitting .154
this postseason with eight strikeouts in 23 at-bats. Gardner hit
leadoff and went 0-for-4.  Ichiro Suzuki managed the Yankees’ only other two hits off
Verlander, who has a 7-0 record with a 0.68 earned run average
since Sept. 14.  Unbeaten Verlander  Verlander is 3-0 this postseason, helping put Detroit on
the verge of its first  World Series  appearance since 2006, when
it lost in five games to the Cardinals. The Tigers won the last
of their four World Series titles in 1984.  “Hopefully we can take care of business here at home,
where we’ve been playing great, and get ready for the next
series,” Verlander said.  The Yankees’ Game 3 woes weren’t limited to hitting.  New York starting pitcher  Phil Hughes  left the game with a
stiff back after failing to record an out in the bottom of the
fourth inning. Hughes surrendered Young’s line drive home run to
lead off the inning, issued a walk to Andy Dirks and then was
taken out after getting an 0-2 count on Jhonny Peralta. Hughes
also missed time because of inflammation from a herniated disc
at the end of the 2011 season.  The Tigers pushed their lead to 2-0 in the fifth inning
when  Miguel Cabrera  hit a run-scoring double off David Phelps.
Cabrera has had a hit in 16 straight LCS games.  The Yankees, who had baseball’s highest Opening Day team
payroll at $198 million this season, will turn to CC Sabathia
today to try to extend their season.  Sabathia Starts  Sabathia, who hasn’t lost in eight postseason starts, will
be opposed by Detroit pitcher Max Scherzer, who allowed one
unearned run over 5 1/3 innings in his AL Division Series start
against the  Oakland Athletics . If the Tigers, who ranked fifth
in the majors with a $132 million payroll this season, can’t
close out the series today, Game 5 would be in Detroit tomorrow.  “All teams at this time of year are hard to beat,” Tigers
manager  Jim Leyland  said at a news conference. “We’re
fortunate, certainly. We’ve put ourselves in a decent position,
but that’s all we’ve done.’  With the win, the Tigers became the odds-on favorite to
take the World Series at the Las Vegas Hilton’s Super Book, with
a successful $130 wager returning $100. The Yankees, who entered
Game 3 with a 12-1 chance of winning the championship, dropped
to 30-1, meaning a $100 bet would return $3,000.  The Cardinals were listed with 14-5 odds, while the Giants
were at 15-4, according to the Super Book.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  