-- Lightsquared Lenders Shouldn’t Get Challenge, Owners Say
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-17T21:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/lightsquared-lenders-shouldn-t-get-challenge-owners-say.html
A group of LightSquared Inc.’s
lenders shouldn’t be allowed to challenge a pre-bankruptcy loan
to the wireless company because it can’t show that hedge fund
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC controlled the loan, Harbinger
said in an objection filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court today.  A group of lenders that own $1.1 billion in debt at the
company’s “LP” unit seek court permission to prosecute or
settle claims over a $263.8 million loan the company got before
its bankruptcy. They shouldn’t be granted legal standing as they
have no factual support to show that pre-bankruptcy loans were
made among insiders, lawyers for Harbinger said in court papers
filed in Manhattan bankruptcy court today.  The bankrupt maker of wireless broadband technology backed
by Harbinger has been in dispute with the so-called Ad Hoc Group
since the outset of its Chapter 11 case. The Ad Hoc Group
includes Capital Research & Management Co., Appaloosa Management
LP and  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   “The Ad Hoc Group attempts to paint the Inc. Loan as an
insider transaction and even states, without any factual
support, that “Harbinger controlled the ‘lending’ group,”
lawyers for Harbinger wrote.  Controlled by Falcone  Harbinger, a hedge fund controlled by  Philip Falcone ,
controls LightSquared’s board and owns 96 percent of the
company’s voting stock, lenders said in their request to bring
claims. The loan was made among Harbinger, which contributed
$150 million, Blue Line DZN Corp., a Harbinger affiliate, which
contributed $33.75 million, and UBS, which contributed $80
million, the lender group said.  U.S. Bank National Association , which took on the credit
agreement from UBS, also objected to the ad-hoc groups’ request
to bring claims, saying the group wouldn’t share any recoveries
with other creditors.  Harbinger also said in its objection that the ad hoc
group’s expenses in the bankruptcy case are now higher than
those of the company, citing a $3.16 million fee for
restructuring counsel compared to $3.11 million for the company.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt of
$2.29 billion. Harbinger acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for
$1.05 billion in cash and controls 96 percent of its stock.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  