-- Most Indian Stocks Rise on U.S. Recovery Signs, Foreign Inflows
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-17T12:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/indian-stocks-rise-most-in-a-week-on-u-s-recovery-signs-flows.html
Most Indian stocks advanced as data
signaled the U.S. recovery is picking up and overseas investors
extended purchases of Indian equities.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.2 percent
at 18,610.77 at the close in Mumbai. Three stocks increased for
every two that fell on the 30-stock gauge.  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , the
largest non-state generator, surged the most in three weeks.
 Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , a mortgage lender, rose for
the second day.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s
largest oil-refining complex, fell 0.9 percent.  U.S. factory output climbed, home-builder confidence rose
to a six-year high and earnings exceeded estimates at almost
three-quarters of companies in the S&P 500 index, boosting the
outlook for the world’s largest economy. Overseas funds bought
local shares for a 16th straight day on Oct. 15, taking their
purchases this year to $18 billion, the most among 10 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China .  “ Emerging markets  are big beneficiaries of the world
moving out of a crisis mentality,” Richard Titherington, chief
investment officer and head of emerging markets at JPMorgan
Asset Management, told Bloomberg TV India today. “I wouldn’t
expect emerging market equities to go up in a straight line,
though the outlook looks pretty good from where we are now.”  Indian stocks were raised to neutral from underweight in a
report today by Macquarie Group Ltd., which cited “overdue”
economic reforms by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government.  The Sensex last month had its biggest monthly gain since
January as Singh opened retailing and airlines to foreigners,
pared fuel subsidies and reduced a tax on companies’ overseas
debts in a wave of policy making after two years of gridlock.  ‘Investor Enthusiasm’  “The government needed to move, it has begun to move and
you can see the pent up enthusiasm in investors’ mind,” said
JPMorgan’s Titherington. “It’s interesting that despite a lot
of domestic pessimism, inflows into  India  have held up well,
certainly compared with the rest of the emerging markets. Indian
investors and businessmen in the last six to 12 months have
tended to focus on the negatives. For foreign investors, the
long-term story is so obvious and compelling that India is one
of the preferred investment destinations.”  Most Indian stocks also advanced as the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed on speculation Spain will move toward seeking
financial aid, and after two senior German coalition lawmakers
said the country is open to credit assistance for Spain,
signaling a softening of public rhetoric before European Union
leaders convene for a summit tomorrow.  The European Union accounted for 17.2 percent of India’s
exports in the six months ended September 2011, according to the
commerce ministry.  ‘Not Expensive’  The Sensex has surged 20 percent this year as foreigners
bought local stocks. The gauge trades at 14.8 times  estimated
earnings , compared with the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 11.6
times. One of the three Sensex companies that have reported
profits for the September quarter has missed analyst estimates.  “We are not as cheap as we were a couple of months ago but
we haven’t reached a stage where you can say that we are overly
expensive,” Sunil Singhania, head of equities at Reliance
Capital Asset Management Ltd., India’s second-biggest mutual
fund with $17 billion in assets, told Bloomberg TV India
yesterday. “Come December the markets will start discounting
next fiscal year’s earnings, and even today expectations are
that there will be 10 to 12 percent increase.”  Earnings for 40 percent of the 30 Sensex companies trailed
forecasts in the June quarter, compared with 30 percent in the
three months ended March and 47 percent three months earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading Volume  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India Ltd. rose 0.2 percent to 5,660.25. Its October futures
settled at 5,669.50. The BSE-200 Index gained 0.2 percent while
the BSE Mid-Cap Index fell less than 0.1 percent. The National
Stock Exchange of India and the BSE Ltd. traded 918 million
shares yesterday, equivalent to the 12-month daily average.  Tata Power rallied 2.2 percent to 103.95 rupees, the most
since Sept. 28. Housing Development added 1.2 percent to 752.85
rupees.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the largest engineering company,
added 1.3 percent to 1,626.25 rupees, halting a three-day drop.  Reliance Industries fell 0.9 percent to 805.15 rupees.  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the largest software services
exporter, lost 1 percent to 1,283.15 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  