-- India and Australia Agree to Start Talks on Nuclear Trade Deal
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-10-17T15:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/india-and-australia-agree-to-start-talks-on-nuclear-trade-deal.html
  India  and  Australia  agreed to begin
civil nuclear trade talks for the first time, opening a new
chapter of cooperation between the two nations.  The countries didn’t set a time to start the negotiations,
which may lead to Australia selling uranium to the world’s
second-most populous nation to meet its growing energy needs.
The announcement was made at the end of a three-day visit by
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  “I have expressed to Prime Minister Gillard India’s
appreciation of this development,” Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  said at a press conference in New Delhi today.
“This is a recognition of India’s energy needs as well as our
records and credentials.”  Australia, the world’s third-biggest uranium supplier,
previously banned sales to India because it isn’t a signatory to
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The South Asian nation
signed civil nuclear agreements with countries including the
U.S.,  France  and Russia after a three-decade ban on trade with
India was lifted in September 2008 by the 46-member  Nuclear
Suppliers Group , which is charged with reducing proliferation by
controlling the transfer of materials.  At the end of last year, Australia’s governing  Labor Party 
overturned a ban on uranium exports to India.  Earlier in the day, Gillard said that the failure to begin
nuclear trade with India had been a “source of tensions”
between the two nations. “It was an idea whose time had come,”
Gillard told a group of business leaders.  India’s government plans to spend about $175 billion over
the next two decades as it seeks to curb power shortfalls
crippling the economy. Power cuts are hurting industrial
production amid an average 9 percent shortfall in peak power
demand, according to the Central Electricity Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  