-- Rupee Forwards Rise a Second Day on Europe Optimism, U.S. Data
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-10-17T11:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/indian-rupee-advances-a-second-day-on-europe-optimism-u-s-data.html
India ’s rupee forwards strengthened
for a second day after data showed U.S. industrial output grew
faster than economists estimated and as speculation grew that
Spain will seek a bailout.  Two German lawmakers yesterday said the country is open to
providing aid for Spain, signaling a softening of resistance
before a summit of European Union leaders tomorrow. Production
in the world’s largest economy rose 0.4 percent in September,
according to a report yesterday, compared with a forecast of 0.2
percent in a Bloomberg survey. India’s  factory output  rose 2.7
percent in August, the most since February, government figures
showed on Oct. 12. Global funds poured $1.8 billion into Indian
stocks this month, regulator data show.  “Since German opposition has eased, Spain will probably
ask for and receive help,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “There is hope
among investors that policy makers in  Europe  will alleviate
pressures, and this is boosting risk appetite and the rupee,
which is dependent on sentiment and capital flows.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards advanced 0.1 percent to
53.80 a dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts were little changed at 53.63
versus 53.64. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  The rupee was little changed in the spot market at 52.8800
per dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings,
was unchanged at 10.70 percent.  Michael Meister and Norbert Barthle, officials within
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc,
said yesterday a precautionary credit line for Spain “would be
a possible move.” Spain retained its investment-grade credit
rating from Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a reduction
in the risk of losing market access.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  