-- Arbabsiar Admits to Plotting With Iranians to Kill Envoy
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/iranian-american-pleads-guilty-to-saudi-murder-plot.html
Manssor Arbabsiar, an Iranian-
American car salesman, admitted to conspiring last year with
members of the Iranian military to kill  Saudi Arabia ’s
ambassador to the U.S. in a  Washington  restaurant.  Arbabsiar, 57, who was scheduled to go on trial in January,
pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. District Judge John Keenan
in  Manhattan  to three crimes: traveling in the commission of a
murder-for-hire plot; conspiring to commit a murder for hire and
conspiring to commit an act of terrorism transcending national
boundaries.  While Arbabsiar faced a potential life prison term had he
been convicted after trial, Keenan told Arbabsiar he now faces a
maximum of 25 years in prison when he is sentenced Jan. 23. The
judge told Arbabsiar, who remains in custody, was told that he
could seek a lesser term. Prosecutors may also seek a longer
sentence.  According to prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri, who the
U.S. said was a member of Iran’s Qods Force, hired a member of a
Mexican drug cartel to kill Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir. The man
they approached to be their assassin was actually an undercover
informant working for the U.S., prosecutors said.  “In  Mexico , we hired a person named ‘Junior,’ who turned
out to be an FBI agent, to kidnap the ambassador,” Arbabsiar
told the judge yesterday. “Junior said it would be easier to
kill the ambassador. I and others agreed to go along with this
new plan. We agreed to pay Junior, and to do that we transferred
money to the  United States  from  Iran .”  Naturalized Citizen  A naturalized U.S. citizen living in  Texas , Arbabsiar,
yesterday said he wired more than $100,000 into the country as
part of the plot. The funds went through a bank in New York. The
U.S. said Arbabsiar explained to the undercover that the Iranian
officials he was working with were willing to pay him $1.5
million for his work.  Yesterday in court Arbabsiar said he made two wire
transfers of funds toward payment of the assassination totaling
$100,000 through a bank in New York. The transfer was made with
Shakuri’s approval, the U.S. said.  Arbabsiar also traveled to Mexico from Iran and met and
recruited as the assassin, prosecutors said. The U.S. also
recorded some of the conversations in which Arbabsiar told the
undercover source that a relative of his in the Iranian
military, wanted the Saudi ambassador killed.  ‘They Pay’  “Kill is better,” Arbabsiar said in the July 2011
conversation recorded by the U.S. “This is politics, OK, it’s
not like, eh, personal. This is politics, so these people, they
pay,” Arbabsiar said in the recording.  Yesterday in court, Judge Keenan asked prosecutors if they
wanted to ask Arbabsiar any questions. After conferring,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Edward Kim, turned and asked the
defendant, “Mr. Arbabsiar, were the people you agreed with in
this plot officials in the Iranian military?”  “Yes, part of it,” Arbabsiar answered.  Arbabsiar, who said he came to the U.S. and studied
mechanical engineering in  Louisiana , said the assassination was
to be carried out in a restaurant in Washington.  “Are you offering to plead guilty of your own free will
Mr. Arbabsiar?” Keenan asked.  “Yeah, I take responsibility for my actions,” he said
with a shrug.  ‘Whole Truth’  “Did you tell the whole truth?” Keenan asked.  “I don’t like to lie, so that’s why I’m here,” Arbabsiar
answered.  Arbabsiar’s lawyer, Sabrina Shroff, declined to comment
after court. Shakuri remains at large, prosecutors said.  When the case was first announced last October, Attorney
General Eric Holder said the U.S. would hold Iran responsible
for any terrorist actions tied to the plot, which he said was
sponsored by the Iranian government. He called the conspiracy a
“flagrant” violation of international law.  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Other
Qods Force members in Iran were involved and helped to bankroll
the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  