-- Third Armstrong Former Teammate Loses Job on Doping File
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-17T08:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/third-armstrong-former-teammate-loses-job-on-doping-file.html
Australia ’s Matt White became the
third former colleague of Lance Armstrong to lose his job in
five days following the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s report into
doping in cycling.  White, 38, was fired as coordinator of Australia’s men’s
road cycling national teams today. He had stood down from the
role and as sports director of the Orica-GreenEDGE team on Oct.
13 after admitting doping on the U.S. Postal Service team from
2001 to 2003.  Sydney-based Cycling Australia, which appointed White in
January 2011, said in a statement his position with the
organization was “untenable.”  White follows U.S. cyclist Levi Leipheimer and RadioShack
Nissan Trek general manager Johan Bruyneel in being ousted since
USADA released a 202-page report and more than 1,000 pages of
testimony on Oct. 10 that said seven-time Tour de France winner
Armstrong used banned substances and administered them to other
riders on the U.S. Postal team.  White, who also is facing an investigation by the
Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority, said he accepted
Cycling Australia’s decision.  “I understand the current situation makes it difficult to
sustain the position,” White said in an e-mailed statement
issued by Cycling Australia. “It’s crucial there is a positive
outcome from the current debate about cycling’s past and I feel
a responsibility to be part of that -- even if it won’t be in an
official Cycling Australia role.”  Doctor Referral  GreenEDGE, an Australian professional road cycling team,
hasn’t said if it will take any action against White. The
Australian had been fired by the Garmin team in January 2011
after referring a rider to former US Postal doctor Luis Garcia
del Moral in  Valencia , Spain.  Leipheimer was fired by the Omega Pharma Quick-Step team
yesterday after admitted doping in an affidavit published by
USADA. Bruyneel denies USADA evidence of wrongdoing. He said he
had agreed to leave the RadioShack team to concentrate on his
defense in an arbitration hearing.  Armstrong’s lawyer Timothy Herman said Oct. 10 that USADA’s
report is “a taxpayer-funded tabloid piece rehashing old,
disproved, unreliable allegations based largely on axe-grinders,
serial perjurers, coerced testimony, sweetheart deals and
threat-induced stories.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  