-- Italy Passes Monti’s Anti-Graft Bill Amid Political Scandals
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-17T17:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/italy-passes-monti-s-anti-graft-bill-amid-political-scandals.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  won a
confidence vote in the Senate today on an anti-graft bill as he
seeks to hit back against corruption with the country hobbled by
the biggest wave of political scandals in two decades.  The Upper House in Rome voted 228 to 33 in favour of the
government. Italian administrations routinely use confidence
votes, which stake their survival on the outcome, to end debate
and speed the legislative process. The bill still needs to pass
through the Chamber of Deputies before it becomes law.  The  new rules  broaden the definition of corruption, make
influence-peddling a crime, toughen punishments and introduce
measures to prevent statutes of limitations from upending
convictions. The law also aims to make public funding of
political parties more transparent. The vote in the Senate comes
after corruption scandals toppled the regional government of
Lazio, where Rome is located, and threaten to bring down the
administration in Lombardy, which has Milan as its capital.  “This is a second Bribesville, and it seems unavoidable to
say so,” Justice Minister Paola Severino  told  Sky TG24
television on Oct. 14, referring to the  political corruption
scandals of 1992-1993 that wiped out the country’s dominant
political parties. “The sheer number of cases that has come to
light makes it evident.”  Corruption Ranking  Italy  ranked worst among all euro-area countries except
 Greece  in  Transparency International ’s global corruption ranking
last year. Corruption accounts for 1 percent of the European
Union’s gross domestic product, which would amount to 16 billion
euros ($21 billion) for Italy, the European Commission said in
June. In April the Council of Europe’s Group of States Against
Corruption  called  on Italy to amend its criminal code to
strengthen controls on political-party financing and beef up
penalties for corruption.  Monti said today that the bill will help attract investment
to Italy and cited conversations with the Qatar’s Emir Sheikh
Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani that he was reluctant to invest in
Italy because of corruption issues.  The legislation, which languished for more than two years
in Parliament, was originally drafted under the government of
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who is currently on trial for
abuse of power. The original law included measures to limit the
use of wiretapping in criminal investigations, a practice that
had contributed to several Berlusconi indictments.  Mafia Infiltration  Monti’s government overhauled the bill to make it more
focused on punishing corruption and the vote comes after the
administration disbanded the city council of Reggio Calabria in
southern Italy to end alleged infiltration by criminal groups.  It also follows the arrest of a local government member of
the Lombardy Region in the North by prosecutors for allegedly
buying votes from the ’Ndrangheta, the Calabrian mafia. The
region’s governor Roberto Formigoni is under investigation on
allegations of corruption in a separate inquiry and denies any
wrongdoing. On Sept. 24 Lazio Region President Renata Polverini
resigned amid a party financing scandal. She is not under
investigation.  Both Polverini and Formigoni were elected as heads of their
regions in 2010 with the support of then Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party.  One of the reasons the law took so long to be approved was
the division among lawmakers over whether it should include
rules to prevent politicians convicted of corruption from
running for election. Severino  told  senators today that the
government is willing to present specific legislation on this
matter within a month.  Influence Peddling  The Council of  Europe ’s anti-corruption arm has called on
Italy, which signed the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption in
1999, to classify private-sector corruption and influence
peddling as crimes and lengthen the statute of limitations for
corruption offenses.  Still, some observers say that the law’s approval is too
little too late and the government needs to make the fight
against crime and corruption its top priority and invest new
resources.  “It’s a weak law,” Roberto Saviano, the author of the
bestseller “Gomorrah” about the Naples mafia, told la
Repubblica on Oct. 15, before the government released a final
draft of the bill. Monti “needs to act soon in order to deal
with corruption as with a national emergency and not as a
problem like many others,” Saviano said.  The Rome-based newspaper said more than 300,000 Italians
signed an appeal it published last month calling on Parliament
to approve the new law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  