-- TiVo, YSL, Microsoft, AU Optronics: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-17T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/tivo-ysl-microsoft-au-optronics-intellectual-property.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  said it may be entitled to
billions of dollars in damages should it win its patent-
infringement lawsuit against Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility
unit over digital-video recording technology.  “Motorola’s massive production of infringing DVRs dwarfs
the numbers of accused products at issue in TiVo’s previous
cases,” TiVo said in a filing Oct. 15 in federal court in
Marshall,  Texas . “TiVo’s damages claim is likely to run into
the billions of dollars.”  TiVo disclosed the figure in a request to consolidate the
case against Motorola Mobility with one involving  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO)  to address pre-trial issues, saying it would speed the
process and conserve resources. The companies make set-top boxes
for  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , which is a defendant in both cases.
TiVo said it also will seek an order to force Motorola Mobility
to stop selling products that infringe TiVo patents.  In an Oct. 9 filing, Motorola Mobility said TiVo waited too
long to make its request, since the judge had already split the
case to have the claims against Motorola Mobility and Cisco
handled separately. The Motorola Mobility case is further along
than the Cisco one, it said.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville, Illinois, said it
also has its own patent-infringement claims against TiVo that
are unrelated to Cisco. The company said it would seek to have
TiVo give up patent-licensing revenue it claims was “wrongfully
derived from Motorola’s inventions.”  Alviso, California-based TiVo is basing its damages
estimate in part on previous patent settlements including the
$600 million it received from Dish Network Corp., more than $215
million from AT&T Inc. and more than $250 million from Verizon
Communications Inc.  Mountain View , California-based Google, which bought
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion in May, is seeking to sell
the unit that supplies cable television providers with set-top
boxes and other equipment. The TiVo litigation could make that
difficult, said Kevin Stadtler, principal of Stadtler Capital
Management LLC in Fort Worth, Texas, who owns TiVo shares and is
projecting they will rise.  “It is highly improbable Google can sell the set-top box
division without settling with TiVo considering the threat of an
injunction and a potential claim like this,” he said.  The cases are Motorola Mobility Inc. v. TiVo Inc., 11cv53;
and TiVo Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 12cv311, both U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District in Texas (Marshall).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Yves Saint Laurent Seeks to Dismiss Claims Against Louboutin  Yves Saint Laurent  SAS, following an appeals court ruling
in September that it has the legal right to sell monochromatic
women’s shoes with red soles, asked a federal judge to dismiss
counterclaims it filed against Christian Louboutin Sarl.  Yves Saint Laurent seeks to end the lawsuit Louboutin
brought to prevent Saint Laurent from selling red-soled shoes,
according to a filing yesterday in Manhattan. Saint Laurent
tried to persuade the federal courts to reject Louboutin’s
trademark for red soles. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York,
in a mixed decision, said Louboutin had a limited right to the
trademark but couldn’t stop Saint Laurent from selling
monochromatic red shoes.  “Now that the Second Circuit has definitively rejected
Louboutin’s claims against YSL, YSL prefers to refocus its
energies on its business and creative designs, and has
determined that these claims are no longer worth pursuing,”
Yves Saint Laurent said in the filing.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in August 2011 rejected
a bid by Louboutin for an injunction to stop Saint Laurent from
selling the shoes. Louboutin appealed and Marrero said he would
defer deciding whether to cancel Louboutin’s trademark for the
red sole until after the appeals court ruled. The appeals court
said Louboutin’s trademark didn’t extend to all-red shoes.  “It’s not unexpected,” Harley Lewin, a lawyer with
McCarter & English LLP who represented Louboutin, said in a
phone interview. “We’re talking to the client about whether
there are any further steps to take. This is all that was left.
The essential dispute was resolved.”  Saint Laurent seeks to dismiss six counterclaims. Four were
over trademark rights, and Saint Laurent said in its filing that
the district court no longer has jurisdiction over this issue.  The two other claims were for tortious interference and
unfair competition. Saint Laurent said Louboutin called certain
retailers and told them to stop selling Saint Laurent’s red
shoes because it owned the trademark.  As for the trademark counterclaims, Bernstein said that
because Louboutin’s claims against Saint Laurent were dismissed,
the only place to pursue cancellation of the trademark would be
the  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office . He said Saint Laurent
would not pursue that action unless “Louboutin were to file a
new lawsuit against us.”  Louboutin, a Paris-based fashion company, claimed in its
lawsuit filed in April 2011 that Yves Saint Laurent’s red-soled
footwear “threaten to mislead the public.”  Yves Saint Laurent is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns
other luxury brands including Gucci  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America, 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan.)  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  GM Didn’t Infringe Rights to Einstein Persona, Judge Says  The use of images of the late  Albert Einstein , “even in
tasteless ads,” can’t be barred by invoking copyright law, a
federal judge in  Los Angeles  said.  U.S. District Judge A. Howard Matz ruled in a case brought
by  Hebrew University of Jerusalem  against General Motors Co. The
school, which inherited the rights to all of the physicist’s
papers, copyrights, royalties, publication rights and literary
property, objected to GM’s use of an image of Einstein in an
advertisement.  According to court papers, that ad, which ran in one issue
of “People” magazine, was used to promote GM’s 2010 Terrain
vehicle. The university said the ad, which featured Einstein’s
face over the body of “a shirtless, muscle-bound underwear
model” and the text “ideas are sexy too” infringed its IP
rights.  The school also claimed that such a use of Einstein’s image
denigrated and caused injury to its “carefully guarded rights”
to the image of the famous scientist.  The case was filed in California rather than New Jersey,
where Einstein died in April 1955. A New Jersey court said that
a term of life plus 50 years would be appropriate. In
California, that right extends for 70 years after the person’s
death.  The university had argued that California law prevails and
that, in any case, the term should be 70 years under federal
copyright law.  Matz noted that nothing in Einstein’s will specifically
mentioned any right of publicity and that during his lifetime,
he never claimed or received compensation for the use of his
personal image.  Matz said it “assumes without deciding” that the school
had succeeded in proving that Einstein had intended to transfer
his publicity rights along with the rest of his  intellectual
property . California’s 70-year term for publicity rights doesn’t
apply to Einstein because the physicist died in Princeton, New
Jersey, and California’s rights extend only to its residents, he
said.  A maximum 50-year postmortem duration would be “long
enough for a deceased celebrity’s heirs to take advantage of and
reap the benefit,” according to the court. The court noted that
at the time the university acquired Einstein’s rights, the term
of copyright law was only 50 years postmortem.  Matz decided that 2005 was the last year in which the
university could sue to enforce any right of publicity related
to Einstein. Because the case wasn’t filed until 2012, the
school isn’t entitled to pursue it further, Matz said, saying
there would be no trial.  GM has until Oct. 22 to file a proposed judgment in accord
with the court’s ruling.  The case is Hebrew University of Jerusalem v. General
Motors LLC, 10-cv-03790, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California (Los Angeles).  Microsoft’s Infringement Filter Targets ‘45’ on Websites  For  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s automated filter that searches the
Internet for infringements of its copyrights, the magic number
apparently is “45,” the TorrentFreak website  reported .  The Redmond, Washington-based software company sent
requests to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to take down web pages through which
unauthorized copies of the company’s Widows 9 program were
allegedly being distributed, according to TorrentFreak, the
anti-copyright news source.  Among those targeted in the takedown request were the  BBC ,
the Washington Post, Wikipedia,  CNN , the Rotten Tomatoes movie-
ranking site, and AMC Theatres, TorrentFreak reported, noting
that Google didn’t censor some of these sites such as the BBC
and Wikipedia.  The common element on about half the sites was that they
made reference to the number 45 in some way while they had
nothing to do with the Microsoft product, TorrentFreak reported,
without explaining the significance of that particular number.  UNC Copyright Committee to Clarify School’s Right to Content  The University of North Carolina’s copyright committee will
develop guidelines on content use to help address concerns among
faculty members about rights to work they create, the school’s
the Daily Tar Heel newspaper  reported .  As a condition of employment at the school, the university
has the right to use materials created by the faculty, including
“pedagogical, scholarly, literary or aesthetic works resulting
from nondirected effort,” according to the newspaper.  Many faculty members don’t understand that when they create
course material, it can be used by the school even after they
moved to a job elsewhere, the newspaper reported.  Aim of the guidelines is to reduce faculty backlash against
reuse of the content they create, committee member Jean DeSaix
told the Daily Tar Heel.  Washington Resident Receives Copyright Infringement Sentence  An Everett, Washington, man received a 40-month prison
sentence in a criminal copyright-infringement case, according to
Bloomberg data.  Sang Jim Kim, who in July entered a guilty plea to two
counts of infringement, must also forfeit $409,779. When he
finishes his prison term, he will have two years of supervised
release, according to an Oct. 12 court filing in the case.  Kim was accused of copyright and distributing Korean-
language television programs, a number of pre-release action
films including “Tron: Legacy,” and “The  Green Hornet ,” and
computer games and software.  He made the available through the
www.82movie.com and www.007disk.com websites, the government
charged. An informant told the government that Kim had offered
to sell the 007disk.com websites, servers and related content
for $90,000, and that he claimed he would load more than 50,000
titles onto the site before selling it.  U.S. District Judge Richard A. Jones characterized Kim as a
“one man wrecking ball” against the content industries, the
government said in an Oct. 12  statement . The government said
that when Kim was trying to sell his websites, he acknowledged
receiving infringement takedown notices, and said that he would
comply for a while and then put the infringing content back up
on his site.  The case is U.S. A. v. Kim, 2:11-cv-00413-RAJ, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Two Ex-Executives Questioned About AU Optronics Trade Secrets  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) , the Taiwan-based maker of flat-panel
display systems, was allegedly hit by trade-secret theft after
two executives left to join a competitor, the Times of India
 reported .  The technology related to a display technology used in
mobile devices and on television screens, according to the
newspaper.  Taiwan’s Bureau of Investigation said the loss of the
allegedly purloined technology could undermine that country’s
competitive edge in the flat-panel industry, the Times of India
reported.  The two suspects, who were arrested and released, face
further questioning, according to the Times.  IP Moves  Vinson & Elkins Hires IP Litigator Charles Ossola from Dickstein  Vinson & Elkins LLP hired Charles D. Ossola for its IP
practice, the Houston-based firm said in a  statement  yesterday.  Ossola , who joins from Washington’s Dickstein Shapiro LLP,
does patent and antitrust litigation and some copyright and
trademark work. He has represented clients whose technologies
include semiconductors, software, communication systems, MRI
technologies, pharmaceutical compositions, dermatology products,
medical devices, flexographic printing plates and processes,
dental implants, virtual private networks, and mechanical
systems.  In addition to federal trial and appellate courts, Ossola
has also appeared before the U.S. International Trade
Commission, a Washington-based body with the power to exclude
imports that infringe U.S. patents.  Ossola has an undergraduate degree from  Williams College 
and a law degree from Villanova University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 