-- J.K. Rowling Plays Family-Friendly Diva in Lincoln Center
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-10-17T04:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/j-k-rowling-plays-family-friendly-diva-in-lincoln-center.html
On a  Lincoln Center  stage more
accustomed to operatic divas, last night  J.K. Rowling  sat
wearing a slim black dress with a pointy white collar and talked
about her new book, “The Casual Vacancy.”  “I feel like I’m going to have to hand out sedatives,”
said author  Ann Patchett  as she introduced Rowling to shrieks
and a standing ovation at the David H. Koch Theater.  This was Rowling’s only U.S. public appearance, and the
more than 1,600 tickets to hear the “Harry Potter“ author sold
out in less than an hour, according to Michelle Aielli,
publicity director for Rowling’s publisher Little, Brown and Co.  For $35, the cost of the book, fans listened to Rowling
answer questions from Patchett and give a brief reading. Then
they received a copy of the book and could wait in line to have
her sign it.  “My daughter feels like she’s meeting the  Jane Austen  of
the 21st century,” said Cathy Onorato, who attended the reading
with Lauren, a recent graduate of the College of the  Holy Cross 
in Worcester, Massachusetts.  The set-up could hardly have been less operatic. There was
a blow-up of the book jacket in front of a black backdrop;
Rowling and Patchett looked small in their matching armchairs.  Harry Potter  They discussed how the book doesn’t have a single hero like
Harry Potter, and that Rowling is good at writing about villains.
Patchett, who owns an independent bookstore in Nashville,
 Tennessee , told Rowling she had a hard time labeling “The
Casual Vacancy” a novel for adults because “we sell ‘Fifty
Shades of Gray.’”  “The difference is, people have sex in this book but no
one really enjoys it,” Rowling said.  After agreeing to refer to it as “a novel for grown-ups,”
the two writers discussed whether children who love  Harry Potter 
would want to read it.  “That would be inappropriate,” Rowling said. She recalled
that there was a boy who looked about nine at a recent London
event. She had been planning to read a section of the book where
“the f-word,” as she called it with chagrin, appeared quite
frequently. She gave an explicit -- “and repetitive” -- warning
that the book was meant for adults, then went ahead and read the
passage.  The section she read last night, about a catastrophic
dinner party, was disappointingly family friendly.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music and  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 