-- Janus Best as Bond Acumen Boosts Stocks: Riskless Return
-- B y   S a u m y a   V a i s h a m p a y a n
-- 2012-10-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/janus-best-as-bond-acumen-boosts-stocks-riskless-return.html
Marc Pinto and Gibson Smith, co-
managers of the $8.9 billion  Janus Balanced Fund (JBALX) , gave investors
the highest returns with the lowest volatility among asset-
allocation mutual funds by leveraging their bond research to
pick stocks.  The managers at Denver-based  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) 
posted a risk-adjusted return of 2.3 percent in the past five
years, the best among 18 similar funds of more than $5 billion
that invest at least 50 percent in equities, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Janus Balanced had a total
return of 30 percent in the same period, also the best in the
group, which includes T. Rowe Price Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
and  Fidelity Investments .  After growing concerned that banks and brokers were taking
on too much debt, Pinto and Smith sold some of their biggest
financial stocks before the 2008 crisis, one of the biggest
contributors to the fund’s higher returns and lower volatility
over the past five years. The duo’s equity and fixed-income
research also lead to the decision to buy shares of  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,
which have quadrupled since 2009, and  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (BUD) ,
which have more than doubled.  “Because of the collaboration between fixed income and
equity, we got some early warning signs on the stress in the
financial system in the U.S.,” Pinto, 51, who oversees the
stock portion of the fund, said in a telephone interview. Fixed-
income research done by Smith and his team gave the managers
“confidence buying stock when markets were nervous,” Pinto
said.  Apple, CBS  The Janus Balanced fund has the ability to adjust its
relative allocations to stocks and bonds, helping the managers
navigate through different market cycles. The fund, which cut
its stocks to less than 40 percent of the portfolio in 2008, has
since brought equities up to about 56 percent as of Aug. 31. The
fund’s  top stock holdings  are Apple Inc., CBS and  Philip Morris 
International Inc.  Corporate debt, which accounts for about 28 percent of the
fund, makes up the biggest part of its bond holdings. Smith, 44,
who oversees the fund’s fixed-income holdings, said he has
focused on debt issued by companies that have the cash position
to pay it back, regardless of their rating. The fund’s average
debt-to-common-equity ratio, a measure of indebtedness, is 95
percent compared with 121 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growing Sales  Pinto and Smith said their emphasis on companies that have
the ability to grow revenues at a consistent annual rate and
manage debt effectively has helped reduce price swings in the
portfolio. The fund had a  trailing 12-month sales growth  of 11
percent compared with 6.5 percent for the  S&P 500 , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook Inc. and Apple are among
the top five companies in the fund with the highest sales growth
in the past 12 months.  Over the past five years, the fund had a volatility of 13,
compared with the average volatility of 17 for the group and 27
for the  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index .  “We can’t take away all risk or volatility but by having a
diversified portfolio and really concentrating on stock
selection, instead of making sector bets, we’ve decreased
volatility,” Pinto said.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  ‘Stellar’ Performer  The managers’ approach has helped them beat competitors
over the past five years including the $13.5 billion T. Rowe
Price  Capital Appreciation Fund (PRWCX) , which had a risk-adjusted
return of 1.3 percent. Janus Balanced produced a better risk-
adjusted return than four similar funds at Fidelity, including
the $22 billion Fidelity Balanced Fund, which rose 0.6 percent
including price swings. The $79 billion  American Capital Income
Builder (CAIBX)  ranked last during that period, with a risk-adjusted
return of 0.15 percent.  “It’s been a stellar performer,”  Jeff Tjornehoj , senior
research analyst at Lipper, said of the Janus fund. “It looks
particularly good next to other moderate risk portfolios.”  The $9.7 billion  FPA Crescent Fund (FPACX) , run by Steven Romick,
had the second-best risk-adjusted return of 2 percent.  Over the past year, Janus Balanced has produced a risk-
adjusted return of 1.6 percent, the second-highest in the
ranking. It was beaten by the T. Rowe Price Capital Appreciation
Fund.  ‘More Cautious’  “We’re getting incrementally more cautious” about the
outlook for equities, Pinto said. After a 5.8 percent rally in
the U.S. market in the third quarter, Pinto said he has been
reducing positions or selling stock that has met his valuation
objectives, declining to name specific stocks.  The fund’s price to earnings ratio is  16.9 times , higher
than the 14.7 times ratio for the S&P 500, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Since late 2010, Pinto has added to holdings of consumer-
oriented companies that benefit from growth in developing
markets such as China and Brazil. One such company is  Philip
Morris International (PM) , the maker of Marlboro cigarettes that has
expanded in countries where tobacco consumption is increasing.
Janus Balanced has owned Philip Morris since it spun out of
 Altria Group Inc. (MO)  in the first quarter of 2008 and is now its
third-biggest holding.  Tobacco Stocks  Tobacco stocks handed investors the best risk-adjusted
returns in the decade ended 2011, avoiding volatility as smokers
typically are reluctant to scale back consumption when the
economy struggles. Philip Morris said in June that it will buy
back $18 billion in stock over the next three years. The New
York-based company, which makes all of its sales outside of the
U.S., has increased its quarterly dividend by 85 percent since
the spinoff while more than doubling its free  cash flow  to $3.2
billion as of June 30.  The equity portfolio also focuses on  luxury  consumer
brands, Pinto said. The fund holds shares in Coach Inc., Estee
Lauder Cos. and Nordstrom Inc., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Luxury brands and companies like Philip Morris fall
into what the managers consider consumer stocks, which is the
fund’s largest industry holding at 6.6 percent.  The S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Sector Index has gained
27 percent in the past five years, compared with the 53 percent
decline for financial companies in the S&P 500 during that
period. This year,  financial stocks  in the index have gained 24
percent compared with a 21 percent gain for  consumer
discretionary  stocks.  Luring Clients  Janus Balanced’s performance has helped attract investor
deposits this year, as the parent company has struggled to
reverse client redemptions for 12 straight quarters. Investors
put an estimated $62 million into Janus Balanced this year,
compared with $5.5 billion in withdrawals from all Janus mutual
funds, according to data compiled by Chicago-based research firm
Morningstar Inc.  Smith, described by Lipper’s Tjornehoj as Janus’s “bond
guru,” joined Janus in 2001 and also serves as co-chief
investment officer at Janus. He studied economics at the
 University of Colorado . After graduating in 1991, he moved to
 New York  to join Morgan Stanley’s junior analyst program.  Pinto graduated from  Yale University  in 1983 with a degree
in history and earned an MBA from  Harvard Business School  in
1987. He worked at Fred Alger Management in New York, before
joining Janus in 1994.  Examining companies as a whole rather than analyzing debt
and equity separately is a key feature of the fund, Smith said.
After gathering information on the business, the managers
determine whether they should own the debt, equity or both.  Slashing Financials  Smith and Pinto said the fixed-income team noticed in 2007
that financial companies such as Merrill Lynch & Co., once the
fund’s biggest holding, were taking on too much debt and their
yields relative to benchmarks had widened to historic highs. The
managers sold Merrill shares by the end of that year and by the
fourth quarter of 2008 they had brought their stock holdings in
financial companies to zero. The Standard and Poor’s 500 Index
had 18 percent in financials in 2007 and 14 percent in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That bet paid off, with Janus Balanced posting a 14.4
percent loss in 2008, compared with a 37 percent loss for the
S&P 500, including reinvested dividends, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  LyondellBasell Stake  The most recent equity purchase resulting from fixed-income
research was chemical company  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  in
2011. Fixed-income analysis showed the company could pay down
its debt and return cash to shareholders, prompting the equity
stake, Pinto said. The fund holds a 1 percent stake in
LyondellBasell Industries, which has paid a dividend seven times
since 2011, including a special dividend of $4.50 a share in
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has
climbed 67 percent this year.  The Rotterdam-based company’s second-quarter profit of
$1.65 a share beat analysts’ estimates and it may pay a special
dividend using excess cash, according to a July 27 call with
investors and analysts.  The relationship between fixed-income and equity research
influenced the fund’s decision to “aggressively” buy Anheuser-
Busch InBev’s stock during the financial downturn, said Pinto.
Pinto and Smith’s research showed European beer producer InBev
could fund its  2008 acquisition  of Anheuser-Busch, which was not
a belief shared by other investors at the time. This meant
InBev’s debt and equity were trading at “attractive”
valuations, prompting Janus Balanced to buy during the December
2008 equity-rights offering, the managers said.  Brewer Surges  “There were concerns about the acquisition of Anheuser-
Busch but we got the confidence that they would close and fund
the deal,” he said.  The shares have surged 131 percent since the second quarter
of 2009 and  profit  for the most recent quarter was $1.96
billion, a 35 percent increase from the second quarter of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Smith took a debt position in CBS in November 2008, as the
company struggled with slowing ads and had to write down the
value of its radio and television stations that year by $14.1
billion. Pinto and his equity team got interested in the first
quarter of 2009 when the shares were trading at between $7 and
$8 and the broadcaster paid a dividend of 5 cents a share. As
the owner of the most-watched U.S. television network rebounded
on higher advertising sales, the company more than doubled its
dividend.  For Janus Balanced, which holds 2.1 percent of the
broadcaster, its second-largest holding, that bet has paid off as
shares have since soared to $34.07 as of Oct. 16.  “If you didn’t have the confidence that the company was on
a path to fixing its balance sheet, you wouldn’t have been
comfortable owning the equity,” Pinto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saumya Vaishampayan in New York at 
 svaishampaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  