-- Japan Benefits as Latecomer Offering Solar Subsidies, Ueta Says
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-10-17T05:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/japan-benefits-as-latecomer-offering-solar-subsidies-ueta-says.html
Japan  has an advantage as a
“latecomer” introducing incentives to promote renewable energy
investments, the chairman of a government panel overseeing the
setting of rates for clean energy said today.  “Being a latecomer, we can introduce solar power with more
advanced technologies,”  Kazuhiro Ueta , head of the five-member
panel that sets Japan’s feed-in tariffs, said at a symposium on
solar energy in Tokyo today.  Japan can learn from countries such as  Germany  and  Spain ,
which have already implemented the premiums, said Ueta, who is
also professor of environmental economics at  Kyoto University .  Tokyo introduced the world’s highest feed-in tariff, or
fixed-premium rate, for power from solar plants in July to boost
output and accelerate the nation’s shift away from nuclear
following the Fukushima disaster. The program requires utilities
to buy clean energy at higher rates with added costs passed on
to consumers as surcharges. The feed-in tariff for solar is 42
yen per kilowatt-hour for 20 years.  In Germany, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government plans to
cap renewable-energy subsidies when capacity reaches national
targets. Guarantees of above-market prices for clean energy in
Germany have helped make the country the biggest market for
solar and have been emulated around the world, spurring a boom
in renewable energy in nations including Italy and Spain.  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry projects
the nation will add 2,000 megawatts of solar capacity by the end
of March. In the six months since April, 885 megawatts of solar
were added, it announced last week.  The panel headed by Ueta makes recommendations on the
appropriate level of the tariffs, which are set annually, or
every six months if necessary. The panel’s recommendations are
sent for approval to the industry minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  