-- Jefferson County Judge Halts Suit Over Emergency Room Closure
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-10-17T22:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/jefferson-county-judge-halts-suit-over-emergency-room-closure.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , the
biggest U.S. municipality in bankruptcy, does not have to
immediately face a lawsuit over its decision to close the
emergency room of its money-losing hospital for the poor, a
judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett ruled that the city
of Birmingham cannot proceed with a lawsuit seeking to keep the
emergency room open after Dec. 1, the day the county plans to
end in-patient care at Cooper Green Mercy Hospital.  Bennett had said in August that he was inclined to halt the
case. At that Aug. 30 hearing, he told lawyers for the city
that, “What I’m looking at is really an action to try to
control the operations” of the county, which isn’t allowed
under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code .  In a hearing today, Bennett confirmed his decision,
Jefferson County bankruptcy attorney Lee R. Bogdanoff said in an
e-mail.  “He indicated that he would be denying the City of
Birmingham’s request for relief,” Bogdanoff said.  The battle over the hospital is the first time the county’s
health-care responsibilities have been part of its bankruptcy
case. The county has focused on cutting bond debt tied to the
county’s sewer system and replacing a wage tax that brought in
more than $60 million a year before it was voided by a state
court.  Alabama, like most states, requires counties to provide
health care for the poor. Jefferson County will continue to meet
the state’s requirements, though not through Cooper Green’s
emergency room, Patrick Darby, an attorney for the county, said
in August.  Birmingham sued the county in state court to try to keep
the hospital open. The case is now on hold while the county
remains under  bankruptcy court  protection.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  