-- Jets Owner Joins Trump Raising Romney Cash at the Waldorf
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-10-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/jets-owner-joins-trump-raising-romney-cash-at-the-waldorf.html
While Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  prepared for last night’s debate at Hofstra
University in Hempstead, New York, 28 miles away, his top
fundraisers dialed for dollars at New York’s Waldorf Astoria
Hotel.  The phone-banking session, an attempt to harvest cash from
contributors who had given the maximum amount during the primary
election yet hadn’t done so for the general election, was part
of a three-day event for Romney’s financial team. Men and women
on their mobile phones paced over the “Wheel of Life” tile
mosaic at the Park Avenue entrance as they worked their way down
call lists prepared and distributed by the Romney campaign.  Among the 1,000 fundraisers, top donors and campaign
financial directors in attendance: actor Jon Voight, real-estate
mogul  Donald Trump , former New York Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , Jets
owner  Woody Johnson  and 2008 presidential candidate  John McCain ’s wife, Cindy. Comedian Dennis Miller was scheduled as
entertainment for a private debate-watch party at the Roseland
Ballroom.  Feeling Appreciated  “They come here and feel appreciated for their support,”
said  Spencer Zwick , Romney’s finance chairman, said. “They get
a sense of how their money is going to be used, and they get
energized to go forward and do a lot more.”  The New York gathering began Oct. 15, the day Romney’s
campaign announced he and allied party committees raised $170
million last month, making it their best month while still
falling short of Obama and the Democrats’ $181 million September
haul.  Attendees briefed by campaign officials were told that a
good amount of that cash will be used to implement an ad
strategy that centers on Florida, Ohio and  Virginia , according
to an attendee not authorized to speak.  Each of those are states where polls show the race is
close. Campaign officials played for donors new advertisements
featuring women who said they were Romney voters four years
after supporting Obama, the attendee said, adding they were
“kitchen-table style.” Several outside groups have employed
that same theme in recent ads.  The campaign and the  Republican National Committee , through
a joint account, also are beginning to transfer money to states
for voter-turnout operations, according to Federal Election
Commission reports. Ohio received $2.6 million last month while
$1 million was sent to  Pennsylvania , the disclosure reports
show. About $3.4 million was divided among  Colorado , Michigan,
 North Carolina , Virginia and  Wisconsin .  Good Spirits  Between word of the money-raising success and poll movement
in Romney’s favor after his first debate performance, attendees
were in good spirits.  “I’m feeling very excited,” Giuliani said. “I can read
polls. I see the great advance that  Governor Romney  has made and
the decline of President Obama.”  “The mood is ecstatic,” a smiling Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said. “Everyone’s happy.”  A dinner gala Oct. 15 at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space
Museum included a video in which Trump deployed his signature
“You’re Fired!” line on President  Barack Obama .  As he darted through rain into the museum, Giuliani paused
to bash Obama’s handling of the embassy attack in Libya.  “It betrays a policy of provocative weakness on the part
of President Obama,” the former mayor said from under an
umbrella.  Trump’s Advice  Prompted by reporters, Trump offered debate advice as he
and wife, Melania, stepped out of their car: “For Romney, just
be the way he is.”  Yesterday began with a breakfast at the Waldorf followed by
a rallying speech from vice-presidential candidate  Paul Ryan ,
who’d flown in from Wisconsin. Lunch in the hotel featured
remarks by the eldest Romney son, Tagg, and Florida Senator
Marco Rubio.  Three work sessions during the day covered campaign
strategy, “Issues Facing America,” and a detailed discussion,
led by Romney pollster  Neil Newhouse , of the media and messaging
plan for the final three weeks. Reporters were barred from all
of the events.  There was plenty of leisure to balance their labors. Many
stayed at the Waldorf, catching up over a $9 cup of coffee in
its Peacock Alley Restaurant or lingering near the two-ton gold
clock.  Campaign souvenirs on display included a hardwood maple
chair stamped “Founding Partner” ($350), a table timepiece by
Chelsea Clocks ($450) and stars or stripes cuff links ($150).  Outside Visitors  The New York City gathering was a follow-up to a June
retreat in Park City, Utah.  Both times, outside groups piggy-backed on the official
campaign events. Spotted checking into the Waldorf yesterday:
Charlie Spies, finance chief of Restore Our Future, a super-
political action committee devoted to helping elect Romney.  In Park City,  Karl Rove , who guides American Crossroads and
its allied nonprofit Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategy,
mingled with the Romney donor crowd. Rove’s groups run ads in
support of Romney, as well as messages that back Republican
congressional candidates.  The outside groups are prohibited by law from coordinating
with candidates’ campaigns. That doesn’t mean they can’t happen
to be in the same historic hotel at the same time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in New York at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  