-- Knight Capital Reports Net Loss After Software Error
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-17T15:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/knight-capital-reports-net-loss-as-software-error-takes-toll-1-.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  reported a
quarterly loss of $389.9 million on bigger-than-estimated costs
from the software error that nearly pushed it into bankruptcy.  The third-quarter net loss was $6.30 a share, the widest
since at least 2001, and compared with profit of 29 cents a year
earlier, based on a statement today from Knight and data
compiled by Bloomberg. The loss related to its Aug. 1 computer
malfunction was $457.6 million, wider than the $440 million
previously reported, Knight said.  A technology error Aug. 1 bombarded equity exchanges with
erroneous orders, leading Knight, one of the largest traders of
U.S. shares by volume, to the brink of insolvency as customers
routed orders elsewhere and the  shares  plunged 75 percent in two
days. The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based company is now more than
70 percent owned by the companies that bailed it out with a $400
million cash infusion the following week. Almost all customers
have come back to the firm, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce
said today on a conference call with analysts.  “In the aftermath of Knight Capital’s Aug. 1 trading
glitch, a primary concern has been the potential for permanent
loss of business for the firm’s U.S. equities market-making
unit,” Patrick O’Shaughnessy, a Chicago-based analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc., wrote in a note this month.  Client Relations  There are a “handful” of customers that have not resumed
trading with Knight, Joyce said. Most of them cited credit
department regulations and wanted to observe Knight’s operations
before re-engaging, he said.  Knight’s trading loss caused it to report negative revenue
of $189.8 million, compared with analyst projections for
negative $216.5 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Knight
posted revenue of $397.4 million a year ago, according to the
report.  Knight  slipped  0.4 percent to $2.57 at 11:30 a.m. New York
time. The stock’s 2012 loss of 78 percent compares with a 3.2
percent gain in the NYSE Arca Broker/Dealer Index that tracks
the company and 10 rivals.  Improperly installed software malfunctioned and increased
trading, leading volume to surge and prices to swing in dozens
of securities that day. The six firms that took over the company
provided a $400 million cash infusion through the sale of
convertible equity, leading the shares outstanding to nearly
double after Jefferies Group Inc., one of the brokerages that
arranged the bailout,  converted  almost all of its preferred
stock last month.  ‘Knucklehead’ Errors  Joyce said last month that the Aug. 1 event may spur
regulatory changes to protect against future errors by
“knuckleheads.” Regulators and market participants may examine
whether trading curbs that focus on sudden price moves for
individual stocks and exchange-traded funds should also consider
volume, he said at a Barclays Plc conference in  New York .  Knight formed a formal risk committee yesterday and has put
in place controls that enable the firm to respond faster to
trading errors, Joyce said today on the conference call. He said
he has no plans to split apart the electronic business, the
market-making unit and the institutional sales and trading
segment, or reallocate resources between them.  Fees, Writedowns  “We are better off having them all than becoming a siloed
kind of one-product firm,” Joyce said. “We came back as well
as we came back because of the broadness of our organization.”  The company said today that it recorded $3.5 million in
one-time fees related to the trading error and a $143 million
writedown for goodwill and intangible assets. Legal fees will be
above average in the future, though not as high as last quarter,
according to Chief Financial Officer Steve Bisgay.  Expenses linked to payment for order flow, the practice of
compensating retail brokerages for sending transaction requests,
are expected to increase as the company vies to remain
competitive, Joyce said.  The quarterly loss included a $3.08 per-share dividend
related to the conversion feature for the preferred shares
issued to the investor group, according to the release. The rest
of the loss included $2.46 a share related to the trading error
and 76 cents a share for asset impairment. Excluding the trading
loss, related expenses and the asset impairment charge, Knight
said earnings were 1 cent a share.  Trading Decline  Knight’s earnings suffered from lower volatility and
trading activity last quarter. The  VIX (VIX) , or Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, averaged 16.19 during the third
quarter, almost half what it was in the same three months of
2011. About 5.97 billion shares changed hands each day last
quarter in the U.S., 32 percent lower than a year ago, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market making segment bore the near full financial
impact of the trading loss incurred as a result of the
technology issue,” Joyce said in the release. “Contributing to
the poor results was a continued decline in retail trading
activity and muted market volatility.”  For the third quarter, average daily trades for the
company’s U.S equity market-making business fell 40 percent to
2.51 million from a year ago, the company said. From August to
September, they rose 40 percent to 2.7 million as business
started to recover from the trading loss, according to a
 separate release .  Knight said it had $420.8 million  in cash  and equivalents
as of Sept. 30, compared with $467.6 million at the end of 2011.
While the company’s share-repurchase program has $120.9 million
remaining, “there are no assurances that any further
repurchases may actually occur,” according to the statement.  “We will very likely have a higher than average cash
balance for the foreseeable future” Joyce said. Knight’s
priority is “a fortress balance sheet, to make sure all of our
counterparties feel great about us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  