-- Korea, Indian Stocks Raised at Macquarie; Philippines Cut
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2012-10-17T03:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/korea-indian-stocks-raised-at-macquarie-philippines-cut.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  recommended
investors overweight South Korean stocks on “attractive”
valuations and boosted its allocations for Indian equities on
the government’s policy reforms.  “Although we remain cautious on the outlook for global
growth, we believe much bad news has been reflected in  Korea ’s
more attractive valuations,” Macquarie analysts Emil Wolter and
Aniel Mahtani wrote in a report dated yesterday, raising the
country’s rating from neutral.  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi index  has climbed 7.4 percent
this year, making it the third-worst performer among  emerging
markets  in  Asia . The gauge rallied 1 percent today after
industrial production in the U.S., which accounted for 10
percent of Korean exports last year, beat estimates.  Companies on the  Kospi index  are trading at 10.6 times
estimated profit, compared with the four-year average of 10.9
times, making it the lowest in Asia after Pakistan and Vietnam,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The analysts upgraded India to neutral from underweight,
saying sentiment has improved even as execution and follow-
through of policy reforms will now be the key determinants.  The BSE India Sensitive Index has surged 20 percent this
year after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government opened
retailing and airlines to foreign investors, pared fuel
subsidies and reduced a tax on domestic companies’ overseas
borrowings in a wave of policy making after two years of
gridlock. The Sensex trades at 14.7 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 11.6 times.  Macquarie also cut its allocation for Malaysia and the
 Philippines  to underweight, citing valuations, domestic
overheating and declining commodity prices. The FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index, which trades at 15.3 times estimated
profit, and Philippine Stock Exchange Index with a multiple of
17 both rose to a record this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  