-- Koruna Gains Test Central Bank Resolve to Step In, Komercni Says
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-10-17T12:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/koruna-gains-test-central-bank-resolve-to-step-in-komercni-says.html
The Czech koruna may strengthen
further as traders test the central bank’s resolve to take steps
to support the economy by weakening the currency, said  Jan Vejmelek , chief economist at Komercni Banka AS.  The koruna strengthened 0.2 percent to 24.809 per euro by
2:34 p.m. in Prague, extending its gains this week to 1 percent,
the most among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Czech 10-year bond yields were steady at 2.28 percent today,
three basis points more than a record low hit on Oct. 15, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The currency has gained 0.7 percent since Czech National
Bank Governor Miroslav Singer said on Sept. 27 that policy
makers are prepared to weaken the koruna to revive the stalled
economy. The CNB cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low
0.25 percent on the same day.  “The koruna is more likely to test stronger levels as the
market will try to provoke the CNB,” Vejmelek said in a phone
interview from  Prague  today. “The CNB may intervene if the
koruna gains significantly beyond 24.50, the recession deepens
and deflation trends intensify.”  The economy shrank 0.2 percent in the second quarter, its
third quarterly contraction, as the debt crisis in the euro area
has hit exports, which account for about 75 percent of the
country’s gross domestic product, according to state data.
Government cuts in investments and higher taxes to rein in the
 budget deficit  have hurt domestic demand.  With  interest rates  approaching zero, the CNB may use other
tools if it needs to ease policy further to counter risks of
deflation and “it would most likely be the exchange-rate
channel,” Singer said on Sept. 27.  “The CNB targets inflation, not the  exchange rate ,” Marek
Petrus, the central bank’s spokesman, said today by phone.
“It’s up to the central bank’s board to assess whether or not
further policy loosening is needed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  