-- New Jersey Gives Giants Hometown a Week to Approve Budget
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-10-17T19:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/new-jersey-gives-giants-hometown-a-week-to-approve-budget.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
administration has given  East Rutherford , home to the  National
Football League ’s  New York  Giants and Jets stadium, a week to
approve a budget or it may impose one.  East Rutherford is the last municipality without a budget
out of more than 550 in the state that operate on a calendar
year, said Thomas Neff, director of the state’s Local Government
Services division. The borough has been locked in a legal battle
with the Giants over whether its training center is exempt from
a $1.5 million property-tax bill.  Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 11 said it may downgrade
East Rutherford’s debt because of its failure to collect $4.1
million of revenue, more than 16 percent of the 2012 total
projected. That also includes $2.6 million from the New Jersey
Sports and Exposition Authority for costs related to the
American Dream Meadowlands mall under construction.  The state Community Affairs Department has directed the
municipality to turn over budget documents by Oct. 22, going so
far as having the state’s Local Finance Board approve a subpoena
of the records. That step hasn’t been taken yet, Neff said in an
Oct. 16 letter to Mayor James Cassella and the council.  Salaries at Risk  Neff gave the borough until Oct. 24 to approve its budget
or the state will set a  tax rate  the next day “to ensure that
your municipality remains stable,” according to his letter. The
town would then have 45 days to adopt a spending plan.  “The division will make such reductions in your budget as
appropriate, including the elimination of any funds to pay for
your continued salaries and other benefits as you will have
failed to perform one of the most basic functions of local
government, establishing a budget,” Neff wrote.  Borough officials introduced a budget in June and haven’t
approved it amid the disputes with the sports authority and the
Giants.  East Rutherford’s council approved the sale of tax-
anticipation notes last night to pay bills, Cassella said in a
telephone interview today. The authorization is for $12 million,
though the mayor said the total may not be borrowed if the
situation is resolved.  “They want to use the word subpoena to embarrass us like
this is a court action and we’re in trouble,” Cassella said.
“They have most of the documents already, but if there’s other
stuff they need they can just ask us.”  The mayor said the Moody’s report is “off base” because
the situation is not as serious as the credit-rating company
suggested. The municipality isn’t teetering on the end of
bankruptcy and has access to cash to continue operating, he
said.  Absent the payments from the Timex center and sports
authority, the borough would need to raise an additional $1
million through property taxes to fund operations this year,
Cassella said.  A Moody’s downgrade would affect $16 million of the
borough’s general-obligation debt outstanding. The bonds are
rated A2, the sixth-highest investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  