-- Jimmy Lai Sells Embattled Taiwan News Media for $600 Million
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-10-18T09:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/next-media-to-sell-taiwan-print-tv-businesses-for-600-million.html
Next Media Ltd. (282) , the sensationalist
 Hong Kong  publisher controlled by Jimmy Lai, plans to sell its
Taiwan news businesses for NT$17.5 billion ($600 million) after
losses at its television unit. Shares surged.  Next Media signed a memorandum of understanding to sell its
print and television operations to Jeffrey Koo Jr., according to
a filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Koo is the
eldest son of Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. founder and
Chairman Jeffrey Koo Sr.  The sale marks the exit of the Hong Kong mogul, known for
criticizing the Chinese government, from Taiwanese media as
business and political ties improve between the island and
 China . Lai’s foray into Taiwan’s television industry in 2010 led
to two straight annual losses for Next Media as the company
battled regulators for licenses and distribution rights.  “The TV business has been a real thorn because of
regulatory obstacles and then a big barrier to distribution,”
said Vivek Couto, the Hong Kong-based executive director of
Media Partners  Asia , an industry consultant. “Established modes
of delivery were denied to Next.”  Shares of Next Media surged 41 percent, the most since
2001, to close at HK$1.58 in Hong Kong. Next Media has nearly
tripled since it announced plans to sell its Taiwan assets on
Sept. 4.  Closer Ties  Taiwan has been ruled separately from China since 1949 when
members of the Kuomingtang party fled to the island after a
civil war with Communist forces. Relations between Taiwan and
China reached their warmest in more than six decades after
Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou took office in May 2008. He
focused on economic ties and dropped the pro-independence stance
of his predecessor.  “We care about press freedom in  Taiwan ,” said Mark Simon,
a Next Media spokesman. “There’s a debate going on about
whether Taiwan is being taken over by mainland interests buying
the media companies.”  Chinatrust Financial’s Shanghai branch in September won
approval to be involved in China’s interbank foreign exchange
market. It owns Chinatrust Commercial Bank, which is the
island’s biggest credit card issuer. Jeffrey Koo Jr. yesterday
declined to comment.  “Taiwan loses an independent media that can be a watchdog
of the government and gets another one controlled by a pro-China
business family,” said Kuang Chung-Hsiang, an assistant
professor of communications at the National Chung Cheng
University in Taiwan.  Lai Leaves  “This land is your land, you have to keep fighting for
it,” Lai said Oct. 16 in a Next TV video clip posted on its
website showing him saying goodbye to employees in Taipei. “I
can’t hold out here anymore. I tried and I failed.”  Lai declined to comment on the sale today in an e-mail, and
said he’s taking “a trip for pleasure.”  Next Media will need to enter into formal agreements for
the sale, with the targeted completion date in December,
according to the statement.  Selling the assets will allow the company to focus on
operations in Hong Kong, its biggest market, and the development
of its digital content, Next Media said. The agreement includes
the sale of its print business, which publishes the Taiwan
editions of  Apple Daily  and Next Magazine, for NT$16 billion.
The television business will be sold for NT$1.5 billion,
according to the statement.  Taiwan Assets  The Taiwan operations accounted for about 43 percent of
Next Media’s sales for the year ended March 2012, its second-
biggest market after Hong Kong. Losses at its Taiwan television
and multimedia unit widened to HK$1.17 billion ($151 million)
last fiscal year from HK$459 million a year earlier, according
to its annual report.  Lai started the Taiwan version of Next magazine in 2001,
followed by Apple Daily, which became the largest newspaper on
the island. The daily is known for celebrity gossip and graphic
depictions of violent crimes.  “Taiwan’s cable operators don’t like him because his media
business has caused coverage in Taiwan to be more sensational,”
said Alice Yang, a professor at the Cheung Kong School of
Journalism and Communication at Shantou University, referring to
Lai’s difficulties in securing distribution.  Apple Daily and Next magazine are banned in mainland China
because of their anti-Beijing political stance. In 1994, Lai
referred to then-Chinese premier  Li Peng  as a “turtle egg” in
an editorial about the leader’s role in the suppression of
student protests at Tiananmen in 1989.  Hong Kong’s Apple Daily in 2003 published a full-page
banner urging the resignation of the city’s Beijing-backed
former Chief Executive Tung Chee-Hwa.  Lai said in 2007 his company suffered advertising losses of
about HK$200 million a year after some Hong Kong companies
boycotted his publications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  