-- NFL Opposes Vilma Bid to Void Bounty-Related Suspension
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-17T16:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/nfl-opposes-players-bid-to-avoid-bounty-related-suspensions.html
The  National Football League  asked a
U.S. judge to reject a request by New Orleans Saints linebacker
Jonathan Vilma and three other players to void their suspensions
for alleged bounty-hunting of opponents.  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  on Oct. 9 reimposed a full-
season ban on Vilma while meting out lesser punishments to the
other players, each of whom was accused of participating in a
plot to reward Saints teammates for deliberately hurting
opposing players.  A panel of arbitrators had thrown out earlier suspensions,
ruling the commissioner had overstepped his bounds. The players
asked U.S. District Judge Helen G. Berrigan in New Orleans to
reject the new sanctions two days ago, arguing Goodell is biased
against them.  “Plaintiffs’ ‘evident bias’ arguments are an improper and
misguided effort to alter the bargain that their union struck”
in a collective bargaining agreement, the NFL said today in a
court filing.  The NFL has said about two dozen Saints players, led by
former defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , paid each other as
much as $1,500 at a time from 2009 to 2011 for targeting
opponents such as Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks Kurt Warner
and  Brett Favre .  Head Coach  Sean Payton  was barred for a year and Williams
was suspended indefinitely.  Defensive Ends  Goodell initially suspended defensive ends Anthony Hargrove
for eight games,  Will Smith  for four games and linebacker  Scott Fujita  for three games.  While the arbitration panel had said Goodell exceeded his
authority in punishing players for taking money outside of their
contracts, it ruled that the commissioner could punish the
players for conduct detrimental to the game.  Fujita’s punishment was cut to a single-game ban and
Hargrove’s from eight games to seven while Smith’s was
unchanged. The players are also challenging those punishments
through the arbitration process.  They are eligible to play while that arbitration appeal is
pending. Vilma, who had been recovering from a knee injury this
season, has said he plans to play in the Saints’ Oct. 21 game
against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  ‘Fair Process’  “The players seek only what the law requires,” the
National Football League Players Association said in an Oct. 15
filing on behalf of Fujita, Smith and Hargrove, “an objectively
unbiased arbitrator who can provide them with a fundamentally
fair process and a bona fide opportunity to defend themselves
against the Commissioner’s false charges.”  The NFL, in its filing with Berrigan today, said that under
the collective bargaining agreement, an appeal to the
commissioner is the “sole and exclusive remedy available” to a
player or the players’ association when the commissioner
suspends a player for conduct detrimental to the game.  The case is  Vilma v. Goodell, 12-cv-1283, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  