-- North America Has Biggest Rise in Weather Catastrophes
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-17T09:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/north-america-has-biggest-rise-in-weather-catastrophes.html
Climate change  contributed to a
fivefold increase in weather-related natural disasters in  North
America  over the past three decades, according to  Munich Re , the
world’s biggest reinsurer.  “Nowhere in the world is the rising number of natural
catastrophes more evident than in North America,” Peter Hoeppe,
head of Munich Re’s Geo Risks Research unit, told reporters in
Munich today. There was a four-fold gain in disasters in  Asia ,
while the number doubled in  Europe , the reinsurer said.  North America accounted for $510 billion of insured losses
from weather-related catastrophes between 1980 and 2011, or 69
percent of the global total, Munich Re said in a study  published 
today. Increases in climate change-related hazards aren’t
automatically reflected in premiums, the reinsurer said.  “If prices are not adequately reflecting the risks in our
view, we would have to retreat from covering some U.S. risks
such as hurricanes,” said Peter Roeder, Munich Re’s management
board member responsible for North America and global clients.
“At the moment, prices are still adequate.”  Hurricane Katrina , which devastated  New Orleans  in 2005,
was the costliest event ever recorded in the U.S. with $62.2
billion in insured losses.  “Climate change particularly affects formation of heat-
waves, droughts, intense precipitation events, and in the long
run most probably also tropical cyclone intensity,” Hoeppe
said. “The view that weather extremes are becoming more
frequent and intense in various regions due to global warming is
in keeping with current scientific findings.”  U.S. Thunderstorms  Natural disaster losses for insurers and the reinsurers who
help them shoulder risks for clients were “dominated” in the
first half of this year by thunderstorms in the U.S., where
about 85 percent of claims worldwide originated, Munich Re  said 
in July. Insured losses in the U.S. totaled $10 billion in the
first six months of 2012 compared with $8.8 billion a year ago.  Globally, insured losses declined to about $12 billion in
the first half from $82 billion over the same period a year ago,
when disasters included earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand ,
Munich Re said.  Munich Re also set aside provisions of 160 million euros
($210 million) in anticipation of losses from the drought that
affected agricultural areas of the U.S., the company said on
Aug. 7.  The Munich-based reinsurer expanded its U.S. presence with
the 1996 acquisition of Princeton, New Jersey-based American Re
for about $3.8 billion. The unit, which was renamed Munich Re
America in 2006, repeatedly needed additional funds to prop up
reserves for casualty and asbestos policies. The global clients
and North America division made up 36 percent of property and
casualty reinsurance premiums in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  