-- Not a Pretty Night for Romney -- or Obama
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-10-17T15:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/not-a-pretty-night-for-romney-or-obama.html
This is part of a continuing dialogue between Margaret Carlson and  Ramesh
Ponnuru  about the 2012 campaign. Ramesh, you  didn't go far enough . I agree that the president
"stopped the bleeding," which means he won the night. But at what cost? It
wasn't pretty. Fortunately for President  Barack Obama ,  Mitt Romney  decidedly lost the night
-- and at a very steep cost. Obama had a second chance to make a first-debate impression, and he did.
Romney should have known you don't get to surprise someone twice. The New Romney
unveiled in the first debate -- crisp, confident, composed and gracefully shape-
shifting -- was the Old Romney by last night. Obama was ready. But they both looked terrible in the process. Obama should never beg for more
time. He's the president. This is when a five-second stare -- focus-group-tested
by parents -- would have allowed him to keep his dignity and alerted moderator
Candy Crowley he was keeping score. But the president looked like Mister Rogers next to Romney, who lacks
modulation once he gets going. As a result, Crowley gave in to him more often,
but this tactic won Romney no favors with women -- nor did his claim to be
looking at "binders full of women" for cabinet posts in  Massachusetts  or his
saying women should be allowed to use contraceptives (thanks, Mitt!) but not
whether they should be covered by insurance plans women pay premiums for. Even in that unfortunate format -- whoever thought candidates circling each
other like wrestlers was presidential? -- the person seeking to be president has
to show some deference to the person who is. The negotiators for the rules
governing the town hall must have yearned for a repeat of dramas past -- when
 George W. Bush  nodded his head curtly as  Al Gore  breathed down his neck -- or
why would they have encouraged any stage-roaming at all? It's entertaining, but
so were the events in the Roman Coliseum. All that striding hurt Romney the most. He all but made a $10,000 bet he was
right about Obama's Rose Garden speech right after the attack on the consulate
in Benghazi,  Libya  -- and got petulant when the president calmly said, "Read the
transcript." Then came the most satisfying moment of the night, when Crowley
called it -- Obama was right, if only on the narrow point that yes,  he did say 
"acts of terror" in his address to the country after the ambassador was
killed. In that moment is the secret to making debates more about substance than
style. My modest proposal is to find a respected group -- as the commission has
found Gallup -- to perform instant fact-checking. If families can do it during
arguments at Thanksgiving dinner with an iPhone, why can't the Commission on
Presidential Debates? Yes, I know there are  media organizations  and  websites  that fact-check the
debates as they happen. But this would be official: The actual facts could
scroll along the bottom of the screen in real time. Or the moderator could do as
Crowley did. Did anyone know in real time whether Romney called the stringent
anti-immigrant legislation out of  Arizona  a "model for the nation"? Was Romney
for an assault weapons ban before he was against it (or vice versa)? There are no more inquiring minds than those which are watching a debate to
assess the candidates who want to lead them. They shouldn't have to wait until
the next day. ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .