-- NYC to Accelerate $1 Billion in Capital Expenditures, Mayor Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-10-17T19:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/nyc-to-accelerate-1-billion-in-capital-expenditures-mayor-says.html
New York will speed up $1 billion in
spending on “critical” infrastructure, including bridges,
roads, schools and libraries, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said.  The projects, most of which would be completed within 20
months, had been part of a four-year capital plan. Under the
changes announced today, the city will borrow the money sooner
to take advantage of  historically low  interest rates, saving
taxpayers more than $200 million in debt service over the term
of the bonds and creating 8,000 jobs, Bloomberg said at a City
Hall news conference.  “Borrowing now makes good fiscal sense; we’re going to
have to do these things,” said Bloomberg, who announced the
plan with city Comptroller John Liu, whom he credited with
developing the idea, and City Council Speaker Christine Quinn.
The two officials, both Democrats, have expressed interest in
running to succeed Bloomberg, an independent legally barred from
a fourth term.  The partnership between Bloomberg and Liu, who have
disagreed on labor and tax policies during the past four years,
signified a “contrast to places like  Washington , where people
from opposing parties or ideas cannot get anything
accomplished,” the mayor said.  ‘Need Jobs’  Aside from saving the city money and improving its
infrastructure, the primary benefit of the program would be to
create jobs, the three officials said. The city’s seasonally
adjusted unemployment rate was 9.9 percent in August, compared
with 9.1 percent a year ago, according to the state Labor
Department.  While the state Labor Department reported private-industry
employment in the city rising by 93,100, or 2.9 percent, to 3.32
million in the 12 months ending in August, construction jobs
probably fell 0.6 percent to 110,800, the fewest since 1998,
according to a report today by the  New York Building Congress , a
trade association representing developers, construction
companies and labor unions.  “We need jobs,” Liu said. “High unemployment rates and
persistent income disparities are hurting our recovery.”  Today’s plan reduces by about half a proposal from Liu in
May that would have speeded the borrowing of $2 billion for
infrastructure projects, which Liu said would have created about
15,000 jobs. Bloomberg said the city didn’t have enough short-
term construction projects to justify that plan.  City Bonds  The short-term impact on the budget of having to pay added
debt service sooner would be marginal, said Mark Page, director
of the city’s Office of Management and the Budget.  Borrowing costs for states and cities have dropped to
historic lows. The yield on 20-year general-obligations was 3.64
percent Oct. 11, near the 45-year low of 3.6 percent on Jan. 19,
according to a Bond Buyer index.  Investors are asking for less additional yield to buy the
city’s general-obligation debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A  New York  City general-obligation bond due in 2035
traded today with an average yield of 3.2 percent, 0.49
percentage point above a benchmark index of municipals with
similar maturity. That yield difference has narrowed by 0.22
percentage point since the city sold the bonds on Oct. 4.  Removal of toxic PCBs and repairs to about 100 school
buildings, resurfacing of about 300 additional lane-miles of
roads, street construction, bridge repair and waterfront
improvements would be expedited under the program, Quinn said.  The New York Building Congress projected an increase of
2,600 construction jobs next year, to 113,400, which would
remain below the 2008 peak of 132,600.  About $30.7 billion will have been spent on construction by
year-end, up more than 9 percent from last year, marking the
first time in four years that spending exceeded $30 billion. The
record of $31.1 billion was set in 2007, the association said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  