-- Obama Gets His Mojo Back
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-17T10:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/obama-gets-his-mojo-back.html
Disregard what you may have read  on
the Internet  or heard  on cable TV : Apparently  Barack Obama  does
want to be re-elected as president.  That’s the good news -- not necessarily in a partisan sense
-- from last night’s second presidential debate. Yes, the
president’s spirited performance has buoyed his supporters after
his  listlessness  at the first meeting two weeks ago. Maybe it
can also help jolt the contest between Obama and Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  into more fruitful territory.  Unlikely, we realize. There is already an entire website,
for example, devoted to one of Romney’s more memorable lines:
“ Binders Full of Women ” (about which more later) is sponsored by
a Democratic  super-PAC . But if one of the laws of punditry is
that the narrative must change, then why not a narrative about
the issues?  There were certainly enough of them last night. Among the
topics raised in the  11 questions  from the 82 members of the
audience were women’s role in the workforce; government funding
for higher education; Romney’s tax plan; immigration; high gas
prices; gun control; the recent violence in Libya; the role of
 China  in the global economy; and last but not least, “the
biggest misperception that the American people have about you as
a man and a candidate.”  Debates are not boxing matches -- though Romney’s treatment
of the president and the moderator, Candy Crowley of  CNN , was
occasionally too pugnacious -- but on our score card, Obama won
pretty decisively on points. He tended to be more responsive
than Romney, and his responses tended to be more substantive.  On guns, for example, a questioner wanted to know why the
president hadn’t done more to reinstate the federal ban on
assault weapons. Obama gave a semi-satisfying answer -- there is
a need for better background checks, more vigorous enforcement,
etc. -- but Romney’s was nonsensical, somehow morphing into a
sermon about the need for two-parent families. It’s  fair to say 
that Obama has done too little on  gun control . For Romney’s
party, however, that little is too much.  The question about how each candidate would help women in
the workplace was also revealing, though for different reasons.
Obama has some real achievements to cite here, namely the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, which essentially gives women
greater freedom to sue in court for pay discrimination. He then
ran out the clock by rhapsodizing about his upbringing by his
mother and grandmother. Romney’s answer, by contrast, was a
conceptual and linguistic muddle. When he was governor of
 Massachusetts , he said, too few applicants for state posts were
women. So he spoke to women’s groups, “and they brought us whole
binders full of women.”  Leave aside the clumsy phrasing; people are constantly
bringing governors (and presidents, for that matter) binders
full of stuff. What Romney is essentially admitting --
though his party probably wouldn’t say so -- is that as governor
he practiced affirmative action, and as a candidate he supports
it.  These weren’t the only issues on which Romney’s performance
suffered compared with the president’s. On  Libya , he got  his
facts  wrong (though not necessarily  his premise ), allowing Obama
to lecture him about playing politics. Asked for details about
his plan to cut taxes, the numbers of which just  don’t add up ,
Romney argued by assertion: “Of course they add up,” he said,
declining to elaborate. Next question?  Romney was at his best answering a question for the
president: What had Obama done, this one-time Obama voter asked,
to earn his vote this year? It’s not that Obama’s answer was
bad. He got through most of his highlight reel before the
required acknowledgment that “a lot of us” are still struggling.
(Did you mean to include yourself, Mr. President?) It’s that
Romney’s answer was specific -- unemployment is too high, the
deficit is too big, entitlement spending is unsustainable -- and
perfectly pitched. “The president wants to do well,” he said,
almost mournfully. “I understand.”  Before last night’s debate, the dominant question of this
campaign was purely political: Could Obama get his mojo back? He
could and did. This kind of  horse-race punditry  will endure --
nay, thrive -- until Nov. 6. The great value of these debates is
not so much that they have informed the public on the issues,
though they often have, but that they have given voters a useful
glimpse into how the candidates think.  Both men say they have been misperceived -- Romney as an
uncaring rich guy, Obama as big-government type -- and both
attribute the misperception to the efforts of his opponent. Yet
they seem most comfortable talking about each other: Obama’s
basic argument is that Romney can’t explain what he would do in
the next four years. Romney’s is that Obama can’t defend what he
did in the last four.  Neither candidate is adequately making the affirmative case
for his own election. But as debates go, this is relatively
constructive. On to Round 3 in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , on Oct. 22.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 