-- Obama’s Battle for Ohio’s Atheist Vote
-- B y   P h i l   Z u c k e r m a n
-- 2012-10-17T23:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/obama-has-the-ohio-atheist-vote-will-it-grow-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
multiple references to  Planned Parenthood  in the second
presidential debate showed how keen he is to sway female voters
in swing states.  He may have emboldened another demographic in the process,
without making an overt appeal. I’m talking about secular
Americans. Compared with their religious peers, this bloc of
Americans is much more inclined to support women’s rights and
gender equality. And the number of nonbelieving Americans is
rapidly increasing.  A  study  released last week by the Pew Research Center
provides evidence of what many sociologists have observed: The
proportion of Americans who say “none” when asked their religion
is the highest recorded in such surveys.  The numbers are striking. In 1990, only 8 percent of
Americans claimed to have  no religion . Today, about 20 percent
claim as much. More than one-third of American adults younger
than 30 are now religiously unaffiliated, which means that among
20-somethings, secular Americans far outnumber evangelical
Christians -- a big shift from 25 years ago.  The overwhelming majority of “nones” are content with their
lack of religious involvement; 88 percent say they aren’t
interested in or looking for a religion that might be right for
them.  Rising Irreligiosity  Most religiously unaffiliated Americans aren’t atheists or
agnostics in orientation, yet a sizable proportion are --
somewhere from one-third to one-half. Thus, the rise of the
“nones” simultaneously indicates an increase in atheism and
agnosticism in America.  There are several noteworthy demographic patterns. Men are
more likely to be secular than women, on average. Asian-
Americans, Jews and non-Hispanic whites exhibit higher rates of
nonbelief than Hispanic and black Americans. The nonreligious
are most highly concentrated in the Northeast and Pacific
Northwest --  Portland ,  Oregon , was recently designated the
“least Christian” city in the U.S. by the  Association of
Statisticians of American Religious Bodies .  What is perhaps most politically significant when it comes
to the rise of irreligiosity is the strong correlation in the
U.S. between being nonreligious and being left-leaning
politically. Of course, as Ayn Rand fans know, many secular
Americans are conservative or libertarian. But most are not.  According to the Pew study, nonreligious Americans are
about twice as likely as religious Americans to describe
themselves as politically liberal, rather than conservative. And
they are much more likely to vote Democratic; 63 percent of
nonreligious Americans support the  Democratic Party , with only
26 percent supporting Republicans.  In the 2008 presidential election, three-fourths of the
nonreligious supported Obama, with only 23 percent supporting
Republican Senator  John McCain . A related study recently
conducted by the Council for Secular Humanism found that rates
of left-leaning political orientation are even higher among
those Americans who affiliate themselves with secular groups.
For example, among subscribers to the secular humanist magazine
Free Inquiry, 75 percent label themselves as liberal,
progressive or socialist, with only 7 percent self-labeling as
moderate, and 3 percent as conservative.  Numerous additional studies reveal the contours of the
secular-liberal connection: Nonreligious Americans, when
compared with their religious peers, are more supportive of
same-sex marriage and abortion rights, more interested in
protecting the environment, and more supportive of creating
paths to citizenship for illegal immigrants. They are less
likely to support the death penalty.  Voter Subsets  Yes, you could have guessed this already. And why should
political operatives care, since these voters are concentrated
in uncontested blue states? As the microtargeting boom has
demonstrated, small subsets of voters in swing districts and
states matter, and if secularism is on the upswing, then those
subsets might be growing too. It is unclear how strong a wind
this is for the political left.  The rise of the “nonreligious” is partly a result of the
decline of liberal Christianity. People who might have
considered themselves mainline believers a generation or so ago
don’t want to be associated with a belief system that they think
has been hijacked by the religious right. The religious liberals
have become nonreligious liberals.  Secular Americans aren’t an organized lot with a clear
political agenda. Unlike religious voters whose convictions
often determine their political choices, people are identified
by the lack of something -- belief in God, faith in Jesus,
interest in church. That doesn’t always translate into a
predictable voting strategy.  In the swing state of  Colorado , for example,  secular women 
who favor abortion rights might not vote for Obama because other
issues could be of greater concern to them, such as the economy.  While a few organizations, for example the Freedom From
Religion Foundation and the  American Humanist Association ,
provide support to the nonreligious, there is nothing on the
secular left akin to the hundred-million-dollar media empires
and multimillion-dollar PACs of the religious right. Thousands
of state and national legislators don’t owe their jobs to
secularists.  But if the rise of the “nones” keeps up the pace it is
making now, who knows what will happen.  (Phil Zuckerman is a professor of sociology and secular
studies at Pitzer College in Claremont,  California . He is the
author of “Faith No More” and “Society Without God.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what the presidential
candidates  aren’t saying about coal power  and on the right way
 to plug national security ;  Caroline Baum  on  five things the
Republicans won’t tell you ;  Ezra Klein  on  Romney’s biggest
problem ; Jonathan Mahler on the  decline and fall of the New York
Yankees ; Fouad Ajami on  Malala and the history of Pakistan .  To contact the writer of this article:
Phil Zuckerman at  phil_zuckerman@pitzer.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 