-- Obama-Romney Round Two Holds Audience at 65.6 Million
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-10-17T21:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/obama-romney-draw-37-4-million-viewers-to-broadcast-outlets-1-.html
Last night’s debate between U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney  attracted
about 65.6 million viewers on cable and broadcast television,
holding almost steady from their first meeting on Oct. 3.  The town hall-style debate, hosted by Hofstra University in
New York and moderated by  CNN ’s Candy Crowley, was carried
across 12 networks, New York-based Nielsen said today in a
statement. The debate outdrew the second meeting of then
candidate Obama and Republican John McCain four years ago.  The size of the audience demonstrated the continued high
public interest in the campaign. The two meetings of the
candidates so far both rank among the 10 most-watched since
1976, according to Nielsen data, with Romney gaining in the
polls after their first encounter.  The four major broadcast networks attracted 39.8 million
viewers, while three cable news outlets drew about 21.7 million,
according to Nielsen data released today by the media outlets.
Nielsen counts a dozen networks including coverage by the
Spanish-language Univision and Telemundo.  President Obama, seeking to recharge his candidacy, made a
spirited defense of his record as he challenged Romney last
night on taxes, immigration and Libya. Obama branded Romney’s
fiscal plans “sketchy” and his social policies “extreme,” as
he worked to put the former Massachusetts governor on the
defensive three weeks from Election Day.  The Republican nominee, seeking to sustain a campaign
bounce he has been riding since the Oct. 3 debate, said the
president was mischaracterizing his proposals, and pressed his
central campaign theme that Obama has failed to foster the
economic recovery the nation needs.  NBC, Fox News  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC led the broadcasters with about 13.8
million viewers, according to the Nielsen data. Fox News topped
all cable networks with 11.1 million, matching a record for the
channel set four years ago in the Joe Biden-Sarah Palin vice
presidential debate, according to Nielsen data supplied by 
the networks.  The first debate between Obama and Romney attracted an
audience of 67.2 million, counting broadcast and cable outlets,
while the faceoff between Vice President Biden and Republican
challenger Paul Ryan drew 51.4 million viewers.  Obama and Romney meet for a final debate at 9 p.m. New York
time on Oct. 22 at Lynn University in Boca Raton,  Florida , where
they are scheduled to discuss foreign policy. Bob Schieffer,
host of “Face the Nation” on CBS, will moderate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in Los Angeles at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  