-- Hodgson Says Polish Pitch May Remain Unplayable: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-17T05:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hodgson-says-polish-pitch-may-remain-unplayable-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Unplayable Pitch?  England manager Roy Hodgson is concerned the waterlogged
playing surface at Warsaw’s National Stadium may not have
recovered in time for today’s rescheduled World Cup qualifying
match against  Poland , the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Last night’s game was abandoned because of an unplayable
pitch and postponed until 5 p.m. local time today, when further
showers are forecast in the Polish capital, the paper said.  “The pitch is in a very poor condition,” the Telegraph
cited Hodgson as saying. “The water is laying on the surface
and it will need a lot of attention if we are going to play.”  Third Attempt  Manchester City is ready to make a third attempt to sign
Roma midfielder Daniele De Rossi, a long-term target for manager
Roberto Mancini, the  Sun reported .  A bid of 30 million pounds ($48.3 million) in January and
wages of 180,000 pounds a week may secure De Rossi, who signed a
five-year contract with Roma in February, the newspaper added.  Busquets Wanted  Mancini has identified Barcelona’s  Sergio Busquets  as
City’s next major signing and wants to reunite the Spanish World
Cup-winning midfielder with ex-Barca teammate  Yaya Toure , the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Liverpool Loan  Liverpool would only be interested in signing Daniel Sturridge if it can take the Chelsea striker on an initial loan
period in January, the  Sun reported .  Reds manager Brendan Rodgers doesn’t want to commit to
signing the 15 million pound-rated Sturridge without making sure
the 23-year-old fits his team’s style of play, the Sun added.  Turkish Target  Arsenal’s Andre Santos, who has lost his left-back spot to
 Kieran Gibbs , is a target for Turkish club Galatasaray, which is
ready to make a bid for the Brazilian in January, the  Daily
Express reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  