-- Mohammed Says U.S. Tortured in Name of National Security
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-10-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/mohammed-says-u-s-used-torture-in-the-name-of-national-security.html
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the accused
mastermind of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, accused the
U.S. government of killing “millions” of people and using
torture “under the name of national security.”  Mohammed, in his most extensive public comments since 2008,
urged a military judge at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, yesterday to avoid using an expansive definition of
national security that the defendant said would justify torture
and killing.  “The president can take someone and throw him into the sea
under the name of national security,” Mohammed said through an
interpreter, in an apparent reference to the burial at sea of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden after he was killed by U.S. Navy
SEALs last year.  Mohammed took advantage of leeway granted by the judge,
Army Colonel James Pohl. After declining to attend the previous
day’s hearing, Mohammed appeared yesterday in a camouflage vest
that his attorney said resembled what he wore as a member of the
Mujahadeen force in  Afghanistan  when it was under Soviet
occupation. Pohl had granted permission for such attire so long
as it wasn’t part of any U.S. military uniform.  The extent of Mohammed’s outburst, which lasted about six
minutes, may have taken Pohl by surprise. At the end of it, the
judge announced he wouldn’t allow extemporaneous speeches by the
defendants.  ‘One-Time Occurrence’  “This is a one-time occurrence,” Pohl told the court.  Tom Acquaviva, who lost his 29-year-old son Paul in the
World Trade Center, said he was stunned to hear Mohammed accuse
the U.S. of killing millions of people.  “It made me angry, absolutely,” Acquaviva, who sat in the
viewing gallery of the courtroom with his wife Josephine while
Mohammed spoke, said in an interview. “He was very arrogant, a
person with not one iota of remorse.”  In his comments, Mohammed said national security has been
used as an excuse “to torture people” and “to detain the
children under the name of national security, underage
children.”  When the interpreter quoted the defendant as saying the
U.S. government has killed “thousands,” Mohammed interjected.
“Millions,” he said in English.  “My only advice to you is you do not get affected by
crocodile tears,” Mohammed told Pohl. “Your blood is not made
out of gold and ours is not out of water. We are all human
beings.”  Hijacked Planes  Mohammed and four co-defendants are on trial for plotting
the terrorist attacks that used hijacked passenger planes to
kill almost 3,000 people at the World Trade Center in  Manhattan ,
the Pentagon near Washington and in a field in  Pennsylvania .  In 2008, Mohammed sought to plead guilty before a military
tribunal, saying he wanted to be martyred and “I do not trust
the Americans.”  Mohammed’s speech came after a day of testimony aimed at
resolving a dispute over the rules that for handling classified
information, including interrogation techniques used on the
defendants at secret CIA prisons.  Mohammed raised his hand seeking permission to speak.  Pohl appeared unsure how to proceed, saying he didn’t know
if a special session was needed to determine whether Mohammed’s
statements could be aired in open court.  “I don’t know what he’s going to say,” Pohl said, before
declaring a recess. After the break, the judge recognized
Mohammed.  National Security  During the courtroom arguments over how much information
must be kept secret in the interest of national security, Hina
Shamsi, an attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, said
the government’s proposed protective order would prevent
Mohammed from saying publicly that he was “waterboarded” 183
times, even though that information has already been disclosed.
The technique simulates drowning.  “Thoughts, experiences and memories belong to human
beings,” Shamsi said in court yesterday. “They do not belong
to the government.”  If the protective order is adopted, “it is essentially
saying the government can gag them from talking about what the
government did to them illegally.”  Joanna Baltes, a prosecuting attorney, said of the
protective order, “There is still a compelling government
interest in maintaining the integrity of that classified
information.”  Classified Information  She said the order wouldn’t impose any sanctions on the
defendants if they disclosed information that is classified
because it applies to those who hold security clearances,
including the defense attorneys, not the defendants.  Mohammed’s chief counsel, David Nevin, rejected that
argument.  “The government is sanctioning them for the revelation of
classified information,” Nevin said. “They’re not allowed to
speak out about what they observe,” he said of the defendants.  With a trial of the Sept. 11 defendants before a military
judge and jury still a year or more away, lawyers for the five
men have filed a barrage of motions seeking to define or expand
the legal rights they will be afforded as they attempt to air
grievances about their treatment in captivity.  The consideration of how to handle sensitive information in
the biggest terrorism case in U.S. history coincided with a
ruling questioning the credibility of military tribunals.  Bin Laden’s Driver  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  this week threw out
the 2008 conviction of Osama bin Laden’s former driver after
finding he was wrongly tried under a law that didn’t exist at
the time of the alleged crime.  Salim Hamdan, who was captured in Afghanistan in November
2001 and sent to Guantanamo Bay two months later, was the first
terrorism suspect found guilty at a U.S. military war-crimes
trial since the Sept. 11 attacks.  The appeals court said the Military Commissions Act of 2006
didn’t cover retroactive prosecution of acts that weren’t
prohibited as war crimes.  A lawyer for Mohammed, Captain Jason Wright, said in a
statement this week that the appeals court “emphasized that
constitutional principles can, and must, reach to Guantanamo
Bay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  