-- Hollande Backs Spanish Call for Clarity on Bailout Terms
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-17T12:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hollande-backs-spanish-call-for-clarity-on-bailout-conditions.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
backed  Spain ’s demand for clarity on the conditions it would
face in return for financial support, underscoring a divide with
Germany as European leaders prepare to gather in Brussels.  “Spain needs to know the precise conditions under which it
would receive financial help,” Hollande said in an interview
with six  newspapers  before the summit, which starts tomorrow.
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government believes that terms should
be negotiated once a request is made, one of her officials told
reporters in Berlin today.  By throwing his support behind Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  and calling for budgetary easing from countries
that can afford it, Hollande is setting out a challenge for
Merkel similar to the one he made at the last summit in June.  Since then, turmoil across the region’s bond markets has
eased after the  European Central Bank  offered to buy the bonds
of struggling governments and the euro area set up its 500-
billion euro ($656 billion) permanent rescue fund.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year government bond  today dropped
29 basis points to 5.51 percent at 2:45 p.m. Paris time after
Moody’s Investors Service cited the ECB’s move as a reason to
keep its investment grade credit rating on Spain. The yield
climbed above 7.6 percent in July.  The rate on Italian debt fell 11 basis points to 4.82
percent and the euro rose to a one-month high of $1.3172.  Paying Dearly  Policy makers are now trying to prevent Spain from
disrupting the calm that has descended on markets three years
after the 17-nation euro bloc’s budget crisis first started.
While Rajoy has said Spain won’t request aid until the terms are
clearer, two German government officials said today it’s not
possible at this moment to say what those conditions would be.  Hollande said in his interview that Spain, like  Portugal ,
is “paying dearly” for the mistakes of others. He predicted
that the worst of the sovereign debt crisis is over because
speculation about a possible break-up of the single currency has
abated.  Greece , which requires funding in coming weeks, should
receive it without signing up to conditions beyond which Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras has already committed it, according to
the French president. He didn’t say whether the country should
receive additional funding or more time to repay its debt.  Fiscal Stimulus  Echoing views aired by the  International Monetary Fund  last
week in  Tokyo , Hollande also said that euro countries should
apply fiscal stimulus if they are in a position to do so. The
comments point clearly to Germany, where Merkel is guiding
 Europe ’s largest economy toward a balanced budget with the help
of a persistent  trade surplus .  “The countries that are in surplus should stimulate
domestic demand with wage increases and lower taxes,” Hollande
said. “That would be the best expression of solidarity” with
the rest of the bloc.  Asked about his relationship with the German chancellor,
Hollande said “no one can accuse  Angela Merkel  of being
ambiguous.”  “She is very sensitive to domestic political questions and
of the demands of parliament,” Hollande said. “I understand.
We all are. We all have our public opinion, our democratic
debates. But we share a common responsibility and have to act in
the interest of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  