-- Hong Kong Homes Unaffordable After Price Surge, Leung Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-10-17T08:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hong-kong-homes-unaffordable-after-price-surge-leung-says-1-.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying pledged more measures to tackle record home prices,
after a surge this year made accommodation unaffordable for many
people in the city.  The number of applicants on the city’s public housing
waiting list is approaching 200,000, Leung said today in his
first address to the Legislative Council since taking office on
July 1. About 65,000 private residential units are expected to
be available in the next three to four years, he said.  Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home
after  prices  advanced more than 90 percent since early 2009 on a
lack of new supply, an influx of buyers from China and record
low mortgage rates. Leung is seeking to fulfill campaign pledges
to tackle a record wealth gap and high home prices after student
protests and the resignation of a key official derailed his
policy goals.  “Tackling the housing problem is a top priority,” Leung,
58, told lawmakers. “Property prices and rentals have continued
to rise by such an extent that they are now beyond people’s
affordability.”  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks nine developers,
has gained 28 percent this year, more than the 16 percent
advance in the benchmark. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. and Henderson Land Development Co. are among
the city’s biggest real estate companies.  Prices Climb  Initial measures announced last month by Leung to cool the
property market, including making more land available and
restricting some sales to local residents, have failed to stop
an up-tick in prices. The city’s de-facto central bank also
limited the maximum term on new mortgages to 30 years in
September.  Developers in Hong Kong are this month preparing to sell
more than 3,300 units, the most homes in six years, according to
realtor Midland Holdings Ltd.  Hong Kong’s currency is pegged to the dollar, forcing it to
track record low interest rates in the U.S., even as nations
including Singapore signal that they will act to prevent asset
bubbles. Some residents in the city pay daily rates for a bed
space that resembles a cage, while others live in apartments
that are divided into smaller units for rent.  Leung today also said he plans to set a poverty line with
reference to international standards as a first step toward
improving the housing conditions of people who are living in
“cage homes,” “sub-divided flats” and “cubicle
apartments.”  Closer Ties  In a  survey  conducted by the University of Hong Kong’s
Public Opinion Programme from Oct. 4 to 10, Leung’s popularity
rose to 49.2 from a low last month of 46 on a scale of zero to
100. His popularity took a hit after thousands protested last
month over a government proposal for Chinese national education
classes, which protesters said casts Communist Party rule in
 China  in too favorable a light.  Closer ties with China had stoked concern among Hong Kong
residents over a loss of the city’s autonomy. Leung has to
balance discontent over competition for housing, school places
and hospitals from mainland residents, with the increasing
reliance the economy has on spending from across the border.  “The relationship between Hong Kong and the mainland is
complementary and mutually beneficial in nature,” Leung said,
adding that the government is aware of the rising tension.  Leung also said that the government will “vigorously”
tackle the city’s air pollution. It is considering phasing out
old vehicles and rerouting public transport, he said.  Hong Kong’s polluted air causes more than 3,000 premature
deaths a year, according to the Civic Exchange. The research
group said in a statement on Jan. 12 that 49 million doctor
visits “can be attributed to Hong Kong’s persistently poor air
quality” since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  