-- Monsanto Suspends Royalty Collections for Brazil Soybeans
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-17T20:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/monsanto-suspends-soybean-royalty-collections-in-brazil.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, suspended collection of royalties for its Roundup
Ready soybeans in  Brazil  while it appeals a state court ruling
on intellectual property rights.  An appellate court in Mato Grosso yesterday upheld an
injunction requested by a group of growers to stop fee
collections in the state before a trial challenging patents for
the genetically modified beans. Monsanto will temporarily
suspend the collections nationwide to “maintain operational
consistency,” the St. Louis-based company said today on its
 website .  Growers say the patent on the original Roundup Ready
soybeans expired in 2010, ending their obligation to pay
Monsanto a technology fee on the seeds. Monsanto says that
Brazilian law extends the patent to 2014, when it expires in the
U.S. Monsanto is counting on growth in  Latin America ,
particularly Brazil, to meet its earnings forecast.  “Today’s events will have to cause investors to consider
the potential impact of an earnings hit in 2013,” Jason Dahl,
who co-manages the  Victory Large Cap Growth Fund (VFGAX) , including
Monsanto shares, said today in a phone interview from  New York .
“They have a good track record of defending their patents
historically.”  Monsanto fell 0.9 percent to $89.63 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 28 percent this year.  ‘Investor Unease’  About 20 cents a share of earnings are at risk in fiscal
2013, which began in September, based on 50 million acres of
Roundup Ready soybean sales, Vincent Andrews, a New York-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note today. In a worst
case scenario, Monsanto also wouldn’t collect fees in 2014 and
would have to repay 2011 royalties, he said.  “This creates some uncertainty and investor unease about
the Brazilian soybean market,” wrote Andrews, who rates the
shares overweight, the equivalent of a buy. “Prevailing patent
law is in the company’s favor.”  Monsanto said it expects appellate courts to decide whether
collections can resume over the next several weeks, prior to the
start of the trial in state court.  The outcome of the case won’t effect sales of Intacta
soybeans, a newly patented product engineered to produce
insecticide and tolerate Roundup herbicide, Andrews said.
Farmers are currently testing Intacta beans prior to full
commercial sales next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  