-- Too-Big-To-Fail Insurers Need to Cut Risks, Association Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-10-17T15:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/too-big-to-fail-insurers-need-to-reduce-risks-association-says.html
Insurers deemed too big to fail
should cut systemic risks, increase capital buffers and improve
their liquidity planning to reduce the impact on economic
activity should they collapse, an industry regulator said.  The proposals by the International Association of Insurance
Supervisors also include measures for more intensive
supervision, provisions for effective resolution regimes and the
separation of non-traditional and non-insurance activities,
according to the public  consultation  document published on the
Basel, Switzerland-based watchdog’s website today.  The Financial Stability Board, guided by the IAIS, will
decide in April which insurers are too big to fail based on
criteria including size, global activity and the amount of non-
insurance businesses they have, it said, while the group plans
to implement the stricter supervision “immediately
afterwards.” The organization today asked insurers and other
interested parties to submit comments on the proposed rules by
Dec. 16.  “The proposed policy measures are intended to reduce moral
hazard and the negative externalities stemming from the
potential disorderly failure posed by global systemically
important insurers,” said Peter Braumueller, the head of the
IAIS.  The association and the FSB are seeking to prevent a repeat
of the turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Capital Buffers  Insurers will have until 2016 to start a risk-reduction
plan, and should begin to implement measures that include enough
capital buffers to absorb losses, the IAIS said in its
proposals. The group will develop a concrete plan on loss
absorption by the end of next year.  Non-traditional activities include alternative risk
transfers such as insurance-linked securities and financial
guarantee insurance. Non-insurance operations include capital
market businesses, banking, third-party asset management and
industrial activities.  Life insurance and variable annuities with additional
guarantees and mortgage guarantee insurance have been listed as
semi-traditional.  Selling credit-default swaps is considered a non-insurance
activity and should carry tougher capital requirements,
Braumueller told journalists during a conference call after
Austria blocked insurers from selling the instruments.  AIG was forced to take an $85 billion bailout from the U.S.
government because of losses from selling default swaps. Austria
lost about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in the Greek
government’s debt swap this year because nationalized lender KA
Finanz AG had written CDS protection against a Greek default.  CDSs are covered by the methodology proposed by the IAIS
today, Braumueller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  