-- Top Mortgage Lender to Hold Rates as Banks Cut: Corporate India
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-10-18T11:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/top-mortgage-lender-holding-rates-as-banks-cut-corporate-india.html
Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ,
the world’s biggest independent mortgage lender by value, said
it will refrain from matching interest rate reductions by banks
in India to protect margins that are at a 12-year high.  The Mumbai-based lender may keep rates at 10.25 percent for
credit of less than 3 million rupees ($56,800), Keki Mistry,
chief executive officer of the company known as HDFC, said in an
interview. The lender reduced interest rates by quarter point on
Oct. 1.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, is
offering home loans at 10 percent.  A slowdown in demand for credit to build factories and
roads in Asia’s third-largest economy is prompting banks to
switch focus to mortgages, intensifying competition with HDFC
and  LIC Housing Finance Ltd. (LICHF)  State Bank has seen home loan
applications double after it cut borrowing costs in a nation
that has the fastest pace of inflation among BRIC countries,
according to Managing Director A. Krishna Kumar.  “Our rates are a function of our cost of funds and we will
bring it down when our cost of funds comes down,” Mistry, 57,
said. “Some banks focus on the mortgage business for some time
and then shift focus to other banking products. This is our core
business and we are here to stay.”  HDFC has  gained  17 percent this year, giving it a market
value of 1.17 trillion rupees ($22 billion). The shares rose 1.2
percent to 761.65 rupees in Mumbai, their biggest gain in two
weeks.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the biggest mortgage company in the U.S., had a
market value of $1.57 billion. Total loans at the lender dropped
by 0.075 percent to $2.99 trillion, while they grew 7.7 percent
to $29 billion at HDFC.  Mortgage Forecast  Mistry forecasts loan growth will expand as much as 20
percent for the next few years as India is an
“underpenetrated” mortgage market. Bank credit may grow 17
percent in the year ending March 31 from 19.4 percent a year
earlier, according to the Reserve Bank of India.  “If HDFC has to maintain the growth at current levels,
they cannot charge a significant premium over  State Bank of
India (SBIN) ,” said Pankaj Agarwal, an analyst with Ambit Capital
Pvt., who  recommends  investors sell the stock. “Banks have just
started focusing on retail loans and their market share and
growth rate will be higher.”  State Bank has a 16 percent share in the home loan market,
while HDFC follows with 15 percent, Barclays Plc’s Mumbai-based
analysts led by Anish Tawakley said in an Aug. 9 note to
clients.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  and LIC Housing control 9 percent each,
according to Tawakley.  Banks, which are now focusing on mortgages, will “muddy
the waters,” LIC Housing’s Chief Executive Officer V.K. Sharma
said in an interview last month.  AAA Rating  Access to cheaper funds is helping banks win customers.
Banks pay as little as 4 percent on their savings deposits,
while finance companies such as HDFC borrow at about 9 percent,
said Nitin Kumar, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.  “We have raised funds through bonds this year as the term
loans were costlier,” Mistry said. A ruling to allow debt
mutual funds to invest 10 percent of their assets in housing
finance companies will increase availability of funds, he said.  HDFC, which has 318 offices across India, has sold 177
billion rupees of bonds this year, making it India’s third-
biggest local-currency debt  issuer . The company’s domestic debt
is  rated  AAA by Standard & Poor’s Indian unit.  The mortgage company, founded by Hasmukh Thakordas Parekh
in 1977, reported a  net interest margin  of 4.03 percent in the
year ended March 31, the highest since 2000. The measure was
3.85 percent at State Bank and 2.47 percent at ICICI Bank.  Bad Loans  Bad loans at the lender have declined for 30 straight
quarters and may fall further, according to Mistry. The company
is scheduled to report its second-quarter earnings on Oct. 22.  Mortgage loans accounted for 59 percent of HDFC’s  revenue 
in the year ended March 31, while the life insurance business
was 34 percent of the total.  Loans to homebuyers contributed 67 percent of total credit
as of June 30, HDFC said. Borrowings by companies made up 13
percent, while an equal percentage was lent to developers for
financing construction, according to a company filing.  A slowing economy may prompt  India ’s central bank to cut
its benchmark rate, helping reduce bad loans as well as HDFC’s
cost of funds. The Reserve Bank may lower the repurchase rate to
7.5 percent from 8 percent by the fourth quarter, according to
the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mistry predicts the central bank will cut borrowing costs
by as much as 75 basis points by March.  “As the corporate bond rates soften, the mortgage lender
will be able to cut the rates if needed,” Quant’s Kumar said.
“HDFC has always managed their spreads well and there is no
reason to believe that they won’t be able to maintain it now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  