-- Orban Cites Deleveraging in Rebuff of Hungary Tax Criticism
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-18T14:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/orban-cites-deleveraging-in-rebuff-of-hungary-bank-tax-criticism.html
Hungary’s decision to backtrack on a
pledge to cut the European Union’s highest bank tax in half
won’t hurt the economy after lenders withdrew financing from the
country, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  “Banks stopped lending already, the deleveraging project
is going on in Hungary,” Orban said in an interview in
Bucharest yesterday. “Bank taxation has no impact on Hungarian
activity.”  Hungary will keep the levy at its current level as part of
a budget plan to avoid a freeze of European Union development
funds as a penalty for deficit overruns, the government said
yesterday. The  International Monetary Fund  has urged the country
to ease the bank burden to boost growth after squeezing lenders
to plug budget holes.  The higher tax may prompt the foreign parents of Hungarian
banks to withdrawal capital from the country at an increasing
rate, raising the risk of a prolonged recession, Levente Kovacs,
secretary general of the Bank Association, said today. Mihaly Patai, the association’s head, will resign if Parliament
approves the approved measures, he said.  The EU’s most-indebted eastern member requested aid in
November as its  credit rating  was cut to junk. Negotiations for
about a 15 billion-euro ($19.2 billion) loan were delayed
multiple times because of Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal
and economic conditions set by the Washington-based lender and
the European Union.  ‘Very Close’  An agreement with the IMF is “very close,” Orban said
yesterday, declining to give a date. He said Hungary doesn’t
need money from the IMF and is seeking a  credit line  as a
precaution.  The forint was little changed against the euro after
falling as much as 0.7 percent yesterday following Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy ’s announcement of steps to improve next
year’s budget balance by 367 billion forint ($1.7 billion).  The forint traded at 278.19 per euro by 3:27 p.m. in
Budapest. It rose 13.2 percent this year, the most in the world,
as investors bet Hungary will obtain aid from the IMF.  OTP Bank
Nyrt. (OTP) , the country’s largest lender, dropped 2.6 percent to
4,120 forint after plunging as much as 8.9 percent yesterday.  ‘Problem Case’  The government will increase a planned tax on  bank
transactions  to 0.2 percent from 0.1 percent, introduce a levy
on utility companies’ infrastructure, reduce local-business
benefits and raise taxes on employee benefits, Matolcsy said.  Hungary is a “real problem case” for  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , Herbert Stepic, the Vienna-based lender’s
chief executive officer, said at a conference in the Austrian
capital today. “Hungary is our most difficult market.”  Investors have no security for their assets in Hungary,
Willibald Cernko, chairman of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank Austria unit,
told the same conference in Vienna today.  Hungary’s Bank Association is “shocked” that the
government reneged on its pledge to cut the bank tax in half, it
said yesterday in a statement. The measures endanger banks’
lending capacity, the “predictable financing” of the economy,
and a recovery from a recession, it said.  Matolcsy promised that the bank levy will only be extended
by one year and will be halved in 2014, Bavarian Finance
Minister Markus Soeder told journalists in Vienna today.  “It’s important Hungary does a bit more and rebuilds
confidence because they had already promised the same a year
ago,” Soeder said.  ‘Cripple Prospects’  The measures “cripple any prospects of a medium-term
growth rebound in Hungary,”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said yesterday.
Nomura International Plc said the steps won’t satisfy the IMF
and the EU and “hence we are no closer to a backstop at all”
for Hungary.  The efforts to control the budget deficit has reduced the
economy’s potential for economic growth. The potential growth
rate is now near zero,  Mihaly Varga , the minister in charge of
obtaining an IMF loan, said on Oct. 16.  The tax increases may curb investment, employment and
consumption while boosting inflation, the  Economy Ministry  said
in a  report  on its website today.  Hungary expects the economy to  expand  0.9 percent in 2013
and 2 percent in 2014, the ministry said. The government on Oct.
5 had cut its estimate for GDP to a contraction of 1.2 percent
in 2012 from a previously estimated 0.1 percent growth and to a
1 percent expansion from 1.6 percent in 2013. The EU will also
lower its 1 percent growth forecast, Matolcsy said yesterday.  Budget Deficit  The EU estimates  Hungary ’s budget gap will widen to as much
as 3.9 percent of economic output in 2013 from the government’s
goal of 2.7 percent for this year and next even after measures
announced this month, Matolcsy said yesterday in justifying the
new measures.  “We have a disagreement” with the EU on the budget, which
is “under control,” Orban said. He has previously said that a
better-than-forecast economic performance will allow the
government to scrap spending cuts, including the decision to
postpone an increase in teachers’ pay. Orban faces elections in
2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  