-- Moribund Home Loans Spur Regulator to Relax Grip: Poland Credit
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-10-17T08:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/moribund-home-loans-spur-regulator-to-relax-grip-poland-credit.html
The smallest increase in household
borrowing since 1998 and the cost of loans at a two-year high
are prompting Poland’s financial regulator to relax rules for
banks in a bid to resuscitate the lending market.  Credit growth decelerated to 4.6 percent in the 12 months
to Aug. 31 from 12.4 percent in December, the central bank  said 
on Oct. 12. The average interest rate on zloty-denominated home
loans was 6.9 percent in June, up 50 basis points this year and
the highest since 2010, central bank data show. That compares
with a 40 basis point drop in euro-region mortgages to 3.36
percent, according to data from  Austria ’s central bank.  Weaker credit growth was one of the reasons behind the
first drop in Poland’s domestic demand in three years in the
second quarter. The regulator will amend its recommendations for
banks to “stop the decline in consumer lending,” Andrzej Jakubiak, the head of the financial markets supervisory office,
said in Warsaw on Oct. 15.  “Restrictive regulations have been the main driver of a
sharp decline in bank consumer lending,” Radoslaw Bodys, chief
economist at PKO Bank Polski SA, said by phone yesterday. The
changes “should stimulate bank consumer lending,” he said.  Reversing Direction  From the start of 2013, banks with a Tier 1 capital ratio,
a key measure of financial strength, exceeding 9 percent and a
solvency ratio above 12 percent will be allowed to simplify
rules when making consumer loans, the regulator said on Oct. 15.  The watchdog will no longer cap clients’ payments at 50
percent of their monthly income, reversing stricter
recommendations introduced in 2010 to avoid a lending bubble
that led to bailouts of U.S. and western European banks.  The loosening of loan criteria comes as Moody’s Investors
Service kept its negative outlook for Polish banks for a second
year, according to an Oct. 16  report . Their performance is
“under pressure” from weakening credit demand, which is likely
to persist, senior analyst Irakli Pipia said in the note.  The country’s lenders also remain exposed “to the on-going
euro-area turmoil” because banks rely on their western parents
“for a major portion of foreign-currency funding needs,” Pipia
said. Five out of  Poland ’s seven largest banks are controlled by
lenders from western Europe, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wider Slowdown  Cash loans, lending for cars and home appliances and debt
on credit cards fell 3.5 percent to 125.9 billion zloty ($40
billion) in July from the end of last year. The regulator will
also seek to soften regulations for mortgages, which fell 0.6
percent in the period, according to its data.  The slowing credit growth is a reflection of the wider
economy, which will expand 2.5 percent this year and 2.2 percent
in 2013, according to government forecasts. Gross domestic
product grew 4.3 percent last year.  Second-quarter GDP growth slowed to 2.4 percent, the lowest
rate since 2009, while domestic demand, the engine of the
country’s growth during  Europe ’s crisis, shrank 0.2 percent,
data from the Central Statistics Office in Warsaw show.  Poland’s economy has been hit by a triple whammy of
monetary and fiscal tightening as well as more stringent
regulations for loans, Boguslaw Grabowski, an adviser to Prime
Minister Donald Tusk, said in an interview on Oct. 8.  Rate Cut?  After defying expectations for a cut in interest rates this
month, central bank Governor Marek Belka said this month policy
makers will reduce them should new data confirm a “protracted”
economic slowdown and “limited” risk of price pressure.  Forward-rate agreements show borrowing costs falling 50
basis points over the next three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Narodowy Bank Polski raised its benchmark rate by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 4.75 percent in May,
the highest in three years, to combat inflation. The European
Central Bank lowered its main rate by a quarter point to a
record low of 0.75 percent in July in an attempt to revive
stalled growth in the euro area, Poland’s biggest export market.  The bank regulator’s easier policies “will have a positive
impact on lending,” Iza Rokicka, an analyst at BRE Bank SA,
said by phone from Warsaw on Oct. 15. “Banks will have to
offset falling margins resulting from lower interest rates.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Polish dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries declined one basis point to
124 at 10 a.m. in Warsaw, indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase &
Co. show. The additional yield on Polish 10-year zloty bonds
over German bunds narrowed one basis point to 305, the least
since June 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
zloty strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.0907 to the euro.  Default Swaps  The cost to insure Polish government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell two basis
points to 88, the least since April, 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The swaps cost 89 basis points less than the average for
countries in eastern Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  included
in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, compared with a gap of
78 basis points on average in the first half of 2012. The
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash if a government or company fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The watchdog’s changes are aimed at allowing better
capitalized banks to take on more risk and “return to positive
trends in consumer lending,” according to Jakubiak. Lenders
controlling more than 90 percent of the Polish banking assets
fulfil the criteria for simplified lending, the regulator said.  The softening of regulations may even “be more effective”
than a rate cut as it addresses industries that have seen their
access to credit limited in past months, Andrzej Slawinski, the
head of research at the central bank, said by phone on Oct. 11.  -- With assistance from Konrad Krasuski and David McQuaid in
Warsaw, Edith Balazs in Budapest and Boris Groendahl in Vienna.
Editors: Wojciech Moskwa, Rodney Jefferson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  