-- OTP Tumbles Most in 3 Months on Tax Increases: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-17T15:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/otp-drops-most-in-6-months-on-planned-tax-raises-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, dropped the most in three months after the government
said it will increase taxes on the financial industry.  The shares sank as much as 8.9 percent and closed 3.7
percent lower at 4,230 forint, the biggest slump since July 23.
The benchmark BUX stock index, in which OTP has a 29 percent
weighting, lost as much as 3.6 percent and last traded 0.7
percent lower.  Hungary won’t meet its pledge to banks to halve the special
tax on lenders next year and will increase a separate levy on
financial transactions and introduce a duty on utility
infrastructure to keep the budget deficit within 3 percent of
gross domestic product, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told
reporters today.  “The package puts the bulk of the burden on the banks and
the corporate sector,” Zsolt Kondrat, a Budapest-based
economist at Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB unit, wrote in e-mailed
comments. The move “erodes the growth potential of the economy
further and so risks remain high,” Kondrat said.  Hungary’s Bank Association said it was “shocked” that the
government reneged on its pledge to halve the bank tax,
according to an e-mailed statement. The measures endanger banks’
lending capacity, the “predictable financing” of the economy,
and a recovery from recession, said the association, whose
members include OTP and the Hungarian units of  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   FHB Jelzalogbank Nyrt. (FHB) , a Hungarian mortgage lender, fell
0.8 percent to 476 forint.  “The new measures consist of tax hikes burdening primarily
banks and foreign retail and utility companies and exclude any
structural expenditure cuts,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based
economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in an e-mailed report.
“Banks will take the biggest hit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  