-- Louisiana Supreme Court to Get First Black Chief Justice
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-17T00:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/louisiana-supreme-court-to-get-first-black-chief-justice.html
Louisiana   Supreme Court  Justice
Bernette Johnson will become the state’s first black chief
justice after the court resolved a dispute over seniority.  The state’s  high court  today credited Johnson with service
from 1994, when she was appointed to the panel, to 2000, when
she won an elective seat. The decision gave her two months more
seniority than Justice Jeffrey Victory and put her in line to
succeed retiring Chief Justice Catherine Kimball in January.  “Seniority -- not election -- is the ultimate criterion
for succeeding to the position of chief justice,” the court
said in the unanimous 23-page ruling, citing the state’s
constitution.  Disputes over whether to credit Johnson’s initial time on
the court, when she was the eighth judge on what had been a
seven-member panel, in June prompted the court to invite
briefings on which justice was “oldest in point of service”
under the state’s constitution. Johnson in July asked to reopen
the 26-year-old federal court case that led to her appointment.  Victory, too, had claimed the right to succeed Kimball,
according to a ruling last month by U.S. District Judge Susie
Morgan in New Orleans. Morgan said Sept. 1 that state law
required that Johnson get credit for her six-year tenure as an
appointed justice.  Jindal Intervenes  Victory was elected to the high court in 1994 and sworn in
on Jan. 1, 1995. While he didn’t intervene in the federal case,
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal ’s administration did, arguing
that Morgan should defer to the state Supreme Court. On Sept. 7,
Jindal filed notice of his intent to appeal Morgan’s ruling.  “Both election and appointment are described by the
constitution as legitimate methods to commence service on this
court,” according to today’s Supreme Court decision. “The
Louisiana Constitution compels that Justice Johnson’s
chronologically longer service be given effect.”  Victory, Johnson and Justice Jeannette Knoll, who would
have been in line to succeed Victory had he been deemed to have
the most seniority, recused themselves from the Supreme Court
proceeding. Three intermediate-level appellate judges voted in
their stead.  The Supreme Court case is In re Office of the Chief
Justice, Louisiana Supreme Court, 2012-0-1342. The federal case
is Chisom v. Jindal, 86-cv-4075, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  