-- Pao de Acucar Gains After Saying Can’t Undo Via Varejo Deal
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-10-17T21:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/pao-de-acucar-gains-after-saying-it-can-t-undo-via-varejo-deal.html
Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar ,  Brazil ’s biggest retailer, rose the most in
a week after saying it can’t legally unwind the deal that
created its Via Varejo electronics subsidiary.  Shares gained 1.9 percent to 95.50 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, the steepest gain since Oct. 8. The
benchmark Bovespa index rose 0.6 percent.  Pao de Acucar said yesterday in a regulatory filing after
the market closed that backpedaling on the deal that created Via
Varejo is not possible because it’s “not retractable from the
legal standpoint.” The filing was a response to a letter from
the Klein family, which is Pao de Acucar’s partner on Via
Varejo. The Kleins are asking for a review of the terms of the
deal that created Via Varejo.  The Kleins controlled electronics retailer Casas Bahia,
which Pao de Acucar acquired in 2010. Via Varejo was created
from the merger of Casas Bahia with Pao de Acucar’s electronics
retailer Ponto Frio.  Pao de Acucar owns 53 percent of Via Varejo and the Kleins,
47 percent. No details on the Kleins’s demands were released.  “Via Varejo accounts for an important part of Pao de
Acucar’s revenue, so it’s positive that the company makes it
clear that there’s no risk of undoing the merger,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst at brokerage SLW Corretora, said by phone
from  Sao Paulo .  Via Varejo, together with Pao de Acucar’s e-commerce unit,
reported sales of 6.1 billion reais ($3 billion) in the second
quarter of 2012, while sales at other stores of Pao de Acucar
totaled 7.4 billion reais.  Pao de Acucar has gained 43 percent this year, and the
benchmark advanced 5.9 percent during that same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  