-- PepsiCo Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates Amid Price Increases
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-10-17T20:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/pepsico-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-amid-price-increases.html
  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest
snack-food maker, reported third-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as it boosted prices.  Net income fell 5 percent to $1.9 billion, or $1.21 a
share, from $2 billion, or $1.25, a year earlier, Purchase, New
York-based PepsiCo said today in a statement. Profit excluding
some items was $1.20 a share. That exceeded the $1.16 average of
14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  has increased marketing
spending in a bid to boost PepsiCo’s beverage sales in the
Americas and raise snack profits. Global drink sales volumes,
excluding the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign-
currency fluctuations, grew 1 percent as snack volume jumped 3
percent. Pricing jumped 4 percent, PepsiCo said.  PepsiCo “is a work in progress, and we think this shows
movement towards more stable results,” John Faucher, an analyst
with JPMorgan Chase & Co in  New York , said today in a note. He
rates the shares overweight, the equivalent of a buy.  PepsiCo, also the world’s second-largest soft-drink maker,
fell 0.3 percent to $70.10 at the close in New York. The  shares 
gained 5.7 percent this year.  Third-quarter  sales  fell 5.3 percent to $16.7 billion.
PepsiCo’s Americas beverages unit raised pricing 3 percent in
the quarter, helping offset a 3 percent decline in bottler case
volume. At convenience and gas stations, pricing and volume
sales also increased.  Annual Forecast  “I expect to see, with our balanced portfolio, continued
growth in our core beverage business,” Chief Financial Officer
Hugh Johnston said today in an interview on Bloomberg
television.  The company reiterated its forecast that earnings per
share, excluding certain costs and foreign-currency effects,
would decline 5 percent this year.  In the current quarter, the North American beverage unit is
“off to a good start and we expect the business to be
positive,” Nooyi said during a conference call today.  Yesterday,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink
maker, reported a 3.9 percent increase in third-quarter profit
as sales volumes in  Europe  improved.  Net income rose to $2.31 billion, or 50 cents a share, from
$2.22 billion, or about 48 cents, the Atlanta-based company
said. Revenue advanced less than 1 percent to $12.3 billion,
trailing the $12.4 billion average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola’s global volume sales rose 4 percent, helped by a
2 percent boost in  North America . Excluding some items, profit
was 51 cents a share, matching the average of 14 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  