-- Peru Pension Fund Limit Depends on Full Central Bank Board
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-10-17T20:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/peru-pension-fund-limit-pends-central-bank-board-correct-.html
Peru ’s central bank will need to
fill the vacant seats on its seven-man board before it can raise
the ceiling on how much private pension funds can invest abroad,
AFP Prima Chief Investment Officer Jose Antonio Roca said.  Pension funds, which manage a total 100 billion soles
($38.7 billion), are near the 30 percent portfolio limit for
investing outside Peru, Roca told reporters in Lima today.  “We need to diversify our portfolios,” said Roca, who
manages $10 billion at AFP Prima, Peru’s biggest pension fund.
“There aren’t enough local instruments such as infrastructure
investments.”  Pension funds have invested 11 percent of assets in
infrastructure projects, including 540 million soles this year
in Construtora OAS Ltda.’s Via Parque Rimac expressway in  Lima ,
according to the Pension Fund Association. Peru will let funds
invest more overseas to ease currency appreciation and help
avoid a local asset bubble, central bank President Julio Velarde
said Oct. 3.  Central bank spokesman Vidal Silva declined to comment by
phone today on whether that change will require all seven
directors at the bank. Congress is expected to name three new
directors this month, Velarde said Aug. 6.  The sol appreciated 0.2 percent to 2.5780 per  U.S. dollar 
at today’s close, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit,
prompting the central bank to buy $150 million on the  spot
market .  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.26 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Among this year’s investments, the pension funds have
bought bonds sold by Volcan Cia. Minera SAA,  Camposol Holding
Plc (CSOL)  and Maestro Peru SA, Roca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 