-- Petek Says Bankruptcies Belie Californians’ Willingness to Pay
-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 2012-10-17T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/petek-says-bankruptcies-belie-californians-willingness-to-pay.html
California and its local governments
have reduced payrolls by 8.1 percent since employment peaked in
June 2008, compared with the national  average  drop of 3.2
percent.  The decline indicates to Gabriel Petek, senior director at
 Standard & Poor’s  in  San Francisco , that Californians are
serious about meeting their obligations even with three
municipalities seeking  bankruptcy protection  since June.  Petek, 40, S&P’s primary analyst for the state, was
interviewed by e-mail for today’s Bloomberg Brief: Municipal
Market newsletter. He discussed the chances that Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed temporary tax increases will be approved;
cities’ ability to repay their debt; and whether individuals are
leaving for states where levies are lower.  Q: There have been three Chapter 9 bankruptcies in
California in 2012. How many more might we see for the remainder
of this year and in 2013?  A: We do not anticipate a widespread wave of additional
Chapter 9 petitions among California cities. That doesn’t mean
there will be zero, however. And keep in mind we rate 201 cities
out of 482 in the state. I cannot express an opinion about the
unrated cities. We think that the ones at greatest risk are
already among our lower-rated ones. One potential caveat relates
to disclosure. To the extent cities restate previously issued
financial audits revealing materially weaker fiscal positions,
as we have seen in a couple of cases, more significant rating
actions or other indicators of distress cannot be ruled out.  Q: Should investors be concerned about  California  cities’
willingness to repay their debt?  A: We think cities’ willingness remains strong. California
cities have less revenue raising flexibility. As a result, much
of their budget management, which preserves debt-paying
capacity, takes place on the spending side. Since peaking in
June 2008, California state and local governments have reduced
payrolls by 8.1 percent. Nationally, state and local governments
have reduced payrolls from their peak levels by 3.2 percent.
Since personnel costs frequently equal 70 percent or more of
government budgets, this tells me they are willing to take
difficult actions on behalf of their finances.  Q: What’s your best guess on whether California voters will
support the Brown tax increases?  A: We don’t have a position on whether voters will pass or
reject  Proposition 30 . The most recent public polling data shows
it running pretty close to the 50 percent margin necessary for
passage. The budget law that wound up being enacted assumes
passage of Prop. 30, which for several years would assist the
state’s fiscal position while helping it reverse some of its
payment deferrals. While the budget law also included offsetting
trigger cuts if the measure goes down, they don’t entirely
compensate for the missing revenue -- and are left with a $2.5
billion gap. Also, if other budget provisions fall short of
assumptions, the measure becomes a more important linchpin to
the state’s overall fiscal picture. Suffice to say, we are
watching it closely.  Q: Has there been an increase of taxpayers leaving the
state?  A: While California has a relatively higher marginal income
tax rate and high sales tax rate, the real level of taxation in
the state economy is more ambiguous. We examined this issue back
in June and found that for 2012, the three main state tax
revenues -- personal income, sales and use and corporate taxes -
- were on track to yield revenue equal to an estimated 4.84
percent of total personal income in the state. This is lower
than any other year since 1971. While there is an intuitive
appeal to the notion that higher tax rates could cause
outmigration, we haven’t seen enough academic research to
support that.  Q: Is there any indication that the intense distress cities
are facing from high salaries, benefits and pension costs is
more than a California-specific problem?  A: A more exaggerated boom-and-bust in the housing market
converged with limited revenue raising flexibility among
California cities to facilitate distress in some cases, but it
really comes back to management. Cities that negotiated away
varying amounts of discretion over key spending decisions set up
what amounts to almost passive fiscal structures. The
arrangement may have been affordable so long as revenues
continued to grow. But if revenues, which had grown at
extraordinary rates during the housing boom, stalled or
declined, and the city was contractually unable to make spending
cuts, it was fiscally handcuffed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Mysak  in  New York  at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  