-- Peugeot’s Finance Unit May Get French Government Lifeline
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-10-17T19:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/peugeot-says-examining-funding-options-for-banking-division-1-.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , whose shares
plummeted 60 percent in the last year as car sales plunged, may
get a funding lifeline from the French government for its
finance arm, a move that would amount to an indirect bailout of
the crisis-hit automaker.  “The state is examining the possibility of lending its
support, with conditions and amounts remaining to be
determined,” Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said today in
Paris. “I’ve already called the French major banks to meet on
this subject.” The shares advanced 4.1 percent on the news.  Peugeot is talking with the government about a loan for its
finance unit from a syndicate of banks that would be guaranteed
by the state, a person familiar with the matter said. They aim
to reach an agreement yet this month, said the person, who asked
not to be identified discussing private negotiations.  The carmaker is using up cash as the European auto market
heads for its biggest annual decline in 19 years. Peugeot, whose
nine-month sales in the region dropped 13 percent, is cutting
8,000 jobs and closing a factory near Paris. The French
automaker has also sold assets and raised 1 billion euros
through a share sale to bolster its finances.  “It shows two things; first, that the state is there to
keep them up and running,” said  Arndt Ellinghorst , head of the
automotive analysis team at Credit Suisse in  London . “The flip
side is, I’ve never seen a carmaker whose financial services is
getting to a stage where it really cannot refinance.”  Credit Lines  Banque PSA Finance, which Peugeot relies on to provide
loans to customers and dealers, has 5.76 billion euros ($7.56
billion) in credit lines from banks maturing in the next two
years, according to Peugeot’s first-half earnings report.  Peugeot is looking for ways to provide the unit “with a
level of financing sufficient to ensure the continued smooth
functioning” of operations, said Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a
Peugeot spokesman.  The continued review of Peugeot’s financing arm for a
possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service could lead the
bank to be rated junk. A non-investment grade rating for the
bank would increase borrowing costs and as a result worsen
financing conditions for customers and dealers. Peugeot’s goal
is a solution that allows it to continue providing competitive
 car loans  and keep its dealer network intact, Mounier said.  VW Edge  French buyers pay as little as 1.9 percent annual interest
on 10,000 euros in financing from  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the company
says. From Peugeot, the same loan would cost around 11.6 percent
annually, according to the automaker’s website.  Renault SA (RNO)  says
it charges 5.9 percent. VW and Renault declined today to comment
on the potential government assistance for Peugeot’s bank.  Because of Peugeot’s higher refinancing costs compared to
competitors, “it becomes more expensive to own a 208 than a BMW
3-Series in terms of cash payments for consumers,” Ellinghorst
said. “That’s just putting you in a competitive position that
is completely unsustainable.”  Peugeot  gained  24 cents to 6.03 euros today at the close of
trading in Paris, valuing the automaker at 2.14 billion euros.  Banque PSA Finance’s 4.25 percent bonds due in 2016 jumped
3 percent to a four-month high of 99.9 cents on the euro, one of
the biggest climbers in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates  index .  Liquidity  Credit-default swaps insuring Peugeot’s debt dropped 76
basis points to 695 at 4:42 p.m. in London, the lowest since
Sept. 19 and the largest daily drop since Feb. 28. A decline in
credit-default swaps indicates an improvement in  credit quality .  The banking unit has enough liquidity to operate for more
than six months, Mounier said, adding that no final solutions
have been agreed upon yet for Peugeot’s financing arm.  The European Commission may scrutinize the plan under
state aid rules if it gives the company an unfair financial
advantage over rivals.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it will also be
watching to see what sort of aid is offered by the French.  “We would expect that any support from governments to
carmakers does not distort the level-playing field in  Europe  and
free and fair competition in the  auto industry ,” Adrian Schmitz, a Ford spokesman, said in an emailed statement.  Credit Lines  Banque PSA credit lines maturing in 2013 and 2014 don’t
have financial covenants, according to Peugeot’s first-half
report, which gives the bank financial flexibility to incur more
debt and have higher interest costs even when cash flows are
falling.  The bank’s creditworthiness is “inherently linked” to
that of Peugeot’s “given the intricate strategic, commercial
and financial ties” between the two, Moody’s said July 27,
after cutting the banking unit to its lowest investment grade.
Moody’s cut Peugeot on Oct. 10 to Ba3, which is three levels
below investment grade. The service said last week that the
bank’s rating is under review.  “We’re keeping a close eye on any concrete element that
could impact the creditworthiness of BPF,” said Roland Auquier,
an associate analyst at Moody’s banking team. “There’s no
mechanical effect between a downgrade of the parent company and
that of BPF, although Moody’s typically would not rate a captive
institution more than two notches higher than its industrial
parent.”  Peugeot is determined to retain full control of Banque PSA
Finance, dismissing calls by bondholders to sell a stake. Chief
Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said earlier this
month the auto lender can boost funding through securitization
in the event of a downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  