-- Philippines Urges Xstrata to Await Law Before Starting Mines
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-10-17T17:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/philippines-asks-xstrata-miners-to-wait-for-new-resource-law.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and other mining
companies seeking to operate in the  Philippines  must wait for a
new law before developing projects, President Benigno Aquino
said as the government devises rules to take a bigger share of
the nation’s natural resources.  “I don’t have confidence that the existing laws do
adequately protect the environment or do adequately share the
resource that belongs to the people of this country,” Aquino
said today at a forum in Manila. “The safest position would be
to await these new amendments.”  The Philippines stopped issuing new mining permits in
January 2011. In July this year, Aquino extended the moratorium
until Congress passes a law that will give the government a
higher share of mining revenue. The Southeast Asian nation is
among resource-rich countries seeking to boost its share of
mineral wealth after attracting foreign investors including
 Australia ’s  OceanaGold Corp. (OGC)  and Switzerland’s Xstrata.  Xstrata and  Indophil Resources NL (IRN) ’s $5.9 billion copper-
gold project in South Cotabato province was denied environmental
clearance in January because of a ban on open-pit mining. The
mine is slated to produce an average 340,000 metric tons of
copper and 350,000 ounces of gold a year for two decades
starting in 2016. It will constitute the largest foreign direct
investment in the Philippines.  Sagittarius Project  Xstrata’s Sagittarius Mines unit, seeking to develop the
project, said today it’s seeking approval for an environmental
permit, which would allow it to seek further permits from the
local and national authorities.  “Any decision to construct the proposed mining operation
would depend on obtaining these required approvals as well as an
investment decision by shareholders,” Sagittarius said in a
statement. “If approved, the total tax and royalty revenues
provided by the mine over its 20-year life are estimated at
around $7.2 billion.”  The government plans to ask Congress to impose a royalty of
as much as 7 percent on all mining projects, in addition to the
2 percent excise tax levied on the 33 mines in operation,
Environment Secretary Ramon Paje said in July when Aquino signed
the mining order. Lawmakers are unlikely to pass the changes
into law this year, House Speaker Feliciano Belmonte said in
September.  Waiting “seems to be the more prudent way to look at it,”
Aquino said. “That’s the name of the game. Do I risk the
environment, the health of our people, the loss of our resources
for some temporary gain at this point in time?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  