-- Pinault’s Artemis in Trial on $4 Billion California Claim
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-17T23:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/pinault-s-artemis-back-on-trial-over-4-billion-california-claim.html
Francois Pinault’s Artemis SA
holding company, through which he controls  PPR (PP)  and its luxury
goods brands including Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent, went back
on trial in a $4 billion California junk-bond case.  Lawyers for the California insurance commissioner and
Artemis gave opening statements today in federal court in Los
Angeles. Arthur Shartsis, a lawyer for the insurance
commissioner, said Artemis was liable for $4.33 billion in
profits and interest from junk bonds that should have gone to
policy holders of a restructured life insurance company.  The case, which first went to trial in 2005, dates back to
the 1991 sale of failed Executive Life Insurance Co. and its
junk-bond portfolio to a unit of Credit Lyonnais SA and a group
of French and Swiss companies organized and secretly backed by
the French bank to avoid regulatory restrictions.  “This case is about a fraudulent conspiracy that started
in 1991,” Shartsis told the jurors. “If it hadn’t been for the
fraud, these profits would have gone to the policy holders.”  The  California  insurance commissioner claims that Artemis,
which acquired part of the junk-bond portfolio and a controlling
interest in the insurance company from Credit Lyonnais’s Altus
unit and the other conspirators, is liable because it joined the
conspiracy in 1992.  Conspiracy Damages  “The jury at the 2005 trial found that Artemis had agreed
to participate in the Altus/MAAF Group conspiracy,” the
commissioner’s lawyers said in a Sept. 10 court filing. “A
party that knowingly joins an ongoing conspiracy, as Artemis did
here, is liable for all damages caused by that conspiracy.”  The jury at the 2005 trial concluded Artemis had
participated in the fraud by Altus and the MAAF Assurances SA
group against California insurance regulators. The jury didn’t
award any compensatory damages to the California insurance
commissioner. A federal appeals court sent the case back for a
retrial on only one damages theory that hadn’t gone to the jury.  Pinault, 76, and his family are ranked 76th on Bloomberg’s
billionaires index with a net worth of $11.8 billion. He also
owns auction house Christie’s International Plc and Chateau
Latour, one of the four original Bordeaux “first growth” wine
estates. His son, Francois-Henri Pinault, who is married to
actress Salma Hayek, runs Paris-based PPR.  The jury in 2005 found Pinault wasn’t liable for the
California insurance commissioner’s alleged losses.  No Fraud  “Artemis itself did not commit fraud,” Robert Weigel, a
lawyer for the French company, said today in his opening
statement. “Mr. Pinault did not commit fraud.”  Weigel told the jurors that Pinault didn’t know about the
so-called portage agreements between Altus and the MAAF Group,
which aren’t illegal in  France  and which provided the group that
bought Executive Life’s insurance business guarantees that Altus
would take over their investment if the company fared poorly.  Executive Life, at one point the largest life insurer in
California, was taken over by then-Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi after the value of its junk-bond portfolio imploded
and the insurer became insolvent.  Garamendi sold the junk-bond portfolio to the Altus unit
for $3.25 billion and the insurance company to the MAAF
Assurances SA group, not knowing until 1999 that Credit Lyonnais
had secretly organized that group to avoid California
restrictions on a foreign government-controlled entity, as
Credit Lyonnais was at the time, owning an insurance company.  2005 Trial  Garamendi claimed at the 2005 trial that, had he known
about the conspiracy, he would have picked a competing bid by
the  National Organization of Life and Health Insurance Guaranty
Associations , or NOLHGA, that would have kept the junk-bond
portfolio with the rehabilitated insurance company as well as
the profits from the bonds that Altus and Artemis ended up
making.  The 2005 jury was “hopelessly deadlocked” during the
trial’s liability phase on the commissioner’s claim, according
to the U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco. The appeals court
ruled in 2008 that the trial judge had been wrong to preclude
the commissioner from offering that theory during the subsequent
damages phase.  U.S. District Judge Howard Matz had said that Garamendi’s
trial testimony about why he would have picked the NOLHGA bid
was “devoid of credibility” and that “no fair-minded jury
would ever unanimously adopt the commissioner’s 2005 version of
history.”  Executive Life  Weigel told the jury today that Artemis would provide
evidence that NOLHGA, a not-for-profit organization of insurance
guarantors that would have made up the difference between what
Executive Life policy holders were owed and what the
restructured insurance had available to pay them, only made its
“bonds-in” bid to pressure Altus into increasing its bid.  “NOLHGA didn’t want the risk of the junk bonds,” Weigel
said.  Commissioner Garamendi didn’t want to “double down” and
keep the junk bonds, which were in free-fall at the time, with
the restructured insurance company and expose the policy holders
to the risk of the junk-bond market, Weigel told the jurors.  Garamendi had initially described the Executive Life
rehabilitation as a “homerun for policyholders,” lawyers for
Artemis said in a Sept. 10 filing. The commissioner came under
pressure when the junk bonds, which he had first described as
“toxic waste” and “really rotten junk,” increased in value,
they said.  ‘Superficial Complexity’  “Stripped of its superficial complexity, this case can be
reduced to a high-profile case of ‘seller’s remorse,’”
Artemis’s lawyers said.  Artemis, created in 1992, didn’t exist when Garamendi chose
the Altus/MAAF bid over NOLHGA’s, the lawyers said.  Credit Lyonnais in 2004 pleaded guilty to criminal charges
of making false statements to federal banking regulators as part
of a settlement. The French government on behalf of Credit
Lyonnais also settled for $600 million with California insurance
regulators before the trial, leaving Artemis the only defendant
in the civil case.  Artemis agreed to pay $185 million as part of the $770
million settlement with France and Credit Lyonnais to resolve
the federal investigation into the Executive Life purchase.
Artemis and its officers, who cooperated with the investigation,
didn’t face criminal charges.  AIG’s Claims  Artemis, Credit Lyonnais and MAAF last year separately
settled claims by  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s SunAmerica
for a combined $236.5 million to resolve claims by the AIG unit
that it was defrauded when it bought a 33 percent stake in New
California Holdings Inc., the new holding company for the
restructured Executive Life, not knowing that the French owners
were a front for Credit Lyonnais.  The French state had to bail out Credit Lyonnais in 1995
and transferred the unprofitable assets, including those related
to Executive Life, to state-owned Consortium de Realisation. The
bank was set up in 1863 to fund businesses in the French town of
Lyon.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  bought Credit Lyonnais in 2003.  The case is Garamendi v. Altus Finance SA, 99-02829, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 