-- Poland Ties England 1-1 in Rescheduled World Cup Qualifying Game
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-17T17:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/poland-ties-england-1-1-in-rescheduled-world-cup-qualifying-game.html
Poland came back to tie England 1-1
in their 2014  World Cup  qualifying Group H match that was
postponed yesterday because of heavy rain in Warsaw.  Wayne Rooney  scored off his shoulder in the 31st minute,
and the hosts leveled when Kamil Glik headed in from a corner in
the 70th minute.  The match was postponed last night because the pitch was
waterlogged. The stadium roof, left open during the rain, was
closed during today’s match. England retains the lead in the
group, with 8 points after four games. Montenegro has 7 points
from 3 games, and Poland is third with 5 points from 3 games.  “It’s a decent point but the lads are disappointed,”
England captain  Steven Gerrard  said. “We can play better than
that and we should have been able to see the game out.”  Poland controlled the game for much of the second half.
Even so, Rooney had a chance to put England 2-0 up, but skied
his left-foot shot over the bar in the 69th minute. The tying
goal came a minute later when England goalkeeper  Joe Hart  came
out for a corner but failed to get to the ball, allowing Glik to
head into the net.  “It’s not one of our better performances,” England coach
 Roy Hodgson  said in a televised interview. “I know the players
are disappointed. I’m pleased with the point, because I think we
didn’t play well enough to get all three points.”  Elsewhere in European qualifying,  Germany  lost a four-goal
lead for the first time to tie 4-4 with Sweden yesterday, while
 Spain  drew 1-1 with France after surrendering a stoppage-time
goal.  Swedish Comeback  Rasmus Elm’s goal capped a Swedish comeback last night in
Berlin. It was the only time in its 868 international matches
that three-time world champion Germany blew a four-goal
advantage, according to the German soccer federation.  Olivier Giroud’s goal gave France a 1-1 draw with world
champion Spain. The Netherlands won 4-1 in Romania and Russia
beat Azerbaijan 1-0 to remain as the only two European teams
with perfect qualifying records.  The winners of each of the nine European groups qualify for
the World Cup in Brazil, with the best eight runners-up playing
off for the remaining four slots.  Spain looked ready to make it three straight wins after
 Sergio Ramos ’s 25th-minute goal in  Madrid . Cesc Fabregas had a
penalty kick stopped by Hugo Lloris later in the first half.  Giroud then struck in the fourth added minute to leave the
teams even at the top of Group I with seven points. Belarus beat
Georgia 2-0 in the other group match.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  