-- Polish August Industrial Output Slows More Than Forecast
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-10-17T12:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/polish-august-industrial-output-slows-more-than-forecast.html
Polish industrial output shrank more
than economists estimated last month, raising expectations the
central bank will cut interest rates as early November to help
avert a recession.  Production fell 5.2 percent from a year earlier, the first
decline since 2009, after a 0.5 percent increase in August, the
Central Statistics Office in Warsaw said today. That was more
than the median estimate for a 3.9 percent contraction in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Output rose 6.1 percent from
the previous month.  The central bank, the only one in the European Union to
raise borrowing costs this year, has kept its  main rate  at the
highest since 2009 even as policy makers around the world ease
conditions to avert a global slump. The Monetary Policy Council
said after the Oct. 3 meeting that it may cut interest rates in
November should new data confirm a “protracted” economic
slowdown and “limited” risk of price pressure.  “The numbers this week will confirm they should cut in
November,” Lars Christensen, chief  emerging markets  analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen, said by phone yesterday. “We
don’t have any growth.”  Poland’s economy expanded 2.4 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost three years. On
Oct. 12, Prime Minister Donald Tusk, facing down a surging
political opposition, won a parliamentary confidence vote after
pledging to pave the way for 300 billion zloty ($96 billion) in
investments to spur growth in the EU’s biggest eastern economy.  Producer prices , an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 1.8 percent in September from a year earlier, more than the
1.7 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 23
economists, the statistics office reported in a separate
statement. Producer prices increased 0.5 percent on the month.  -- Editors: Jeffrey Donovan, Andrew Langley, David McQuaid  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  