-- Potash Corp. Forecasts 2012 Earnings That Trail Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-17T20:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/potash-corp-cuts-full-year-earnings-forecast-on-contract-delays.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, forecast full-year
profit below analysts’ estimates after delays in supply
contracts in  China  and  India  reduced sales.  “Earnings guidance for full-year 2012 will fall below the
low end of the previous range of $2.80 to $3.20 per share,” the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts had projected profit excluding one-time items of $3.25
a share, the average of 26  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Plentiful stockpiles of potash, a form of potassium used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought, are
undermining efforts by Potash Corp. and other producers of the
crop nutrient to renew contracts with buyers in China and India,
said Jason Miner, a Princeton, New Jersey-based chemicals
analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  “The forecast cut confirms lackluster global potash demand
in the second half of this year,” Miner said today in a phone
interview. “It fits with soft prices worldwide and signs of
inventory buildups.”  Third-quarter profit is expected to be at the low end of
the 70 to 90-cent range previously given,  Potash Corp. (POT)  said. The
company will halt production at two of its potash mines in
Saskatchewan for about eight weeks each, according to a
 statement  today its website. The Rocanville mine will be idle
from Dec. 2 to Jan. 26 while Lanigan will shut Nov. 18 to Jan.
12, the company said.  Holding Out  Potash Corp. competitor  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  said earlier this month
that China may not sign a supply agreement with  North America ’s
largest producers until next year as it holds out for a lower
price than the one agreed to in the first half.  Mosaic, Potash Corp. and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , North America’s
largest fertilizer producers, negotiate offshore potash exports
through Canpotex Ltd., their jointly owned international trading
arm.  In recent years, Canpotex has offered China and India
discounts because the large volumes they purchase spawn
operational and planning efficiencies for the  marketing company ,
 Mark Connelly , a New York-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA Inc., said today in a note to clients.  “We think Canpotex should cancel the current round of
negotiations, and move to an undiscounted, spot-basis of
negotiation,” he said. “Shareowners are not well-served by
giving discounts to customers whose purchasing patterns create
inefficiency.”  Belarus Imports  Potash Corp. rose a penny to C$41.12 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have declined 2.4 percent this year.  China is “very determined” to pay less than the $470 a
metric ton it negotiated for the first six months of 2012,
Mosaic Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said in an Oct. 2
telephone interview. The country is being helped in the standoff
by an increase in imports by rail from Belarus, he said.  “With no stabilizer in sight, and as the threat of a
potash ‘holiday’ in China and India has become the most likely
scenario given current market conditions, we expect lower potash
prices in 2013 when contracts are eventually settled,” Jacob Bout, a Toronto-based analyst at  CIBC World Markets , said in an
Oct. 15 note to clients.  Potash Corp. said it will discuss full-year  guidance  in its
third-quarter earnings statement and conference call on Oct. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  