-- Gilts Fall as Investors Pare Bets on BOE Stimulus; Pound Rises
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-17T16:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/pound-falls-second-day-versus-euro-before-central-bank-minutes.html
U.K. government bonds fell for a
third day as investors pared bets that the Bank of England will
increase its asset-buying target next month, damping demand for
the securities.  Ten-year  yields  climbed to the highest level in four weeks
after minutes of the central bank’s October meeting showed
policy makers were split on the need for more stimulus once
their current program of so-called quantitative easing ends next
month. The pound strengthened to a one-week high against the
dollar after U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly fell in September
and a measure of unemployment dropped to the lowest in a year.  “There are some significant differences about the best
path to follow with regard to more stimulus,” said  John Wraith ,
a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. “There had been some expectations of them doing more
and those have to be tempered,” and that is pushing down gilts,
he said.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 1.92 percent at the 5 p.m. close in London,
the highest since Sept. 18. The 1.75 percent bond due September
2022 fell 0.85, or 8.50 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,618) face
amount, to 98.515. The yield rose above the 200-day  moving
average  at 1.878 percent for the first time since Sept. 18.  ‘Considerable Scope’  “Some members felt that there was considerable scope for
asset purchases to provide further stimulus,” according to the
minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee’s Oct. 3-4 meeting
published today in  London .  Policy makers voted 9-0 to keep the bond-purchase  target  at
375 billion pounds, according to the minutes. They were also
unanimous in holding the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low
of 0.5 percent.  “The November decision is almost too tight to call,” said
Robert Wood, chief U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank in London
and a former Bank of England official. “The labor market
release and the minutes lead us to think no change is slightly
more likely than a vote for more QE in November.”  The pound appreciated 0.3 percent to $1.6166 after climbing
to $1.6178, the strongest since Oct. 5. Sterling fell 0.3
percent to 81.23 pence per euro.  Jobless-benefit  claims  fell 4,000 from August to 1.57
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London. The
 jobless total  measured by International Labor Organization
methods declined to 7.9 percent in the quarter through August.  Pound Gains  The pound has strengthened 0.7 percent in the past six
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes,
which track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro weakened
0.9 percent and the dollar dropped 1 percent.  Demand for safer assets and bond-buying by the Bank of
England are keeping gilt yields low, Merrill Lynch’s Wraith
said. Ten-year yields are more than 150 basis points below their
 five-year average  of 3.42 percent.  U.K. pension managers want to raise the rate they use to
calculate the value of their funds to offset the effects of the
 Bank of England ’s bond-buying program, the National Association
of Pension Funds said.  Funds that base their so-called discount rate on
“artificially depressed gilt yields” resulting from the
central bank’s stimulus face bigger pension deficits, the
industry body, which represents 1,300 pension programs, said in
a statement.  “Underlying demand from the pension fund industry is so
fundamental and I don’t think that is going to change
significantly,” Robert Stheeman, chief executive officer of the
U.K.’s Debt Management Office, said in an interview in London.
“There’s a lot of de-risking that the pension fund industry
still needs to complete and that should support the market,
particularly at the long end.”  Gilts returned 2.4 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
2.8 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  