-- Putnam Charged by Massachusetts Over Magnetar-Linked CDOs
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-10-17T19:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/putnam-charged-by-massachusetts-over-magnetar-linked-cdos.html
Putnam Advisory Co., a unit of the
Boston-based money manager, was charged by Massachusetts
regulators with deceiving investors in the creation and
marketing of mortgage-related products in 2006 and 2007.  William Galvin, the state’s top securities regulator, said
the firm allowed Magnetar Capital LLC to recommend collateral
for products known as collateralized debt obligations, without
telling investors the hedge fund was betting against those
securities, according to a statement today from the
Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. The suit seeks the
disgorgement of all fees gained from the deals in question and
unspecified fines.  “This action stems from my office’s continuing
investigations into how banks misled the purchasers of these
securitized debt instruments backed by subprime mortgages,”
Galvin said in the statement.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay the Securities and
Exchange Commission $153.6 million in June 2011 to settle a
claim involving collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, that
Magnetar allegedly helped to construct. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
paid $550 million to the SEC in July 2010 to settle a similar
claim involving Paulson & Co., John Paulson’s hedge fund.  “The Putnam Advisory Co. vehemently denies the allegations
and will fight them vigorously,” Jon Goldstein, a spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  Intesa Lawsuit  “Magnetar is not a party to the Massachusetts Securities
Division’s complaint against Putnam,” Melinda McMullen, a
spokeswoman for Evanston, Illinois-based Magnetar, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Magnetar had no responsibility for either
the marketing of the relevant CDOs or the disclosures at issue
in this case.”  Putnam was sued in April by Milan-based bank Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, which invested in the CDO, called Pyxis ABS CDO
2006-1. Intesa also sued  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s third-
biggest bank, and Magnetar.  The suit claims that Credit Agricole induced Intesa to
invest in the CDO and told investors the product was based on
residential mortgage-backed securities that had been chosen by
Putnam when the underlying securities were really selected by
Magnetar.  Magnetar told investors in an April 2010 letter it didn’t
help banks create CDOs that were “built to fail” on a bet that
homeowners with bad credit would default on their loans. The
firm offered limited input on the creation of CDOs, and made
bets that would pay off if they soured as part of a “market
neutral” portfolio designed to profit no matter what happened,
Magnetar said in the letter.  Putnam Investments, owned by Montreal-based Power Corp.,
had $127 billion assets under management as of last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  