-- RBS Chairman Signals Government May Sell Stake Before Election
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-17T17:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/rbs-to-exit-u-k-asset-protection-scheme-after-4-billion-fees.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
Chairman  Philip Hampton  signaled the Treasury may try to reduce
its stake in the lender by 2015 as it left a government
insurance program that covered its most toxic assets.  Hampton told a conference in  London  today it would be a
“reasonable aspiration” for the government to start selling
part of its 81 percent stake in the lender before the next U.K.
general election. The bank earlier today agreed to exit the
U.K.’s Asset Protection Scheme after paying 2.5 billion pounds
($4 billion) to the government to insure its most risky assets.  Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned bank was in 2009 the only
lender to join the program, which covered potential losses on
282 billion pounds of loans and derivatives.  RBS (RBS)  never had to
draw on the policy, for which it paid the government a fee, and
has reduced the amount of loans protected to 105 billion pounds,
the Edinburgh-based bank said in a statement today.  Leaving the APS removes an obstacle to the lender’s return
to private ownership. Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has
cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds, eliminated about
36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s securities and Irish units
since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  when the bank was rescued
in 2008.  The program “played an important role in stabilizing
market perceptions of RBS after the impact of the financial
crisis became clearer and the bank’s share price fell to a low
of 10 pence in February 2009,” RBS said today in the statement.
“This gave time for the bank’s new board and management to put
its recovery plan into effect.”  The bank has approval from the Financial Services Authority
for its exit, it said.  Shares Rise  RBS  rose  2.2 percent, to 286.1 pence in London, valuing the
bank at about 32 billion pounds. The U.K. rescued RBS in 2008 at
the height of the financial crisis, injecting 45.5 billion
pounds into the lender, making it the costliest bailout of any
financial institution. The stock trades a level equivalent to
just over half the price at which the taxpayer bought its stake.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the
decision to leave the APS is a step in the right direction
toward getting the bank back into private ownership.  “During this Parliament the support provided by the
taxpayer to the banking sector in the form of guarantees has
fallen by over 450 billion pounds, a drop of almost 95
percent,” Osborne said in a statement released by the Treasury
in London today. “The government’s strategy remains to return
RBS to the private sector when it is value for the taxpayer to
do so. Today is a step in that direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  