-- Treasuries Fall for Third Day as Housing Starts Surge
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-17T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/treasuries-fall-after-moody-s-affirms-spain-rating.html
Treasuries fell for a third day, the
longest losing streak in almost six weeks, as a surge in new-
home construction to the highest level in four years reduced
demand for the safety of U.S. government debt.  Benchmark  10-year yields  climbed to the highest in almost a
month after Spain kept its investment-grade debt rating from
Moody’s Investors Service. Yields on 10- and 30-year debt rose
above their 200-day moving averages before European leaders
gather tomorrow in Brussels. U.S. government debt has handed
investors a 0.4 percent loss this month, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “Housing is one of the bright spots in the economy and
Spain’s ratings were not cut to junk, so that was positive,”
said Dan Mulholland, head of U.S. Treasury trading in the
capital-markets unit of BNY Mellon Corp. in New York. “We
tested the 200-day moving average -- the long end has tended to
lead the market both up and down.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  climbed 10 basis points, or
0.10 percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield, which
surpassed the 200-day moving average of 1.808 percent, is the
highest since Sept. 19 and the gain is the most since Sept. 14.
The 1.625 percent note due in August 2022 dropped 7/8, or $8.75
per $1,000 face amount, to 98 1/4.  The yield on the 30-year bond rose as high as 3 percent,
the highest level since Sept. 19. It traded above its 2.93
percent 200-day moving average.  U.S. stocks rose 0.4 percent after the biggest gain in a
month for the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  yesterday.  Term Premium  Yields on the 10-year security are 25 basis points higher
than the average for comparable debt of nations from Germany to
 Australia , above the  average  of 16 basis points in the past
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Treasuries are the least expensive in almost two months.
The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at the
Fed that includes expectations for interest rates, growth and
inflation, was negative 0.77 percent today, the least costly
level since Aug. 21. A negative reading indicates investors are
willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The
average for the past 10 years is 0.44 percent. The all-time low
was negative 1.02 percent on July 24.  Housing starts jumped 15 percent to an 872,000 annual rate
last month, the most since July 2008 and exceeding all forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median estimate of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 770,000. An increase in
building permits may mean the gains will be sustained.  ‘Cheapening Up’  “If housing is recovering, it’s obviously positive for
risk in general, and you see the Treasury market cheapening
up,” said Scott Sherman, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Federal Reserve.  Treasuries headed for their longest  losing streak  since
Sept. 6 after Moody’s kept Spain’s rating at investment grade,
citing a reduction in the risk of the country losing market
access because of the European Central Bank’s willingness to buy
its debt. Moody’s assigned a negative outlook on Spain’s Baa3
sovereign debt, one step above junk, the New York-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  Spanish government bonds rose, pushing 10-year  borrowing
costs  down to 5.47 percent, the lowest since April 4, before
European leaders gather for a two-day summit in the Belgian
capital starting tomorrow.  ‘More Optimism’  “There’s a little bit more optimism as it relates to
 Europe ,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors. “There’s a
settling of risk in Europe at this point -- not that it’s behind
us, but it’s weighing on Treasuries. The meetings in Europe will
dominate our trading outlook.”  A measure of stress in U.S. credit markets, which falls
when investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and rises
when they seek the perceived safety of government securities,
reached a record low level on an intraday basis.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, the difference
between the two-year swap rate and the comparable-maturity
Treasury yield, narrowed to as low as 8 basis points in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The figure is the
least on an intra-day basis since Bloomberg started keeping data
in November 1988. It is down from a high this year of 49.25
basis points on Jan. 3.  Germany, Spain  Treasuries dropped yesterday after  Germany  signaled it may
be open to a bailout for Spain as Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
sought ways to pay the nation’s debt and cut the budget deficit.  U.S. government securities also fell this week as reports
showed gains in retail sales and industrial production. Consumer
prices climbed 2 percent in September from a year earlier, the
most in five months, the Labor Department said yesterday.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened three basis points to 2.49 percentage points. It touched
2.73 on Sept. 17, the highest since 2006. The average over the
past decade is 2.17 percentage points.  The U.S. will sell $7 billion in 30-year TIPS tomorrow. At
the previous auction of the debt on June 21, the U.S. sold an
equal amount of the securities at a record low yield of 0.520
percent.  The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
for longer maturities to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs, part of its efforts to support the economy.  The central bank sold $7.366 billion of Treasuries due from
March 2015 to May 2015 today as part of the plan, according to
the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  