-- Redwood Sells $297 Million of Mortgage Bonds as Deals Accelerate
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-10-17T22:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/redwood-sells-297-million-of-mortgage-bonds-as-deals-accelerate.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  sold $297 million
of bonds tied to new U.S. home loans without government backing
as issuance accelerates after a slump that began in 2007.  The offering completed today by Redwood, a specialist in
so-called jumbo mortgages, was its fifth this year and eighth
since the market restarted in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Credit Suisse Group AG created two deals in 2012.  Issuance of so-called non-agency  home-loan bonds  peaked at
$1.2 trillion in both 2005 and 2006 before collapsing as their
prices tumbled amid soaring foreclosures and plunging home
values. Total sales since the market revived still have packaged
only $3.7 billion of loans. Other Wall Street banks have shown
an increasing interest in recent months in buying jumbo loans,
according to Rob Hirt, chief executive officer of RPM Mortgage,
a Walnut Creek, California-based lender.  “It’s really thawing at a decent rate,” Hirt said
yesterday in an interview in New York.  The top-ranked bonds sold today by Redwood fetched 102.3
cents on the dollar to yield 1.96 percent at forecasted
prepayment speeds, or 1.1 percentage points more than benchmark
swap rates, according to a person familiar with the transaction,
who asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc managed the offering, which
packaged $320 million of loans, Bloomberg data show.  Revival Limited  The non-agency market’s revival is being limited by
taxpayer-supported mortgage programs that account for about 90
percent of lending and by demand from banks to hold loans that
haven’t been packaged into securities.  RPM Mortgage will probably sell more than $500 million of
loans to Wall Street dealers this year, compared with about $150
million last year, Hirt said. While the firms sometimes resell
those loans to regional banks, increasing securitization looks
likely, he said.  Jumbo home loans are those larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in some areas. For  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20
percent down payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Also this week, Lew Ranieri’s Shellpoint Partners LLC filed
documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that
allow the firm to issue home-loan securities in the future. The
company said it targets good-credit borrowers with conforming
loan balances that fall outside of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
guidelines.  Springleaf Finance Corp., the subprime lender that’s been
raising cash to repay maturing debt by packaging older mortgages
into bonds, may sell $787 million of home-loan securities this
week, according to a person familiar with the transaction.  A $538.4 million top-rated slice may yield about 1.4
percentage point more than benchmark rates, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Deals backed by older or delinquent mortgages have been
more common since the market froze. A total of $8.3 billion of
nonperforming home loans have been packaged into bonds since
2010, according to a report today by Deutsche Bank AG analysts
Ying Shen and Jason Wu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  