-- Reinhart & Rogoff Reply to Team Romney
-- B y   M a x   B e r l e y
-- 2012-10-17T15:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/reinhart-rogoff-reply-to-team-romney.html
Just in case you were left wanting by last night's presidential debate,
here's a quick double-shot of heavy-duty substance to tide you over. Yesterday, Bloomberg View published an  op-ed  by the Harvard economists Carmen
M. Reinhart and Kenneth S. Rogoff. They take issue with the characterizations of
their work on financial crises by economists who are either official advisers to
the Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , or who publicly support the candidate. In particular, they dispute separate assertions in op-eds by  Glenn Hubbard
and Kevin Hassett ,  John Taylor  and  Michael Bordo  that historically the U.S. has
been "'different' in that its recoveries from recessions associated with
financial crises have been rapid and strong." In their 2009 book, “This Time Is
Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly,” Reinhart and Rogoff compiled
data from 224 historical banking crises and concluded that -- even for the U.S.
-- it takes far longer to come back from a systemic financial crisis than it
does to recover from less severe episodes known as "borderline" crises. To them, there is no question that the most recent U.S. crisis was of the
systemic kind, in fact, the first of such severity since the Great Depression.
Given that, they say, the "recent recovery looks positively brisk" in historic
terms. Reinhart and Rogoff are very careful to insist that they have not "publicly
supported or privately advised either campaign" in this election year. Yet their
data and conclusions  undermine the  repeated claims  by Romney and his economists
that the slow growth and high unemployment of recent years are due in no small
measure to President  Barack Obama  and his policies. As befitting a dispute between academics, much of the argument involves
questions about research methods and scholarship. Taylor, a Stanford University
professor and a Romney adviser, responded to Reinhart and Rogoff with a  blog
post  in which he defended his claim that data going back more than a century
show that growth has been strong after several U.S. financial crises, the exact
opposite of the Reinhart-Rogoff findings. The trouble is that Taylor claims to have found eight previous recessions
with crises: 1882, 1893, 1907, 1913, 1929, 1973, 1981 and 1990. In a  short
follow-up  to their op-ed, "Apples and Oranges," they say that only three of the
episodes listed by Taylor  should be considered  legitimate U.S. financial crises 
-- 1893, 1907 and 1929. All this is really wonky, but it matters -- a lot. How Americans understand
their recent history could well be a central determinant of their choice at the
ballot box. Some will decide Obama did the best he could with the terrible hand
he was dealt and needs more time. Others will judge that he made matters worse
through faulty analysis and bad policies. The facts are available. (Max Berley is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  E-mail  him and
follow him on  Twitter .) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
the  Ticker . Subscribe to receive a  daily e-mail highlighting new View
editorials, columns and op-ed articles.