-- Rolls-Royce Says Derivatives Rules Could Crimp Future Investment
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-17T12:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/rolls-royce-says-derivatives-rules-could-crimp-future-investment.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  Finance
Director Mark Morris said today that financial services
regulators risk harming industrial companies and growth
prospects with new rules on derivatives trading.  Restrictions being considered could hurt the ability of
companies such as Rolls-Royce, Europe’s largest aircraft engine
maker, to manage exchange-rate and other financial risks, Morris
said at a British Bankers’ Association meeting in London.  The prospect of new regulations comes as industrial
companies deal with the results of banks cutting lending to
maintain higher capital reserves. Since 2008, aerospace
companies’ customers and suppliers have had more difficulty in
obtaining loans.  “There is a real danger of gold-plating regulation,”
Morris said. Regulators have so far failed to work with
companies to assess the effects of new financial rules, he said.  Regulations that require businesses to put up more money
for derivatives transactions means investment spending could
suffer because of the effect on companies’ capital, Morris said.
Although many regulators have recognized the potential effect on
growth and provided exemptions for companies such as Rolls-
Royce, Morris said those terms could be reversed through the so-
called Basel 3 framework and other proposals.  Regulators in  Europe  should work with those in the U.S. and
other regions to harmonize regulations, Morris said. Such
standardizing is particular important for companies such as
Rolls-Royce, which operates in many markets, with facilities in
countries including the U.K., Germany, the U.S. and  Singapore .  Lending Costs  Large companies such as Rolls-Royce have seen lending costs
come down to near pre-crisis levels, Morris said. Suppliers,
though, “can’t get access to financing,” he said.  That is a problem for Rolls-Royce, which is boosting output
to keep up with strong demand from aircraft makers such as
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS. Rolls-Royce has started providing
supplier financing out of necessity, Morris said. Airbus-parent
 European Aerospace, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  has also stepped in to
work with struggling suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  