-- Tropical Storm Paul Expected to Begin Breaking Up Today
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-10-17T12:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/tropical-storm-paul-expected-to-begin-breaking-up-today.html
Tropical Storm Paul continued to
weaken as at it moved northward along the west coast of  Mexico ’s
Baja California peninsula and may begin to break up later today.  Paul’s top winds dropped to 40 miles (64 kilometers) per
hour as it churned about 105 miles southeast of Punta Eugenia,
Mexico, according to a U.S . National Hurricane Center  advisory
issued at 5 a.m. Pacific time. A system ceases to be a tropical
storm when its winds fall below 39 mph.  “Weakening is forecast during the next 48 hours,” the
Miami-based center said in the advisory. “Paul is expected to
become a remnant low-pressure system by tonight and dissipate on
Thursday.”  Paul may bring 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain as it
tracks northward up the peninsula. The rains may cause flash
floods and life-threatening mudslides, and the  storm surge  may
inundate the coastline near Sinaloa for the next two days.  Tropical-storm warnings are in place from  Santa Fe  to El
Pocito and San Evaristo to Bahia San Juan Bautista, all in
Mexico. A storm watch is in effect from north of El Pocito to
Punta Eugenia. Tropical-storm force winds extend 140 miles from
Paul’s center.  In the Atlantic, Hurricane Rafael swept past  Bermuda 
yesterday and is now moving into the open ocean. It is about 310
miles northeast of Bermuda, moving north-northeast at 33 mph,
the hurricane center said in an advisory at 5 a.m.  New York 
time.  Rafael was at Category 1 strength, the lowest level on the
five-step Saffir-Simpson scale and is forecast to weaken as it
turns northeast into the Atlantic.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  