-- Rubber Climbs for Second Day on U.S. Production Increase, Spain
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-10-17T07:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/rubber-climbs-for-second-day-on-spain-optimism-u-s-output-gain.html
Rubber advanced for a second day
after data showed industrial production expanded more than
forecast in the U.S., spurring optimism demand will improve.  Rubber for March delivery climbed as much as 1.1 percent to
262.8 yen a kilogram ($3,335 a metric ton) before settling at
260.7 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. The most-active
contract has rallied from a two-week low of 256 yen on Oct. 15.  Output from U.S. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.4
percent in September, twice as much as the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, data from the  Federal
Reserve  in Washington showed yesterday. Rubber also advanced on
speculation Spain will move toward seeking financial aid, said
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  “Optimism about the Spanish bailout and the  U.S. economy 
improved market sentiment,” Saito said today by phone.  Germany’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said Germans should
restrain criticism of Greece, and two senior coalition lawmakers
said the country is open to credit aid for Spain, signaling a
softening of public rhetoric before European Union leaders
convene for a summit tomorrow. Spain retained its investment-
grade credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
a reduction in the risk of losing  market access .  Rubber demand will gradually increase next year as the U.S.
auto industry shows signs of improvement, Yium Tavarolit, chief
secretary of the International Rubber Consortium Ltd., said
today in Medan, Indonesia.  Rubber for delivery in January gained 0.3 percent to close
at 25,300  yuan  ($4,046) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
Thai rubber free-on-board dropped to 97.80 baht ($3.20) a
kilogram today from 98.30 baht yesterday, according to the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  