-- Ruble Set to Strengthen on Free Float, Fiscal Cliff, BofA Says
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-17T13:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/ruble-set-to-strengthen-on-free-float-fiscal-cliff-bofa-says.html
The ruble will climb 1.5 percent
against the central bank’s target euro-dollar basket by the end
of next year as global growth concerns recede and Bank Rossii 
stops buying and selling currency to manage the  exchange rate , 
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The ruble is “very attractive in terms of fundamentals,”
 David Hauner , head of fixed-income strategy for emerging Europe,
the  Middle East  and Africa, said in an interview in London
yesterday.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, will expand
3.5 percent this year, according to the  Economy Ministry . The
nation’s debt is set to reach 11 percent of gross domestic
product this year, compared with 64 percent for Brazil,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . The ruble will be
“one of the top beneficiaries” of improving risk appetite if
the so-called fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax
increases in the U.S. is averted at year-end, Hauner said.  Bank Rossii is no longer targeting the ruble’s exchange
rate, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  reiterated at a
conference in Moscow on Oct. 2.  “Russia will allow more appreciation than other central
banks,” Hauner said. “They need to show that they are
serious” about the free float, he said.  Euroclear Boost  The ruble strengthened 0.7 percent to 30.7050 per dollar by
4:59 p.m. in Moscow, the second day of gains. The currency rose
0.3 percent to 35.02 against the central bank’s euro-dollar
target basket. The ruble will end the year little changed
against the basket, Hauner forecast.  The ruble will also get a boost as Euroclear Bank SA begins
servicing ruble-denominated government notes as early as
December, expanding access to Russian debt markets. Foreign
holdings of local-currency debt account for approximately 4
percent of the total, compared with more than 20 percent in
Brazil, Mexico,  South Africa  or Poland, according to Hauner.  The Russian currency lost 3.9 percent in the last 6 months,
lagging behind the  Mexican peso  which gained 2.3 percent.
Brazil’s real lost 8.5 percent in the same period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ruble will benefit once we “get through the fiscal
cliff,” Hauner said.“But it makes sense to start to build the
position already before the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  