-- Russian Investment Unexpectedly Fell First Time in 18 Months
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-10-17T13:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/russian-investment-fell-in-september-for-first-time-in-18-months.html
Russian  investment  unexpectedly slid
last month for the first time since March 2011 as uncertainty
over the economy prompted businesses to reduce spending.  Fixed-capital investment fell 1.3 percent in September
compared with a year earlier, the Federal Statistics Service in
Moscow said in an e-mailed statement today. Economists predicted
an increase of 2.1 percent, according to the median of 15
forecasts in a Bloomberg  survey .  A slowdown in  China , Russia’s largest trading parter, and
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis are discouraging  capital
spending , with companies including OAO  Novolipetsk Steel (NLMK)  and OAO
GMK  Norilsk Nickel (MNOD)  announcing plans in the past month to scale
back investment. President  Vladimir Putin  ordered the government
in May to boost investment to 25 percent of gross domestic
product by 2015 from 21 percent last year.  “We’re seeing a slowdown in investment from natural-
resources companies, which is not so much because of the
investment climate as concerns about demand domestically and
from abroad,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie
Capital in Moscow, said by telephone. Weaker construction
spending and state investment also played a role, he said.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks maintained gains after the
announcement and was 1.4 percent higher at 1,475.83 as of 4:48
p.m. in Moscow. A close at that level would be the highest since
Oct. 5.  Target Breached  Consumer prices  advanced 6.6 percent in September, rising
above the central bank’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent
for the first time this year. Bank Rossii cited lending and low
unemployment as supporting domestic demand last month when it
unexpectedly raised  interest rates  to bring inflation back in
check.  Retail sales advanced 4.4 percent in September from a year
earlier, while dropping 0.4 percent compared with August, the
statistics service said. Economists predicted an annual increase
of 4.2 percent and a drop from the previous month of 0.6
percent, according to two Bloomberg surveys.  “In September there was a very quick acceleration in
inflation, which usually gets people wanting to spend more,”
Natalia Orlova, chief economist at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said in
a telephone interview. “But there’s so much uncertainty now
that the consumer momentum isn’t taking off as fast.”  Wages, Incomes  Real wages  grew 6.6 percent from a year ago, less than the
7.3 percent median estimate of 14 economists.  Disposable incomes 
also advanced less than projected, rising 3.8 percent instead of
a forecast 5.4 percent.  Unemployment held at 5.2 percent for a second month,
matching the lowest level on record, the service said. The
median estimate of 13 economists in Bloomberg’s  survey  was for a
rise to 5.3 percent.  Although growth is slowing in the second half, the
September data aren’t “sufficiently gloomy to raise concerns of
the government and the central bank,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, said in a note to clients.
Bank Rossii will remain focused on inflation, she said.  The central bank will “likely” increase interest rates in
the first half of November if consumer-price growth continues to
accelerate, Tsepliaeva said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  