-- Russia Opens Criminal Case Against Opposition for Plotting Riots
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-10-17T08:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/russia-opens-criminal-case-against-opposition-for-plotting-riots.html
Russian investigators opened a
criminal case against opposition leader Sergei Udaltsov and two
other activists for plotting mass riots in Moscow and other
regions, charges that carry a maximum sentence of 10 years.  Searches were under way today involving those suspected of
preparing the unrest, the Investigative Committee in Moscow said
in a  statement  on its website. A probe was started after state-
run NTV channel broadcast footage allegedly showing Udaltsov
meeting a Georgian official to plot protests against President
Vladimir Putin.  Putin, who reclaimed the presidency in May, has hardened
his response to the biggest unrest in more than a decade after
protesters took to the streets to denounce alleged fraud in
December parliamentary elections. Investigators said they will
probe information about Udaltsov and his associates allegedly
plotting terrorist attacks, the most serious accusation leveled
against opposition figures since Putin came to power in 2000.  “Those who think it is possible to organize mass riots,
plan terrorist attacks and go absolutely unpunished
underestimate the professionalism of Russian secret services,”
 Vladimir Markin , chief spokesman for the committee, said in the
statement. “For such actions  Russia ’s criminal code stipulates
penalties up to a life sentence.”  Udaltsov admitted holding meetings with Georgian citizens
last summer to discuss raising “legal funds” for his Left
Front movement, the Investigative Committee said last week. He
said plans for “unlawful actions” in Russia were never
discussed with the Georgians, one of whom was identified only as
“Georgy Vasilyevich,” according to the agency.  NTV’s footage showed Udaltsov meeting the head of  Georgia ’s
parliamentary committee on security and defense, Georgi Targamadze, and Georgia’s consul in Moldova, Mikhail Iashvili,
the committee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  