-- Sabic Quarterly Profit Drops 23% on Petrochemical Prices
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-10-17T13:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/sabic-quarterly-profit-drops-23-on-petrochemical-prices.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker by market value, posted a
23 percent decline in third-quarter profit as prices for its
products dropped amid slower global economic growth.  Net income  fell to 6.31 billion riyals ($1.68 billion) from
8.19 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company
known as Sabic said in a  statement  to the Saudi stock market
today. That beat the 5.84 billion-riyal  average  estimate of six
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Sabic’s profit has fallen in the  past four quarters  as the
maker of fertilizers, plastics and steel suffers from the
effects of slowing growth in developed economies. The
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 global growth forecast
to 3.3 percent, the slowest since the 2009 recession, from a
July forecast of 3.5 percent, as the euro area’s debt crisis
intensifies. The fund, which lowered its 2013 forecast to 3.6
percent from 3.9 percent, warned of even slower expansion unless
the U.S. and  Europe  address threats to their economies.  Economic uncertainty is “negatively impacting global basic
plastics demand as producers and convertors tend to avoid
building inventory,” Ahmed Shams El Din, Cairo-based director
of equity research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mail.
“Key petrochemicals prices have been lagging due to weak
demand, particularly in China.”  Sabic’s  shares  rose 1.4 percent to 90 riyals at the close
in Riyadh today, trimming the stock’s decline for the year to
6.5 percent. The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  has risen 6.1
percent in 2012.  Lower Prices  Quarterly profit declined “due to lower product pricing”
although production and sales volumes increased, the company
said in the statement.  Sabic’s units were also affected by lower prices and
demand.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , owned 43 percent by Sabic,
and 51 percent-owned  Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co. (YANSAB)  reported
lower quarterly profits, while  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN) 
said its loss widened.  Ethylene prices have decreased about 9 percent in the third
quarter from the year earlier, said Faisal Potrik, an analyst at
Riyad Capital. “Sabic stated themselves that demand had
declined in second-quarter due to the global economic
downturn.”  Third-quarter income from operations fell 27 percent to 9.8
billion riyals, the company said. Nine-month earnings per share
were 6.3 riyals, down from 7.99 riyals for the same period last
year.  Capacity Addition  The petrochemicals maker is adding output capacity through
units and joint ventures. Sabic’s $3.4 billion venture with
 ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to produce 400,000 tons of rubber
products a year from al-Jubail and export them to Asia and the
 Middle East  from the second half of 2015. The company also has
an ethylene and polycarbonate venture with China Petroleum and
Chemical Corp.  Sabic will continue to look for investment opportunities
that might arise during “current fluctuations in the global
economy,” Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady said in an e-
mailed statement today. “We are continuing to augment our
operational performance at our plants, and we have adopted
different strategies to introduce cost-effective measures in our
manufacturing processes.”  Sabic plans to begin producing crop nutrient urea in the
third quarter of 2014 at a 2 billion-riyal facility being built
by its fertilizer unit. It operates  nine manufacturing sites  in
 China , Southeast Asia,  South Korea  and Japan, including a
petrochemical complex with Sinopec in Tianjin, northern China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  