-- Sabic Gains Most This Month as Net Tops Estimates: Riyadh Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-17T13:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/sabic-gains-most-this-month-as-net-tops-estimates-riyadh-mover.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  rose
the most this month, leading gains in Saudi Arabia’s benchmark
index, after third-quarter profit at the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker beat estimates.  The shares advanced 1.4 percent, the most since Sept. 30,
to 90 riyals at the close in Riyadh. That pushed Saudi Arabia’s
Tadawul All Share Index up 0.9 percent to 6,811.19, the highest
in more than a week. Sabic’s third-quarter  net income  was 6.31
billion riyals ($1.68 billion), down 23 percent from a year
earlier. Still, that beat the  average 5.84 billion-riyal
estimate  of six analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income rose 19 percent when compared with a
second-quarter profit of 5.3 billion riyals.  Sabic announced “a strong set of results” quarter on
quarter and “valuations are attractive,” Digvijay Singh,
equities analyst at VTB Capital Plc said in an e-mailed note
today, reiterating his buy rating on the stock.  Sabic shares trade at a price-to-earnings ratio of 11.2
times, compared with 14.3 times for the  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
and 14.6 for  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S. chemical
company. The company, which makes fertilizers, plastics and
steel, has also added output capacity through units and joint
ventures.  Sabic’s $3.4 billion venture with  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  plans to
produce 400,000 tons of rubber products a year from al-Jubail
and export them to Asia and the  Middle East  from the second half
of 2015. Sabic also has an ethylene and  polycarbonate venture
with  China Petroleum (386)  and Chemical Corp.  “We believe that acquisitions will enhance the company’s
current return on investment capital, by increasing capacity
utilization of its existing overseas capacities through the
cycle,” Singh said in the note.  Fifteen  analysts  including Singh recommend investors buy
Sabic shares, while one has a hold rating, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  