-- Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha! Road Confounds Truckers: Freight
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-10-17T15:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/saint-louis-du-ha-ha-road-confounds-quebec-truckers-freight.html
Rejean Rioux reaches across his
truck’s cab and hands over his wristwatch to show how a  Quebec 
highway bottleneck slows companies such as  Canadian Tire Corp. (CTC/A)   At the bottom of an off-ramp near where the divided four-
lane section of the Trans- Canada  Highway ends, he pulls the
oversized steering wheel and uses almost all the road’s width to
turn his rig and two 53-foot trailers. Rioux and others must do
this each time they pull double-trailer trucks off the highway
and into a yard to break them up for the narrow road ahead.  “You need 30 seconds to make the turn,” Rioux said. Such
hold-ups can determine “whether you make money or not,” he
said after returning to his office.  The half-minute turn is just the start of delays for so-
called long combination vehicles running between Montreal and
 the port  at Halifax,  Nova Scotia . The trip includes a 73-
kilometer (45-mile) stretch of Highway 185 from the Quebec-New
Brunswick border, through towns such as  Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha! ,
that’s too narrow for the long trucks.  The time to break up the trailers, put a separate tractor
on each and reassemble them can add a couple hours to each round
trip, said Neil McKenna, vice president of transportation for
Canadian Tire, the country’s largest auto parts and sporting
goods retailer.  “This is the only area of Canada where we de-couple and
couple en route,” McKenna said by phone from Montreal. The
Highway 185 widening “is something that we would like to see go
through sooner rather than later,” he said, as it will “make
the  supply chain  that much more competitive.”  Budget Constraints  While Quebec has been planning the  project  since 2001,
budget constraints are keeping the province from completing it.
The highway serves as a symbol of the lack of coordination among
Canada’s 13 provinces and territories, hobbling commerce in an
economy that is struggling to return to full output amid a
sluggish global rebound.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has pressured companies
to diversify trade overseas and Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
has offered to help finance a bridge between Ontario and
 Michigan . At the same time, provincial governments haven’t
always been as quick to facilitate trade. British Columbia
Premier Christy Clark, for instance, has signaled she won’t
allow  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern Gateway oil pipeline
through her province from  Alberta  unless it gets a “fair
share” of its revenue.  No Funding  Quebec’s Transport Ministry hasn’t yet funded the third and
final phase of Highway 185’s C$1.3 billion transformation,
according to project manager Simon Lavoie. Finance Minister
Nicolas Marceau of the separatist Parti Quebecois, elected last
month, said Oct. 5 the province’s deficit will probably exceed a
prior forecast of C$1.5 billion because of its decision to close
a nuclear power plant.  The government is seeking to shrink the deficit and balance
its budget by next fiscal year through such measures as the
introduction of new tax brackets for people who earn at least
C$100,000 ($101,300) annually. The PQ will need some opposition
support for those plans because it won a minority of seats in
the election. While the politicians wrangle, Quebec’s road
construction needs remain.  “The potholes start as soon as you get into Quebec,” said
Jonathan Lemco, principal and senior sovereign-debt analyst at
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc., which
oversees about $1.9 trillion in assets. Lemco, a  Montreal  native
who travels back and forth throughout the year, says the
province has “tremendous infrastructure needs -- I always check
the shocks on my car when I cross over the border.”  Vroom Vroom  Canadian Tire, which brings in goods from  Asia  through the
Halifax port and ships rush orders or promotions on trucks
rather than trains, uses the Transport Vroom Vroom company in
Saint-Antonin, Quebec, and Rejean Rioux’s  Gilbert M. Rioux &
Fils Ltee  in New Brunswick to break up and re-assemble the
trucks. Canadian Tire  shares  fell 0.8 percent to C$71.00 at
11:24 a.m. in Toronto. The stock has returned 8.8 percent so far
this year, below the 16 percent gain of the Toronto Stock
Exchange’s index of consumer-discretionary companies.  The efforts can be “frustrating,” according to Rioux’s
son Guy and daughter Melanie. Sometimes as an LCV is being re-
assembled, bad weather sets in, meaning the trailers of rush
jobs must be taken apart again and the cargo moved by two
trucks.  “There is a lot of planning, and a lot of de-planning and
re-planning” said Guy Rioux.  Reduce Savings  The process can reduce the savings from so-called long
combination vehicles to about 30 percent from 35 percent,
McKenna said. Without giving a detailed cost estimate, he said
the longer trucks save 6.3 gallons of  diesel  per 100 kilometers
and cut down on pollution. The delayed road expansion is also
taking away part of the efficiency bonus of a Montreal-area
distribution center the company built in 2009, McKenna said.  Work on the highway project began in 2001, and the second
phase of construction is due to be completed in 2015, Lavoie
said. The third phase will cover the last 40 kilometers, linking
Saint-Antonin and Saint-Louis-du-Ha! Ha! at a cost C$482
million, according to a presentation posted on the ministry’s
website. It requires the purchase of land and about 50 houses,
Lavoie said.  “The project remains a priority for the Transport
Ministry,” he said in a telephone interview from Rimouski,
about 540 kilometers northeast of Montreal. “Trucking companies
are used to breaking up the LCVs at the border,” he said.  Unsatisfactory Pace  The Canadian Trucking Alliance isn’t satisfied with the
pace of the roadwork. The highway made the lobby group’s annual
 list  of infrastructure priorities published last week.  “This is a fundamental issue for us,” said Normand
Bourque, technical and operations coordinator at the Quebec
Trucking  Association . “The timetable we have been given runs
through 2018 or 2019 to finish this work. We are asking for the
work to be accelerated.”  The highway isn’t the only hurdle for LCV drivers. Some
provinces don’t recognize licenses from other regions, meaning
shipments are further delayed, according to Jean-Marc Picard,
executive director of the Atlantic Provinces Trucking
Association in Dieppe,  New Brunswick . About a dozen companies in
the Atlantic region use double-trailer trucks, and breaking them
involves extra costs for labor, fuel and time, he said.  “Unfortunately they have to go through the same process as
Canadian Tire,” he said. “We are pretty anxious that they twin
the highway.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  