-- Samaras Faces Coalition Revolt Over Lenders’ Demands
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-10-17T08:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/samaras-faces-coalition-revolt-over-lenders-demands.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
faces a growing revolt from his coalition partners as
representatives of the country’s lenders press for more changes
to the country’s  labor market  as a condition for releasing
further bailout funds.  Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok and the Democratic Left’s
Fotis Kouvelis, whose parliamentary seats give Samaras the
majority in Parliament he needs to govern, both said they
wouldn’t accept further changes to labor rules after a three-
hour meeting with the prime minister in Athens yesterday.  “Further interventions on labor issues don’t help
productivity, competitiveness or employment,” Venizelos told
state-run NET TV. “We must look elsewhere now and the
insistence on this is wrong,” he said, adding some European
Union members were “playing with fire.”  The hitch comes as Samaras prepares to argue for a two-year
extension to meet the country’s bailout targets at his first EU
summit on Oct. 18. A deal with the EU, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank , the so-called
troika, is needed to unlock a 31 billion-euro ($40.7 billion)
aid installment.  The government needs the funds to recapitalize its banks
and pay debts. Samaras didn’t comment after yesterday’s meeting.  Pension Cuts  Samaras is seeking to spread pension and wage cuts over
four years rather than two to smooth the impact on an economy
that’s declined by about 20 percent since 2008. His New
Democracy party has only 128 seats in the 300-seat Parliament
and relies on Pasok and Democratic Left’s combined 50 seats to
turn any pledge to lenders into law.  In a related development, Spain yesterday kept its
investment grade credit rating from Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited a reduction in the risk of losing  market access 
because of the ECB’s willingness to buy the nation’s debt.  Initial plans to have completed an agreement with the
troika by the summit have been abandoned, despite daily meetings
at the  Finance Ministry  between Greek officials and the lenders.  “Negotiations with the troika seem to be spinning their
wheels, which is not good news,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , who said a
decision about the next installment of bailout funds was likely
to slip to next month. “Underlying uncertainty about Greece’s
future remains high as the debate is now increasingly on
Greece’s debt metrics, going beyond a mere issue of tranche and
funding stress.”  ‘No Impasse’  Labor Minister Ioannis Vroutsis told reporters that “there
is no impasse, just no agreement yet” after a report earlier
from state-run  Athens  News Agency that the talks had broken
down. The minister said the main sticking points with the troika
centered on reducing severance pay and abolishing automatic pay
increases granted after three years. He said the troika is
scheduled to leave Athens today.  Greece needs to commit to a list of 89 policy steps before
the EU summit. Structural reforms such as changes to labor and
product markets are part of the conditions demanded of Greece in
return for the 240 billion euros in funds pledged to the country
since May 2010. A second rescue package in February was
accompanied by changes such as a 22 percent cut in the minimum
wage.  ‘Feed Recession’  Politicians in  Greece  are wary of further changes to a
labor market where unemployment has soared to a quarter of the
workforce and as the country heads for a sixth year of
recession. Democratic Left’s Kouvelis said supporting such
changes would “feed the recession and unemployment.”  “The troika’s demand that workers’ rights be leveled isn’t
a structural reform,” Kouvelis said. “It’s not a structural
reform to dismantle what rights of workers have remained.
Democratic Left won’t support any measures affecting labor
relations and rights.”  Unions have called a general strike for Oct. 18, the first
day of the summit, to protest what will be the second round of
pension and wage cuts this year.  Venizelos’s party endorsed a draft law calling for all
state asset-sales procedures to be approved by Parliament,
threatening to further delay a program pledged to lenders that
is designed to reduce the country’s debt.  Austerity Package  The Greek government and the troika have been locked in
talks for months. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras has been
working on a final agreement with the troika on the breakdown of
a 13.5 billion-euro package of austerity measures for the next
two years to meet  deficit -cutting targets. Health-care fund
arrears and a revision to gross domestic product figures
complicate the talks as well as poor implementation sparked by
successive elections in May and June this year.  Stournaras said late yesterday that Greece would work on
initiatives to resolve the impasse on the labor issue over the
next few days and that talks with the troika, while tense at
times, had been held in a spirit of cooperation.  An official, who asked not to be identified, said agreement
had been reached on the fiscal measures for 2013 and 2014, while
both sides agreed the economy would contract 4.2 percent next
year, compared with 3.8 percent in the draft budget announced
earlier this month.  “We made significant progress,”  Poul Thomsen , the IMF’s
head of the Greek mission, told reporters in Athens after the
meetings. “We reached agreement on most policy issues. The few
ones outstanding, we expect to cover them soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  