-- Solar-Converter Maker Satcon Technology Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-17T13:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/satcon-technology-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-delaware.html
Satcon Technology Corp. (SATC) , which makes
equipment that converts solar-cell energy for use on power
grids, filed for bankruptcy after defaulting on some debt
earlier this month.  The company, based in Boston, listed assets of
$92.3 million and  debt  of $121.9 million as of June 30 in
Chapter 11 documents filed today in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington, Delaware. Six units also entered bankruptcy.  Satcon’s board “determined that the Chapter 11 filings
were a necessary and prudent step,” Chief Executive Officer
Steve Rhoades said in a statement. Satcon will have “the
opportunity to reorganize with a stronger balance sheet and
 capital structure ,” he said.  Satcon said it expects to get consent from secured lenders
to use cash collateral to finance operations. The company in
February announced a manufacturing partnership to supply solar-
plant equipment to a unit of  China Electronics Corp. (85)   Satcon missed an Oct. 1 payment on a $16 million unsecured
subordinated convertible note, the company said Oct. 11 in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. A notice from
the noteholder gave Satcon five days to pay $7.5 million, or 120
percent of the outstanding principal, plus accrued and unpaid
interest.  The company’s failure to pay the note when due constituted
a default under its credit agreement with Silicon Valley Bank,
according to the  SEC filing .  Among Satcon’s largest unsecured creditors listed in court
papers are Perfect Galaxy International Ltd. of Hong Kong,
owed $25.6 million in trade debt; and Heights Capital
Management of San Francisco, holders of $10 million in
convertible notes.  Satcon hired Greenberg Traurig LLP as general bankruptcy
counsel. Lazard Middle Market LLC will serve as financial
adviser and investment banker, according to the filing.  The case is In re Satcon Technology Corp., 12-12869,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  