-- Saudi Savola Buys Stake in PepsiCo Partner Almarai
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-10-17T09:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/saudi-savola-buys-stake-in-pepsico-partner-almarai.html
Savola Group (SAVOLA) , the Saudi Arabian
retail group with interests from sugar to supermarkets, said it
paid 2 billion riyals ($533 million) to boost its stake in
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  partner Almarai Co. as it expands in the kingdom.  Savola increased its shareholding to 36.52 percent from
29.95 percent, the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia-based company  said in a
statement  to the stock market today. The deal was financed by a
combination of cash on hand and Islamic banking facilities from
the local banks. Samba Capital was financial consultant.  Savola is expanding its retail business in the Arab world’s
largest economy and its sugar refining operations in  Egypt  as it
seeks to boost revenue. The company acquired the assets of
 Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) ’s Geant superstores in the kingdom
and also bought  Tate & Lyle Plc’s (TATE)  stakes in sugar refineries in
Saudi Arabia and Egypt earlier this year.  The acquisition “is in line with the group’s strategy of
further growing its exposure in its core sectors, and the food
sector is one of them,” Savola Managing Director Abdul Raouf Mannaa said in the statement. The company increased its holding
in Almarai to 29.95 percent from 26.5 percent during 2010.  Savola bought 26.2 million shares at 75 riyals a share,
according to NCB Capital. “This increase of its stake in a key
strategic partner is a positive, strengthening its position as
the leading food companies in  Saudi Arabia ,” NCB Capital said.  Higher Profit  The company reported a 32 percent increase in third-quarter
profit, beating analysts’ estimates. In contrast, Almarai
revised its 2012 profit forecast to 7 percent from as much as 10
percent as third-quarter earnings missed analysts’ estimates.  “For Savola, this means they become more integrated,”
Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital, said of the
Almarai purchase. “We are not too bullish on Almarai at least
over the next 12 months. We see headwinds for Almarai
specifically in terms of their salary and debt increases.”  Almarai and PepsiCo jointly operate International Dairy and
Juice in the kingdom.  Savola gained as much as 6.1 percent to 39.90 riyals and
was trading at 38.90 riyals at 12:11 p.m. local time. Almarai
fell 0.7 percent to 69.25 riyals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  