-- Savola Jumps on Bets Almarai Stake to Lift Profit
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-17T12:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/savola-jumps-on-bets-almarai-stake-to-lift-profit.html
Savola Group (SAVOLA)  shares advanced the
most since July on bets the food producer’s move to raise it
stake in  Almarai Co. (ALMARAI) , the Saudi Arabian company that operates a
joint venture with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , will boost profit.  Shares of the Jeddah-based company rallied 4 percent, the
biggest gain since July 21, to 39.1 riyals at the close in
Riyadh. Savola was the second-largest gainer on  Saudi Arabia (RJHI) ’s
gauge, which rose 0.9 percent. The company raised its stake in
Almarai to 36.52 percent from 29.95 percent in a 2 billion-riyal
($533 million) transaction completed yesterday.  “Savola seems to be getting a greater foothold in the
foodstuffs business,” said Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at
Riyad Capital. “This should impact earnings positively going
forward.”  Savola third-quarter net income jumped 32 percent,  beating
analysts’ estimates , as the company expands its retail business
in the Arab world’s largest economy and its sugar refining
operations in Egypt. In 2010, Savola bought the assets of Casino
Guichard-Perrachon SA’s Geant superstores in the kingdom. The
company also purchased  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) ’s holdings in sugar
refineries in  Saudi Arabia  and Egypt earlier this year, and
stakes in two Egyptian food companies in 2011.  Almarai, which sells products including poultry, milk and
juices, lowered its 2012 profit-growth forecast to 7 percent
from as much as 10 percent, after third-quarter profit missed
estimates. The company’s stock, which has surged 21 percent in
2012, slipped 1.1 percent to 69 riyals.  Savola’s full-year earnings are set to grow 11 percent,
according to the average estimate of seven analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The company financed its purchase of Almarai shares
with its own cash and Islamic banking facilities from the local
banks, with Samba Capital acting as financial consultant.  Five analysts  recommend investors buy Savola, while three
have a hold rating on the shares and one says sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  