-- HSBC’s Bloom Says Investors Turning From Foreign Exchange Market
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-17T16:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hsbc-s-bloom-says-investors-turning-from-foreign-exchange-market.html
Investors are shunning foreign-
exchange markets because currency moves are proving difficult to
predict as more countries roll out stimulus programs, according
to  David Bloom , head of currency strategy at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   “There is no circumstance where we would prefer foreign
exchange to any other asset class,” Bloom said at a seminar in
London today. Foreign-exchange markets “are not transparent,
understandable,” he said.  Demand for foreign exchange has been damped by the varying
reactions of currencies to nations’ economy-boosting measures
and the unwinding of the carry trade, in which investors borrow
money in a country with relatively low  interest rates  and invest
in markets offering higher returns, Bloom said.  Policies such as quantitative easing, when central banks
buy government bonds to inject cash into the local economy,
“mean totally different things” for currencies, he said.  HSBC is the fifth-biggest foreign-exchange trader,
according to an annual survey by  Euromoney Institutional
Investor Plc. (ERM)   The pound cannot be considered a safe-haven asset while the
U.K. government is attempting the deepest spending cuts since
World War II, the strategist said.  “Sterling is a problem,” Bloom said. The U.K. “has a
deficit-reduction plan that is very difficult to achieve.”  The U.K. currency has strengthened 2.1 percent in the past
year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which
track 10 developed-market currencies. It fell 0.3 percent to
81.24 pence per euro at 5:30 p.m. London time. It will weaken to
86 pence per euro by the end of next year, according to the
median of 45 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 