-- Scene in D.C.: Abraham’s Shylock, Matthews’s Brutus
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-17T16:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/scene-in-d-c-abraham-s-shylock-matthews-s-brutus.html
F. Murray Abraham has a soft spot
for Shylock, a role he performed off Broadway.  At Monday night’s Harman Center for the Arts Annual Gala,
the Academy Award winner recited a monologue from “The Merchant
of Venice” and received the Shakespeare Theatre Company’s
William Shakespeare Award for Classical Theatre.  Shylock represents “what’s missing in America --
justice,” Abraham said at the cocktail reception. “Why aren’t
all those bankers in jail?”  The Harman Center for the Arts  is the home of the
Shakespeare Theatre Company, which received its first Tony this
year for best regional theater.  The gala brought out 500 guests. The Harman Center gave its
 Sidney Harman  Award for Philanthropy in the Arts to the venue’s
builder, Clark Construction Group LLC, recognizing a business
for the first time.  Its namesake is the late Sidney Harman, who was chairman of
Newsweek Daily Beast Co. before he died last year. His widow,
the former California Congressman Jane Harman, attended in
shimmering Oscar de la Renta with Gordon Zacks, the chairman
of  RG Barry Corp. (DFZ)   Abigail Blunt, the wife of Senator  Roy Blunt , Missouri
Republican, wore understated black Zara. She said she was
unaccompanied because her husband was on the campaign stump for
 Mitt Romney .  Also solo was Greenberg Traurig LLP attorney Timothy Jessell, husband of soprano Renee Fleming, who’s performing in
“Otello” at the Metropolitan Opera in New York.  Dream Role  Grace Paine Terzian, vice president for communications at
The Hudson Institute, had a date night with her daughter,
Gracie. The younger Terzian will act in the Shakespeare Theatre
Company’s production of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”  After a tribute performance to Abraham, which featured the
Q Brothers rapping a hip-hop version of “Othello,” guests
gathered at the National Building Museum for halibut and
dancing.  Jessell dined with Fleming’s sister, Rachelle Fleming, a
voice instructor at the  Catholic University  of America. They
were the guests of Anita Antenucci, senior managing director at
Houlihan Lokey Inc., and a member of the gala committee. She is
busy recruiting government contractors to support the theater.  Other guests included MSNBC host Chris Matthews, and his
wife, Kathleen, an executive vice president for Marriott
International. Matthews said he loved Brutus from “ Julius
Caesar ,” whom he portrayed while in the Peace Corps.  Irish Ambassador  Garry Hynes, the first woman to win a Tony for play
direction, was the guest of honor last night at the residence
of Irish Ambassador  Michael Collins . Hynes directed the
Druid Theatre Company in “DruidMurphy,” a trilogy of plays by
acclaimed Irish writer  Tom Murphy  at the Kennedy Center this
week.  For those not getting enough Irish culture through the
arts, Collins suggested traveling to Ireland to boost the
country’s flagging economy.  Collins referred to musicians Brendan Mulvihill and Brendan
Sheridan as “the two Brendans.” The Irishmen played
traditional songs on fiddle and guitar.  Among the guests and cast members packing the house were
Dennis Houlihan, a policy analyst for AFSCME International, and
Nossaman LLP partner  Paul Quinn .  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 