-- Sealy’s Board, KKR Sued Over Tempur-Pedic’s Buyout Bid
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/sealy-s-board-kkr-sued-over-tempur-pedic-s-buyout-bid.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ) ’s directors and
controlling shareholder  KKR & Co. (KKR)  were accused in an investors’
lawsuit of shortchanging the mattress maker’s stockholders by
backing a $229 million buyout bid by rival  Tempur-Pedic
International Inc. (TPX)   Tempur-Pedic, based in Lexington,  Kentucky , agreed last
month to pay $2.20 a share for Trinity, North Carolina-based
Sealy to combine the two biggest publicly traded mattress
companies. Investors allege Sealy and KKR executives didn’t shop
around for the best price for the maker of  Sealy Posturepedic 
mattresses and structured the deal to discourage other bidders.  The deal “is not a value-maximizing transaction and is not
the product of reasonable conduct by the Sealy board,”
investors said in the Delaware Chancery Court suit. “KKR has
breached its fiduciary duties as a controlling shareholder by
pushing the proposed transaction to advance its own private
interests.”  Analysts said Tempur-Pedic officials sought to acquire
Sealy to gain access to new bedding markets through Sealy’s
international licensing deals and joint ventures.  “Tempur-Pedic gains access to new slots at major retailers
and independents with a complimentary product suite,”  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at NBG Productions, said in a note to clients.  Investors contend KKR, which owns about 46 percent of
Sealy, controls the company through its representatives on the
mattress maker’s board. The private equity firm bought Sealy for
about $1.6 billion in 2004 from rival Bain Capital Partners LLC.  ‘Cash Out’  Shahed Larson, a Sealy spokeswoman, said the mattress maker
had no comment on the investor suit over the Tempur-Pedic
buyout. Tempur-Pedic spokesman Mark Rupe didn’t immediately
return a call after business hours seeking comment.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR,
declined to comment on the suit yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Lawyers for Curtis Nall, a Sealy shareholder, contend KKR
used its control of Sealy to push directors to sell the company
to “cash out of its investment,” according to the complaint,
filed today.  KKR has lined up support amounting to more than 50 percent
of Sealy’s shares for Tempur-Pedic’s bid, meaning the deal won’t
be subject to a shareholder vote, Nall’s lawyers added.  Sealy shareholders have long criticized KKR’s dominance of
the company, noting in a separate lawsuit earlier this year that
Sealy has made handed over more than $20 million in payments and
consulting fees to the private-equity firm since 2006.  Nall is asking a  Delaware  judge to bar Sealy from
finalizing the sale to Tempur-Pedic and award damages to company
shareholders.  It’s unlikely that Sealy shareholders will see a bid come
in to top Tempur-Pedic’s, John Baugh, an analyst with Stifel,
Nicolaus & Co., said in a note to clients yesterday.  The case is Curtis Nall v. Lawrence Rogers, 7957, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware. at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware. at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  