-- Serb Prime Minster Orders Action to Save EU Visa-Free Travel
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-17T18:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/serb-prime-minster-orders-action-to-save-eu-visa-free-travel.html
Serbia  will try to avoid a
reintroduction of visas for its nationals traveling to the
European Union after the number of false asylum-seekers rose in
some EU member states.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic  ordered ministries to take
action because “protecting visa liberalization is one of the
top priorities of the Serbian government,” his press office
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The prime minister convened an emergency session of the
committee supervising visa-free travel, which EU member states
in the so-called Schengen area, a part of the 27-nation EU that
allows passport-free travel, granted Serbia in December 2009.  The meeting followed media reports that some countries led
by  Germany  want to restore visas for Serbs because of a surge in
asylum-seekers. Dacic heads a government dominated by former
nationalists and Socialists of ex-Serbian strongman  Slobodan
Milosevic , whose rule in the 1990s was marked by wars,
isolation, travel bans and economic mismanagement.  The committee analyzed the situation and developed a plan
to clamp down on the increase in false asylum-seekers and plans
to name a team to visit countries most affected by such claims,
the office said.  Vincent Degert, head of the EU delegation to Serbia, said
Oct. 10 that asylum applications rose by 200 percent in
 Switzerland , more than 20 percent in Sweden and Germany, and
that almost 99 percent of the asylum seekers were sent back.
“What Serbia wants and what the EU wants is to preserve the
visa liberalization,” he said.  EU Candidate  Serbia became a candidate for EU membership in March. The
country will get a date for the start of entry talks once the
government improves ties with  Kosovo , Serbia’s former province,
which unilaterally declared independence in 2008.  Popular support in Serbia for EU membership declined in the
three months to September, according to a survey presented by
the Belgrade Centre for Security Policies today.  The survey, conducted Sept. 18-25, showed overall backing
for the EU path dropped two percentage points to 47 percent
while opposition to joining the EU rose 10 percentage points to
35 percent, Tanjug news agency reported, citing Sonja
Stojanovic, the center’s director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  