-- HSH Nordbank Proposes von Oesterreich as CEO as Lerbinger Quits
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-17T13:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hsh-nordbank-proposes-von-oesterreich-as-ceo-as-lerbinger-quits.html
HSH Nordbank  AG, the world’s largest
shipping lender, plans to name Chief Financial Officer
Constantin von Oesterreich as head of the German firm after
Chief Executive Officer Paul Lerbinger quit after less than 19
months in the job.  Lerbinger has reached an agreement with the chairman of HSH
Nordbank’s supervisory board, Hilmar Kopper, to “terminate his
activities for the bank” at the end of this month, Hamburg-
based HSH Nordbank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Lerbinger, 56, became HSH Nordbank’s CEO on April 1 last
year, having previously been the  managing director  of Citigroup
Global Markets Deutschland AG & Co. KGaA. HSH Nordbank, which
was forced to seek a bailout from its shareholders and  Germany ’s
state rescue fund during the global financial crisis, had a net
loss of 257 million euros ($337 million) last year because of
costs tied to its rescue and reorganization.  “The departure of Dr. Lerbinger during this difficult
restructuring phase for the bank is regrettable,” Kopper said,
adding that the board will meet on Oct. 24 to discuss approval
of the exit and the appointment of von Oesterreich as CEO.  While HSH Nordbank posted a profit of 128 million euros in
the first three months of 2012, it swung to a net loss of 67
million euros in the second quarter after loan losses jumped
amid the crisis in the shipping industry. The company reported
loan-loss provisions of 68 million euros in the three months
through June, after recouping money set aside for bad loans a
year earlier.  The German states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which 
control  more than 80 percent of HSH Nordbank, and Germany’s
Soffin bank-rescue fund had to bail out the lender during the
financial crisis. The company, which plans to cut more than
1,100 jobs by 2014, has been exiting businesses such as
financings of airplanes and international real estate and
closing offices to gain approval for the state aid.  The bank, which intends to reduce total assets at its main
business to 82 billion euros by 2014, forecasts cutting the size
of its shipping assets to 15 billion euros by then, compared
with 19 billion euros at the end of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  