-- Shekel Rises to 5-Month High as Israel Ratings Boost Risk Demand
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-10-17T15:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/shekel-rises-to-5-month-high-as-israel-ratings-boost-risk-demand.html
Israel ’s shekel strengthened to the
highest in more than five months as investors shifted their
focus to riskier assets after the nation’s sovereign ratings
were affirmed.  The shekel gained 0.4 percent to 3.7976 a dollar at 4:56
p.m. in Tel Aviv, the highest since May 7, as the  U.S. dollar 
fell against 15 of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
yield on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bonds due in January
2022 rose for the first time since Oct. 9, gaining three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.14 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Israel at A+, the fifth-highest
investment grade, saying that austerity measures and current
growth levels outweighed concern about fiscal risks. The
currency also gained after Spain kept its Baa3 rating, one step
above junk, at Moody’s Investors Service as the ratings company
cited reduced risk of losing  market access  because of the
 European Central Bank ’s willingness to buy the nation’s debt.
About 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic product is made up
of exports, with  Europe  and the U.S. among the largest markets.  “Israel’s rating affirmation adds to the country’s
economic stability bringing back foreigners to investing in the
local currency,” said Eytan Admoni, head of the international
department at  Bank of Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd. “The risk-on sentiment is
also supported by expectations that measures for Spain will
better Europe’s debt crisis, which in turn will help keep
Israel’s economy buoyant.”  Inflation Forecast  The implied volatility on three-month options for the
shekel versus the dollar, which reflects traders’ expectations
of currency fluctuations over the next three months, declined
six basis points to 7.68 percent.  Economists’ 12-month  inflation expectations  fell to 2
percent on average from 2.6 percent the previous month, a
central bank survey showed today. Annual inflation accelerated
to 2.1 percent in September from 1.9 percent a month earlier,
the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said Oct. 15.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
the inflation-linked bond and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, fell four basis points to 253, implying an
average annual inflation rate of 2.53 percent.  Economic growth is expected to slow to 3.3 percent this
year from 4.6 percent in 2011, according to central bank
estimates, as Europe struggles with its debt crisis and global
expansion slows.  One-year interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for the benchmark rate in the period, rose three
basis points to 2.15 percent. The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which
measures inflation-linked and fixed-rate corporate bonds, was
little changed at 275.39.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  