-- Singapore September Exports Unexpectedly Decline on Electronics
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-17T00:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/singapore-september-exports-unexpectedly-decline-on-electronics.html
Singapore’s exports unexpectedly
declined for a second month in September as manufacturers sold
fewer electronics and pharmaceuticals to customers abroad.  Non-oil domestic  exports  slid 3.4 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 10.7 percent drop in August, the trade
promotion agency said in a statement today. The median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 1.2 percent gain.  Singapore’s central bank held off from easing monetary
policy last week even as the gross domestic product contracted
in the third quarter, and the Trade Ministry said growth will be
weighed down for the rest of the year by a “subdued” world
economy. The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its
projections for global expansion this year and next, saying it
sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  “Continued weakness in leading indicators like the SEMI
book-to-bill ratio and global PMIs suggested continued
volatility in exports and manufacturing can be expected ahead,”
Leslie Tang, an economist at OSK-DMG in Singapore, said before
the report, referring to semiconductor orders and shipments and
purchasing managers indexes.  Singapore’s  electronics shipments  by companies such as
Venture Corp. fell 16.4 percent in September from a year earlier,
after slipping 11 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, rose 4.2 percent. Petrochemicals exports gained
5.5 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments slid 3 percent after
dropping 3.2 percent in August.  Singapore ’s non-oil  exports  rose a seasonally adjusted 1.6
percent last month from August, when they dropped 9.1 percent,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  