-- Slingbox Returns, With Some New Tricks: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-10-17T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/slingbox-returns-with-some-new-tricks-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Before there were iPads and iPhones,
 Apple (AAPL)  TVs and Roku players, there was the Slingbox.  No one had seen its like before. You hooked it up to your
home television, connected it to the Internet and -- presto! --
you could take your TV remotely with you everywhere.  Eventually, Sling was acquired by EchoStar -- controlled by
satellite mogul Charlie Ergen -- and its hardware business
languished. The last new Slingbox was introduced in 2008, eons
ago in tech terms.  Now Sling at long last is back with two new devices, the
$300 Slingbox 500 and the $180 Slingbox 350, and a few new
tricks. After a week or two with the swoopy black 500, I’ve
concluded that it’s still the most comprehensive and
straightforward way to consume video content on the go, though
certainly not the most elegant.  Setting up an Apple TV required me to run a cable to the TV
and plug in a power cord. Setting up the  Slingbox  500 required
me to connect nine, count ’em, different cables. There would
have been 10, except that I opted to use Wi-Fi rather than run
an Ethernet cable from the Slingbox to my router.  For the first time, the 500 incorporates the now-ubiquitous
HDMI high-definition connector that’s supposed to make
everything simpler -- so why all these wires?  Belt and Suspenders  It’s because of the way some cable channels are encrypted,
leading Sling to recommend using both the HDMI and older
component audio-video cables at the same time. (At least all of
them were included with the Slingbox.)  It’s a belt-and-suspenders approach that gets the job done
but adds to the chances something will go wrong during the
setup: My first attempt knocked out the sound from the TV. I
eventually got it back by disconnecting and reconnecting the
audio cables.  Once everything was working right -- about a 40-minute
process from start to finish -- the Slingbox did its thing. And
even after all these years (the first Slingbox appeared in
2005), its thing is still pretty cool.  From any computer’s web browser, or using one of Sling’s
extra-cost SlingPlayer mobile-device apps, you can access
everything on your home TV. You can turn your cable box on
remotely and view your full channel lineup, as well as content
you’ve saved to a DVR, on-demand programs and even pay-per-view
channels.  No Juggling  There are a lot of advantages to watching TV this way.
You’ve already paid for the content through your cable or
satellite subscription, so you don’t have to pay again. You
don’t have to juggle multiple apps, like  Hulu Plus  and  HBO GO ,
depending on what you want to watch. And you don’t get tripped
up by blackout or other rules that prevent you from accessing
some content online.  In my case, for instance, I was able to log in to my home
TV from the office and watch San Francisco Giants baseball
playoff games on my iPad, even though the games were unavailable
through the MLB At Bat app.  There are some disadvantages to watching TV this way, too.
For one thing, the SlingPlayer apps cost $15 each (down from
$30), and you’ll need one for each mobile device you use. In
addition to separate versions for Apple’s iPad and iPhone/iPod
touch, there are SlingPlayers for  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system;  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone; and  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire.  Limited Selection  You’re also limited by the selection available through your
home TV provider. So you might be able to access last week’s
episode of “Modern Family,” but not necessarily ones from
earlier seasons. And while the video streams are now full 1080p
hi-def, picture quality can be affected by several factors,
including the speed of your home network and the one over which
you’re watching.  Sling says half of all Slingbox use occurs within the home,
so the 500 is also beginning to incorporate features similar to
Apple’s AirPlay, allowing photos and other content on mobile
devices to be displayed on the TV. That feature is missing from
the industrial-looking 350 model, which also lacks an HDMI
connector and must be hooked directly into a router, rather than
using Wi-Fi.  Still, remote viewing remains the core of the Slingbox’s
appeal. And granted, downloading and installing an app is a lot
more painless than spending $300 for a Slingbox, hooking up nine
cables, then downloading and installing an app that may cost you
$15 more.  But you can also look at it this way: With Slingbox, you
get the pain out of the way up front. And that monthly cable or
satellite bill might be a little more bearable knowing your
service is now completely portable.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jason Harper on  cars  and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 