-- Smartphones in Use Surpass 1 Billion, Will Double by 2015
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-10-17T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/smartphones-in-use-surpass-1-billion-will-double-by-2015.html
The number of smartphones in use
globally crossed 1 billion for the first time in the third
quarter and will double by 2015, after the introduction of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone fueled demand, according to Strategy Analytics.  The number reached 1.038 billion in the three-month period,
a 47 percent increase from a year earlier, the Boston-based
industry researcher said in a statement today. That translates
into one in every seven people worldwide owning a handheld
device that works like a computer, according to the statement.  While  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  introduced the world’s first “modern”
smartphone in 1996, the industry’s expansion accelerated on the
popularity of the iPhone, Strategy Analytics said. As smartphone
use spreads to emerging markets, it probably will take less than
three years for another billion devices to be added, the
researcher said.  “Smartphone penetration is still relatively low,” Neil Mawston, London-based executive director at Strategy Analytics,
said in the statement. “Most of the world does not yet own a
smartphone and there remains huge scope for future growth,
particularly in  emerging markets  such as China, India and
 Africa .”  The growth of the smartphone market, estimated by Bloomberg
Industries to be worth $219 billion last year, has helped Apple
and Samsung Electronics Co. rack up record earnings as they take
sales from rivals including Espoo, Finland-based Nokia. Last
month, Cupertino, California-based Apple sold more than 5
million iPhone 5s in the device’s debut weekend, shattering a
record set by the previous model.  Samsung, the Suwon, South Korea-based maker of Galaxy
smartphones, ended Nokia’s 14-year reign as the world’s biggest
maker of mobile phones this year, according to shipment
estimates by industry researchers including Strategy Analytics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  