-- Soccer Fix Whistle-blower Farina Hired as Coach by Aston Villa
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-10-17T10:56:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/soccer-fix-whistle-blower-farina-hired-as-coach-by-aston-villa.html
Simone Farina, a former Italian
soccer player whose evidence led to 17 arrests over match
fixing, has been hired by English Premier League team  Aston
Villa  as a community coach.  The defender for Serie B team Gubbio went to police when he
was offered 200,000 euros ($262,000) to help determine the
outcome of an Italian Cup in match in November 2011 between his
team and Cesena.  Farina, 30, will work in Villa’s youth and education
program, the club said. Soccer ruling body FIFA in May
named him a fair play ambassador.  “A year ago I did not see my life moving in this direction
but I am really delighted to be able now to contribute in this
way at Villa,” Farina said on the team's website.  Italian police made 45 arrests of individuals including
players and coaches from 13 teams following an investigation
into match fixing and illegal betting. Italian champion
Juventus’s coach  Antonio Conte  was given a 10-month ban, since
reduced to four months, for failing to report a match-fixing
incident.  FIFA president Sepp Blatter said he was “very pleased”
Villa had hired Farina.  “Such a move highlights the efforts to eradicate match-
fixing from our sport,” Blatter said in the statement.  Interpol, the international policy agency, is working with
FIFA in combating match-fixing. Interpol secretary-general Ron Noble said Farina’s impact on soccer should be placed alongside
that of its best players.  “He needs to become just as important a role model for our
youth like stars such as  Lionel Messi  or Cristiano Ronaldo,”
said Noble. “Corruption in sport is a very complex problem for
which there is no quick fix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  