-- Solyndra Lenders Ahead of Government Won’t Recover Fully
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-10-17T21:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/solyndra-lenders-ahead-of-government-won-t-recover-fully.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before going bankrupt, won’t be able to provide
lenders ranking ahead of the government with a full recovery,
the company’s financial adviser Eric Carlson said today.  The failed solar-panel maker generated about $117 million
from assets sales, including the proposed sale of its
manufacturing facility to a unit of Dublin-based  Seagate
Technology Plc (STX)  for $90.3 million, subject to competing offers at
a Nov. 14 auction, Carlson testified under questioning from
Solyndra lawyer Maxim Litvak.  The company incurred about $46 million in costs to achieve
those sales, giving it about $71 million in net distributable
assets. Lenders who rank ahead of the government, Argonaut
Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP, are owed about $77
million, about $6 million short of a full recovery, said Carlson
of Imperial Capital. The company has maximized the value of its
assets and the costs were necessary to do so, he said.  Solyndra will have to wait until Oct. 22 for its fate to be
decided after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath continued
today’s hearing to consider approving its bankruptcy plan.
Closing arguments will begin at 10 a.m.  New York  time in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  objected to Solyndra’s
bankruptcy plan, arguing it can’t be approved because its
principal purpose is to allow Argonaut and Madrone to avoid
taxes.  Loss Carryforwards  While Solyndra will be liquidated under the plan, its
parent, 360 Degree Solar Holdings Inc., will exit court
protection with net operating loss carryforwards of as much as
$975 million to use against future income, according to court
papers.  The potential tax breaks of as much as $341 million could
be used by Argonaut, the investment arm of billionaire and Obama
fundraiser  George Kaiser ’s charitable organization, and Madrone.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  By early 2011, the fledgling solar startup began to face
competition from foreign companies and plummeting prices for
materials used in rivals’ products.  Debt Restructuring  In February 2011, Solyndra was forced to restructure its
debt to obtain a fresh infusion of funds from existing
investors, including Argonaut, according to court papers.  The restructuring caused the government’s debt to be
supplanted as the top priority of repayment by the investors’
new $75 million loan.  Under the solar-panel maker’s restructuring plan, the
government might get little to nothing for its $528 million
claim from the loan guarantee. The government is projected to
recoup at most 19 percent on $142.8 million of the loan and
probably nothing on the remaining $385 million, according to the
disclosure statement, a description of the plan.  All creditors, including the government, could see a full
recovery from a $1.5 billion lawsuit the company filed against
Chinese solar-panel makers last week, said Solyndra attorney
Debra Grassgreen. Solyndra claimed the Chinese manufacturers
conspired to fix prices and flood the U.S. market with solar
panels at below-cost prices forcing it out of business. Chinese
solar-panel makers have said the allegations are “baseless.”  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to shut
down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31,
2011. The solar-panel maker listed $854.1 million in assets and
$867.1 million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  