-- South Sudan Says General’s Arrest Is Not Linked to Coup Plot
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-10-17T12:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/south-sudan-says-general-s-arrest-is-not-linked-to-coup-plot.html
South Sudan ’s military dismissed
speculation that an attempted coup in the East African nation
was the reason for the arrest of an army general.  Major-General Simon Gatwec Dual is in military custody
after being arrested earlier this month, Colonel Kella Dual
Kueth, a spokesman for the South Sudanese army, said in a phone
interview today from Juba, the capital. The army is forming a
commission of inquiry to investigate Dual, he said.  The Sudan Tribune, a Paris-based online  news agency ,
reported today that there had been “serious rumors” of a coup
plot in South Sudan by unidentified army officers. “There was
nothing like a coup,” Kueth said. “It’s just rumors.”  President  Salva Kiir  has led South Sudan since May 2010,
after winning 93 percent of the vote in an election in April of
that year. His country gained independence from Sudan last year,
following a referendum on secession that was part of a peace
agreement that ended a 21-year civil war in which 2 million
people died.  Kueth said Kiir yesterday gave a speech at Bilpam, the
military headquarters outside Juba, in which he told soldiers
that anyone who wants to change the government should do so by
running for office in elections scheduled for 2015. Coup
plotters would have difficulty gaining recognition by the
international community, he said.  The speech wasn’t directed at anyone involved in a possible
plot to overthrow the government, Kueth said.  Kiir also said Dual may have links with a militia in the
restive Jonglei state led by David Yau Yau, according to the
 Sudan  Tribune. Kueth said earlier this month the army is
planning an operation to hunt members of Yau Yau’s militia after
it fired artillery at army positions on Sept. 29.  Yau Yau’s militia killed at least 24 soldiers in an August
attack, the army said, contributing to increasing insecurity in
a state already beset by ethnic violence and deadly cattle
raids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 