-- Spanish Bonds Surge With Italy as Moody’s Rating Spurs Optimism
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-17T15:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/spain-yields-plunge-to-6-month-low-on-moody-s-rating-above-junk.html
Spain ’s government bonds advanced,
pushing 10-year borrowing costs to the lowest in more than six
months, after Moody’s Investors Service said it would keep the
nation’s credit rating at investment grade.  Italian and Portuguese securities also rallied amid
optimism the euro region is making progress to contain the debt
crisis. Moody’s cited a reduction in the risk of Spain losing
 market access  because of the  European Central Bank ’s willingness
to buy the nation’s bonds. German 10-year bunds declined for a
third day while  two-year  notes slipped after the nation sold
4.19 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of the securities.  Moody’s decision is “obviously quite a positive
development, as is reflected in this morning’s price moves,”
said  Brian Barry , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in  London . “I
would expect Spanish and Italian debt to trade better today, and
for the positive tone to spread across to other risk assets,
with safe havens to come back a bit.”  Spain’s  10-year bond  yield fell 34 basis points, or 0.34
percentage point, to 5.46 percent as of 4:42 p.m. London time,
the lowest since April 4. The 5.85 percent security due in
January 2022 rose 2.44, or 24.40 euros per 1,000-euro face
amount, to 102.725. The nation’s two-year yield dropped 35 basis
points to 2.78 percent.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s maintained the nation’s credit grade at Baa3, one
step above junk, and assigned a negative outlook on the
sovereign debt as it concluded the review for a possible further
downgrade that it had initiated in June, the New York-based
company said in a statement yesterday.  “This is unambiguously good news for risk appetite, and
quite downbeat for bunds,”  Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European
rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris, wrote in an e-
mailed note. “Spanish yields will push lower now over the
coming days even if official bond buying is some way off.”  Spanish bond yields have dropped more than two percentage
points from their record high of 7.75 percent reached July 25,
the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi  said that policy
makers would do “whatever it takes” to save the currency bloc.  While the ECB announced an unlimited bond-purchase program
on Sept. 6 to stem financial-market turmoil, Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  hasn’t requested aid, a condition the
central bank insists on.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring Spain’s debt against default fell, set
for the lowest close since July 5, 2011. Credit-default swaps
tied to Spain’s government bonds fell 39 basis points to 279
basis points. The contracts have dropped for the past four days.
Swaps on  Italy  declined 27 basis points to 243, also the lowest
since July last year, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by  Finland  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt,
the spread between two-year and 10-year securities and credit-
default swaps.  German  10-year bund  yields climbed nine basis points to
1.64 percent, the highest level since Sept. 19. The two-year
notes added two basis points to 0.1 percent.  Germany  got bids for 8.47 billion euros of two-year notes
compared to a 5 billion-euro target at today’s auction, the
Bundesbank said in an e-mailed statement.  The nation sold the securities at an average yield of 0.07
percent, it said. That’s the highest since a sale on June 20 and
compares with a record-low auction average yield of minus 0.06
percent on July 18.  Precautionary Credit  Two German lawmakers said yesterday the nation was open to
Spain seeking a precautionary  credit line  from  Europe ’s rescue
fund. The comments by Michael Meister, a deputy caucus leader of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc, and
 Norbert Barthle , the party’s budget spokesman, signaled a
reversal of Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s public
position.  European Union leaders are scheduled to gather for a two-
day summit in Brussels starting tomorrow.  Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said he doesn’t see
Spain needing a sovereign bailout, unlike Ireland and Portugal.  “If Spain decides to ask for some sort of bailout then
Europe should be ready to act and I’m sure they will not need a
full program like Ireland or Portugal and instead they might
need some sort of a precautionary program,” Katainen said in an
interview in Bucharest today. “The main focus now should be
that Spain remains in the market and gets funding.”  Spanish Auction  The Iberian nation plans to sell as much as 4.5 billion
euros of bonds maturing between 2015 and 2022 tomorrow. It last
auctioned the securities due in 2022 on Sept. 20 at an average
yield of 5.67 percent.  France is scheduled to sell as much as 8 billion euros of
notes maturing between two- and five-years tomorrow, and up to
2.5 billion euros of inflation-linked bonds due in 2021.  Italy’s two-year notes rose, pushing the yield below 2
percent for the first time since March 16. The rate slid as much
as 14 basis points to 1.98 percent, while the nation’s 10-year
bond yield dropped 17 basis points to 4.77 percent.  Portugal’s  10-year yield  fell below 8 percent for the first
time since March 29, 2011, slipping as much as 33 basis points
to 7.71 percent, the lowest since March 24, 2011.  German bonds returned 2.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities gained 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  