-- Spain’s Aid From EU Can Be Short of Bailout: Katainen
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-17T13:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/spain-s-aid-from-eu-can-be-short-of-full-bailout-katainen-says.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said any financial assistance for  Spain  would stop
short of a full bailout, as French President  Francois Hollande 
backed the country’s demand for clarity over European aid.  European Union leaders must show solidarity should Spain
request funds, though assistance could take the form of a
“precautionary” program, Katainen said today at a conference
in Bucharest. Hollande underscored a divide with  Germany  as
government chiefs prepared to gather for a summit in Brussels
tomorrow, saying that measures taken by Spain in return for any
help should be laid out in detail.  “If Spain decides to ask for some sort of bailout, then
 Europe  should be ready to act -- and I’m sure they will not need
a full program like Ireland or  Portugal , and instead they might
need some sort of a precautionary program,” Katainen said in an
interview in the Romanian capital. “The main focus now should
be that Spain remains in the market and gets funding.”  The shape of any bailout for Spain is crystallizing as
policy makers try to prevent the country from disrupting the
calm that has descended on markets three years after the 17-
nation euro bloc’s budget crisis first started. With EU leaders
set to convene, the French president said they need to forge
clarity on the issue.  “Spain needs to know the precise conditions under which it
would receive financial help,” Hollande said in a joint
interview with six  newspapers . Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government believes that terms should be negotiated once a
request is made, an aide told reporters in Berlin today.  Hollande’s Challenge  By throwing his support behind Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  and calling for budgetary easing from countries
that can afford it, Hollande is setting out a challenge for
Merkel similar to the one he made at the last summit in June.  Since then, turmoil across the region’s bond markets has
eased after the  European Central Bank  offered to buy the bonds
of struggling governments and the euro area set up its 500-
billion euro ($656 billion) permanent rescue fund.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year government bond  today dropped
29 basis points to 5.51 percent at 2:45 p.m. Paris time after
Moody’s Investors Service cited the ECB’s move as a reason to
keep its investment grade credit rating on Spain. The yield
climbed above 7.6 percent in July.  The rate on Italian debt fell 11 basis points to 4.82
percent and the euro rose to a one-month high of $1.3172.  Rajoy’s Plea  While Rajoy has said Spain won’t request aid until the
terms are clearer, two German government officials said today
it’s not possible at this moment to say what those conditions
would be.  Hollande said in his interview that Spain, like Portugal,
is “paying dearly” for the mistakes of others. He predicted
that the worst of the sovereign debt crisis is over because
speculation about a possible break-up of the single currency has
abated.  Greece , which requires funding in coming weeks, should
receive it without signing up to conditions beyond which Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras has already committed it, according to
the French president. He didn’t say whether the country should
receive additional funding or more time to repay its debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  