-- St. Jude May Get FDA Warning Letter on California Plant
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-17T20:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/st-jude-may-get-warning-letter-on-california-plant-ceo-says.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) , a maker of
heart rhythm devices, may get a regulatory warning letter
involving a manufacturing facility in  California , Chief
Executive Officer Dan Starks said. The shares fell.  The Sylmar plant is being inspected by the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration , which probably will lead to a negative
report and possibly a warning letter, Starks said on a
conference call today. He declined to comment on what the FDA
might find at the facility, which makes defibrillators.  St. Jude has been under the microscope since it stopped
selling Riata wires, used to connect defibrillators to the
heart, in 2010 and recalled them a year later because the cables
could break through their insulation. The issue with so-called
externalized cables sparked appropriate attention from doctors,
patients and regulators, which increases the odds the
manufacturing plant will be cited for shortcomings, Starks said.  “We would not be surprised if these observations are
ultimately followed by the issuance of a warning letter,”
Starks said on the call. If a warning letter is issued, “we
will respond in a way that demonstrates our top priority is
patient safety and quality assurance,” he said.  St. Jude  dropped  4.9 percent to $40.85 at 4:05 p.m. in New
York. The shares of the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company have
risen 19 percent so far this year.  Not Aware  Starks said he isn’t aware of any specific problems at the
facility and is laying out the potential implications of the
review for investors. A warning letter can prevent a company
from getting additional products approved by the FDA until any
deficiencies are corrected. Starks declined to say what devices
the company might seek clearance for in the U.S. next year.  “When you ask what is wrong in Sylmar, there is nothing,”
Starks said. “Everyone should be realistic about what the
likely outcomes are. There isn’t more to it than that,” he
said. “In the long run, we think it’s good for our markets that
the public knows the FDA is exercising its role in a very
vigorous and robust way.”  Cardiac rhythm management products including defibrillators
and pacemakers  generated  $691 million in third-quarter sales, a
drop of 8 percent from a year earlier, St. Jude said in a
statement today. The device maker lowered its forecast for 2012
sales of defibrillators to $2.83 billion to $2.86 billion, from
$2.86 billion to $2.9 billion.  Lowered Guidance  “Beyond defibrillators, St. Jude also lowered 2012 sales
guidance in cardiovascular and neuromodulation, which
potentially suggests continued pressure on the company’s non-ICD
business,” wrote Danielle Antalffy, an analyst at Leerink Swann
in  New York .  Net income decreased to $176 million, or 46 cents a share,
from $227 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, St. Jude said.
Earnings excluding one-time items were $261 million, or 83 cents
a share, topping by 2 cents the average of 23 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  St. Jude disclosed the possibility of a warning letter in
order to be as transparent as possible, said John Heinmiller,
the company’s executive vice president, in a telephone
interview. Once the FDA notes several observations during an
plant audit, they may be concerned there are “systemic or
pervasive” flaws in the company’s quality systems, he said.  “We have enough insight into the status of the audit that
we thought our comments - that we wouldn’t be surprised if we
receive a warning letter - would be appropriate,” Heinmiller
said. “It’s too early to speculate” on the nature of the
deficiencies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  