-- Stanford’s Accountants Accused of Hiding Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-17T18:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/stanford-accountants-face-final-criminal-trial-over-ponzi-scheme.html
Two Stanford Financial Group Co.
accountants actively assisted R. Allen Stanford in perpetrating
a $7 billion investor fraud, a prosecutor alleged at the start
of the last criminal trial tied to the Ponzi scheme.  Chief Accounting Officer Gilbert Lopez, 70, and Global
Controller Mark Kuhrt, 40, face 10 counts of wire fraud and one
count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, which could send them
to prison for more than 20 years if convicted. The men pleaded
not guilty after they were indicted with Stanford in June 2009.  “This trial is about two high-level corporate accountants
who knew about the biggest part of the fraud and actively worked
behind the scenes for years to cover it up,”  Jeffrey Goldberg ,
a prosecutor from the U.S. Justice Department, told a federal
jury today in Houston.  Stanford, 62, was convicted in March of misappropriating
more than $7 billion from investors who bought bogus
certificates of deposit from his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. The former  Texas  financier, who is
serving a 110-year term in federal prison in  Florida , is
appealing his conviction and sentence.  Stanford told CD buyers their money was invested in
conservative liquid assets. Evidence at his jury trial showed he
was actually siphoning cash into risky private-equity ventures,
speculative real estate developments, cricket tournaments and a
lavish personal lifestyle that included private jets, yachts and
mansions.  Primary Evidence  The primary evidence against Lopez and Kuhrt consists of e-
mails in which they discussed Stanford’s unreported loans and
how to value certain assets to disguise that debt in the months
before U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s businesses
in February 2009.  Lopez, Kuhrt and James M. Davis, who was Stanford’s chief
financial officer, discussed in these messages how to repeatedly
flip a Caribbean resort property among Stanford entities so that
its value could be inflated from $63.5 million to $3.2 billion
in a matter of months, according to the indictment.  The inflated value was intended to plug the hole in the
books caused by Stanford’s personal loans and bad investments,
prosecutors have said.  Lopez and Kuhrt also helped represent to investors that
Stanford made a $741 million capital contribution to bolster the
bank’s balance sheet in late 2008, when “Stanford did not make
such capital contributions,” according to prosecutors.  Following Instructions  Defense lawyers today told the jury that their clients were
just following instructions from Stanford and Davis and never
intended to break any laws.  “Did Gil Lopez act with criminal intent, or was Gil Lopez
kept in the dark by Jim Davis and Allen Stanford?” Lopez’s
lawyer Jack Zimmermann asked the jury of 10 men and five women,
including three alternates who may not participate in
deliberations.  Zimmermann said Stanford and Davis didn’t tell the
accountants they were bribing officials, supplying phony
investment returns or deleting disclosure footnotes from the
bank’s financial statements.  “Listen carefully for any lies that  Mark Kuhrt  told, not
lies that Jim Davis told,” Richard Kuniansky, Kuhrt’s lawyer,
told the jurors. “These annual reports are full of lies, but
they are Jim Davis’s and Allen Stanford’s lies. Mark Kuhrt did
not lie to anybody.”  ‘The Greatest’  Lopez and Kuhrt weren’t part of Stanford’s inner circle and
were in the same situation as Stanford’s investors and U.S.
securities regulators, Kuniansky said. “They were conned by one
of the greatest con artists ever.”  Goldberg, the prosecutor, told a different story.  “They knew full well their boss was lying to his customers
and using their money for himself,” Goldberg said during his
opening remarks.  He also told the jurors they would hear testimony from
Davis during the trial, which may last four to five weeks.  The accountants’ lawyers have said prosecutors are
misconstruing documents that were in draft form at the time
regulators seized the company. They claim that Stanford and his
accountants were in the process of consolidating the private
enterprises he funded with investor loans onto the bank’s
balance sheet, and that they were prevented from completing the
rollup by the government shutdown.  Executive Pleas  Davis pleaded guilty to his role in the scheme in 2009,
testified against Stanford and is awaiting sentencing. Laura Pendergest Holt, Stanford’s investment chief, pleaded guilty in
June to obstructing a federal investigation into Stanford’s
companies and was sentenced to three years in prison.  As of May 31, more than 20,000 Stanford CD investors had
received nothing from about $220 million that court-appointed
receiver Ralph Janvey has recovered from the sale of Stanford’s
corporate and personal assets. About $108 million of that
recovery has gone to cover the U.S. receivership’s expenses and
windup costs of Stanford’s sprawling business empire.  An additional $335 million in Stanford assets have been
identified in banks in the U.K., Switzerland and  Canada . Janvey
is fighting for control of those assets with an Antiguan-
appointed receiver, who has spent about $20 million pursuing
Stanford assets on behalf of defrauded investors.  The case is U.S. v Lopez, 4:09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  