-- Starbucks Should Face U.K. Tax Investigation, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-10-17T20:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/starbucks-should-face-u-k-tax-investigation-lawmaker-says.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  should be
investigated by the U.K. tax authorities, said  Margaret Hodge ,
chairwoman of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee.  The company paid no income taxes on revenue of 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.94 billion) over the past three years by using intra-
company transfers and loans to record a loss for its British
business,  Reuters  reported Oct. 15, citing company filings.
There is no suggestion the Seattle-based company has broken the
law.  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs “must take a serious look
into these allegations against Starbucks,” Hodge, an opposition
 Labour Party  lawmaker, said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Ordinary people and small businesses, who pay their taxes in
full and without question, will rightly be furious that yet
again a highly  profitable  global corporation has wriggled out of
paying its fair share.”  Starbucks  fell  1.2 percent to $48.39 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 5.2 percent this year.  “Starbucks does pay tax in the U.K.,” Kris Engskov,
managing director of Starbucks U.K., said in an e-mailed
statement today. In the past three years, the company has paid
more than 160 million pounds in employee, national insurance and
business rates tax, he said.  ‘Regrettably’ Unprofitable  “The truth of the matter is, the one tax that has been
debated in the media, corporation tax, is based on the profits
we make in this country -- and regrettably we are not yet as
profitable as we’d like to be,” he said. Starbucks hasn’t paid
 corporation tax  in the U.K. during the past three years.  The world’s largest coffee-shop operator has said it may
close some unprofitable locations in  Europe  as it seeks to turn
around the company’s  performance  there. It also has recently
changed its drink recipes and started airing television ads in
the U.K. to draw customers.  “Europe continues to be our most challenged part of the
world by far,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said in
July after Starbucks reported third-quarter earnings results.
The European economy is “extremely challenging and perhaps
worsened during the quarter,” he said.  Starbucks’s effective tax rate was 31.1 percent in its
fiscal 2011, compared with 34 percent the year before, according
to a regulatory filing. The reduction was partially due to an
increase in income in international countries having lower tax
rates, Starbucks said in the filing.  The company’s  tax rate  for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 may
be about 33 percent, Starbucks has said. The average tax rate
for U.S.-based restaurants with a market capitalization greater
than $100 million is 32.2 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Starbucks has more than 17,600 stores worldwide, including
about 750 in the U.K., its largest European market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  