-- Starwood to Set Up Aloft, Expand Four Points Hotels in Australia
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-17T23:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/starwood-to-set-up-aloft-expand-four-points-hotels-in-australia.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , the hospitality group founded by  Barry Sternlicht , will
introduce its four-plus-star Aloft  brand  in Australia and expand
the presence of its Four Points by Sheraton in the nation.  The  Stamford , Connecticut-based company plans to open as
many as 15 Aloft hotels in Australia and have a Four Points by
Sheraton hotel in all eight state capitals within five years,
said Andrew Taylor, Sydney-based director of acquisitions and
developments for the Pacific region.  “We haven’t seen the conditions we’re seeing now for at
least the past 10 years, with record occupancies in Sydney,
Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane, and rates have lifted quite
dramatically,” Taylor said in an interview in Sydney on Oct.
16. “We’re pursuing Aloft and Four Points deals in both new-
build projects and rebranding opportunities.”  Hotels in Sydney,  Melbourne  and Perth recorded occupancy
rates above 80 percent in the year ended June 30, driven by a
lack of new construction and demand from business travelers,
according to figures from Chicago-based broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. Occupancies will climb to 87 percent in Sydney, 86
percent in Perth and 82 percent in Melbourne by 2015, according
to  forecasts  by Sydney-based hospitality consultancy AHS
Advisory.  The average room rate will surge to about A$260 ($270) in
Perth in 2015, from about A$175 in 2011, AHS expects. In Sydney,
the rate will climb to about A$215 from about A$185 and in
Melbourne to A$200 from about A$176, AHS figures show.  Starwood this year has sold properties globally, including
the Manhattan at Times Square in  New York  City, the W in  Los
Angeles  and the W Chicago-Lakeshore as it focuses on managing,
rather than owning, hotels. In Australia, the five-star Sheraton
on the Park hotel in Sydney, overlooking Hyde Park, is its only
owned property, Taylor said.  Recent Transactions  The company, whose hotels include the Westin, W and St.
Regis brands, signed an agreement to take over the management of
the Citigate hotel in Perth in June, Taylor said. It has re-
branded the hotel, Starwood’s first in the Western Australian
capital, as a Four Points by Sheraton, he said.  Starwood will open Melbourne’s only Sheraton Hotel in March
2014 as part of a mixed-use project that includes apartments and
retail properties, according to Taylor. The property is being
developed by the  Golden Age Development Group , a private company
based in the city.  “We’re not asleep at the wheel in the luxury space,”
Taylor said. “But in the past, the criticism has been that
Starwood was too focused on its luxury product. And  Australia  is
a 4.5-star market.”  Starwood is in talks to manage a hotel that’s being
developed in a city on Australia’s east coast, to be one of its
“mid-market” brands and set to open in 2013 or early 2014,
Taylor said, declining to provide further details.  It is also planning to enter Auckland with a Sheraton hotel
within the next three years, Taylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  