-- StormHarbour Seeks to Boost Real Estate Investments in Japan
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-10-17T00:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/stormharbour-seeks-to-boost-real-estate-investments-in-japan.html
StormHarbour Partners, led by former
Citigroup Inc. bankers Antonio Cacorino and Fredrick Chapey,
plans to expand property investments in  Japan  to meet rising
demand from overseas investors.  StormHarbour Japan Ltd. plans to invest in several
buildings each worth about 10 billion yen ($127 million),
compared with about 1 billion yen it has made annually in the
first two years since the unit started business in the country,
said Michimasa Naka, who heads the Japan unit of the financial
advisory firm.  Signs of a recovery in Japan’s real estate market are
attracting investors seeking returns in a nation where property
investments in major cities offer as much as 6 percent yield and
those in the countryside with as much as 10 percent, Naka said.  “We’re seeing an increase in inquiries to invest in real
estate in Japan from overseas clients,” Naka said in an
interview in Tokyo. “The yield they are offering is quite
attractive at the moment.”  Mitsubishi Estate Co. raised 11.2 billion yen to buy four
properties in Tokyo for its private real estate investment
trust, while Sparx Group Co. announced plans last month to start
a property fund in Japan after winning a mandate from a
sovereign wealth fund in the  Middle East .  Investments in Tokyo remain the most popular, followed by
Fukuoka, a seaport city on the north coast of Kyushu island,
because of its vicinity to the rest of  Asia , Naka said.  Financing for property transactions are also becoming
accessible, making it attractive for investors, Naka said.  “Banks are becoming very bullish on real estate
financing,” he said. “Megabanks and regional banks are
providing loans that allow us to put on some leverage. That
makes it an attractive product for investors.”  The Tokyo office, which was the sixth to open worldwide,
has been trying to match the success of the overseas
counterparts by expanding its offerings beyond its main focus of
selling credit-related products, according to Naka, who was head
of global investor sales of Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the translator of this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  