-- Su’s TMT May Convert 4 Very Large Ore Ships For LNG Use
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2012-10-17T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/su-s-tmt-may-convert-four-very-large-ore-ships-into-lng-tankers.html
TMT Co. , the Taiwanese ship operator
run by Nobu Su, said it may convert four very large ore carriers
into liquefied natural gas tankers as it struggles to reach an
agreement with miner  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  on charter rates.  The shipping company has asked for a minimum guaranteed
payment, while BHP wants to tie fees to an  index  tracking rates
between West Australia and China, Su said in an interview in his
Taipei office Oct. 16. BHP spokeswoman Eleanor Nichols declined
to comment when contacted by phone.  “We want a minimum rate, so we can talk with banks about
financing,” Su said. Banks can’t predict cash flows when rates
are based on a floating index, he said. The four VLOCs are due
to be delivered by shipbuilder Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.  TMT, which has a fleet totaling 6 million deadweight tons,
intends to expand in LNG shipping after commodity-carrying rates
plunged about 90 percent over five years because of overcapacity
and slower demand in  China . The company will save money for the
LNG push by not accepting some of seven panamax-size dry-bulk
ships it has on order at Hyundai Heavy Group.  “We’re not going to take all of them,” Su said. The ships
were among $2.5 billion of deals that TMT placed with Hyundai
Heavy through about 2009, he said. Su denied a  Reuters  report
that the company has defaulted on payments to the shipbuilder.  TMT has received two panamax ships from Hyundai Heavy, and
another one was sold by the shipbuilder, Su said. A panamax is
the biggest ship able to pass through the locks of Panama Canal.
VLOCs are larger vessels with a capacity of about 240,000 DWTs.  TMT paid $1 billion in cash as down payments to  Hyundai
Heavy (009540)  without a refund guarantee, Su said. The company doesn’t
have any other bulk ships on order, he said.  Hyundai Heavy, based in Ulsan,  South Korea , said by e-mail
that it had sold one of the TMT panamax ships and that seven
more were up for sale. It expects to deliver the VLOCs to TMT,
it said.  LNG Tankers  TMT has separately signed an initial agreement with
Japanese shipbuilder  IHI Corp. (7013)  on the construction of LNG
vessels, Su said, without elaboration.  The company has also reached agreement with the government
of Sao Tome & Principe regarding the development of floating LNG
facilities, he said. The west African country is among 23
nations worldwide that maintain formal ties with  Taiwan . Most
other countries have diplomatic relations with China, which
claims Taiwan as part of its territory.  Annual demand for LNG will more than double to about 460
million tons by 2025, according to Deutsche Bank AG forecast in
August. LNG consumption is rising after  Japan ’s nuclear disaster
last year, and as global warming prompts a shift to the cleaner
fuel from coal.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Yu-huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  