-- Swaps Collateral Costs May Increase Under SEC Proposal
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-10-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/swaps-collateral-costs-may-increase-under-rules-weighed-by-sec.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and other trading firms would face higher capital and
collateral costs under swaps-market rules proposed by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday at a meeting in
 Washington  to seek public comment on collateral requirements for
swaps that remain in the over-the-counter market instead of
being settled at third-party clearinghouses. The proposal, part
of the agency’s rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, would also
increase  capital requirements  for dealers of swaps tied to
single securities or loans or a narrow index of swaps.  “These rules are intended to make the financial system
safer, and the derivative markets fairer, more efficient and
more transparent,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said before
commissioners voted on the proposal.  The SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
leading U.S. rulemaking to limit risk and boost transparency
after unregulated swaps contributed to the 2008 credit crisis.
The SEC has authority to regulate equity and credit-default
swaps, while the CFTC oversees  interest rate , broader indexes of
credit-default swaps and commodity trades.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation law, calls for
most swaps in the $648 trillion market to be guaranteed at
clearinghouses that hold collateral from buyers and sellers to
cut  default risk . The SEC is the last U.S. regulator to propose
collateral requirements for non-cleared trades.  Largest Brokerages  Under the proposal, dealers in swaps tied to securities
would need to set aside a fixed amount of capital and a
percentage of collateral. They would be required to have capital
equal to an additional 8 percent of collateral for cleared and
non-cleared trades.  All swap dealers would need to have at least $20 million in
fixed net capital. Bigger and more complex brokerages that use
internal computer models to comply with capital rules would need
to double minimum capital from $500 million to $1 billion.  The SEC is also seeking comment on how dealers collect
margin from each other. The agency is asking whether dealers
need to collect both variation and initial margin. Initial
margin is posted at the beginning of a trade, whereas variation
margin may be exchanged daily to offset risk from price
movements. The proposal allows cash, securities and money-market
instruments to be used as collateral.  Under the proposal, dealers wouldn’t need collect to
collateral from commercial end-users whose swaps aren’t cleared.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , an organization
representing international securities regulators, called in July
for consistency in global rules governing collateral for
derivatives.  The $648 trillion figure is the total notional amount
outstanding of over-the-counter derivatives through December
2011, according to the Bank of International Settlements, a
Basel, Switzerland-based organization that promotes global
financial collaboration and serves as a bank for central banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  