-- U.K Energy Reform Pace Is ‘Frustrating,’ Business Lobby Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-10-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-k-energy-reform-pace-is-frustrating-business-lobby-says.html
The U.K. energy market’s pace of
reform is “frustrating” and risks falling victim to
“paralysis by analysis,” the U.K.’s biggest business lobby
group said.  Britain needs to encourage investment in a diverse energy
mix including renewable energy, nuclear power, natural gas and
carbon capture and storage, Neil Bentley, deputy director
general of the Confederation of British Industry, said in an e-
mailed speech he’s due to deliver today alongside Energy and
Climate Change Secretary  Ed Davey .  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, has advocated renewable energy
as his department works to bring a draft energy law before
Parliament this fall. Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne, a member of the Conservative Party, has supported gas
and on Oct. 8 announced possible tax breaks for shale
production.  “Let’s stop arguing over the energy mix and focus on
attracting investment to create jobs and growth as quickly as
possible,” Bentley said in the prepared remarks. “There is no
business case for putting billions of pounds into these long-
lived assets if investors cannot see a long-term, stable policy
framework. Right now, the policy future looks too much like a
blank canvas.”  In July, the U.K granted a tax credit worth 500 million
pounds ($776 million) for gas drillers, a measure sought by
Osborne, and cut subsidies for renewable energy.  The energy department on May 22 published a draft of a bill
designed to attract the 110 billion pounds of investment needed
to replace aging power stations and upgrade the grid by 2020.
Bentley today will call for more detail to be included in the
draft law that goes before Parliament later this year.  The CBI is calling for more clarity on incentives to the
energy industry beyond 2015 and a proposed plan to pay power
generators for providing back-up supply. Bentley will also
demand relief for energy-intensive industries to exempt them
from some of the additional costs of new regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  