-- U.K. Unemployment Falls as London Olympics Boost Job Creation
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-17T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-k-unemployment-falls-as-london-olympics-boost-job-creation.html
U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly
fell in September and a wider measure of unemployment dropped to
the lowest rate in more than a year as the London Olympics
helped push employment to a record.  Jobless-benefit claims fell 4,000 from August to 1.57
million, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News Survey
was for no change in claims. The jobless total measured by
International Labor Organization methods declined to 7.9
percent, the lowest since the quarter through June 2011, from
8.1 percent. Employment surged 212,000 to 29.6 million, the
highest since records began in 1971.  The figures provide a boost for Prime Minister  David
Cameron  and deepen what the  Bank of England  and economists
describe as a “productivity puzzle” as the economy continues
to create jobs despite Britain’s return to recession at the end
of last year.  “Even if growth is zero rather than negative it’s still
surprising to see unemployment falling,”  David Tinsley , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in London, said before the report
was released. “I’d be surprised to see continued good news on
employment front.”  ILO unemployment fell 50,000 to 2.53 million in the three
months through August, the statistics office said. London
accounted for almost half of the jobs created in the period,
suggesting the Olympics provided an employment boost in the
capital.  Productivity Puzzle  Jobless claims fell for a third straight month in
September, leaving the rate at 4.8 percent. In August, claims
fell 14,200 instead of the 15,000 originally reported.  Economists have struggled to explain the strength of the
labor market at a time when the economy is shrinking. As a
result, productivity has failed to recover as it did in the
downturns of the early 1980s and early 1990s. Output per worker
remains almost 4 percent below its pre-recession peak in early
2008, potentially limiting the economy’s scope to grow without
pushing up inflation.  Possible explanations include an increase in self-
employment and part-time work and the downward pressure on
wages, which is helping companies to hold down labor costs. In
an analysis published yesterday, the ONS rejected suggestions
that the economy may be doing better than the official figures
suggest, saying “implausibly large” revisions to gross
domestic product would be needed to explain the productivity
conundrum.  Incomes Squeeze  Average earnings grew 1.7 percent, little changed from the
1.6 percent in the previous period. Excluding bonuses, pay
growth was 2 percent, the highest since December. That compares
with inflation of 2.2 percent, and the squeeze on incomes may
intensify after some of Britain’s biggest power companies
announced price increases starting next month.  GDP shrank 0.4 percent in the three months through June,
the third straight quarter of contraction, and the economy is on
course to contract this year for the first time since 2009.  While a rebound is forecast in the third quarter after one-
time disruptions in the prior three months, surveys suggest
underlying growth is weak as companies across the services,
manufacturing and construction industries cut jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  