-- U.K. Unemployment Declines as Payrolls Surge to Record
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-17T11:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-k-unemployment-falls-as-london-olympics-boost-hiring-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly
fell and payrolls rose to a record high as the London Olympics
helped boost hiring.  Jobless-benefit claims fell 4,000 to 1.57 million in
September, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The number of people in work surged 212,000 to 29.6
million in the quarter through August, the highest since records
began in 1971. Separately, minutes of the  Bank of England ’s
policy meeting this month showed that officials are divided on
the need for more stimulus for the economy.  The labor-market strength provides a boost for Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and deepens what the Bank of England
describes as a “productivity puzzle” as the economy continues
to create jobs despite Britain’s  return to recession  at the end
of last year. That may deepen divisions among Bank of England
policy makers assessing the outlook for inflation and growth.  “Yet another strong set of labor-market figures, which on
one hand is encouraging, but on the other makes the so-called
productivity puzzle even more baffling,” said Nida Ali, an
economist at the Ernst & Young ITEM Club in London. “It’s
likely that there will be some form of payback in the months
ahead.”  Economists had forecast no change to September jobless
claims, according to the  median of 27 estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey. The decline in claims was the third consecutive
drop and it left the claimant-count rate at 4.8 percent. The
June-August jobless rate measured by International Labor
Organization methods declined to 7.9 percent, the lowest in more
than a year, from 8.1 percent.  Part-Time Surge  The surge in payrolls was led by part-time hiring. While
the number of people in full-time employment rose 88,000, part-
time employment jumped 125,000. James Ashley, an economist at
 RBC Capital Markets  in London, said it’s “possible that some of
the July/August figures might have been flattered slightly by an
increase in short-term Olympics-related jobs.”  The Bank of England minutes said that policy makers have
“differences of view” on the outlook. The central bank’s
current stimulus round ends next month, leaving officials facing
a decision over whether to expand quantitative easing again.  “Some members felt that there was considerable scope for
asset purchases,” the central bank said. “Other members, while
acknowledging that asset purchases had the scope to lower long-
term yields further, questioned the magnitude of the impact that
lower long-term yields on corporate debt and equity would have
on the broader economy.”  The pound rose against the dollar and was at $1.6166 as of
12:51 p.m. in  London , up 0.3 percent on the day.  London Jobs  The labor-market report also showed that ILO unemployment
fell 50,000 to 2.53 million in the three months through August,
the lowest since April-June 2011. London accounted for almost
half of the jobs created in the period.  While unemployment among 16 to 24-year-olds fell by 
62,000 between June and August to below 1 million, the number 
of people out of work for longer than a year climbed to stand 
at 35.5 percent of the national jobless total.  “There’s more we need to do to tackle youth unemployment,
long-term unemployment, but the figures today should be
welcomed,” Cameron said in his weekly question-and-answer
session in the House of Commons today.  Economists have struggled to explain the strength of the
labor market at a time when the economy is shrinking. Possible
explanations include an increase in self-employment and part-
time work and downward pressure on wages, which is helping
companies to hold down labor costs. The ONS yesterday rejected
suggestions that the economy may be doing better than the
official figures suggest, saying “implausibly large” revisions
to output would be needed to explain the conundrum.  Incomes Squeeze  Average earnings  grew 1.7 percent, little changed from the
1.6 percent in the previous period. Excluding bonuses, pay
growth was 2 percent, the highest since December. That compares
with inflation of 2.2 percent, and the squeeze on incomes may
intensify after some of Britain’s biggest power companies
announced price increases starting next month.  GDP shrank 0.4 percent in the three months through June,
the  third straight quarter  of contraction, and the economy is on
course to contract this year for the first time since 2009.
While a rebound is forecast in the third quarter after one-time
disruptions in the prior three months, surveys suggest
underlying growth is weak.  German Economy  Elsewhere in  Europe ,  Germany ’s government published new
forecasts showing it expects the economy to grow 0.8 percent
this year and 1 percent in 2013. It cut the 2013 projection from
1.6 percent.  Swiss  investor confidence  rose in October, the ZEW and
Credit Suisse Group AG said in a separate report. Their index of
investor and analyst expectations that aims to predict economic
developments six months in advance increased to minus 28.9 from
minus 34.9 in September.  The U.S. Commerce Department releases data later today that
may show new-home construction rose in September to the highest
level in four years.  Builders broke ground on 770,000 houses at an annual rate,
up from 750,000 starts in August and the most since October
2008, according to the median estimate of 80 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Permits for new projects also probably increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  