-- U.K. Will Implement Wheatley Plan for Libor Overhaul in Full
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-17T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-k-will-implement-wheatley-plan-for-libor-overhaul-in-full-1-.html
The U.K. government said it will
implement “in full” recommendations from Martin Wheatley of
the Financial Services Authority to overhaul the setting of the
benchmark  London  interbank offered rate.  The Treasury said in London today that it will enshrine in
law the way Libor is set, create a criminal offense for those
who misreport it and give regulators the power to oversee the
setting of the rate and other financial-industry benchmarks. The
British Bankers’ Association, the industry lobby group that
compiles Libor, will give way to a new rate-setting panel.  “The overwhelming and urgent imperative then is to rebuild
trust,” Treasury minister Greg Clark said in a speech in
London. “The system of regulation that we’ve had for the last
decade was found wanting.”  Wheatley carried out a review at the request of Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound ($469
million) fine in June for manipulating Libor, which is used to
set rates for more than $300 trillion of securities.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide over allegations they colluded to manipulate the
benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives. The U.K.’s Serious
Fraud Office opened a criminal case in July. U.S. investigators
have asked their British counterparts for permission to
interview London traders.  ‘Corrodes Trust’  “The behavior that has been uncovered in the Libor scandal
corrodes trust, and the behavior of a few has tainted the
reputation of an industry,” Clark said earlier in a statement
to Parliament.  The FSA will encourage more banks to submit quotes as part
of the revamp, Wheatley, an FSA managing director, said last
month, and could force uncooperative banks to submit quotes with
its new powers.  The number of Libor reference rates should be cut to 20
from 150 within a year by phasing out currencies and maturities
in which trading is thin, Wheatley said. Publication of Libor
for Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, as well as
Danish kroner and Swedish kronor should be ended, he said.  Four-month, five-month, seven-month, eight-month, 10-month
and 11-month rates should be axed, while eliminating one week,
two-week, two-month and nine-month tenors should also be
considered, according to the proposals.  Banks will also have to follow a code of conduct governing
how they make their daily submissions. Rate-setters will have to
base their inputs on a hierarchy of data points, starting with
any actual transactions in the unsecured inter-bank deposit
market, he said. Where none exist, banks should then consider
any borrowings in other instruments including commercial paper,
repurchase agreements and overnight-index swaps.  Wheatley also proposed banks wait three months before
disclosing publicly their own Libor submissions. To rectify the
“reduction in immediate transparency” he recommended lenders
publish a regular bulletin that includes trading volumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  