-- U.S. Bancorp Record Earnings Beat Estimates on Mortgages
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-17T20:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-s-bancorp-record-earnings-beat-estimates-on-mortgages.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s biggest
regional lender, said third-quarter profit climbed 16 percent to
a record, beating analysts’ estimates as mortgage-banking
revenue more than doubled.  Net income rose to $1.47 billion, or 74 cents a share, from
$1.27 billion, or 64 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-
based company said today in a statement. The  average estimate  of
31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was per-share profit of 73
cents.  U.S. Bancorp is focusing on taking market share in mortgage
banking, a business that has been a “real positive” for the
company, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis , 54, told
investors at a conference last month. Historically low  interest
rates  and government incentive programs are fueling demand for
home loans.  “Earnings included continued strong mortgage-banking
activity, which contributed to our growth in fee income,
residential real estate loans and loans held for sale,” Davis,
who has never posted a loss since taking over at U.S. Bancorp in
2006, said in the statement.  U.S. Bancorp rose 1.8 percent to $34.20 in  New York  trading
at 4:15 p.m. The shares  gained  24 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 28 percent advance in the 24-company
KBW Bank Index.  Mortgage Revenue  Revenue from mortgage banking in the third quarter was $519
million, compared with $245 million in the same period last
year. That helped drive a 10 percent increase in non-interest
income, which rose to $2.4 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,
reported a third-quarter profit increase last week that included
a 72 percent surge in mortgage revenue. CEO  Jamie Dimon  said at
the time that the housing market has “turned the corner.”  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said
today that housing prices are “no question” moving in the
right direction.  “This is the best housing has felt in a long time,”
Thompson said today on a conference call with journalists. The
second-largest U.S. bank reported an 18 percent increase in
mortgage originations, though third-quarter profit tumbled 95
percent on litigation expenses and an accounting charge tied to
the firm’s debt.  U.S. Bancorp’s net interest income increased 6.1 percent to
$2.78 billion, and total revenue rose 8 percent to a record
$5.18 billion.  Profit Margins  While spurring demand for mortgages,  low interest rates 
also mean banks earn less on the money they lend. U.S. Bancorp’s
net interest margin, the difference between what it pays in
deposits and what it charges for loans, narrowed to 3.59 percent
from 3.65 percent in the third quarter of last year and widened
from 3.58 percent in this year’s second quarter.  CFO Andrew Cecere said on a conference call with analysts
today that he expected the margin to narrow a few basis points,
or hundredths of a percentage point, in the fourth quarter.  The bank set aside $488 million for soured loans, a 6
percent decline from the third quarter of last year. Net charge-
offs dropped 20 percent to $538 million.  Average total loans climbed 7.3 percent to $216.9 billion
from the third quarter of last year and increased 1.3 percent
from the second quarter, according to the statement. That was
driven by a 22 percent rise in commercial loans and a 20 percent
increase in residential mortgages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 