-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Oct. 12 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-10-17T14:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-oct-12-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.8 million barrels per
day during the week ending October 12, 70 thousand barrels per
day above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
87.4 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging over 9.0 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging nearly 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 8.3 million barrels per day
last week, up by 126 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
about 8.1 million barrels per day, 785 thousand barrels per day
below the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 530 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 85 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 369.2 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
1.7 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Of the increase in total motor gasoline
inventories, almost all of it was due to an increase in blending
components inventories. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by
2.2 million barrels last week and are below the lower limit of
the average range for this time of year. Propane/propylene
inventories decreased by 1.3 million barrels last week, but
remained above the upper limit of the average range. Total
commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 2.7 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.8 million barrels per day, which is the same level
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly 8.7
million barrels per day, down by 2.3 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
about 3.9 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down
by 4.2 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.3 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  