-- U.S., Jamaica Reach Final Round of World Cup Soccer Qualifying
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/u-s-jamaica-reach-final-round-of-world-cup-soccer-qualifying.html
The U.S. defeated Guatemala 3-1 to
reach the final stage of regional qualifying for soccer’s 2014
World Cup. Jamaica also advanced from the group with a 4-1 win
over Antigua and Barbuda.  Clint Dempsey  got two goals and an assist, while team
captain Carlos Bocanegra also scored for the U.S. at a sold-out
Livestrong Sporting Park in  Kansas City , Kansas, last night.  The U.S., seeking to reach soccer’s global championship for
the seventh straight edition, finished atop its four-team pool
with 13 points from six games. Jamaica was second on goal
difference from Guatemala, with each on 10 points.  “We want to go to the World Cup and this is the first step
in getting there,” Dempsey told ESPN in a televised interview.
“It’s going to be tough.”  The top two countries from each of three pools play in the
last round of qualifying for the North and Central America and
Caribbean region. The top three claim a spot at the  World Cup ,
while the fourth-place finisher enters a two-game playoff
against the winner of the Oceania group, currently  New Zealand .  In Group C, Honduras routed Canada 8-1 to advance at the
expense of its opponent.  Panama  drew 1-1 in Cuba to secure the
second qualifying spot. Honduras and Panama each finished with
11 points, one more than Canada.  Mexico, which had already qualified from Group B, won 2-0
at home against El Salvador to finish atop Group B with a
maximum 18 points.  Costa Rica  routed Guyana 7-0 to secure the
final qualification spot with 10 points.  Brazil  is scheduled to host the World Cup from June 12 to
July 13, 2014.  Early Goals  Guatemala went ahead last night as  Carlos Ruiz  collected a
long pass in the fifth minute and took one touch to go around
U.S. goalkeeper  Tim Howard  before sliding the ball into the net.  Five minutes later, Bocanegra redirected Dempsey’s header
from a corner into the net. In the 18th minute, Dempsey lifted
Eddie Johnson’s cross over goalkeeper Ricardo Jerez from close
range to make it 2-1.  Dempsey then tapped in Michael Bradley’s chip over
goalkeeper Jerez in the 36th minute for his 30th international
goal, tying Brian McBride as the team’s third-highest all-time
scorer behind  Landon Donovan  (49) and Eric Wynalda (34).  With Jamaica leading 2-0, Guatemala had to get a goal or
rely on Antigua and Barbuda scoring to get back into the second
qualifying spot.  Guatemala  got a break when Antigua striker
Quinton Griffith curled a 25-yard (22-meter) free kick into the
net in the 61st minute at Independence Park in Kingston.  With 12 minutes remaining in each match, Jamaica retook
second place on goal difference when Dane Richards scored. The
Reggae Boyz made certain of advancing when Richards got a second
goal two minutes before the end of the game.  After failing to qualify for the World Cup from 1954
through 1986, the U.S. has played at every edition since 1990,
making the quarterfinals in 2002 and the round of 16 in 1994 and
2010. In nine appearances, the U.S. has a 7-5-17 record at the
quadrennial tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  