-- Tucker Swipes at Bank Pay as Race for BOE Post Intensifies
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-10-17T11:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/tucker-swipes-at-bank-pay-as-race-for-boe-post-intensifies-1-.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  called for a strengthening of bank pay rules and backed
proposals in the Liikanen report on using debt to cover bonuses
to executives.  “There should also be a review of the structure of
remuneration for desk-level bankers -- tying pay to the medium-
term success of the firm,” Tucker told bankers in London today,
according to a speech released by the central bank. “Putting it
bluntly, that would make it less easy to get rich quick,
irrespective of the quality of business transacted or the
compliance culture in their part of the firm.”  Tucker’s comments on measures to strengthen financial-
system resilience are his first in London since the close of
applications for the job to replace Governor  Mervyn King . His
potential rivals for the position include Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and  John Vickers , who leads the
Independent Commission on Banking.  The need to tie bank pay to business performance “points
to revisiting the terms and scope of the existing codes on
remuneration of the G-20 Financial Stability Board, the European
Union and, in the U.K., the Financial Services Authority,”
Tucker said.  Liikanen Support  He also signaled support for proposals from a European
Union-commissioned group led by Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen. Among its recommendations, the group called for a
share of bonus awards to be in debt that can be written down if
a lender gets into difficulties.  “Once debt holders are unambiguously exposed to loss, the
authorities need to consider whether to require management to be
paid to a significant extent in subordinated debt: an idea
recently endorsed by the Liikanen Committee,” Tucker said.
“Having managers exposed to instruments whose value depends on
the survival of their firm would give them a healthy incentive
to maintain a safe and sound bank.”  Tucker, who was speaking to the annual conference of the
 British Bankers Association , returned to the issue of pay
repeatedly as he discussed ways of improving regulation.  “Higher  capital requirements  will affect behavior as well
as resilience,” he said. “The first-round effect of higher
capital requirements is probably to depress the headline return
on equity. It has seemed to me quite likely that that will
prompt shareholders to demand a larger share of the cake, with a
smaller share going to managers.”  Tucker also said there is “still a tangible probability,
not a high probability, that the worst may still be ahead.”  BOE Race  Tucker, 54, remains the favorite to succeed King, according
to odds from  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  The bookmaker now has him at 5-6,
meaning a 6-pound ($9.70) winning bet would yield a 5-pound
profit. The odds on Vickers have narrowed to 7-2 from 7-1 last
week, making him second favorite. Turner, the previous second
favourite, is at 9-2.  BBA Chief Executive Officer Anthony Browne said today that
the next governor should be someone who has the interests of
 London  as a financial center “at heart.”  The governor’s role “has been massively enhanced by the
government,” Browne said on Bloomberg Television. “It needs to
be someone who’s a diplomat, has the interests of London as a
financial services center at heart and someone who’s well
briefed in monetary policy and financial services as a whole.”  Tucker’s comments coincided with a call by Treasury
Financial Secretary Greg Clark for banks to shed staff who are
tainted by scandal or have failed to recognize the need for a
change of culture, according to an interview in the Financial
Times today. Tucker limited his own comments to ways to improve
regulation rather than criticism of bank practices.  “We may not be able to abolish the occasional waves of
optimism that grip humanity and the tendency to excess they set
off,” Tucker said. “But we can and must dampen their effects
on the financial system and economy. This must include changing
the incentives that bankers face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  