-- Hudson’s Bay to Sell Shares Ahead of Target, Nordstrom
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-18T13:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hudson-s-bay-files-documents-for-ipo.html
Hudson’s Bay Co.,  Canada ’s oldest
company, will return to the Toronto Stock Exchange after more
than six years as mass-retailer  Target Corp. (TGT)  and upscale
department store Nordstrom Inc. arrive from the U.S. to
challenge both the high and low-end of its market share.  The 342-year-old retailer, which owns the U.S. fashion
store chain  Lord & Taylor  and The Bay department stores in
Canada, is pursuing an initial public offering after “executing
a transformation” and “revitalization” of its stores,
Hudson’s Bay said in a regulatory filing. The Toronto-based
company didn’t disclose the amount to be raised or the share
price.  Hudson’s Bay, which dates back to 1670 when it was founded
as a fur-trading venture, seeks to sell shares at a time when
retail competition is poised to intensify in Canada.
Minneapolis-based Target, the second-biggest U.S. retailer,
plans to open 125 to 135 stores in the country next year, and
Seattle-based  Nordstrom (JWN)  plans to open the first of what may be
nine locations in 2014.  “The Bay is getting squeezed from both sides, Nordstrom
from one side and Target from the other side,” said Alex
Arifuzzaman, a partner with InterStratics Consultants Inc., a
retail consulting firm in Toronto. “They’re trying to cash in
right now before this retail invasion comes next year.”  Hudson’s Bay may seek to raise C$500 million ($511
million), two people with knowledge of the matter said on Sept.
5, who asked not to be identified as the process is
confidential. Hudson’s Bay would probably sell 20 percent of
itself, one person said.  Quarterly Dividends  Hudson’s Bay said “over the long term” it plans to pay
quarterly dividends with a target payout ratio of 20 percent to
25 percent of expected profit.  Potential investors may have “a little bit of discomfort
on account of the reality and the threat of U.S. encroachment in
the retail sector in Canada,” said  Michael Smedley , who helps
manage about C$1 billion at Morgan Meighen & Associates in
Toronto. “That might put the brakes a bit on the reception in
the marketplace.”  Smedley, whose firm invests in consumer and discretionary
stocks, said he’d consider investing in the retailer, which he
noted has improved its offerings in the past couple years.  “It’s in a very important sector for us and we obviously
have to look at an issue like this,” Smedley, 74, said.  Moderate Overlap  The Bay has a “moderate” merchandise overlap and 40
percent of its stores will be within a kilometer (0.62 miles) of
a Target and 72 percent within five kilometers, according to an
Oct. 1 note from Barclays Plc analyst Jim Durran.  Hudson’s Bay had C$3.9 billion of retail sales in fiscal
2011, according to the filing. That included C$2.2 billion of
sales from stores under The Bay name, and C$1.4 billion of sales
from the 48 Lord & Taylor stores, according to the filing.  “The North American department store segment has benefited
from a revitalization in recent years, resulting in improved
sales and margin trends for us and many of our competitors,”
the company said in its filing.  Profit rose to C$1.45 billion for fiscal 2011, from C$88
million in 2010, according to the filing. In January 2011
Hudson’s Bay sold leases for up to 220 of its Zellers stores to
Target for C$1.8 billion. Profit from continuing operations was
$57.3 million in the period. The retailer posted a C$147.8
million loss for the 26 weeks ended July 28, according to the
filing.  Same-store Sales  Same-store sales rose 3.7 percent in 2011 and 3.2 percent
in 2010, compared with 2.8 percent average growth among 10 major
U.S. department stores last year and 2.9 percent growth in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most chains count
locations open at least a year to tabulate same-store sales. The
revenue is a key indicator of a retailer’s growth because new
and closed sites are excluded.  “It looks like it’s doing fine in terms of sales, three
percent sales growth is a pretty healthy number for department
store growth,” said Poonam Goyal, a retail analyst with
Bloomberg Industries. “Typically department stores grow at low
single digits.”  The store’s margin from earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, a key measure of profitability,
was 8 percent in 2011 compared to an average of 9 percent among
10 U.S. department stores, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “They bring that up closer to what their peers are, that’s
a significant opportunity to increase their profit,” said
Arifuzzaman. “But again with the competition, one of the ways
they can drive sales in a very strongly competitive market is to
lower the EBITDA margin, so there’ll be pressure to keep it
down.”  Hudson’s Bay was previously publicly traded in Canada until
U.S. investor Jerry Zucker took the chain private in 2006 for
C$860 million after fighting for control for more than a year.  Bonnie Brooks  In 2008, NRDC Equity Partners LLC, owner of the Lord &
Taylor and Fortunoff chains, agreed to acquire Hudson’s Bay,
investing $500 million in new equity. NRDC Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Baker  became CEO of Hudson’s Bay. In 2008 Baker
hired Bonnie Brooks as president and put her in charge of The
Bay after Brooks engineered the turnaround of Hong Kong-based
department store Lane Crawford Joyce Group.  Since 2008 Hudson’s Bay has invested in upgrading and
modernizing its stores and replacing under-performing brands
with stronger ones.  Lord & Taylor, founded in 1826, became a unit of Hudson’s
Bay in January. Today, the company operates 90 Hudson’s Bay
department stores and 69 Home Outfitters housewares stores
across Canada, as well as 48 Lord & Taylor stores in the U.S.  “We have achieved significant earnings growth through a
combination of enhanced sales productivity, ongoing margin
enhancement and expense reduction,” Hudson’s Bay said in its
filing. “Our retail banners are well-positioned in their
respective markets and we believe that we can continue to
achieve sales and earnings growth.”  The sale is being led by  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ,  Bank of
Montreal (BMO) , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, the company said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  