-- Lumber Mills Trail Rebound in U.S. as Beetles Bite: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-10-18T21:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/lumber-mills-trail-rebound-in-u-s-as-beetles-bite-commodities.html
North American lumber mills are
operating at the fastest pace in four years as U.S. home
building rebounds, just as the worst beetle infestation on
record curbs supply.  About 52.5 billion board feet, the standard industry
measure, will be sawed this year, 5.4 percent more than in 2011
and the most since 2008, CIBC World Markets estimates. Lumber
traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange may rally 11 percent
to $350 per 1,000 board feet by March, the highest since 2006,
said Paul Jannke, an analyst at  Forest Economic Advisors LLC , a
Westford, Massachusetts-based industry consultant.  Sales expectations among U.S. homebuilders for the next six
months turned positive in September for the first time since
2007 as record-low borrowing costs boosted new-home purchases
and sent housing starts to a four-year high. CIBC estimates
about 20 percent of North American capacity has been shut or
idled by mills, including Federal Way, Washington-based
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY)  and  Plum Creek Timber Co. (PCL) , as lumber futures
slumped to the lowest in at least a quarter century in 2009.  “As demand continues to improve, more capacity will be
added, but the market is going to need that capacity,” said
Mark Kennedy, a CIBC analyst in Calgary whose recommendations on
the shares of forestry and paper companies returned 19 percent
in the past six months. “We’ve already seen the lows for the
year.”  Beetle Infestation  Housing is gaining traction amid an infestation of
mountain-pine beetles that the Canadian officials said was the
worst ever. Government data show about 51 percent of marketable
pine forests in British Columbia, the largest timber-producing
 province  in  Canada , were killed as of the summer of 2011,
according to International Wood Markets Group, a consultant and
newsletter publisher in  Vancouver .  Lumber jumped 21 percent to $316.70 this year, rebounding
from an 18 percent retreat in 2011. Only wheat and soybeans
gained more among the 24 commodities tracked by the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge, which rose 3.1 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities advanced 13 percent and Treasuries
returned 1.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Demand for  North America  lumber, a market valued at about
$20 billion a year, will rise to 52.5 billion board feet in
2012, from 49.8 billion in 2011, CIBC estimates. That will
expand to about 56 billion feet next year and as much as 60
billion in 2014, according to Kennedy. The figures include U.S.
and Canadian consumption and net exports, based on standard
boards 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) thick and a foot wide. A
typical U.S. home uses about 16,000 board feet of lumber.  Wood Resources  While U.S. housing is recovering, weakening economic growth
elsewhere may curb the rally in lumber futures.  China  used
almost 10 percent of the softwood lumber produced globally last
year, according to Hakan Ekstrom, the president of Wood
Resources International LLC in Bothell,  Washington . The nation’s
imports of logs and lumber fell 19 percent in the first eight
months from a year earlier, he said.  China reported slower growth for the seventh consecutive
quarter today, according to the statistics office. The 7.4
percent expansion was  lowest rate  since the three months ended
March 2009. People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  told
an International Monetary Fund meeting earlier this month that
bubble risks remain in housing markets in major cities.  That contrasts with a 28 percent gain in U.S. sales of new
homes in August from a year earlier, U.S. Commerce Department
data show. There were 141,000 new houses available at the end of
August, matching the record low set in July.  Building Accelerates  New-home construction surged 15 percent in September to the
highest in four years, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday. Building permits, a proxy for future construction,
jumped to the highest since July 2008.  Builders will need to increase housing starts to an annual
rate of at least 830,000, from a monthly  average  pace of 612,000
last year, to keep home inventories from declining further,
Jannke of Forest Economic Advisors said.  The rebound in U.S. housing is adding to evidence of a
sustained economic expansion, after retail sales and industrial
production rose more than analysts expected in September. The
economy will expand 2.1 percent this year, from 1.8 percent in
2011, according to the median of 99 economist estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Growth may slow to 2 percent next year before
accelerating to 2.7 percent in 2014, the survey showed.  Key Driver  Housing is “showing signs of life” and it should be one
of the key drivers of economic growth in the next few years,
 John Williams , the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco , said in a  speech  in the city on Oct. 15.  RBC Capital
Markets  raised its 2013 estimate for housing starts by 12
percent to 922,000 on Oct. 15. The U.S. is the biggest consumer
of softwood lumber that includes pine, spruce and fir.  The gains are also boosting demand for copper, 439 pounds
of which are needed for a typical family home and 40 percent of
which goes into construction, according to the Copper
Development Association. Global consumption will exceed supply
for a third consecutive year in 2012, the Lisbon-based
International Copper Study Group estimates. Prices are up 8.9
percent to $3.743 a pound in  New York  trading this year.  While the full impact of the beetle infestation won’t be
seen for another three or four years, it’s already reducing
lumber quality, said Gerry Van Leeuwen, a vice president at
 International Wood Markets Group . The beetles have cut the
amount of wood suitable for use in house frames to about 70 to
75 feet for every 100 feet produced, from 85 feet a decade ago,
he said. The insect, native to North America, damages trees by
burrowing into their bark.  Earnings Boost  Shares of Weyerhaeuser jumped 52 percent to $28.46 this
year in New York trading. The company, which manages timberland
in North America, Uruguay and China, will report  net income  of
$462 million next year, up from $273.6 million in 2012,
according to the mean of eight analyst estimates.  Plum Creek Timber, based in  Seattle , will report profit of
$230.3 million in 2013, from $182.8 million this year, the mean
of eight  predictions  show. Shares of the company, which manages
6.6 million acres of U.S. land, advanced 22 percent since the
end of December.  The North American mill industry is operating at about 79
percent of its current operating capacity of 66 billion board
feet of lumber a year. Producers are often able to boost prices
as operating rates reach 80 percent, CIBC’s Kennedy said.  Owners so far have refrained from bringing idled plants
back on line, and demand may recover faster than they expect,
according to Forest Economic Advisors’ Jannke.  “Because there were so many mill closures during the
downturn, we’re going to suddenly hit a wall of tight supply,”
 Patricia Mohr , an economist and commodity specialist at
Scotiabank in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “My
feeling for next year is that we’re going to see markedly higher
lumber prices with even a modest recovery in U.S. housing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  