-- UN Peace Envoy Brahimi Arrives in Lebanon as Syria Awaits Visit
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-17T10:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/un-peace-envoy-brahimi-arrives-in-lebanon-as-syria-awaits-visit.html
Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations
peace envoy, met Lebanese President Michel Sleiman today as
 Syria  said any initiative to resolve the crisis in the country
requires everybody’s commitment.  Brahimi arrived from Cairo and is expected by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s government to travel on to Damascus.
While in Lebanon, the envoy was also due to see Parliament
Speaker Nabih Berri, a close Syrian ally, and Prime Minister
Najib Mikati, the official National News Agency said.  Brahimi’s visit came after Syria’s opposition welcomed his
proposal for a halt in fighting during Eid al-Adha, one of the
holiest days of the Muslim calendar.  “We welcome any end to the killing of Syrian civilians,
but all responsibility falls on the regime regarding this,”
Abdelbaset Sieda, the head of the opposition  Syrian National
Council , told Al Arabiya television in an interview. “If the
regime stops the shelling, normally, the defensive acts will
cease in turn.”  Jihad Makdissi, spokesman for Syria’s Foreign Ministry,
said in a statement to the official  Syrian Arab News Agency  that
“any initiative, regardless of its type, requires commitment by
all sides in order for it to succeed.”  Brahimi’s travels follow a series of gloomy pronouncements
from the Algerian UN official about the 19-month conflict, which
the opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says has
claimed more than 30,000 lives. Brahimi has called the conflict
a civil war, said the destruction wrought is becoming
“catastrophic,” last month described his mission as
“difficult” and said the violence was “extremely bad and
getting worse.”  ‘Armed Groups’  Makdissi said Syria is awaiting Brahimi’s arrival “to
learn about the results of his recent visits to a number of
countries, including countries that have influence over armed
groups.” He said he hoped the UN envoy “will bring from these
countries something to lead to the success of any constructive
initiative,” SANA said.  Rebels shot down a helicopter in Idlib, northern Syria,
today, according to the opposition Local Coordination Committees
in Syria. At least eight people have died across the country
today, including three in Aleppo, according to the activist
group.  The pro-government Al-Watan newspaper said authorities have
beefed up security measures around government buildings in
Damascus, adding cement blocks around the building housing SANA
and the Damascus governorate. The opposition uses bombs to
attack official buildings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  