-- Hungary Plans to Increase Taxes on Banks to Protect EU Funds
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-17T12:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/hungary-plans-to-increase-taxes-on-banks-to-protect-eu-funds-1-.html
Hungary backtracked on a promise to
cut a special bank tax in half and will raise a planned
transaction levy to avoid a freeze of development fund after the
European Union said previous measures were insufficient.  The EU estimates Hungary’s budget gap will widen to as much
as 3.9 percent of economic output in 2013 from the government’s
goal of 2.7 percent for this year and next even after measures
announced this month, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said at a
news conference in Budapest today, announcing steps improving
next year’s balance by 367 billion forint ($1.7 billion).  The government disagrees with the EU’s analysis, which is
“baseless and mistaken from an economic and a professional
point of view,” Matolcsy said. Still, “Hungary can’t take the
risk that the EU will strip us of development funds that we’re
entitled to just because of mistaken calculations.”  Hungary, in its second recession in four years, has been in
talks with the EU and the International Monetary Fund to obtain
a credit line since November. The country risks losing EU
development funds if it fails to keep the budget  shortfall  below
the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  The announced budget measures have a negative impact on
lending and the government should be cutting banks’ tax burden
to prop up lending and boost the economy, the central bank told
state news agency MTI today.  Weak Forint  The forint weakened 0.5 percent to 279.04 per euro as of
12:54 p.m. in Budapest, falling from a seven-week high.  OTP
Bank (OTP) , the country’s largest lender,  plunged  5.5 percent to 4,149
forint, dropping the most since April.  The Cabinet this month froze 133 billion forint in this
year’s budget and unveiled austerity measures totaling 397
billion forint in savings in 2013. Today’s measures are
“additional sticking plasters,” Peter Attard Montalto, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in  London , said in an e-
mail today.  “None of this is structural and none will satisfy the IMF
or EU and hence we are no closer to a backstop at all,”
Montalto said.  Hungary withdrew a pledge to halve a special tax on lenders
next year and will increase the tax on bank transactions to 0.2
percent from 0.1 percent, Matolcsy said, adding that revenue
from the two levies will total 454 billion forint next year.  Additional Measures  Other measures include a tax on utility companies’
infrastructure, a reduction in local business tax benefits
mainly for wholesalers and energy companies, and higher taxes on
employee benefits, Matolcsy said.  Hungary ’s Bank Association is “shocked” that the
government reneged on its pledge to cut the bank tax in half, it
said today in an e-mailed statement. The measures endanger
banks’ lending capacity, the “predictable financing” of the
economy, and a recovery from a recession, it said.  Hungary, the EU’s most-indebted eastern member, is in talks
for an international loan of about 15 billion euros ($19.7
billion). Negotiations were delayed multiple times because of
Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal and
economic conditions set by the IMF and the EU.  “In terms of growth, needless to say, Orban’s government
continues to cripple any prospects of medium-term growth rebound
in Hungary,” Luis Costa, an emerging-market strategist at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in London, said in an e-mail today. “They just
don’t get it.”  GDP Outlook  Hungary expects the economy to  expand  0.9 percent in 2013
while the EU will lower its 1 percent growth forecast, Matolcsy
said. The government on Oct. 5 cut its estimate for GDP to a
contraction of 1.2 percent in 2012 versus a previously estimated
0.1 percent growth and to a 1 percent expansion in 2013 from an
initial projection of 1.6 percent.  Hungary is committed to obtaining a safety net from the
IMF,  Mihaly Varga , chief negotiator for an international loan
said yesterday. The government knows it’s “far” from a
position where it can do without IMF help, Varga said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  