-- Vale 3Q Iron-Ore Output Falls Less Than Forecast to 83.9m
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-10-17T22:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/vale-3q-iron-ore-output-falls-less-than-forecast-to-83-9m.html
Vale SA (VALE3) ’s third-quarter iron-ore
production fell 4.6 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as the
world’s biggest producer of the steel-making ingredient faces
weaker demand in  China  and Europe, its two main markets.  Output declined to 83.9 million metric tons from a record
87.9 million tons a year ago, the Rio de Janeiro-based company
said in a regulatory filing today. That exceeded the 82.8-
million ton average of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s quarterly iron-ore output
was little changed, while  Rio Tinto  Group’s gained 6 percent.  Vale this year suspended projects, announced asset sales
for about $1.2 billion and cut output of premium pellet products
as demand slows in China, the biggest buyer of iron ore, and
growth slows in Europe, its second-biggest market. Brazilian
iron-ore exports slumped 8.2 percent in the three months through
Sept. 30, its biggest quarterly decline compared to the prior
year in more than three years.  Vale, the world’s third-largest mining company by market
value after Melbourne-based BHP and  Rio Tinto (RIO) , gained 1.4
percent to 36.33 reais at the close in  Sao Paulo  today. The
stock has dropped 3.9 percent  this year , underperforming the
Brazilian benchmark Bovespa index, which rose 5.9 percent in the
period. Rio Tinto overtook Vale to become the world’s second-
most valuable mining company for the first time since 2008,
according to today’s closing prices of New York-listed shares.  Environmental Issues  Vale’s production at Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore
mine, fell 11 percent in the third quarter on environmental
licensing issues, Vale said. Output of pellets, a processed form
of iron ore used by the  steel industry , rose 2.1 percent to 14.5
million tons in the quarter.  “Current performance is definitely not consistent with the
high quality of our assets and corrective measures are under
way,” Vale said about the decline in Carajas production.
“Issues with environmental permitting led to the continuation
of mining in some older pits, which has entailed lower
productivity, lower iron content and higher costs.”  Vale’s nickel production slid 16 percent to 49,000 tons,
missing a 62,300-ton average forecast by nine analysts surveyed
by  Bloomberg News . Copper output dropped 20 percent in the past
year to 68,000 tons, Vale said.  Vale said it won’t resume operations at its Onca Puma
nickel mine in  Brazil  this quarter as previously forecast.  Slumping Prices  BHP, the world’s third-largest iron-ore producer after Vale
and London-based Rio Tinto, said earlier today that output for
the steel-making raw material was little changed at 39.8 million
metric tons in the three months ended Sept. 30, in line with the
39.2 million tons median estimate of three analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Rio’s quarterly iron-ore production rose
6 percent to 52.6 million tons from last year, more than analyst
expectations, the company said yesterday.  Iron ore , which accounts for about 90 percent of Vale’s
earnings before items,  slumped  to $86.70 a ton on Sept. 5, the
lowest since October 2009 amid weaker Chinese demand. Iron ore
for immediate delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin, a
benchmark for Asia, rose 2.5 percent to $115.40 a ton today,
according to a  price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Vale said earlier this month that it will suspend output at
three pellet feed plants in Brazil representing 18 percent of
the company’s total production of the material as demand
declines from steelmakers. The reduced processing of iron ore
into pellet feed means production of sinter feed, a rawer form
of the material, will expand, Vale said at the time.  Balance Sheet  The company agreed Aug. 31 to sell 10 vessels for $600
million and lease them back from  South Korea ’s Polaris Shipping
Co. to improve “capital allocation and further strengthening”
of its balance sheet. The announcement followed the sale of a
thermal-coal project in  Colombia  for $407 million,
ferromanganese alloy operations in  Europe  for $160 million and
kaolin mineral business in Brazil for $30.1 million.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira is reviewing
all of the company’s projects to cut costs and is poised to
reduce investments in 2013 to the lowest in three years.
Ferreira said Aug. 16 that he will postpone a $3 billion potash
project in  Canada  and may delay other investments to focus on
expanding the company’s biggest mine.  Vale is forecasting iron-ore output of about 322 million
metric tons this year including 10 million tons purchased from
third-party producers, Vagner Loyola, the company’s director of
ferrous production planning, said Oct. 15. That would be little
changed from the 322.6 million produced in 2011.  “Both production and purchases will be very similar,”
Loyola told reporters in Rio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  