-- Verizon Sends $7.5 Billion in Pension Funds to Prudential
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-18T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/verizon-to-move-7-5-bln-pension-obligation-to-prudential.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is
transferring about $7.5 billion in pension obligations, or one-
fourth of the total, to  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  in a drive to
remove risk from its balance sheet.  Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer, will take
on responsibility for making future annuity payments to certain
management retirees of the New York-based telephone company,
Verizon said yesterday in a statement.  Verizon is using the agreement to lower risks related to
pensions while improving its financial profile. It follows
General Motors Co. in paying Prudential to assume the risk that
market returns are inadequate or that beneficiaries live longer
than expected. Transferring obligations can reduce swings in
earnings tied to securities and relieve companies of the need to
manage large pools of money.  “What Verizon is doing is what a lot of companies are
considering,” John Butler, a senior analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, said in an interview. “They are offloading the risk
to Prudential.”  The transaction affects U.S. management pension benefits
covering about 41,000 current retirees. It excludes current
employees and those who retired after Jan. 1, 2010. The pension
transfer won’t change the amount of the monthly pension benefit
received by affected retirees and surviving beneficiaries,
Verizon said.  13 Percent  Prudential Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld has been
expanding through acquisitions and underwriting as he seeks a
return on equity of at least 13 percent next year at the  Newark ,
New Jersey-based insurer. He announced a deal last month to take
on life insurance obligations from Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. and struck an agreement in June to cut General
Motors’s pension obligations by about $26 billion.  “The Verizon transaction is expected to be the second-
largest insured annuity settlement in U.S. history, trailing
only the GM deal,” Aon Hewitt, the provider of human-resources
services owned by London-based insurance broker  Aon Plc (AON) , said in
a  statement . Aon Hewitt assisted Verizon in the deal.  The GM agreement may have been a catalyst for more
transfers, William Wheeler, president of the Americas at MetLife
Inc., the largest U.S. life insurer, said in August.  “That’s causing other corporate treasurers of large,
traditional companies with old, traditional pension plans to
think hard about what they should be doing,” Wheeler said.
“Certainly there’s more conversation now.”  Low  interest rates  have pressured employers with pension
obligations because it is harder for them to generate returns on
funds set aside for the liabilities. The  Federal Reserve  has
said it will keep rates near zero at least through the middle of
2015 to stimulate growth in the world’s largest economy.  Insurers are well equipped to take on the contracts because
they are used to managing large pools of assets and have
experience dealing with risk tied to life expectancies,
Prudential has said.  Prudential is focusing on retirement services in the U.S.
and  Japan  after exiting its real-estate relocation and
commodities businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  