-- Verizon LTE Shared Data Plan Drives Higher Prices, Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/verizon-lte-shared-data-plan-drives-higher-prices-sales.html
Verizon Wireless  isn’t feeling much
price pressure these days, and third-quarter earnings tomorrow
may prove it.  Just as it was closing a second quarter with record
wireless margins, the largest U.S. wireless carrier in June
introduced its Share Everything data plan, which raised rates on
lower-budget users. That may have helped boost the average
monthly bill for contract customers by 3.5 percent from a year
earlier in the third quarter, according to analysts’ estimates.  With the debut of Apple Inc.’s iPhone 5 last month and 400
cities now covered by  Verizon Wireless (VZ) ’ fast long-term evolution
network, the company is seeing a surge in sales of data-
consuming smartphones. In addition, consumers are showing a
willingness to pay more for quicker video downloads and better
music streaming.  “The pricing environment in the wireless industry is the
best it has been in several years,” said Colby Synesael, an
analyst at Cowen & Co. “All the participants have been pretty
steady. No one is being irrational with pricing.”  A wave of mobile-phone industry acquisitions announced in
the past two weeks, involving smaller rivals such as  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. that offer unlimited data
plans, may yet put pressure on Verizon. So far, though,
Verizon’s prices aren’t hurting its subscriber growth. The
wireless carrier is projected to report tomorrow that it added
almost 1 million new monthly postpaid customers in the third
quarter, according to a survey of eight analysts.  Widening Gap  Verizon’s Share Everything plan lets new or upgrading
smartphone customers buy a monthly allocation of data -- sold in
increments of 2 gigabytes -- that can be shared among as many as
10 phones and tablets.  AT&T Inc. (T)  introduced its own version of
the plan a month later.  While the shared data plans include unlimited calls and
texting, they cost more than comparable single-user data plans.
The move away from separate plans for each device was meant to
stem the erosion of voice and text revenue, and to encourage
customers to use more data and buy larger plans.  “The biggest impact would be on penny-pinching consumers
who used to go for the $70 Verizon smartphone plan,” said Tero
Kuittinen, a New York-based analyst at Alekstra Oy, a mobile-
diagnostics company. “Verizon slammed the door on these people
and hiked the minimum plan price to $90. The gap between the
cheapest possible Verizon smartphone plan and the budget
carriers’ plans is suddenly a lot wider than it used to be.”  Brad Burns , a spokesman for AT&T, declined to comment on
the pricing environment. Torod Neptune, a spokesman for Verizon
Wireless, says the plan has been a hit.  “Share Everything has been very popular with our
customers, providing them with great value and plans that match
their lifestyle,” he said.  Recent Deals  Verizon and AT&T together control 75 percent of the market
for U.S. contract customers, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Still, steeper competition may be on the way. In the past
two weeks, there have been two deals to spur industry
consolidation. T-Mobile, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier,
announced a deal earlier this month for pay-as-you-go wireless
company  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   Earlier this week, Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  made a $20
billion offer for a 70 percent stake in Sprint, giving the U.S.
carrier money to fund a faster expansion of its 4G wireless
network and to help it mount a bigger challenge to Verizon and
AT&T.  Sprint may decide to stick with its unlimited data plans
after the Softbank investment, offering consumers an alternative
as rivals move to limited plans.  “We believe unlimited data plans are a key differentiator
and have not announced any plans to move away from them,”  Scott
Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, said in an e-mail earlier this week.  Meanwhile, consumers can’t increase spending forever, said
Cowen’s Synesael.  “There’s a finite amount of consumer discretionary
money,” he said. “The growth rates on service plans won’t go
on forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net  