-- Virgin America Trims Flights, Labor Cost on Slower Winter
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-10-17T22:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/virgin-america-trims-flights-labor-cost-on-slower-winter.html
Virgin America Inc., the low-fare
airline partly owned by Richard Branson, will trim capacity by 3
percent in the first quarter and is offering voluntary short-
term leave to employees to cut costs, citing a weaker outlook.  The company, which reported a wider net loss for the second
quarter, is seeking voluntary reductions through short-term
leave and flex scheduling ahead of an anticipated drop in
traffic in the first three months of 2013, Chief Executive
Officer David Cush wrote in a letter to employees last week. The
Burlingame, California-based company, which employs about 2,600,
hasn’t said how many workers are involved.  Closely held Virgin America, which ended the second quarter
with $82 million in unrestricted cash, may need to pursue a
“major restructuring” to survive, said  Hunter Keay , an analyst
at Wolfe Trahan & Co. in New York. Virgin America has
competition on every route, such as San Francisco to New York.
Each of the 11 other airlines Keay follows has a monopoly on at
least 25 percent of their routes, he said.  “A combination of cash burn and network missteps into
highly trafficked markets” is hurting Virgin America, Keay said
in a telephone interview. “They had an assumption that
consumers would choose product quality over price and
convenience and network carriers responded with force.”  ‘Network Missteps’  Keay questioned Virgin America’s ability to survive in a
client note today and said the carrier’s failure would benefit
 Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  the most.  Jennifer Thomas, a Virgin America spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Keay’s report.  In the letter, Cush cited recent unit-revenue figures by
competitors including  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , calling them “lackluster projections”
that “point to a softening environment” and necessitate Virgin
America’s cutbacks.  Earlier this month, United said revenue for each seat flown
a mile fell 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent for September and
Southwest reported revenue on that basis dipped 2 percent to 3
percent.  “The forecast for the first quarter of 2013 indicates it
will be a tough winter for the industry,” Cush said.  Virgin America reported a net loss of $31.76 million for
the second quarter, 46 percent wider than the same period a year
earlier.  ‘Challenging’ Period  The January to March period is “challenging” for the
industry, especially because Virgin America’s coast-to-coast
routes often “underperform in the winter months,” Cush wrote
in the letter. The airline’s network doesn’t allow it to easily
shift planes to shorter north-south “sun routes” that are more
popular in the cold months, he said.  Virgin America will eliminate some flights that are
traditionally unprofitable during the first three months of the
year such as red-eyes and midweek flights, and will restore that
service in April when demand typically improves, he said.  The airline, which started service in August 2007, has a
fleet of Airbus SAS A320 jets and flies to cities including San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, New York’s John F. Kennedy
airport and  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 