-- Vitro Falls Most in Three Years to Erase Earlier Gains
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-10-17T20:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/vitro-falls-most-in-three-years-to-erase-earlier-gains.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA)  posted its biggest decline
in more than three years, erasing earlier gains that followed
the Mexican government’s call for a U.S. appeals court to
enforce the glassmaker’s reorganization in the U.S.  The shares tumbled 9.1 percent to 17.20 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, the biggest drop since June 2009. Earlier the
stock had soared as much as 15 percent and briefly traded at its
highest level since 2008. The shares have gained 47 percent this
year.  The Mexican government filed papers this week urging the
appeals court to reverse an earlier court decision and enforce
the reorganization of Vitro in the U.S. Affirming the lower
court’s decision and siding with holders of $1.2 billion in
defaulted Vitro bonds “may substantially complicate further
bankruptcy cooperation between courts in the U.S. and  Mexico ,”
the Mexican government said.  Vitro exited bankruptcy in Mexico earlier this year after a
Mexican judge approved its restructuring plan. While the plan is
valid in Mexico it’s currently unenforceable in the U.S., after
a bankruptcy judge in  Dallas  ruled in June that the company’s
plan was “manifestly contrary” to U.S. policy.  The Mexican government filed its brief with the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  New Orleans  on Oct. 15, arguing that judges should
overturn the June ruling.  In general, bankruptcy cooperation between courts in the
U.S. and Mexico “has been robust and fruitful for both
nations,” the Mexican government said in the brief.  Vitro welcomed the government’s intervention, said Roberto Riva Palacio, a spokesman for the San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico-based company.  “We applaud the Mexican government’s desire to see Mexican
reorganizations enforced in the  United States ,” he said.  Donald Cutler, a spokesman for the bondholder group,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  