-- Walmex Promotions Spark 11% Growth for Mexico Retailer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2012-10-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/walmex-third-quarter-profit-rises-11-as-sales-gain.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB ,  Latin
America ’s largest retailer, saw sales grow 11 percent in the
third quarter as it used discounts and promotions to increase
store visits.  Walmex, as the company is known, said  sales  rose to 100.8
billion pesos ($7.9 billion), in line with the average 101.2
billion-peso  estimate  of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income rose 11 percent to 5.26 billion pesos from a
year earlier as the retailer recorded a higher tax charge,
according to a filing sent yesterday to the nation’s stock
exchange. That was lower than the average estimate of 5.63
billion pesos from five analysts.  The Mexico City-based retailer started a price-cutting
campaign in August in response to competitors’ markdowns that
slowed  Walmex (WALMEXV) ’s sales growth during the summer. The promotion
increased store visits in the third quarter, helping offset
higher expenses in the company’s Central American business.  “The competition in the sector is more aggressive all the
time,” said David Foulkes, an analyst with Corp. Actinver SAB
in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “There are always
more discounts and promotions.”  Walmex’s discounts were meant to counter sales from rivals
 Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB (COMERUBC)  and  Organizacion Soriana SAB (SORIANAB) 
and they “produced results,” Foulkes said.  Maintaining Growth  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, rose 15 percent to 9.43 billion pesos,
while eight analysts expected an average of 9.75 billion pesos.  Walmex shares have risen 2 percent this year, trailing the
15 percent advance of  Mexico ’s benchmark  IPC index . The stock
was little changed yesterday at 38.99 pesos at the close in
Mexico City.  The retailer is starting a discount program for food and
cosmetic items this month to maintain same-store sales growth
that surpassed the industry average in Mexico during the last
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Scot Rank said in a conference
call following yesterday’s earnings release. Comparable or same-
store sales growth excludes outlets open for less than a year.  While Walmex’s strategy in Mexico has been successful, the
retailer’s Central American business is lagging behind in
liquidating outdated inventories and updating operating systems,
said Raquel Moscoso, an analyst with Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB.  “Central America has been a bit slower than what we
thought originally,” Moscoso said yesterday in a telephone
interview from Mexico City.  Strategic Steps  Walmex, which is controlled by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
acquired its Central American business from the parent company
in 2010. Central American operations, which represent about 13
percent of the company’s revenue, are still being phased into
Mexico’s distribution system. The process will conclude by the
middle of next year, Rank said.  “In Central America, we’re taking the strategic steps to
strengthen the consistency of our execution and meet our long-
term goals,” he said.  Slower expansion in Mexico has weighed on the company’s
shares. Walmex is taking longer to open locations after the U.S.
Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission
announced investigations into bribes that company officials
allegedly paid to speed up store openings.  The retailer opened 49 stores in the third quarter and 162
this year. It will expand installed capacity by 7.7 percent this
year from 2011, Chief Financial Officer Rafael Matute said on
the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  