-- Wen Says China’s Economy ‘Relatively Good’ Ahead of GDP Report
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-17T11:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/wen-says-china-s-economy-relatively-good-ahead-of-gdp-report.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
country’s economic situation last quarter was “relatively
good,” a signal tomorrow’s  report  on gross domestic product may
show the country’s slowdown ebbing.  “China’s economic  growth  has started to stabilize,” the
official Xinhua News Agency said today, citing meetings Wen held
Oct. 12-15 with industry leaders, company executives and some
local government officials.     The government is confident of
achieving annual targets and the economy will continue to show
“positive changes,” Wen said, according to Xinhua.  Exports exceeded forecasts in September and  money supply 
grew at the fastest pace in 15 months. Even so, economists
forecast tomorrow’s data will show growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy decelerated for a seventh quarter, putting
pressure on the ruling Communist Party to add stimulus ahead of
a once-a-decade leadership transition.  “Wen’s comments suggest that there may be signs of
stabilization in the quarter-on-quarter numbers, which give a
better sign of current momentum in the economy,” said  Mark Williams , Asia economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London . “GDP growth in the third quarter almost certainly
slowed in year-on-year terms. Policy makers at this point want
to focus on more forward-looking indicators, which indicate the
economy may now be turning the corner.”  Wen has refrained from easing monetary policy since cutting
 interest rates  in June and July.  GDP Forecast  Gross domestic product probably expanded 7.4 percent in the
July-September period from a year earlier, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists. The
economy grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter. The government
will also report September data for industrial production and
retail sales and January-to-September figures for fixed-asset
investment.  The National Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to issue its
report at 10 a.m. in Beijing.  China “still faces considerable difficulty in the last
quarter,” Xinhua reported, citing Wen.  Williams estimates third-quarter GDP grew 1.8 percent from
the second quarter, equal to the previous pace and showing what
he said is the “faintest of pickups” toward the end of the
period. The economy may have expanded 7.1 percent in the period
from a year earlier, Williams said.  “Policy has been loosened gradually during the course of
this year and we are expecting that to feed slightly higher
investment growth over the next few months,” Williams aid.
“But we think that this is going to be a very small pickup in
growth.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Penny Peng in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  