-- U.S. 10-Year Yield May Test 2%, CRT: Technical Analysis
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-10-17T20:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/yields-set-to-test-6-month-highs-crt-technical-analysis.html
Yields on 10- and 30-year Treasuries
are poised to test six-month highs before the Nov. 6 election
after failing to break below so-called upward-sloping channels,
according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  “We’ve hit and tested the bottom of the channel a number
of times on both securities and have failed to break lower,
which suggests the momentum is leaning slightly more bearish,”
said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The headlines of late have been more
optimistic and the seasonal factors support the bearish
momentum, which give a compelling reason why we may have a
selloff.”  Thirty-year  bond yields  may rise as high as 3.2 percent if
they breach 2.98 percent, with 10-year note yields poised to
climb to 2 percent if they top the 200-day moving average of
1.81 percent, said Ader. The yields last touched those levels in
April, before falling to all-time lows of 2.44 percent and 1.38
percent in July. Since then, they have risen in an ascending
channel, suggesting a continuing uptrend in yield.  Treasuries fell today for a third day, the longest streak
in almost six weeks, as U.S. new-home construction surged to the
highest level in four years and after  Spain  kept its investment-
grade debt rating from Moody’s Investors Service. The benchmark
10-year note yield climbed to as high as 1.82 percent, the
loftiest level since Sept. 19. The 30-year bond yield touched 3
percent for the first time since that same date.  Ten-year notes have returned 3.7 percent this year, versus
a 2.1 percent gain for 30-year bonds and a 1.9 percent advance
in the broader Treasury market, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  