-- Yinlu Foods to Increase Production After Nestle Investment
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-17T11:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/yinlu-foods-to-increase-production-after-nestle-investment-1-.html
Yinlu Foods Group, the Chinese
foodmaker in which  Nestle SA (NESN)  took a stake last year, plans to
invest about 3 billion  yuan  ($480 million) in the construction
of two new factories and increase capacity by two-thirds.  Production capacity at the maker of ready-to-drink peanut
milk and ready-to-eat rice porridge will rise to 5 million tons
of goods a year by the end of 2014, from 3 million tons,
Chairman Chen Qingyuan said today in an interview at Yinlu’s
plant in Hubei province.  Nestle bought a 60 percent stake in Yinlu last year as the
Vevey, Switzerland-based company sought to increase business in
 emerging markets . A new plant in Anhui province will begin
production by the end of this year, while a factory in Sichuan
province will begin output in 2014, Chen said.  “Per capita consumption is starting from a low base and is
growing every year,” with significant potential to expand, Chen
said.  Yinlu had 2010 sales of about 750 million Swiss francs
($812 million) and hasn’t disclosed revenue numbers for last
year. The Chinese company’s goal is to boost revenue by a
double-digit percentage annually over the next three to five
years as per capita consumption rises and consumers focus more
on nutrition.  Nestle China  Chen was one of the founders of Yinlu in 1985 and the
company has expanded since then to three factories in  China  with
more than 10,000 employees. Nestle last year also acquired a 60
percent stake in Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd., a Chinese snack
and candy maker.  China is set this year to become Nestle’s largest market
after the U.S., according to  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at
 Societe Generale  in  London . He estimates Nestle’s sales from
that market may reach 5 billion Swiss francs in 2012, rising to
nearer 6 billion francs including the still-to-be-completed
purchase of Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition unit.  Nestle will announce its nine-month results tomorrow, the
first time it will do so from a Chinese location. The company
may say that revenue on an organic basis increased 6.3 percent
in the nine months through September, according to the average
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Shanghai at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  