-- Yorkville Advisors Made $10 Million on Inflated Assets, SEC Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-10-17T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/yorkville-advisors-made-10-million-on-inflated-assets-sec-says.html
Yorkville Advisors LLC, a  New York 
hedge-fund firm, reaped at least $10 million in excess fees
after overvaluing assets it managed and exaggerating returns to
hide losses, U.S. regulators said in a complaint.  Mark Angelo, Yorkville’s founder and president, and Edward Schinik, the firm’s chief financial officer, enticed pension
funds and other clients to invest more than $280 million since
2008 by making false claims about the safety and liquidity of
their investments, the Securities and Exchange Commission said
in a lawsuit filed today in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan .  The case is the seventh to come from an SEC initiative to
identify and probe firms reporting returns that outpace
benchmarks for their stated investment strategy. Investigators
found that Yorkville also withheld adverse information from its
auditor, enabling the firm to carry some of its largest
investments at inflated values, the SEC said.  “The analytics put Yorkville front and center on our radar
screen,”  Bruce Karpati , head of the SEC’s enforcement unit that
polices asset managers, said in a statement. “When we looked
further we found lies to investors and the firm’s auditors as
well as a scheme to inflate fees by grossly overvaluing fund
assets.”  The firm disputes all of the SEC’s allegations, “as they
lack merit and are entirely without support,” Angelo said in a
statement.  “Yorkville at all times has acted appropriately and
implemented robust control procedures to ensure the proper
valuation of assets,” he said in the statement, noting that the
company employed two former SEC enforcement lawyers on its
valuation committee. “After enduring an SEC investigation that
was clearly driven by an agenda, Yorkville looks forward to
defending this matter and having the SEC subject to the
supervision of a Federal District Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  