-- YPF Said to Expect Approval to Double Argentine Gas Prices
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-10-17T18:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/ypf-said-to-expect-approval-to-double-argentine-gas-prices.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina ’s biggest energy
company, expects to receive government approval to more than
double natural-gas prices to help fund expansions, according to
two shareholders briefed on the plan.  YPF’s Chief Executive Officer Miguel Galuccio told
investors last month that Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof
agreed to start increasing prices by year-end, said one
shareholder who attended the briefing. The average price that
the government pays producers may reach $5.50 per million
British thermal unit from $2.50, the second shareholder said.
Consumer prices in Argentina are subsidized.  Both shareholders declined to be identified because the
increase hasn’t been made public. Jessica Rey, a spokeswoman for
Kicillof, who heads the country’s energy commission, didn’t
reply to calls seeking comment. YPF spokesman Alejandro Di Lazzaro declined to comment.  YPF, which was nationalized in April, is basing a $37.2
billion five-year investment plan on a doubling of the average
gas price while the province of Neuquen is making the same
assumption for its budget next year, said the second
shareholder. Neuquen, home to the Vaca Muerta shale gas
formation, holds 10.5 percent of YPF.  Government Subsidies  The price increase would also benefit non-government
producers in Argentina. A unit of Total SA is the country’s
largest gas producer with a 30.45 percent market share, YPF has
22.97 percent,  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Pan American Energy LLC has 12.05
percent,  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA)  has 8.92 percent and an  Apache
Corp. (APA)  unit has 3.9 percent, according to data on the Argentine
Institute of  Oil and Gas ’s website.  “If Argentina wants to produce more gas, the price paid to
producers should be increased,” Fitch Ratings analyst Ana Paula Ares, who covers Argentine gas producers, said in a telephone
interview from  Buenos Aires .  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner last week
submitted a budget proposal that sets aside 12 billion pesos
($2.6 billion) for subsidies to energy companies and authorizes
withdrawals from central bank reserves to provide the aid.  Kicillof postponed by a month a deadline for natural gas
companies to submit business plans, the Official Gazette said
yesterday. Companies will have until Nov. 5 to submit annual
plans to the commission he presides.  YPF American depositary receipts gained 3.1 percent to
$12.53 at 2:41 p.m. in  New York , after earlier rising as much as
4.8 percent, the biggest intraday gain since Sept. 21. The stock
has dropped 64 percent this year.  Previous Increases  Fernandez on Aug. 9 quadrupled the price of compressed
natural gas (CNG), used as car fuel, which is paid to producers.
It was the first increase since the government in July created
the oil planning commission headed by Kicillof.  “The increase will give gas producers an extra 900 million
pesos and 119 million pesos in royalties to the provinces,”
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said.  Galuccio said on Aug. 30, while presenting YPF’s five-year
business plan, that the company was in talks with the Argentine
government to get increases in gas prices. Galuccio said he was
confident in getting a response and didn’t elaborate further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  