-- Zurich Slumps After $550 Million Write-Off in Germany
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-10-17T14:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-17/zurich-insurance-reports-550-million-write-off-at-german-unit.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , the
biggest Swiss insurer, fell the most in six months after
announcing plans to write off about $550 million following a
review of its German general insurance business.  The company dropped as much as 4.3 percent and was down 3.6
percent to 237 Swiss francs as of 2:50 p.m. in Zurich trading.
That pared the stock’s gain this year to 11 percent.  Vontobel
Holding AG (VONN)  and Bank Sarasin & Cie. cut their buy ratings on the
shares to hold and neutral, respectively.  The company appointed Mario Greco as head of general
insurance in May 2010 to review the business after higher claims
and price wars in  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. hurt profit. Greco
left in August to become chief executive officer of
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , with Zurich Insurance appointing
Michael Kerner as his replacement. The company declined to
comment on whether Greco had finished the review before his
departure.  “This is a lot of money and it is a bit surprising -- it
makes you wonder what Mario Greco did,” said Stefan Schuermann,
a Zurich-based analyst at Vontobel. “The writedown was a
trigger point to downgrade the stock today.”  Zurich Insurance will include the pretax write-off in its
business operating profit for the nine months through September.
The adjustment reflects moves to strengthen claims provisions,
primarily in the long-tail liability lines selling medical
malpractice policies and negligence insurance for architects and
engineers, and write off part of deferred costs to acquire new
business, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today.  Strategic Targets  “Zurich’s leadership is disappointed with this significant
financial adjustment and has taken the necessary steps including
engaging external experts to validate the remediation actions
being taken in Germany,” the insurer said in the statement.
“The other businesses continue to deliver as expected through
the third quarter of 2012 and Zurich continues to progress well
toward its strategic targets.”  Zurich Insurance will report earnings for the third quarter
on Nov. 15. The company posted a 19 percent drop in second-
quarter net income to $1.08 billion on Aug. 16, after a gain in
the year-earlier period from selling a stake in  New China Life
Insurance Co. (1336)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  