-- ‘Hansel & Gretel’ Is Top Film With $19.7 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-01-28T23:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/-hansel-gretel-opens-as-top-film-with-19-million-in-sales.html
“Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters
3D,” a re-imagining of the Grimms’ fairy tale, opened as the
top weekend film in U.S. and Canadian theaters, collecting $19.7
million in receipts for  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures .  The Jason Statham heist film “Parker” opened in fifth
place with $7 million for FilmDistrict, while the R-rated comedy
“Movie 43” was seventh in its debut with $4.8 million for
Relativity Media LLC, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The films vied for fans with holdover Oscar contenders,
including Kathryn Bigelow’s “Zero Dark Thirty, ‘‘Les
Miserables’’ and ‘‘Silver Linings Playbook,’’ that continue to
wring sales from their awards publicity. In addition to the Feb.
24 Academy Awards telecast on ABC, the Directors Guild of
America and the Writers Guild of America hand out their top
honors next month.  ‘‘The new movies in January have been mostly disappointing,
but the Oscar contenders have been overperforming and they’ve
really been saving the box office from disaster,’’ Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer at  Boxofficeguru.com , said in a
telephone interview. ‘‘The studios need to know that they need
to put a lot on the table in order to get people to leave their
homes and buy tickets.’’  ‘‘Hansel and Gretel’’ stars  Jeremy Renner  and Gemma
Arterton as adult versions of the brother and sister who, in the
fairy tale, kill a witch who plans to cook and eat them.  ‘Movie 43’  Now grown up, the two have become hunters who rid villages
and towns of troublesome witches for a price. The film was made
for about $50 million and was expected to take in $21.9 million,
according to Box Office Mojo, an industry researcher.  ‘‘Parker’’ stars Statham as a thief whose personal code of
ethics prevents him from stealing from people who can’t afford
it. He travels to  Palm Beach ,  Florida , seeking revenge after his
partners doublecross him and leave him for dead.  The picture co-stars  Jennifer Lopez ,  Nick Nolte  and Michael Chiklis. It was expected to take in $7.6 million in weekend
sales.  ‘‘Movie 43’’ consists of a series of short, loosely
intertwined stories. Actors featured in the tales include  Emma Stone ,  Hugh Jackman ,  Naomi Watts  and  Kate Winslet . Box Office
Mojo predicted weekend sales of $8.9 million.  Jessica Chastain  Among returning films, the horror tale ‘‘Mama,’’ dropped to
second from first, collecting $13.1 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures .  In ‘‘Mama,’’ two young girls disappear in the woods on the
day their mother is murdered. Five years later, they are
discovered living in a feral state in a remote cabin. Their
uncle and his girlfriend, played by Jessica Chastain, take them
in. Soon after the girls arrive, the couple discovers that a
malevolent force has followed the youngsters into the home.
Nikolaj Coster-Waldau co-stars as the uncle.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty,’’ nominated for the best
picture Oscar, dropped to third from second with $9.7 million.
The film follows a team of CIA operatives who use a variety of
methods, including harsh interrogation, to find Osama bin
Laden’s compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. The movie also depicts
bin Laden’s 2011 death during a raid by U.S. Navy Seals.  In addition to Chastain, the film features Joel Edgerton,
Kyle Chandler and  James Gandolfini . ‘‘Zero Dark Thirty” has
generated $69.8 million since it was released on Dec. 19.  Revenue Falls  Weinstein Co.’s “Silver Linings Playbook” was fourth with
sales of $9.4 million. The movie, starring  Bradley Cooper ,
 Jennifer Lawrence  and  Robert De Niro , tells of an adult son who
returns to his parents’ home after months in a psychiatric
hospital.  Lawrence and Cooper received Oscar nominations for their
leading roles, while De Niro and Jacki Weaver garnered
supporting actor nominations.  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 9.8 percent to $88.5
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
for the first four weeks of the year are up 10 percent to $796.8
million. Attendance is also up 10 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan.
25 to Jan. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  