-- Ambani Facing Wait for Profit at Diesel Pumps: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-28T10:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/ambani-facing-wait-for-profit-at-diesel-pumps-corporate-india.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Essar
Oil Ltd. (ESOIL) , operators of India’s two biggest refineries, face at
least a two-year wait to profitably retail diesel, as the
government prolongs the process of completely freeing prices.  State-run oil companies can raise diesel by about 0.5
rupees (less than 1 cent) a liter per month until they wipe out
their losses from below-cost sales in about two years, Oil
Minister Veerappa Moily said Jan. 20, three days after a cap was
partially lifted. While Reliance and Essar are free to set their
own rates at their pumps, they are unable to match the
subsidized costs offered by  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , Bharat Petroleum
Corp. and  Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)   “Until diesel prices are completely market-driven,
Reliance and Essar won’t have a reason to celebrate,” said
Bhavesh Chauhan, a Mumbai-based analyst with Angel Broking Ltd.,
who rates Reliance shares neutral and doesn’t cover Essar Oil.
“Companies won’t invest in new fuel stations until the
government fulfills its promise of market-linked prices.”  Motorists, unwilling to pay a premium for the gasoline and
diesel sold on the tack of superior quality along India’s
highways, have shunned outlets of the two companies. Billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani ’s Reliance has shuttered about half its 1,400
pumps. Essar, which is controlled by billionaire brothers Shashi
and  Ravi Ruia  and owns a similar number, sells minuscule
quantities of diesel and has frozen expansion.  ‘Virtually Negligible’  “Throughput at our outlets was virtually negligible,”
Essar Oil spokesman Rabin Ghosh said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We’re awaiting complete price parity before drawing
up our next phase of expansion plans.”  Reliance spokesman Tushar Pania declined to comment on the
Mumbai-based company’s retail plans.  Reliance has  gained  6.9 percent this year, after reporting
third-quarter profit that surged the most in two years. The
shares dropped 1.6 percent to 897.55 rupees at the close in
Mumbai today. Essar Oil rose 0.4 percent to 77.65 rupees, taking
this year’s advance to 11 percent. The key  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has
climbed 3.5 percent in 2013.  Reliance and Essar Oil ship fuels including gasoline, jet
fuel and diesel to  Europe ,  Africa  and the U.S. at international
prices and typically make a profit from distilling crude oil
into cleaner products. They also sell fuels at market rates to
the state refiners when domestic demand exceeds supplies.  Freeing Prices  Freeing diesel prices is part of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s attempt to shrink a  budget deficit  and revive economic
growth. Asia’s third-largest economy will expand about 5.7
percent to 5.9 percent in the year through March 31, less than
an earlier estimate of as much as 7.85 percent, the finance
ministry said in a mid-year review to lawmakers last month.  Reliance and Essar Oil, whose refineries in the western
state of Gujarat are capable of turning cheap, heavier grades of
crude into high-value products, are seeking to increase retail
sales in India, where a growing middle class is buying more
cars. The nation’s fuel consumption is projected to rise 5.2
percent to a record 155.6 million metric tons in the year ending
March 31, according to oil ministry  data . Diesel use may
increase 8.3 percent, the fastest pace in three years.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker by
volume, has bookings for 125,000 vehicles, 90 percent of them
diesel-powered, Mayank Pareek, head of sales, said Oct. 30.
Sales of diesel vehicles at the company rose to 72,462 units in
the second quarter from 50,920 a year earlier.  Level Playing Field  “Unless there’s a level playing field, there’s no reason
for Reliance and Essar to enter the retail market,” said
Praveen Kumar, an analyst at FACTS Global Energy in  Singapore .
“They would rather sell the fuel at market prices to the
government companies when needed.”  The government still controls prices of diesel, cooking gas
and kerosene, while state refiners are free to set gasoline
rates. The refiners are partly compensated by cash payments from
the government and discounts on crude oil by state-run
explorers.  “The need of the hour is complete deregulation of fuel
prices and allowing market forces to set the benchmarks in
tandem with global oil prices,” Essar Oil’s Ghosh said.
“Private oil marketing companies have invested substantially in
setting up their retail outlets, but due to lack of level
playing fields, these assets were underutilized.”  Gas Stations  Reliance will open all its gas stations only when price
controls are lifted, P. Raghavendran, president of the company’s
refinery business, said in December 2011.  The state-run refiners lost 1.24 trillion rupees on below-
cost fuel sales in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according to
oil ministry  data . This includes 738.2 billion rupees on diesel.  The government said earlier this month that diesel to bulk
users such as the railways and provincial bus-transport services
will be sold at market rates, increasing prices by 9.25 rupees a
liter. This is as an opportunity for Essar to sell more diesel
in  India , Ghosh said.  “Reliance and Essar need to have the infrastructure in
place,” FACTS’ Kumar said. “Companies such as Indian Oil and
Hindustan Petroleum have many depots in several cities, and
Reliance and Essar need to set up similar facilities to win.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  