-- Assault Weapons Ban ’Hardest’ to Pass, Senator Feinstein Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/assault-weapons-ban-hardest-to-pass-senator-feinstein-says.html
A proposed ban on  sales  of assault
weapons would likely be an “uphill fight” and may not be part
of gun legislation that reaches the floor of the Senate,
Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of California said.  “This has never been easy,” Feinstein said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” yesterday. “This is the hardest of the
hard.”  A ban on the military-style weapons is among the
legislative goals President  Barack Obama  outlined in his
recommendations to Congress on curbing gun violence after the
Dec. 14 Sandy Hook Elementary School slaughter of 20 children in
Newtown,  Connecticut . Vice President  Joe Biden  said Jan. 25 it
will take “persuasion and information” to garner the necessary
support in Congress to enact the White House package.  Feinstein introduced legislation to outlaw sales of
assault-style weapons on Jan. 24. The new legislation prohibits
the sale or transfer of 158 of the most commonly owned military-
style assault weapons. It exempts all assault weapons legally
possessed prior to passage of the law and excludes more than
2,200 hunting and sporting rifles.  The 1994 assault-weapons ban, signed by President  Bill
Clinton , expired in 2004 and, until the school shooting in
Newtown, there’d been little effort in Congress to renew it.  Feinstein said yesterday that an assault-weapons ban might
be left out of a package of proposals on gun regulation that the
Senate puts forward for a vote. If that happens, she said Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  assured her that it could
be introduced by Feinstein as an amendment.  Ban’s Outlook  A ban would be defeated in the U.S. Senate today unless
some members changed their current views, based on a Bloomberg
review of recent lawmaker statements and interviews.  At least six of the 55 senators who caucus with Democrats
have recently expressed skepticism or outright opposition to a
ban, the review found. That means Democrats wouldn’t have a
simple 51-vote majority to pass the measure, let alone the 60
votes needed to break a Republican filibuster to bring it to a
floor vote.  Asked on CNN if she concedes such legislation will be
difficult to pass, Feinstein said, “I conceded, because the NRA
is venal,” referring to the  National Rifle Association , which
opposes new restrictions.  “They come after you, they put together large amounts of
money to defeat you,” Feinstein said.  Urban Support  Feinstein was more optimistic about the chances of the ban
being approved during an interview yesterday on CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” citing support for the measure from the U.S.
Conference of Mayors and Major City Chiefs.  “I think I can get it passed because the American people
are very much for it,” Feinstein said.  New York  City Police Commissioner Ray Kelly said on “Face
the Nation” that he agreed with a ban on assault weapons though
he said the problem for large cities is concealable handguns.  “Only 2 percent of the people we have arrested for guns in
the last two years have had assault weapons,” Kelly said. “We
don’t want them on the street, make no mistake about it, but the
problem is the handgun.”  Kelly said more than 6 million guns were sold last year
without buyers undergoing a background check. He said a
universal background check would help  law enforcement  identify
so-called straw purchasers who legally buy weapons and then sell
them to others who cannot lawfully buy guns.  Background Checks  It would “make them more aware of the fact that they’re
now on record and you can record purchases that they make,” he
said.  Representative  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and
chairman of the House Budget Committee, said yesterday on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” program that Congress needs to examine how
criminals get their guns.  “That’s what the background check issue is all about,”
Ryan said. “We need to look into making sure that there aren’t
big loopholes where a person can illegally purchase a firearm.”  He said the legislative response to Sandy Hook shouldn’t be
limited to access to guns.  “Let’s go beyond just this debate and make sure we get
deeper,” Ryan said. “What’s our policy on mental illness?
What’s going on in our culture that produces this kind of
thing?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  