-- Thaw in Congress May End Winter of Discontent
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-27T23:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/thaw-in-congress-may-end-winter-of-discontent.html
Washington shivered in the grip of a
cold front last week. In Congress, however, there were hints of
an early thaw.  Fresh on the heels of a retreat by Republican House
members, who concluded that a debt-ceiling showdown might be a
less-than-spiffing idea,  Senate Democrats  backed off a shaky
ultimatum of their own. Majority Leader Harry Reid and
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  struck an  accord  to modify the
rules for Senate filibusters.  The filibuster has been abused in recent years, and
liberals were eager to dynamite the cause of so many Republican-
engineered logjams. Instead, the Reid-McConnell deal preserves
the power of the minority to require a 60-vote supermajority on
legislation. At the same time, the agreement should ease
procedural delays and votes on nominations. In return for a
slightly smaller jam, Republicans will regain the power,
thwarted by Reid, to offer amendments and shape legislation.  For critics of a dysfunctional Capitol, the accord was
small beer: Passing legislation in the Senate will continue to
be a tortuous process. Yet for two fiercely partisan leaders who
often behave like scorpions trapped in a jar, the agreement was
nonetheless significant. It represented tacit acknowledgment
that Republicans have abused the filibuster, that Democrats have
squelched Republican prerogatives and, most important, that
neither leader is eager to inflict additional damage on the
Senate in pursuit of short-term partisan gain.  The deal was  further evidence  that in the absence of grand
bargains, incrementalism looks pretty grand itself. Despite
harsh words and a paucity of common ground, the two parties have
made genuine progress. The fiscal cliff was averted. The tax
burden was adjusted, and the deficit trimmed. With forced
spending cuts and a vote on a continuing resolution to fund the
government looming, chances for additional reductions are good.
Meanwhile, a  bipartisan group  in the Senate is negotiating
immigration reform.  If Washington’s chroniclers haven’t applauded these modest
changes, the markets have. Borrowers continue to pay the
Treasury to hold their money in U.S. bonds; the stock market,
powered by solid earnings, is robust, with the S&P 500 closing
above 1,500 for the first time since 2007; the housing market is
improving.  Unemployment is too high and wages are too low, but the
economy is muddling through. Likewise,  Washington  could do worse
than its current trajectory. While the cold hits like a brick,
the warmth of small  comity  sneaks up on you.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 