-- Bangladesh Factory Safety Elusive Amid Chase for Profits: Retail
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-01-28T14:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/bangladesh-factory-safety-elusive-amid-chase-for-profits-retail.html
The second fatal fire at a
 Bangladesh  garment factory in two months has intensified the
debate over providing consumers with the latest fashions and
putting lives at risk.  Apparel sold by  Inditex SA (ITX) , a Spanish company that owns
Zara and helped pioneer faster fashion cycles, was found at a
factory that caught fire on Jan. 26, killing at least six
people. As a precautionary measure, the company stopped doing
business with two suppliers linked to the blaze, Inditex
spokesman Jesus Echevarria said. Both companies denied handing
off production to unauthorized suppliers, he said.  Fast fashion has trained consumers to expect a steady flow
of new garments in stores and has allowed the likes of  Gap Inc. (GPS) 
and  Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  to generate sales and profits in a
tough economy. The challenge for apparel companies is how to
maintain a flexible supply chain that can feed stores with new
fashions in the future without putting garment workers at risk.  “If they don’t get the products to the customers on time,
at quality and in the specifications they want, customers will
switch to a competitor,” said Richard Locke, a professor at the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  MIT Sloan School of Management ,
whose supply-chain research has taken him to factories around
the globe. “At the same time, brands and large retailers need
to be careful about reputational risks associated with poor
working and safety conditions.”  Inditex Investigators  Garments from Inditex’s Bershka and Lefties brands were
found among the wreckage at the site of the Jan. 26 blaze, the
Institute for Global Labour and  Human Rights  said on its
website. The factory was owned by Dhaka-based Smart Export
Garments Ltd. Inditex has sent its own investigators to the
scene, Echevarria said. Inditex shares fell 0.8 percent to
106.50 euros at 3:46 p.m. in  Madrid .  More than 100 people were killed on Nov. 24 at a plant
producing garments for companies including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
More than 700 garment workers have died since 2005 in
Bangladesh, according to the International Labor Rights Forum, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  Labor rights activists are urging the industry to help pay
for safety upgrades at about 4,500 Bangladesh factories. Doing
so would amount to 10 cents per garment -- or $3 billion over
five years -- according to an analysis provided by the Worker
Rights Consortium, a Washington-based monitoring group.  Retailers are wedded to the sales-driving power of fast
fashion as Americans wrestle with joblessness and higher taxes.  Holiday Sales  Holiday sales grew 3 percent in November and December from
a year earlier, far short of the 4.1 percent forecast by the
Washington-based  National Retail Federation . Through Jan. 24,
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  had gained 7.2 percent
this year compared with a 4.8 percent rise for the broader  S&P
500 Index .  “The American consumer wants the widest variety possible,
and they want it now,” said Nate Herman, vice president of
international trade for the American Apparel & Footwear
Association. “They don’t want to wait. If they wait, you lose
sales, and they’re not going to come back.”  Gap declined to comment for this story, while Urban
Outfitters and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  didn’t provide comments
requested in phone messages and e-emails.  To keep costs under control, companies have been shifting
their manufacturing from  China  to Bangladesh. While the South
Asian nation boasts a skilled workforce and many managers speak
English, factory safety regulations are spottily enforced.  Unexpected Demand  The move to Bangladesh coincided with fast-fashion’s spread
through the industry. Previously, companies ordered clothes for
each season, and a garment took as much as a year to travel from
concept to store. While apparel makers could rush orders to
market to meet unexpected demand, doing so was costly.  Then Inditex and H&M changed the game by proving that it
was possible to cut lead times -- and keep costs low. H&M, among
the largest buyers of ready-made garments in Bangladesh, has
posted gross margins higher than 50 percent for the past 10
years. Gap and Urban Outfitters never exceeded the low 40s in
that time. That’s why much of the industry boarded the fast-
fashion express.  “Most companies have adopted some part of fast fashion and
are trying to compress the product creation cycle,” said
Timothy Lee, a former apparel sourcing executive for Adidas.  The business case is evident: continuously introducing
blouses and skirts drives more shopping trips because consumers
expect to find new clothes, thus increasing sales. Accelerated
production also better matches supply and demand and allows
stores to offer more fashionable merchandise. Shoppers are less
likely to wait to buy, and stores can charge full price.  Flexible Supplies  Fast fashion doesn’t work without a flexible supply chain,
said Jim Brownell, who works for enVista, a Carmel, Indiana-
based consulting firm that works with Urban Outfitters and other
retailers.  Clients “don’t want to over-buy product in hopes it sells
because if it doesn’t, you’re stuck with it,” he said.  At the same time, consumers have come to expect their
clothing in a rainbow of hues and styles. In  Nike Corp.’s (NKE)  2010
Corporate Responsibility Report, the company said “asking
factories to manufacture too many styles is one of the highest
contributors to factory overtime in apparel.” When workers
don’t take enough breaks, accidents can happen, MIT professor
Locke said.  Constantly changing orders adds to the pressure.  Womens Trousers  Two months ago, Fazlul Hoque, who runs a Bangladesh garment
maker called Plummy Fashions Ltd., got a request from a European
apparel maker that Hoque declines to name requesting a design
change to the belt loops of 30,000 womens trousers. The switch
came two months before the garments were due to ship, forcing
Hoque to run his factory overtime and absorb the extra costs.  “It’s like a  chain reaction ,” Hoque said. “Consumers
always want new designs; they always want to stay in season.
Clothing companies follow the new trend, and we pay the price.”  Asking a factory to switch an order of 20,000 black shorts
to 15,000 black ones and 5,000 red ones doesn’t sound like much
“but has a bullwhip effect,” MIT’s Locke said. The suppliers’
factories might be forced to order new materials, work longer
hours or subcontract out some of the manufacturing to meet the
new demands.  “They still have to ship on time,” Locke said. “If they
don’t, they probably won’t get another order again.”  Long-Term Contracts  The desire for flexibility means apparel companies are
loath to sign long-term contracts with their suppliers, a move
Locke and labor rights groups say would boost safety as
retailers establish relationships with the factories where their
merchandise is produced.  Ultimately, the industry will have to offer fewer choices,
Locke said. That’s anathema to the companies, which say they are
only responding to consumer demand.  Scott Nova, the Worker Rights Consortium’s executive
director, doesn’t buy the argument consumers are hooked on fast
fashion.  “It’s an expectation retailers have created,” he said.
“Consumers weren’t demanding that 20 years ago. If seasons were
reduced from 26 to 10, I promise consumers will survive.
Retailers need to step back from this absurd approach of
changing styles every 15 minutes if factories are going to be
minimally safe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net ;
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  