-- Bank of Italy Authorizes Paschi Aid, Passing Buck to Monti
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-01-27T12:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/bank-of-italy-authorizes-monte-paschi-aid-passing-buck-to-monti.html
The Bank of Italy approved 3.9
billion euros ($5.3 billion) in emergency loans for  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , meaning Prime Minister Mario Monti may
have to push ahead with the unpopular bailout before elections
next month.  The decision comes amid a political firestorm over rescuing
the world’s oldest bank after revelations the lender’s former
management hid details of structured-finance transactions from
regulators that may produce hundreds of millions of euros in
losses. The Bank of Italy made its announcement late yesterday,
a day after Monte Paschi shareholders approved 6.5 billion euros
in capital increases needed to secure the loans.  “The situation is under control” and the bank is prepared
to take additional action if necessary, Monte Paschi Chairman
Alessandro Profumo said at the Jan. 25 shareholder meeting.  The revelations of the hidden  losses  came in the final
weeks of campaigning for Feb. 24 to Feb. 25 elections. Former
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has seized on the story to
attack both Monti and the front-runner, Democratic Party leader
Pier Luigi Bersani. Berlusconi has tried to link funds collected
from Monti’s unpopular property tax to the Paschi aid, while
tarring Bersani for his party’s political ties to the bank.  Monti Bonds  Under the bailout plan, Monte Paschi will sell  securities 
dubbed “Monti bonds” to the government with a 9 percent coupon
that may rise to as much as 15 percent. Monte Paschi is seeking
state help to bolster its balance sheet after the bank failed to
meet the capital requirements set by the European Banking
Authority. The bank is also selling assets and reducing risk and
costs in a three-year plan to restore liquidity.  The bank plans to issue the bonds by the end of February,
Profumo said in an interview today in newspaper Il Sole 24-Ore.
The bank also plans to put out a report on the extent of the
losses caused by the transactions by mid-February, which means
it could come within days of the election.  Monte Paschi  shares  rose 11 percent to 26 cents on Jan. 25,
after falling 21 percent in Milan during the previous five
sessions. That gave the bank a market value of 3 billion euros.  Project Santorini  The company said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts
after Bloomberg News reported the lender engaged in a derivative
transaction with Deutsche Bank AG in 2008, dubbed “Project
Santorini,” that obscured losses before it sought an initial
government bailout the next year. The bank said Jan. 23 it’s
reviewing three money-losing structured deals, dubbed Santorini,
Alexandria and Nota Italia, uncovered by newly appointed
executives.  Prosecutors are investigating the actions of former
management for possible criminal violation and the Bank of  Italy 
said this month that executives withheld key aspects of the
transactions from regulators.  The criminal probe is focusing on Monte Paschi’s 2007
agreement to buy Banca Antonveneta for 9 billion euros. Banco
Santander SA had valued the lender at 6.6 billion euros when it
purchased ABN Amro Holding NV’s Italian assets two months
earlier, Il Sole 24-Ore and la Repubblica reported today.
Prosecutors are also trying to figure out why Monte Paschi
assumed ABN Amro’s place in a 7.5 billion-euro credit line to
Antonveneta as part of the purchase, Il Sole said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 