-- Berlusconi Praises Mussolini Regime on Holocaust Remembrance Day
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-01-27T17:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/berlusconi-praises-mussolini-regime-on-holocaust-remembrance-day.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi praised the fascist regime of dictator Benito
Mussolini as he attended a ceremony to mark Holocaust
Remembrance Day.  “The government of that time, fearing that German power
might lead to an outright victory, preferred to ally itself with
Hitler’s  Germany  rather than opposing it,” he said. “Within
this alliance, there were impositions, including combating and
exterminating Jews. The racial laws were the worst thing that
Mussolini did as a leader, but he did many good things.”  Mussolini passed laws that prevented Jews from working in
certain professions and kept them out of universities. Under
pressure for the Nazi regime, many of  Italy ’s Jews were interned
and thousands were deported to death camps in Germany and other
countries.  Berlusconi also said that a visit to the Nazi death camp at
Auschwitz changed his life and that keeping the memory of the
Holocaust alive was fundamental “so that young people and all
citizens can understand what happened and to make sure that
something like this can’t even be imagined in the future.”  Berlusconi’s comments sparked criticism from other Italian
politicians.  “The error of fascism was in its birth, not just the
racial laws,” Pier Ferdinando Casini, head of the Union of
Centrists party, said on Sky TG24. “Talking about the good
things in a dictatorial regime is completely mistaken.”  Berlusconi later released a written statement saying that
“some on the Left” were politicizing his comments to embarrass
him during the campaign for the Feb. 24-25 elections.  “There can no equivocating about the fascist
dictatorship,” he said in the statement. “I want to emphasize
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  