-- Brazilian Nightclub Fire Kills Scores; Dozens Wounded
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-01-27T17:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/brazilian-nightclub-fire-kills-245-people-in-santa-maria-city.html
A band’s fireworks display at a
nightclub in  Brazil  early this morning turned deadly, killing
more than 230 and injuring dozens when it set the building
ablaze, according to police and televised reports.  Most of the victims at the club in  Santa Maria , a city in
southern Brazil with a number of universities, were students who
died from smoke inhalation and some may have perished as they
attempted to leave from the club’s exit doors, Andre Diefenbach,
an official with the municipality’s police department, said
today by telephone. Some died after they ran into the bathroom,
thinking it was an exit, he said.  “People were screaming and trying to run to the exit,”
Luciene Louzeiro, a survivor of the incident who was near the
stage when the fire started, said in a televised interview with
local news service O Globo. “It was horrible. I’ve never seen
anything like it.”  The death toll, initially estimated at 245, was lowered to
232, comprising 120 men and 112 women, O Estado do S. Paulo
reported today, citing the Special Operations Battalion. There
were 131 wounded, according to the report.  The incident prompted President  Dilma Rousseff  to cut short
her participation in a  summit  of Latin American and European
leaders in Santiago so she could return to Brazil.  Corpses are being transported to a local gymnasium,
according to an official at the fire department who asked not to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak to the
media.  Early Blaze  All of the bodies have been removed from the nightclub,
called Kiss, and wounded were taken to hospitals in the region,
 O Globo  said in a televised report. The fire started at about 2
a.m., Sao Paulo-based magazine Veja  reported  today, citing Guido
de Melo, the head of  Rio Grande  do Sul state’s fire department.  There may have been as many as 900 people in the club,
which has a capacity of about 2,000 people, said Diefenbach, the
police official. Some security guards have been accused of not
letting people leave before paying, Diefenbach said.  The incident may be the worst fire in Brazil’s history
since 1961, when 503 people died at a circus in the state of  Rio
de Janeiro , the newspaper Folha D. Sao Paulo  said  today. Brazil
is seeking to improve its safety record ahead of the 2014  World
Cup .  In 2004, a blaze at a rock concert in a  Buenos Aires  killed
193, and the nightclub owner was convicted of manslaughter. In
the U.S., fireworks led to the death of 100 people at a club in
Warwick,  Rhode Island , in 2003 when a pyrotechnics malfunction
ignited foam used as soundproofing on the club’s walls. About
200 people were injured.  Rousseff Returns  Santa Maria, with 250,000 residents, is about 800
kilometers (500 miles) southwest of Sao Paulo city. It has a
young population because of its large number of universities.  “It is a tragedy for us all,” Rousseff said in a
statement published by her communications department. Rousseff
canceled her meetings at the summit she was attending in
Santiago and is en route to Santa Maria by plane, according to
Jose Ramos, a spokesman.  “Who needs me today is the Brazilian people and that’s
where I have to be,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  