-- China Industrial Companies’ Profits Climb a Fourth Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-27T09:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/china-industrial-companies-profits-climb-a-fourth-month.html
Chinese industrial companies’ profits
rose for a fourth month in December, adding to signs the
country’s economic rebound is gaining momentum.  Net income increased 17.3 percent from a year earlier to
895 billion  yuan  ($144 billion), the  National Bureau of
Statistics  said today in Beijing, after a 22.8 percent jump in
November. Earnings for the full year gained 5.3 percent.  Industrial profits may rise by an average 30 percent this
year as the world’s second-biggest economy recovers from a
seven-quarter slowdown, businesses start restocking and export
demand improves, Standard Chartered Plc forecasts. Expansion in
gross domestic product may accelerate to 8.1 percent this year
from 7.8 percent in 2012, according to the median of 44 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey this month.  “This broadly confirms the picture we’re getting from
other data that industrial and economic growth is picking up
again and the pressure on output prices is diminishing,” said
 Louis Kuijs , chief  China  economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  Hong Kong . “Because of quite weak numbers in the first half
of 2012, the profit numbers are likely to show strong year-on-
year growth in the coming months.”  China’s economic expansion will be above 8 percent this
year,  Lou Jiwei , chairman of the nation’s sovereign wealth fund,
said at a forum in Beijing yesterday. Gross domestic product
increased 7.8 percent last year, the least since 1999, according
to government data.  Bolster Prospects  The Chinese Academy of Sciences forecast economic growth
this year will accelerate to 8.4 percent, according to its
annual outlook published yesterday.  The preliminary reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
last week showed manufacturing expanding at the fastest rate in
two years. If confirmed by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics in their final report on Feb. 1, the gauge would
bolster prospects economic growth will accelerate from the 7.9
percent pace of the fourth quarter.  Expansion may quicken to 8.1 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 30
analysts in a Bloomberg survey carried out from Jan. 18 to 23.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , the nation’s benchmark stocks
gauge, has gained 17 percent since approaching a four-year low
on Dec. 3 on optimism the economic recovery will boost earnings.
The index fell 1.1 percent last week amid concern the outlook
doesn’t justify equity valuations that have risen to the highest
levels in eight months.  Coal Prices  The increase in full-year industrial profits to 5.56
trillion yuan compared with a 25.4 percent gain in 2011 and a 3
percent advance in the first 11 months of 2012, according to
previously released data. Sales for the full year rose 11
percent to 91.6 trillion yuan, today’s statement showed.  Among 41 industry categories covered in the  report , 29 saw
profits increase, 11 reported declines and oil refining and
nuclear-fuel processing recorded losses. Earnings of power-
generating and supply companies surged 69.1 percent last year as
coal prices fell while the vehicle industry’s profit rose 5.6
percent, according to today’s data.  Earnings in power generation and food processing industries
should continue to expand this year while the telecommunications
sector is returning to the path of profit growth, Standard
Chartered economists  Stephen Green , based in Hong Kong, and Shen Lan, based in  Shanghai , wrote in a Jan. 17 note.  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest mobile-phone equipment
maker, said Jan. 20 it may swing to a profit in the first
quarter after estimating a net loss of as high as 2.9 billion
yuan in 2012.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Fan Wenxin in Shanghai.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Russell Ward  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  