-- Clearwire Investors Use Dish to Demand Sprint Raise Offer
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-01-28T21:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/clearwire-investors-use-dish-to-demand-sprint-bump-bid-real-m-a.html
Charlie Ergen  is becoming the
financial savior that  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  shareholders never
expected. And he doesn’t even have to open his wallet.  Ergen, the chairman of Dish Network Corp., made a surprise
counteroffer of $3.30 a share for Clearwire, topping a $2.97 bid
from Sprint Nextel Corp., which already owns more than 50
percent of the wireless-network operator. Clearwire closed as
 high  as $3.30 last week, reaching the level of Dish’s proposal
for the first time since it was disclosed Jan. 8.  While a Dish deal is a long shot because it’s subject to
conditions that may require Sprint’s approval, it’s enough to
embolden Clearwire’s minority  investors  to push Sprint to at
least match the bid. With the stock already at that level,
traders are betting Sprint will increase its bid by 11 percent,
more than any other similar-sized deal pending in  North America ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sprint, which needs
backing from more than half of Clearwire’s minority shareholders
to succeed, is already facing opposition from owners including
Taran Asset Management and Crest Financial Ltd.  “Sprint continuing to stand by this $2.97 bid is not going
to work,”  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM
Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “The Dish bid is illusionary. But Sprint still has
the problem of having to get enough shareholders to support
them.”  Softbank Approval  Sprint said in a Dec. 13 regulatory filing that it proposed
paying $2.90 a share to acquire Clearwire. Four days later, it
agreed to a bid of $2.97 a share -- or about $2.2 billion.
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, the third-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier, is getting an infusion of cash from
 Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984) , which is buying 70 percent of Sprint for
about $20 billion. At the time, Softbank wouldn’t agree to a
Clearwire bid above $2.97, people familiar with the negotiations
said then.  Before Dish’s rival bid was disclosed, Clearwire had been
trading at a discount to the Sprint deal, a sign that investors
weren’t expecting higher offers. Analysts weren’t either.  “It’s Sprint or nobody,”  Christopher King , a Baltimore-
based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., said last month before
Dish stepped in.  Since Dish made its surprise offer, Clearwire’s stock
traded between the two bids, until it closed at $3.30 on Jan.
24. At that level, traders are betting Sprint will increase its
offer to match Dish’s, according to Alfredo Scialabba, a New
York-based special situations analyst at  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)   Today, Clearwire shares rose 2.8 percent to $3.36, the
highest closing price since Dec. 14.  Spectrum Value  While the four-year joint venture between Sprint and
Clearwire  struggled  to build a competitive nationwide wireless
network, Clearwire still owns valuable spectrum -- the airwaves
that are used to transmit voice and data for mobile devices.  For Sprint, full control of Clearwire’s spectrum, which
blankets the entire country, would help the carrier shore up its
wireless network at a time when smartphones and tablets are
fueling a surge in data traffic.  While Clearwire’s board has already approved the
transaction, the majority of the stockholders that aren’t
affiliated with Sprint or Softbank must also sign off.  “What could happen is that Clearwire’s shareholders decide
to, and are able to, vote down the Sprint transaction,”
Scialabba said in a phone interview. “The likelihood of  Dish (DISH) 
winning this battle is minimal, but as long as the value emerges
and people understand and clarify what’s really inside
Clearwire, this could embolden all the shareholders. That could
force the hand of Sprint.”  Shareholder Dissent  Some shareholder dissent has already surfaced. Glenview
Capital Management plans to reject Sprint’s current offer, a
person with knowledge of the situation said earlier this month,
while Taran Asset Management said it will file a complaint with
the Federal Communications Commission, arguing that Clearwire is
worth more than $2.97 a share. Crest Financial already asked the
FCC to block the transaction.  Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, which  owns  7.7 percent
of Clearwire’s Class A shares, the second-biggest minority
stake, sent a letter to Clearwire’s board asking them to
consider Dish’s bid.  Sprint has argued that its bid is better because it’s
simpler and carries fewer conditions, and that the matter is in
the hands of the Clearwire special committee, which has accepted
Sprint’s offer. Clearwire has said it plans to talk to Dish and
will keep its options open by not drawing on financing offered
by Sprint.  ‘Highly Conditional’  “Sprint’s agreement to acquire Clearwire is superior to
the highly conditional Dish proposal and offers Clearwire
shareholders certain and attractive value,”  Scott Sloat , a
spokesman for Sprint, said in an e-mail Jan. 25.  Mike DiGioia, a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire who works at JLM Partners Inc., declined to comment.
Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
didn’t respond to phone or e-mail messages seeking comment.  Dish offered to buy 24 percent of Clearwire’s spectrum and
acquire as much as all of the company’s stock. A deal is
contingent on at least 25 percent of shareholders tendering and
doesn’t need Sprint’s participation, though it’s subject to
conditions that may require Sprint’s approval.  Sprint’s majority stake makes it “virtually impossible”
for Dish to buy the entire company, said Shing Yin, a New York-
based analyst for Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-television
provider, is trying to expand into mobile-phone service and aims
to use Clearwire’s airwaves to bolster those ambitions.  Negotiating Tactic  While billionaire Ergen is “always hard to predict,” the
takeover bid may be a bargaining tactic to get a hold of some of
Clearwire’s spectrum, instead of the whole company, Yin said.  “He obviously would like to buy it at the most attractive
price possible,” Yin said. “Right now, to negotiate to buy a
piece of that spectrum probably involves negotiating with
 Sprint (S) , so he put that offer out there to bring them to the
table.”  Because the Dish proposal is only a preliminary indication
of interest with several conditions, Sprint doesn’t need to
respond with a higher bid now, Yin said. Without a binding offer
from Dish, it may be risky to block Sprint, he said.  Even if Sprint does boost its price, the company may not be
willing to reach the level of Dish’s bid, said MKM’s Moore.  Critical Deal  “I anticipate that Sprint will raise its offer,” Moore
said. “But will they raise it to match the $3.30? My guess is
they’re going to try not to. I think the stock’s ahead of
itself.”  Still, Sprint could offer as much as $3.50 to $3.75 a share
to secure the support of minority stockholders, said Kevin Smithen, a New York-based analyst for Macquarie Group Ltd.  “It’s critical that Sprint gets Clearwire closed as soon
as possible,” he said in a phone interview. “We just don’t
think Sprint wants to risk having any uncertainty or any further
delays, either caused by Dish or dissident shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  