-- Clegg Says U.K. to Continue Fiscal Squeeze Amid Recession Threat
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/clegg-says-u-k-to-continue-fiscal-squeeze-amid-recession-threat.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said the coalition government will stick to plans for the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II even after the U.K.
economy contracted in the fourth quarter.  “We’re absolutely not going to change course in paying off
one of the world’s largest budget deficits,” Clegg said in an
interview with the  BBC  yesterday. Even with bright spots such as
record employment, the U.K. faces “a long, hard road. There are
other parts of the economy that will take longer to fix.”  The  economy  shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter,
putting the U.K. on the brink of an unprecedented triple-dip
recession, data published Jan. 25 showed. Clegg, who leads the
minority Liberal Democrat party, also said Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s proposal to hold a referendum on Britain’s membership
in the European Union may jeopardize growth.  “It’s not in the national interest when we have this
fragile recovery and a very open economy which is very dependent
on investors” in industries such as car manufacturing, Clegg
said. “Stability is crucial to any economy recovering from the
shock that we endured in 2008.”  Cameron pledged in a speech last week to put the question
of the U.K.’s role in the EU to a popular vote by the end of
2017, though he wants Britain to remain in the EU. He said in an
interview Jan. 24 the political uncertainty surrounding the
debate won’t undermine foreign investment.  Conservative Support  Support for Cameron’s  Conservative party  rose 5 points to
33 percent after his Jan. 23 speech, while the opposition Labour
party held at 39 percent, according to a ComRes opinion poll for
the Independent on Sunday and Sunday Mirror. Support for the
 Liberal Democrats  has increased 2 points to 11 percent, while
the U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns for an exit from
the EU, dropped 4 points to 10 percent.  Cameron has “put party before country,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said in an interview with the Sunday Times newspaper
yesterday. The premier adopted his position because of
“pressure in the Conservative party and he’s worried about
UKIP.”  The build-up to his speech was also “bad for the national
interest” while the economy faltered, he said. A survey for the
paper showed 53 percent believe Labour is wrong to oppose the
vote. YouGov polled 1,943 adults Jan. 24-25.  Efforts to help the economy “grow out of this crisis”
include construction of a new high-speed rail line, Clegg told
the BBC. “You can be very tough on the deficit and restlessly
creative on how you do things to make the economy grow,” he
said. The government approved the project, which connects London
to Northern England via Birmingham, in January 2012.  Fiscal Insistence  Ed Balls , who speaks for the Labour party on economic
matters, said in an interview with the Independent on Sunday
yesterday that the government’s insistence on its fiscal plan is
“economically catastrophic.”  Cameron’s leadership of the Conservative party will be
contested by Adam Afriyie were he to lose the next general
election, the Sunday Times reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified friend of the member of parliament. The self-made
millionaire has an eight-member campaign team and his push to
replace the premier has been under way for at least three
months, the newspaper said.  Chris Heaton-Harris, a former member of the European
parliament, and MPs Jesse Norman and Graham Brady, are also
preparing campaigns, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  