-- Contador Letter Shows Move to Clear Rider in Doping Scandal
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-01-28T16:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/contador-letter-shows-move-to-clear-rider-in-doping-scandal.html
Two-time Tour de France champion
Alberto Contador will testify in a trial of five people accused
of arranging a doping ring as a letter shows how the Spanish
cycling federation pushed to clear his name in the 2006 scandal.  Doctor Eufemiano Fuentes and Contador’s former team manager
Manolo Saiz are among those charged with a “crime against
public health” in the trial, which is scheduled to start today
in  Madrid  and last for six weeks, according to a court
statement. The Spanish cyclist’s testimony was moved forward to
Feb. 5 today. Prosecutors are seeking a two-year prison sentence
for each of the accused, the statement says.  The  World Anti-Doping Agency , which can make a presentation
as part of the prosecution by Spanish authorities, is trying to
piece together details about the affair known as “Operacion
Puerto,” or Operation Mountain Pass, the Montreal-based
agency’s former president Dick Pound said. Police initially
linked as many as 58 riders to the ring, although fewer than
half that number have faced disciplinary proceedings.  “There have been nothing but roadblocks put in front of
this case,” Pound said by phone from  Montreal . “I don’t know
why: That’s the $64 million question.”  Fuentes lawyer Julian Perez Templado didn’t return a call
and e-mail seeking comment and the court couldn’t provide
details of Saiz’s lawyer. Fuentes is scheduled to testify
tomorrow, according to a court statement.  Cheating Culture?  Two weeks after Lance Armstrong ended 13 years of denials
and confessed to doping in winning seven Tour de France titles
through 2005, the trial will renew focus on a culture of
cheating in cycling that prompted Nissan Motor Co. and Rabobank
Groep to withdraw as sponsors since October. At the time
Armstrong was racing, all riders faced the dilemma of whether to
dope, according to Chris Horner, a 41-year-old American now on
the RadioShack-Trek team.  In May 2006, police uncovered more than 200 blood bags,
transfusion equipment and drugs in raids on apartments in
Madrid. Riders have been known to collect and later transfuse
their own blood to increase their body’s volume of oxygen-
carrying red blood cells that boost stamina. Saiz, then manager
of the Liberty Seguros team, was carrying 42,000 euros ($56,000)
in cash in a briefcase and corticoid drugs for hospital use when
he was arrested, the court statement said.  Letter  Six weeks later, the Spanish cycling federation’s general
secretary Eugenio Bermudez wrote to the government asking that
police corroborate any evidence against Contador or drop him
from the investigation to avoid “irreparable” damage to his
image. The letter said Fuentes had “exonerated” the cyclist
after telling the  Cadena Ser radio station  a week earlier he
didn’t know the athlete. Contador was at the time an up-and-
coming rider without a major race win.  The letter, whose contents haven’t been reported before,
was among documents released by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency last
October to support evidence Armstrong doped.  Contador, whose initials A.C. were found on a training
schedule by police, resumed racing three weeks later. Pat McQuaid, the president of cycling ruling body Union Cycliste
Internationale, or UCI, said Contador had received a letter
saying he wasn’t part of the judicial investigation, allowing
him to return to competition, according to an Aug. 17, 2006
 report on the cyclingnews.com website .  Mistake?  Contador said in July 2007 he had been mistakenly
implicated because he was on the Liberty Seguros team led by
Saiz. He went on to win the Tour in 2007 and 2009, and was
stripped of his 2010 title for failing a drugs test. He blamed
the failed test on contaminated steak. A Spanish federation
panel had cleared Contador of wrongdoing before the Court of
Arbitration for Sport overturned the ruling.  Contador’s spokesman  Jacinto Vidarte  said the Spaniard
“had nothing to do” with the 2006 doping ring. He said he
wasn’t aware of and couldn’t comment on the sequence of events
that led to Contador being cleared.  Bermudez’s letter also asked that police consider dropping
Vicente Ballester, a rider on the Comunidad Valencia team, and
track cyclist Jose Antonio Escuredo from its investigation.
Bermudez, who left his role as general secretary in 2008, said
in a phone interview he didn’t remember asking that police clear
Contador or Ballester.  “I don’t remember the letter, this was seven years ago,”
Bermudez said. “I would have to go back through the archives,
it would be almost like mission impossible.”  Bermudez said he remembered the case of Escuredo because
the training schedule linking him to the scandal didn’t
correspond to track cycling. Bermudez, who no longer works in
cycling, said he would never have tried to put pressure on
police to clear Contador.  “I would only have asked for the police to check the
evidence,” Bermudez said. “Who am I to tell the police or a
judge what to do?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  