-- Czech President-Elect on Collision Course With Government
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-28T12:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/czech-president-elect-on-collision-course-with-government.html
Milos Zeman’s victory in the Czech
Republic’s presidential election sets up a clash with the
government over its economic program aimed at cutting the  budget
deficit  in the midst of a  recession .  Zeman, 68, defeated Karel Schwarzenberg, the millionaire
prince and foreign minister, in the run-off vote on Jan. 25-26
as Czechs punished the government for its austerity measures.
The former premier promotes progressive taxation and closer ties
with the European Union, bringing a new foreign-policy outlook
after a decade under the euroskeptic Vaclav Klaus.  As the eastern EU member of 10.5 million struggles to exit
its second recession since 2009, government deficit cuts were
the focus of the presidential race. Zeman derided Premier Petr Necas’s administration for increasing sales taxes, an overhaul
of the pension system and lack of state investments.  “A leftist president logically must be an opponent of a
rightist government,” Zeman said in his first interview on the
public Czech Television channel on Jan. 26. “In a number of
specific laws, I will represent the leftist position.”  The Czech economy is suffering from weakening domestic
demand after the Cabinet cut investments and raised taxes to
trim the budget gap. With the prospects of a recession
stretching into the longest ever, Necas wants to ease the pace
of fiscal cuts from the election year of 2014 as he tries to
avoid the fate of European leaders who were ousted following
 austerity  measures that stunted economies from  Romania  to  Spain .  Austerity Benefits  The government credits its program with helping to cut
borrowing costs. Yields on five-year koruna notes fell 172 basis
points, or 1.72 percentage points, in 2012, touching a record-
low 0.66 percent on Dec. 27. The  five-year  rate stood at 0.90
percent as of 1:15 p.m. in Prague today, according to generic
rates compiled by Bloomberg.  The president, who until now had been elected by lawmakers,
picks the leader to form a Cabinet after elections. That’s often
a key role in a country where balloting frequently fails to
produce a majority. The head of state also influences  monetary
policy  by holding the sole right to name central bank board
members.  After taking the post in March, Zeman will be the ex-
communist EU member’s third president since it became an
independent state 20 years ago. Klaus, an economist who as
premier oversaw the transition from a centrally-planned to
market economy two decades ago, beat out Zeman among others to
replace the late Vaclav Havel in 2003. He was forbidden by law
to seek the post again.  ‘Standard Cooperation’  While Necas said he hopes for “standard cooperation” with
Zeman, the two “are on the opposite sides of the political
spectrum in many issues, especially the social and economic,”
the premier said after the election.  Zeman attacked the government in his first television
interview, calling for early elections to replace the minority
administration.  Necas’s three-party coalition lost parliamentary majority
last year following clashes over personnel and  budget  issues.
The government is ruling with support of unaffiliated lawmakers
who have helped it push through a series of austerity measures
and survive no-confidence motions. The  fiscal steps  have eroded
the government’s popularity and opinion polls suggest the  Social
Democrats  will win the next elections.  “Zeman is ostensibly setting himself up as a partner for
center-left parties, which will in all likelihood form the
governmental majority for the larger part of his forthcoming
term in the office,” Otilia Simkova, an analyst at Eurasia
Group in  London , said in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News .  Economic Forecaster  Zeman and Klaus were foes in the 1990s, heading the two
largest political parties. Zeman, an economist who worked as a
forecaster in the Academy of Science after the fall of
communism, became premier in 1998 when his Social Democrats
formed a minority government that ruled in an agreement with the
opposition Civic Democrats, then led by Klaus.  Klaus endorsed Zeman before the run-off vote by saying his
successor should be a person who spent his life in the  Czech
Republic , a swipe at Schwarzenberg whose aristocratic family was
forced to flee the then  Czechoslovakia  after the communists took
power in 1948. The Communist party, gaining popularity on the
anti-austerity sentiment, and the trade unions had also
supported Zeman.  Conciliatory Tone  Unlike Klaus, who refused to fly the EU flag above his
Prague castle seat, Zeman envisages the transition of the EU
into a federation with common foreign and defense policies, and
supports the future adoption of the euro.  “Zeman has indicated he would employ a significantly more
conciliatory tone toward the EU than the highly Euroskeptic
Klaus,” Eurasia’s Simkova said.  Like Klaus, Zeman has also ruffled feathers abroad. In 2002
he equated Palestinians to Sudeten Germans, ethnic Germans who
lived in Czechoslovakia before World War II, and compared
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat with  Adolf Hitler . Though Zeman
said he was misquoted, the Czech government apologized for the
remarks anyway.  Zeman’s presidential campaign included calls for more state
investment and restoring progressive taxation for higher
earners. He has opposed the government’s pension overhaul, a
program designed to boost private retirement savings that was
among reasons cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when it lifted the
rating on the country’s debt two steps to AA-, its fourth-
highest investment grade, in 2011.  Bank Appointments  The president-elect said he would name central bankers who
support economic growth and not strive only to meet the
inflation and currency-stability goals mandated by law. Zeman
may consider appointing a trade union representative as a policy
maker, he said in one of the election debates.  Zeman’s first central-bank board appointment will come in
March 2014 when the term of Eva Zamrazilova ends.  “In the next five years, President Zeman will have the
option to replace five of seven members of the bank board,
including the governor,” Jan Cermak, an analyst at CSOB AS in
 Prague  said in a note today. “The makeup of the bank board can
be really varied in 2018.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  