-- Dimon in Davos Won’t Worry About Whales
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-01-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/dimon-in-davos-won-t-worry-about-whales.html
If you are a  Wall Street  honcho and
you decided not to cancel your trip to Davos,  Switzerland , this
year, you must be feeling pretty good about things.  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief executive officer of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was at the  World Economic Forum  for the first
time since 2008, newly bearded and fresh from a year in which
the firm made $7.5 billion in net income and regained its
swagger as the potentate of Wall Street. Brian Moynihan, the CEO
of  Bank of America Corp. , was back and could hold his head a bit
higher: BofA’s stock was up close to 60 percent in a year as
Moynihan has slowly begun to put behind him the bank’s errors
leading up to and during the financial crisis.  And, of course, there is  Jamie Dimon , the CEO of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Let’s face it: The man is in a class by himself. He
has become a perennial at Davos, where he is perennially
outspoken. In 2011, he made news by picking a  rhetorical fight 
with President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of  France  about whether the time
had finally come to take Wall Street’s bankers, traders and
executives out of the cross hairs of public ire. This year, the
incorrigible Dimon wasted no time: On the first day of the
conference he was defending banks and bankers and urging
regulators to slow down their drive to prevent another financial
crisis like the one that brought capitalism to its knees in
2008.  Too Complicated  In particular , Dimon took on Zhu Min, the deputy director
of the  International Monetary Fund , who was on a panel that
included Dimon and other bankers.  “The financial sector is too big,” Zhu warned. “The
products are too complicated. Transparency is not there. In this
sense, I say the financial sector still has a long way to go.”  Zhu reminded Dimon that the repercussions from the
financial crisis are still reverberating, even if those on Wall
Street can’t feel them. “Two-hundred-million people still don’t
have jobs today,” he said. “With all the debating going on,
the financial market structure didn’t change very much. We’re
not safer yet.” He added there has been “zero deleveraging”
in the financial sector since the crisis. “The size is still
big, the product is still complicated,” Zhu continued. “And
the market-based activity hasn’t actually decreased, rather
increased.”  Dimon pushed back in a way you might not have expected from
a boss whose troops engineered a $6.2 billion loss last year in
a series of trades marked by lax oversight and bad risk
management.  “It’s going to be another five years of pointing fingers,
scapegoating, using misinformation,” Dimon said in response to
Zhu and another panelist, hedge-fund manager  Paul Singer , who
also worried that Wall Street banking remains too opaque.
“We’re trying to do too much too fast.”  As he has said many times before, Dimon suggested that
bankers and regulators need to sit down together -- and soon --
to create regulations that can actually do the job of regulating
Wall Street.  “It’s five years after the crisis, we still haven’t fixed
a lot of the things that you’re talking about,” Dimon told Zhu.
And Dimon, being Dimon, couldn’t resist a self-satisfied quip.
He told Singer, in response to the question of bank
transparency, “Paul, with all due respect, you know  hedge funds 
are pretty opaque, too.”  As for the “ London  Whale” trading losses, he ate,
according to the  New York  Times, a “diet portion of humble
pie.” Allowed Dimon: “If you are a shareholder of mine, I
apologize.” Without missing a beat, he added about 2012, “We
did have record profits. Life goes on.”  Task Force  Unfortunately for Dimon, his appearance at Davos comes a
week after an internal bank  task force  issued a  132-page report 
about what went wrong at the chief investment office in London
last year that resulted in the huge trading loss. Even though
the report is pretty sanitized -- names of most of the traders
involved have been expunged -- and one gets the sense there is
still much more to the story, it leaves little doubt that the
kind of oversight Dimon disdains is very much needed at his
bank.  Take, for instance, the matter of how the traders in the
CIO marked their trades as the losses were mounting. Because the
risky securities they were investing in were difficult to value
with precision and traded infrequently, the London traders
seemed to have regularly underestimated their growing losses --a
potential felony if intentional. The report also describes how
junior traders tried to do the right thing by flagging the
mounting losses, but more senior traders squashed their efforts,
saying of one junior trader: “On a number of days beginning in
at least mid-March, at the direction of his manager, he assigned
values to certain of the positions in the Synthetic Credit
Portfolio that were more beneficial to CIO than the values being
indicated by the market. The result was that CIO underreported
the losses, both on a daily basis and on a year-to-date basis.”  On March 20, according to the report, one trader wanted to
mark his book, showing a $40 million loss for the day. Shortly
thereafter, a more senior employee told the trader that showing
that big a loss “would cause problems for him” during a
meeting the next day with Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, in
part because Drew “might prohibit his team from adding to their
long positions” to enable them to try to trade their way out of
the growing losses.  It went on like this for weeks, until April 10, the day
after  news reports  by  Bloomberg News  and the Wall Street Journal
first mentioned the London Whale and the potential losses.
According to the internal report, one JPMorgan Chase trader
predicted the loss that day might be as much as $700 million, as
smart hedge-fund traders lined up against the bank. A more
senior trader objected, saying a loss that size “would
undermine his credibility.” The potential loss was then
recalculated to a projected $5 million for the day. This was, of
course, ridiculous, and “after a confrontation” between
traders, an updated estimated loss for the day of $400 million
was circulated. For once, the bank had its numbers right: After
the markets closed, Drew reported to a vacationing Dimon the
loss for the day was $412 million. It was, Drew wrote, an
“eight-standard deviation event” -- something that would
happen once in a trillion years.  Yet it did happen -- in ways even worse than Drew, Dimon or
anyone else at JPMorgan Chase could have conceived. No matter
how much fun Dimon has pontificating at Davos, the fact remains
that five years after the financial crisis began, America’s
supposedly best bank could still make crazy bets with its
depositors’ money and have no idea what it was doing.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. His sister-in-law, Ellen
Futter, is on JPMorgan Chase’s board of directors. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 