-- Djokovic Tops Murray for 3rd Straight Australian Open Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-27T17:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/djokovic-tops-murray-for-3rd-straight-australian-open-win.html
Novak Djokovic wants to use his
record third straight Australian Open title to target the one
tennis major he’s yet to win: the  French Open .  A week after almost being eliminated from the season-
opening Grand Slam tournament, the Serb didn’t drop his serve
last night in beating  Andy Murray  of Britain in four sets to
secure the championship at Melbourne Park for the fourth time in
six years. It was his sixth major title overall, and he said it
gives him confidence in preparing for the clay courts of Paris,
where he lost last year to  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal .  “I want to go all the way in French Open,” the top-seeded
Djokovic said in a news conference. “I went to the finals last
year and had a great match against Rafa, but he’s always the
favorite on that surface and he’s the ultimate player to beat on
clay. If I continue on playing well, stay healthy, I can have a
chance.”  Djokovic’s 6-7 (2-7), 7-6 (7-3), 6-3, 6-2 victory over
third-seeded Murray at Rod Laver Arena made him the first man to
win the tournament three years in a row since  Australia ’s  Roy Emerson  took his fifth consecutive title in 1967. Since the
professional era began a year later, nine other players had won
back-to-back championships before failing on the third attempt.  His title defense almost ended in round four, when he
outlasted 15th-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of  Switzerland  in a
five-hour, two-minute contest, winning the last set 12-10. It
was the fourth-longest match in tournament history.  Run to Final  “I didn’t feel I was better player on court that night,”
Djokovic said. “Stan deserved to win even more than me.”  Seven days later, Djokovic entered the championship match
having had 24 hours longer to prepare than Murray following his
89-minute semifinal rout of fourth-seeded  David Ferrer . U.S.
Open champion Murray, who had been seeking to become the only
man in the Open era to follow his first Grand Slam victory with
another title in his next major, was taken to five sets by four-
time champion  Roger Federer . Last night’s loss dropped Murray to
1-5 in Grand Slam finals.  “No one’s ever won a Slam, the immediate one after winning
their first one,” Murray told reporters. “It’s not the easiest
thing to do and I got extremely close. I have to try and look at
the positives of the last few months. I’m going in the right
direction.”  The pair played a four-hour, 54-minute match for the U.S.
Open championship in September, and last night the long-time
rivals looked like they would produce another marathon. The
first two sets took almost 2 1/4 hours. Djokovic appeared to be
rattled during the first two sets, complaining to himself after
slipping several times and kicking a tennis ball into the crowd
after hitting it long.  ‘Hang In’  “I knew that it was going to be physically very demanding,
a lot of long rallies,” Djokovic said. “I needed to hang in
there.”  Playing with a grazed knee and elbow following a slip on
which he managed to make a forehand when horizontal on the
baseline, Djokovic missed five break-point opportunities in the
first set. He lost a tiebreaker that he opened with a double
fault and hit another four shots long, finishing the 68-minute
set with 25 unforced errors.  Murray opened the second frame by holding at love and then
got his first break points of the match following another three
unforced errors off Djokovic’s racket, only for the defending
champion to claw his way back from 0-40 to make it 1-1.  “He missed a few shots and I managed have that crucial
hold,” Djokovic said. “After that I felt just mentally a
little bit lighter and more confident on the court than I’d done
in the first hour or so.”  Two Tiebreakers  The set went with serve without another break point and
into another tiebreaker, where Murray produced only his fifth
double fault of the tournament after removing a feather that had
blown onto the court between his first and second serves.
Djokovic won four of the next five points to even the match.  “It just caught my eye before I served, I thought it was a
good idea to move it,” Murray said of the feather. “Maybe it
wasn’t because I obviously double faulted.”  Murray then took a three-minute medical timeout before the
third set to have his right foot treated for blisters. Following
31 straight service holds, Djokovic broke to go up 5-3 and held
at love to take a two-sets-to-one lead.  With Murray grimacing and grabbing at his left hamstring at
the start of the fourth set, Djokovic secured the second break
of the match to take a 2-1 lead. He then produced his fastest
serve of the tournament at 209 kilometers per hour (130 miles
per hour) on his way to holding for 3-1.  Double Fault  Murray’s fifth double fault of the match handed Djokovic a
second service break and the Serb fought back from 0-30 down
when serving for the championship, sealing the victory in three
hours, 40 minutes when Murray put a backhand into the net.  Djokovic said he’ll turn his immediate attention to next
weekend’s Davis Cup match against  Belgium  before plotting his
challenge for the French title, where Nadal has won seven of the
past eight titles.  “Grand Slam finals are always bringing something new,
something special to every player,” Djokovic said. “That’s
where you want to perform your best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  