-- Dubai Apartment, Villa Rents Advanced 17% in 2012, Asteco Says
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-01-27T09:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/dubai-apartment-villa-rents-advanced-17-in-2012-asteco-says.html
Apartment and villa rents in Dubai
climbed an average 17 percent last year as the Persian Gulf
business hub benefits from the eurozone crisis and the so-called
Arab Spring, according to Asteco Property Management.  “Mid to high budget enquiries have increased and stock in
popular developments is drying up,” Asteco said in an e-mailed
statement today. “In terms of supply and demand, Dubai is still
benefiting from the euro crisis and the Arab Spring as people
seek stability and better economic conditions.”  Dubai, which witnessed one of the world’s worst property
crashes with a 65 percent drop in home values from its 2008
peak, is returning to large projects that dominated the market.
The emirate, home to the world’s tallest tower and man-made
islands, in November announced plans to develop a new district
with the world’s largest mall, 100 hotels and gardens larger
than  London ’s Hyde Park.  The highest rental growth for residential villas was in the
Springs area, while those for apartments in Discovery Gardens,
Asteco said. Prices in the commercial  property market  saw
“little movement” during last year, according to the
statement.  “If demand continues, we expect to see a shift in the
market from being predominantly tenant-led to one controlled by
landlords, especially in quality, well-managed and established
developments,” Managing Director John Stevens said in the
statement.  Sale Prices Rise  Villa sale prices climbed an average 23 percent year-on-
year and apartment prices gained 14 percent, according to
Asteco. “The buyer profile was dominated by self-use and
investments for rental income, with expatriates taking a longer-
term view of living in Dubai.”  Foreigners make up more than 80 percent of the population
of the U.A.E., which includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , according to
government estimates. Dubai first allowed expatriates to own
property in 2002, which sparked a real estate boom attracting
investors from  India , Iran,  Pakistan  and  Russia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  