-- The Fed Is More Out of It Than You Thought It Was
-- B y   M i k e   K o n c z a l
-- 2013-01-27T23:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/the-fed-is-more-out-of-it-than-you-thought-it-was.html
The Federal Reserve  recently 
released the transcripts of the meetings of its Board of
Governors in 2007, covering a time when the first rumblings of
the financial crisis were beginning to appear.  By the end of 2008, everything would have changed: The
Federal Reserve expanded its lending powers to backstop the
financial sector. The “Great Moderation” legacy of the Alan Greenspan era came to an end, with interest rates pushed down
toward zero, while unemployment increased and inflation slowed.  As of 2007, the Fed was unprepared for what was to come,
though not mainly for the  reason  most commentators are
highlighting. The initial reporting on the transcripts has
focused on whether or not the Fed saw the financial crisis
coming, and most find that the Fed did not. But the Fed also
missed something much more important.  For all the attention the financial crisis gets in the
story of the latest recession, it isn’t that important to
understanding our  current weak economy . The reason that more
than 12 million people are unemployed, that workers no longer
quit their jobs or get raises, and that economic prospects are
dim for the foreseeable future, has to do with the financial
health of consumers, not the health of Wall Street.  Looking at the December 2007 transcripts, the Federal
Reserve was concerned about a “credit-crunch” scenario
generating a financial crisis, an event that did happen. The
fear was that a financial sector that collapsed would prevent
the real economy from working.  Credit Crisis  Frederic Mishkin, a Fed governor at the time, was even
worried about a death spiral, where the lack of credit would
decrease economic activity, which would lead to less credit, in
a process that would then repeat itself.  One could imagine him and other Fed governors believing, in
2008 and 2009, that if they stopped the spiral by stopping the
credit crisis, they would have done enough to prevent the
recession. As such, the health of credit access through the
financial sector was their top priority.  Rescuing Wall Street may have been necessary, but it was
not sufficient.  Research  by the economists Amir Sufi and Atif Mian found that  high leverage  among consumers, a result of the
decline in home values when the housing bubble popped, led to a
sharp drop in consumption and employment. For the past few
years, households have been using their available cash to
deleverage, instead of consuming. Today it’s obvious that the
main economic challenge lies with households, not banks.  That’s not to say the financial crisis didn’t matter at
all.  Recent work  by the economist  Gabriel Chodorow-Reich  found
that small- and medium-size companies that had loans from
lenders hurt by the crisis had a harder time getting credit, and
had to fire more people, than other businesses.  This relationship, which was found through May 2009, may
account for why unemployment grew more quickly than expected in
the recession. However, it can’t explain why unemployment
remains high years after the government wrote Wall Street a
blank check.  Throughout this period, polls of small business, such as
those conducted by the National Federation of Independent
Business, consistently show that the main concern is weak sales,
instead of access to credit. As the economist J.W. Mason  notes ,
credit-card debt has had an even larger percentage drop than
housing debt. Overall, economists see threats of weak demand and
disinflation, rather than rising prices from credit constraints,
as a problem for the recovery.  ‘Green Shoots’  The 2007 transcripts matter in the context of these
continuing policy failures in 2013 because the Fed’s excessive
focus on the financial system, and the assumption that fixing a
financial crisis would fix the economic crisis, led to mistakes
down the road.  When Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told CBS’s “60 Minutes”
in March 2009 that he was expecting “green shoots” to appear,
he was largely talking about how, with the financial markets no
longer in a panic, the economy would be fine to recover. This
perspective, shared by many besides Bernanke, led to the pivot
that the Obama administration has taken since 2010: prioritizing
deficit reduction and deprioritizing economic stimulus.  The failures from the overly narrow focus on the financial
sector weren’t limited to fiscal policy. In 2007, the Fed didn’t
even consider that it would have to keep the economy afloat by
adopting unorthodox monetary policy after interest rates hit
zero, and would continue to do so even after stopping the
financial meltdown. Nor did the Fed expect that it would need to
use unconventional methods to continue easing after hitting the
zero-bound, which is perhaps why it was years late in moving to
the open-ended quantitative-easing policy adopted last year.  Aggressive measures to write down bad mortgage debt or
otherwise boost consumer demand through the housing market would
have helped households but threatened banks. And restoring basic
accountability is hard when the financial system is seen as too
fragile to tolerate criminal investigations of banks, as with
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  avoiding criminal charges for drug-cartel
money laundering because of the bank’s too-big-to-fail status.  Reading the transcripts from 2007 makes it clear that, even
though it didn’t understand the extent of the problems, the Fed
was looking at the financial system as the main source of
concern. Households, suffering from the housing-bubble collapse,
were a secondary priority. An economic elite more in tune with
broader prosperity could have caught the severity of the
recession earlier, and made a case for the demand-stimulating
monetary policy needed to recover from it.  (Mike Konczal is a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute. His
blog,  Rortybomb , was named by Time magazine as one of the 25
best financial blogs.  E-mail him  and follow him on  Twitter . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mike Konczal at  rortybomb@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro1@bloomberg.net . 