-- Egypt Pound Depreciation Speeds Up at Auction After Violence
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-01-27T13:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/egypt-pound-depreciation-speeds-up-at-auction-after-violence.html
The Egyptian pound’s depreciation
accelerated at a dollar auction today after dozens died in
clashes as the country marks the second anniversary of the
uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  The Arab country’s central bank sold lenders $48.1 million
at a cut-off of 6.6235 a dollar, according to central bank data
on Bloomberg, representing a 0.3 percent retreat from the last
sale Jan. 22. It had dropped 0.2 percent in that auction. The
pound, which has declined at each of the regulator’s 14 U.S.
currency auctions, dropped by the same rate in the  interbank
market  to 6.6565 as of 1:09 p.m. in Cairo.  The dollars sold today are the fewest since the central
bank started the auctions Dec. 30. The regulator said at the
time it’s seeking to conserve  foreign currency reserves , which
had fallen to “minimum and critical” levels since the unrest
began in January 2011. Banks purchased $938.4 million at the
auctions and the Egyptian pound fell 7 percent, the most over a
comparable period since the start of the revolt.  “Political instability and concerns that it may further
delay the International Monetary Fund loan are creating pressure
on the pound,” Amr Seif, chief dealer at Piraeus Bank  Egypt ,
said by phone. “As long as instability persists and there’s a
lack of visibility on inflows of foreign currency, we’re likely
to see the pound drop more.”  Deadly Clashes  At least 32 people died yesterday in clashes between
security forces and protesters after a courted sentenced 21
people to death for the killing of at least 70 soccer fans
during a stadium riot in February. That followed nine deaths a
day earlier in fighting on the anniversary of the revolution.
Egypt’s National Defense Council said it may declare a state of
emergency and a curfew in parts of the country to curb the
violence.  Egypt, which reached a preliminary agreement with the IMF
for a $4.8 billion loan in November, has seen the political
unrest since then delay final approval by the lender’s board. An
IMF team is to return to Cairo within two weeks, Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil said Jan. 24.  Egypt sold its target 4 billion pounds ($601 million) of
treasury bills at a separate auction today, with the nine-month
yield increasing the most in three weeks. The  Finance Ministry 
sold 3.5 billion pounds of  266-day securities  at an average
14.02 percent, an increase of 33 basis points, or 0.33 of a
percenage point, from last week. The yield on  three-month notes 
retreated six basis points to 12.83 percent, according to
central bank data.  The yield on the benchmark 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in
April 2020 advanced three basis points to 5.6 percent on Jan.
25, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  