-- Mursi Declares Emergency in 3 Egyptian Provinces Amid Unrest
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-01-28T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/egypt-s-mursi-declares-state-of-emergency-amid-mounting-unrest.html
Egypt ’s President Mohamed Mursi
declared a state of emergency and curfew in three provinces
wracked by days of unrest that have killed almost 50, and said
he was ready to take additional steps to protect the nation.  In a late-night address, Mursi said attacks on civilians
and state installations won’t be tolerated and that he had
ordered transgressors be dealt with “all firmness and
strength.” Mursi also called on political leaders to gather for
a national dialogue today -- an offer his opponents has so far
largely shunned. The tensions have stymied an economic recovery
and political stability efforts ahead of parliamentary elections
later in the year.  “I have affirmed before that I am opposed to resorting to
any extraordinary measures, but when I see the security of the
nation is in peril, then I act,” Mursi said, his voice rising
to a near shout.  New protests were expected today, the state-run Ahram Gate
reported. Opposition leader and Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei
said on his Twitter account any talks “would be a waste of
time” if Mursi doesn’t accept responsibility for the latest
events, set up a national unity government and create a balanced
committee to amend the constitution.  Curfew  The state of emergency was to last for 30 days in the
provinces of Port Said, Suez and Ismailiya. The measures were
enacted after a spasm of violence since Jan. 25, the second
anniversary of the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Some 32
died in Port Said alone.  The violence in that city was sparked by death sentences
handed down on Jan. 26 against soccer fans over a 2012 stadium
riot that left over 70 dead. The verdicts infuriated residents
who believed they were being scapegoated for what was the
nation’s worst soccer-related violence.  The acts of violence over the past few days “have nothing
to do with the revolution” and are instead the “ugly face of a
counter-revolution,” Mursi said.  The decrees would “lead to a massacre,” 27-year-old
Mohamed El-Sayed, who was wounded in clashes in Port Said, said.  “People will not go home,” he said in an interview.
“Someone like me who was wounded will not go home until I get
back my rights.”  ‘Leave, Leave’  In Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , Mursi’s televised announcement
was met with chants of “leave, leave,” echoing the same calls
that helped drive out his predecessor in February 2011. The
declaration of a state of emergency evoked memories of measures
taken by Mubarak’s government during the 2011 uprising.  A 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew was also in effect in those
provinces, Mursi said.  The announcement was Mursi’s most assertive security-
related decision since his election ushered in months of unrest
and a deepening rift between Islamists and a mostly secular
opposition.  His critics say he hasn’t yet presented a plan for Egypt’s
revival and is focused on cementing the power of his Muslim
Brotherhood backers at the expense of the nation’s broader
interests. He has repeatedly denied the claims, saying progress
is being thwarted by the chronic unrest and individuals seeking
to undermine the goals of the 2011 uprising.  Storm the Prison  A statement on Mursi’s Facebook page said among those
invited to today’s gathering were top opposition leaders  Amre Moussa , Hamdeen Sabahi, Mohamed Salim El Awa and Ayman Nour. The
National Salvation Front, an opposition bloc, said it would meet
to discuss Mursi’s invitation, the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  reported.  The violence in Port Said exploded after families and
supporters of the defendants tried to storm the prison where the
accused were being held, leading to the 32 fatalities. At least
seven were killed and more than 450 wounded in renewed clashes
yesterday following a funeral, health officials said.  Mursi, criticized earlier by the opposition for his silence
after the unrest, said yesterday he was now giving notice to all
that the institutions of the state are “able to protect the
homeland and its installations.”  The president, who sparked a crisis in November by
sidelining the judiciary with a decree that temporarily
bolstered his powers and paved the way for the passage of an
Islamist-backed constitution, said court rulings were to be
respected. They were not, he said in reference to the Port Said
verdict, directed against any particular group.  New protests today will commemorate another bloody
milestone in the 2011 uprising. The groups calling for the
protest urged security forces not to block the demonstrations
and demanded an end to Mubarak-era economic policies.  Since Mubarak’s ouster, Egypt’s economy has sputtered. The
currency has plunged 7 percent in the past month, and the
central bank spent about 60 percent of its  foreign reserves 
since the start of 2011. The  budget deficit  exceeded 11 percent
of economic output last year, according to the IMF.  The government, after twice delaying a request for an
International Monetary Fund loan, is now reaching out again for
$4.8 billion in funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  