-- Mursi to Address Egyptians After Three Killed in Protests
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-27T17:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/egypt-mourners-clash-with-police-after-port-said-clashes.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi is
to address the nation, as three people were killed in renewed
protests following a mass funeral of more than two dozen others
during earlier demonstrations.  Thousands of Egyptians poured into the streets of Port
Said, with some marchers carrying open coffins and calling for
revenge after violence triggered by a court ruling yesterday.
The three killed today died from gunshot wounds, Dr. Abdel-
Rahman Farag, head of Port Said hospitals, said by phone. State
television said Mursi would speak tonight.  Protesters burned two clubs belonging to the police and
military, and security forces fired tear gas, the state-run
Ahram Gate reported, while clashes between protesters and
security forces left more than 400 injured, the doctor said.  The country has witnessed 48 hours of violence since Jan.
25, the second anniversary of the uprising that overthrew  Hosni Mubarak . Yesterday, at least 32 people died after a court issued
21 death sentences over last year’s stadium melee, the worst
soccer-related violence the country has known. The unrest has
fueled criticism of Mursi by opponents who say he has already
reneged on campaign promises and has put the interests of his
allies in the Muslim Brotherhood ahead of the nation’s.  The military issued a statement on its Facebook page
reaffirming the right to peaceful protest while urging citizens
of Port Said and Suez -- cities where violence was concentrated
over the past two days -- to restrain themselves and ensure
their protests did not harm state installations.  “The nation is in desperate need of the unity of its
sons,” state-run Ahram Gate reported, citing a military
statement issued today. The military warned it was prepared to
tackle “with all firmness” any efforts threatening stability
and security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  