-- Emaar Jumps to 3-Year High as Properties Sell Out: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-27T12:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/emaar-rises-to-3-year-high-on-property-sales-report-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  rose to the
highest in more than three years after the developer of the
world’s tallest skyscraper said units made available at a new
Dubai residential development sold out in one day.  Shares of the company with the  heaviest weighting  on
Dubai’s index advanced 3.6 percent to 4.64 dirhams, the
strongest level since October 2009, at the close in the emirate.
Emaar boosted Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  1.5 percent to
1,819.01, the strongest level since April 2010. The stock is the
 fourth-best performer  on the DFM General Index this month,
gaining 24 percent.  Emaar last week said it started a luxury hotel project in
central Dubai amid increasing demand for high-end properties.
The Address Residence Fountain Views, which will comprise 280
apartments, sold all units made available at a first offering,
the company said today. About 32 million Emaar shares were
traded today, almost triple the three-month daily average.  The sales report shows that “real estate demand is
resilient and strong for the Downtown Dubai area, which is
positive for Emaar,” said Samer Darwiche, Dubai-based analyst
at Gulfmena Investments Ltd.  Home prices  have climbed in some parts of Dubai, four years
after one of the world’s worst property crashes. Emaar’s full-
year net income  may have  advanced 16 percent to 2.1 billion
dirhams ($572 million), according to the average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The stock surged 46 percent last
year, outpacing the Dubai gauge’s 20 percent gain.  Twelve analysts  recommend investors buy Emaar shares, while
three have a hold rating on the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  