-- Emirates Banks Association Proposes 75% Mortgage Cap
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-01-28T07:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/emirates-banks-association-proposes-75-mortgage-cap-for-expats.html
United Arab Emirates lenders are
proposing expatriates be allowed to borrow as much as 75 percent
of the value of their first home after the central bank said
such loans should be limited to half the property’s value.  The limit should be reduced to 60 percent for a second home
loan and 50 percent for properties under construction, Emirates
Banks Association Chairman Abdul Aziz Abdulla Al-Ghurair told
reporters yesterday at an event in Dubai. The association, which
includes lenders such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , submitted proposals to the central bank, he said.  The group’s recommendations follow the regulator’s move
last month to restrict mortgage lending to foreigners and
nationals in the second-biggest Arab economy. The central bank
proposed a 50 percent so-called loan-to-value limit for
expatriates compared with no cap previously. Property prices in
Dubai, which suffered one of the world’s worst real-estate
crashes after the 2008 global credit crisis, started to recover
last year.  “It’s in the interest of buyers to have a mortgage cap,”
said Al-Ghurair, also chief executive officer of Dubai-based
lender Mashreq PSC. “We don’t want everyone jumping in.”  Non-resident Cap  The association is also recommending a cap of 80 percent
for U.A.E. nationals for their first mortgage and 65 percent for
second homes, he said. The central bank had proposed limits of
70 percent and 60 percent respectively for citizens. For non-
resident foreigners, the EBA is recommending that loan-to-value
limits are capped at 50 percent, Al-Ghurair said. The group is
also considering limiting the total value of a single mortgage
to 25 million dirhams ($6.8 million), he said.  Foreigners make up more than 80 percent of the population
of the U.A.E., which includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , according to
government estimates. Dubai first allowed foreigners to own
property in 2002, sparking a real estate boom that attracted
investors from  India ,  Iran ,  Pakistan  and  Russia  seeking to bet
on rising prices. During the financial crisis, hundreds lost
their jobs and fled the city, defaulting on payments.  Real Estate Recovery  Apartment and villa rents in Dubai climbed an average 17
percent last year as the Persian Gulf business hub benefited as
a haven from the eurozone crisis and the so-called Arab Spring,
Asteco Property Management said yesterday in a statement. Villa
sale prices climbed an average 23 percent year-on-year and
apartment prices gained 14 percent, it said.  The mortgage cap won’t have a negative impact on the
U.A.E.’s property sector as about 70 per cent of real estate
sales are in cash, Al-Ghurair said. U.A.E. banks have about 60
billion dirhams of mortgage lending outstanding, he said.  The EBA is also urging the U.A.E. government to speed up
the creation of a federal credit bureau where mortgages could be
registered.  Questionnaire  The central bank has asked lenders for their opinion on the
planned mortgage limits in a questionnaire sent to banks, said
Al-Ghurair. The regulations would be issued in six to nine
months, governor Sultan Bin Nasser Al-Suwaidi said in comments
published in state-owned al-Ittihad newspaper on Jan. 21.  “The intention of the central bank is to ensure the health
of economy, real estate developers and the banking system,”
said Al-Ghurair, who expects final mortgage limits to be
implemented in the second half. “This is a dialog between the
central bank and the Emirates Banks Association. We are taking
things step by step to reach the final policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  