-- F&N Directors to Sell Shares as Charoen’s Bid Seen ’Fair’
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-01-28T03:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/f-n-directors-plan-to-sell-shares-to-tcc-as-offer-seen-fair-.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN)  Chairman Lee Hsien Yang and three other directors plan to sell their shares
to TCC Assets Ltd. after adviser  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  called the
Thai company’s S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion) revised takeover
bid “fair.”  Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s TCC bid for
F&N at S$9.55 a share on Jan. 18, topping an offer by a group
led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) , which later decided not
to raise its earlier bid of S$9.08. TCC Assets said it owned
45.32 percent of the company as of Jan. 25.  The TCC bid is “the only offer that is available for
acceptance by shareholders as at the latest predictable date,”
the F&N board said in a letter published on the company’s
website yesterday.  Charoen,  Thailand ’s richest man, is moving closer to
winning control of the Singapore-based conglomerate after a two-
month battle over F&N, which has assets from soft drinks to
serviced apartments. The TCC offer is a premium in a range of 21
percent to 77 percent above daily closing prices of the 12-month
period prior to the unaffected share price date, JPMorgan is
cited as saying in the F&N board’s letter to shareholders.  “The liquidity of the share may be impacted following the
close of the revised TCC offer,” the bank said, according to
the letter. “There is no assurance that the liquidity of the
shares will remain at current levels.”  The revised offer will close at 5:30 p.m. Singapore time on
Feb. 4.  Lee, the younger brother of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong,
was the chief executive officer of  Singapore Telecommunications
Ltd. (ST)  for more than a decade before he became the chairman of F&N
in 2007. He led the effort to expand the
reach of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company through
acquisitions.  Directors to Sell  Apart from Lee, the three other directors intending to
accept the offer are Timothy Chia Chee Ming, Tan Chong Meng and
Nicky Tan Ng Kuang, according to the letter. The estate of Kwa
Siew Tee, of which Lee is one of the three trustees, also plans
to take the offer.  Lee owns 180,000 shares in F&N, while Chia has 15,187
shares, Tan Chong Meng 30,000, Nicky Tan 50,000 and the Kwa
estate 408,240 shares, according to the letter.  The four directors are the only members of the nine-person
board to directly hold shares in the company, according to
Elaine Lim, a spokeswoman for F&N in  Singapore .  F&N’s board previously said the independent adviser has
found both Charoen’s earlier offer and the bid by OUE “not
compelling but fair.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at   jkoh38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net . 