-- Failed Property Bets Show Danish Bank Woes Far From Over
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-01-28T17:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/failed-property-bets-show-danish-bank-woes-far-from-over.html
Denmark ’s latest bank failure was
caused by bad bets on commercial property, a model for
insolvency that continues to dominate the nation’s financial
woes,  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  Chief Executive Officer Anders Dam said.  Dam, who agreed on Jan. 25 to take over  Sparekassen Lolland
A/S (SPALOL)  after it failed to meet regulatory solvency requirements,
won’t cover losses incurred by shareholders or subordinated
creditors. Jyske has yet to calculate the final cost of the
deal, he said in an interview.  Denmark’s state resolution agency has closed down 12 banks
since the nation’s housing bubble burst in 2008, with a further
dozen absorbed by stronger rivals. The crisis has wiped out
community lenders where management speculated on property prices
and boards failed to stop reckless bets. The Financial
Supervisory Authority is now reviewing governance standards
across the country to ensure boards meet minimum professional
requirements.  “It’s commercial loans that are causing the troubles,”
Dam, who runs Denmark’s second-biggest listed lender after
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said in the Jan. 25 interview. “It’s loans
used to speculate in property outside Sparekassen Lolland’s
geography that caused the extra writedowns. It’s the same story
again.”  Wiped Out  Equity in Sparekassen Lolland, based on an island in
Denmark’s southeast, was wiped out after the FSA found
impairments that exceeded those reported for the third quarter
by at least 289 million kroner ($52 million).  The bank’s management and board stepped down today after
the lender was officially declared bankrupt, according to a
statement to the stock exchange. All trading in its shares and
bonds has been suspended. The collapse fueled speculation that
more Danish lenders may yet be declared insolvent.  “Have we seen the last bank failure in Denmark? I hardly
think so,” Simon Christensen, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said by phone. “Thinly capitalized banks tend to
delay booking writedowns until they’re forced to do so or until
they can raise capital, which was also the case here.”  Jyske didn’t disclose a purchase price and Dam declined to
say how much his bank put into the deal. Shares in the
Silkeborg-based lender gained 0.8 percent to 180.1 kroner in
Copenhagen. The stock has added 15 percent this year.  Real Estate  Sparekassen Lolland, whose total assets were 13.3 billion
kroner at the end of September, had made 25.4 percent of its
loans to real estate projects, the regulator said. Before the
Jan. 25 announcement, which came after markets closed in
Copenhagen, the bank’  shares  had slipped 0.7 percent this year.
In the four years through 2012, the stock lost 94 percent.  House prices  in Denmark, home to the world’s most indebted
consumers relative to disposable incomes, have plunged at least
20 percent since their 2007 peak, with the losses pushing the
economy into a recession. Gross domestic product probably
contracted 0.4 percent last year, matching a decline in the 17-
member euro area, the government estimates.  Danish banks have seen their funding costs rise after
Amagerbanken A/S’s 2011 collapse became the first in  Europe  to
trigger senior creditor losses within a resolution framework.
The government followed up with a bill designed to encourage
bank mergers in an effort to prevent more outright failures.  Senior Claims  “Since Amagerbanken, the sector has done everything to
ensure that senior claims against defaulted Danish  credit
institutions  don’t see losses,” Christensen at Nordea said.
“Jyske will be honoring senior commitments, so should there
have been any lingering doubts among market participants as to
whether one should buy senior debt, place deposits or have
interbank relations with Danish banks, those doubts ought to be
smaller after the weekend’s events.”  The FSA’s inspections have continued to reveal lenders with
buffers too small to cover their bad loans. Toender Bank A/S,
which declared bankruptcy on Nov. 2, had misled shareholders
about the risks lurking beneath its reported figures, FSA
Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview the same
month. He repeated the regulator’s estimate that banks
representing about 3 percent of Danish financial industry assets
continue to be at risk of failure.  Oestjydsk Bank A/S (OJBA)  saw its shares slump the most in 19
years on Jan. 25 after the regional lender said writedowns wiped
out five years of profit. The bank blamed the FSA’s stricter
impairment rules, introduced in the second quarter of last year.  Taxpayer Interests  The Danish government has repeatedly underlined its
determination to protect taxpayers from bank industry losses,
and said this month that even lenders deemed too big to fail
shouldn’t expect bailouts. Estimated profits from the state’s
bank packages are 11.2 billion kroner, the Business Ministry
said on Jan. 25.  Dam said Jyske Bank’s first priority is to wind down
Sparekassen Lolland’s toxic loans.  “We’ll split the loan book into a green bank, a yellow
bank and a red one, and for the latter we’ll have to write them
off and shut them down as soon as we can,” he said. “What
we’re sure this deal will mean is that we’ll have to commit
solvency, hard work and patience. I can’t say how much this will
impact  our capital .”  Dam said in October his bank can mobilize as much as 18
billion kroner to buy rivals as he predicted Denmark’s financial
industry will lose about 50 banks by 2020. Jyske announced today
it will seek permission from shareholders to issue 100 million
new shares in a move that will allow it to reach that target by
2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  