-- Foreign Flows Into India Stocks Poised for January Record
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-01-28T04:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/foreign-fund-flows-into-india-stocks-poised-for-january-record.html
Indian stocks are luring the biggest
inflows ever for January as foreign investors grow confident the
government will curb the  budget deficit  and boost the economy.  Overseas funds bought a net $3.01 billion of local shares
this year through Jan. 23, data from the market regulator show,
surpassing the previous January record of $2.18 billion set last
year. Inflows surged to $24.5 billion in 2012, the highest among
10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, helping the benchmark  BSE
India Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, to post its biggest annual
jump in three years.  Stocks gained even as economic growth waned, inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace among the so-called BRIC nations
and the current-account deficit widened to a record. The
government has taken steps to attract more inflows since
September by relaxing rules on foreign investment, lowering
taxes on overseas borrowing, cutting fuel subsidies and raising
 import taxes  on gold. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
pledged on Jan. 22 to deepen the overhaul of economic policy by
introducing a goods-and-services tax.  “As long as the government continues its reforms program,
foreign money will keep coming,” Gary Dugan, chief investment
officer for  Asia  and  Middle East  at Coutts & Co.,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ’s wealth management unit, said in an
interview in Mumbai on Jan. 22. “If you are a portfolio manager
investing in  emerging markets  and you get more and more money
every week, you can’t take a big bet against India.”  Emerging Funds  Emerging-market equity funds recorded their biggest-ever
weekly inflows of $7.4 billion in the week through Jan. 9 and
assets under management climbed to a record $781 billion,
 Jonathan Garner , chief Asia and emerging market strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong , wrote in a Jan. 11 e-mail, citing
data compiled by research firm EPFR Global. As much as $5.7
billion flowed into developing-nation stock funds in the week
ended Jan. 23, EPFR data show.  While rising inflows tend to foreshadow short-term market
declines, Garner said global monetary stimulus, accelerating
economic growth and an improving outlook for earnings will
support share prices.  The  Federal Reserve  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
near zero since 2008 and is buying about $85 billion a month of
debt securities, while the  Bank of Japan  said Jan. 22 it will
start an open-ended bond purchase program next year.  Sensex Earnings  Only two out of 13, or 15 percent, of the 30 Sensex-listed
companies that have posted December-quarter  earnings  have missed
forecasts, compared with 40 percent in the previous two
quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Net incomes of the
Sensex companies may rise 11 percent in the quarter from a year
ago, Kotak Institutional Equities said in a Jan. 3 report  The  Reserve Bank  of India is expected to cut the  benchmark
rate  tomorrow to 7.75 percent from 8 percent, according to 25 of
29 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Three predict a reduction to
7.5 percent and one no change.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao last reduced the rate by half a
percentage point in April, and resisted calls from Chidambaram
to cut funding costs further to jump-start the slowest economic
growth in a decade. That helped slow gains in benchmark
 wholesale prices  to a three-year low of 7.18 percent in
December. Inflation has remained above the RBI’s comfort level
of 5 percent for the past three years.  Chinese Equities  The flow of money into Indian stocks may slow as signs of
an economic recovery and cheaper valuations lure more overseas
funds to Chinese equities, Anand Tandon, chief executive officer
of JRG Securities Ltd., told Bloomberg TV  India  on Jan. 24. The
Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index, a gauge of Chinese stocks
traded in Hong Kong, has risen 33 percent from an 11-month low
on Sept. 5.  “Last year we were one of the best-performing markets as
we got a disproportionate amount of emerging-market funds, and
this year the expectation is that perhaps China will hold pole
position there,” Tandon said.  The Sensex is trading at 15.9 times estimated 12-month
earnings, the highest level since February and the most
expensive among the BRIC nations that include  Brazil ,  Russia  and
China. The Hang Seng China  index  is valued at 9 times.  ‘No Longer Cheap’  “We are positive on the markets but realize that
valuations are no longer cheap,” K. Ramanathan, chief
investment officer at ING Investment Management, told Bloomberg
TV India on Jan. 23. “The market’s movement will be in line
with earnings growth.”  The policies announced by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
administration will help bolster an economy that the Finance
Ministry estimates may grow as little as 5.7 percent in the year
ending March 31, the slowest pace in a decade.  The government approved plans to allow overseas retailers
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to own 51 percent of supermarket
chains, lifted a restriction on airlines selling stakes to
foreign carriers and is seeking to allow overseas companies to
invest in the pensions industry for the first time. The
government also this month raised taxes on gold imports and
curbed fuel subsidies.  India will seek to raise at least 300 billion rupees ($5.6
billion) from the sale of shares in state-owned companies in
2013-2014, Chidambaram told investors at a conference in Hong
Kong on Jan. 22.  “The finance minister has taken the bull by the horns,”
A.K. Prabhakar, senior vice president for equity research at
Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai, said in a phone
interview on Jan. 25. “Foreign investors are starting to
believe in Chidambaram’s ability to walk the talk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  