-- Gazprom Sends Ukraine $7 Billion Bill as Gas Dispute Deepens
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-01-28T12:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/gazprom-sends-7-billion-bill-to-naftogaz-as-gas-dispute-deepens.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  sent Ukraine’s state-run
energy company a $7 billion bill for failing to import agreed
natural-gas volumes last year, in an echo of a conflict that
twice disrupted shipments to European customers in recent years.  NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy notified Gazprom in advance that it
would import less gas than contracted, the company’s press
service said Jan. 26, confirming the receipt of the bill from
the Moscow-based company.  The demand comes as Ukraine seeks to curb dependence on
Russian fuel imports by sourcing gas from other producers and
developing its own resources.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
largest oil company, last week signed a deal to help develop
Ukrainian shale.  Ukraine reduced gas consumption as its  economy  shrank and
the country struggled to restart international aid. Gazprom, the
world’s biggest gas producer, has repeatedly disagreed with
 Ukraine  over import prices and volumes. The Russian gas exporter
twice cut supplies in freezing temperatures from 2006 to 2009,
interrupting gas transit flows to Europe. Ukraine sends gas from
Russia to the European Union via Soviet-era pipelines.  “The contract volumes that were agreed a long time ago do
not correspond to the economic situation,” Lev Snykov, a
partner at Greenwich Capital in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“Maybe there will be mutual concessions. I don’t think there
will be a third gas war.”  ‘Flow Normally’  Gazprom and Naftogaz signed the current 10-year supply
contract in January 2009, ending the most recent standoff that
caused gas shortages in 20 EU countries.  Sergei Kupriyanov , a
spokesman for Gazprom, didn’t respond to calls or texts to his
mobile phone seeking comment on the bill.  “We do expect both parties -- Russia and Ukraine -- to
ensure that there are no gas interruptions and that gas supplies
flow normally,”  Marlene Holzner , a spokeswoman for EU Energy
Commissioner  Guenther Oettinger , told reporters today in
Brussels.  Seeking lower gas imports and prices, Ukraine has asked
Russia to revise the accord that Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov 
has called “unfavorable and enslaving.” It was signed by his
predecessor  Yulia Tymoshenko , who is now imprisoned for abuse of
office over the deal.  Russia expects Ukraine to enter its customs union with
Belarus and  Kazakhstan , while attempts to negotiate a deal for
control of the country’s gas pipelines haven’t been successful.  Price Revisions  The contract obliged Ukraine and  Russia  to agree in writing
on revisions at least six months before the start of the year,
Gazprom said in January 2012, when the Ukrainian partner said it
was allowed to curb imports to 27 billion cubic meters. Naftogaz
reiterated on Jan. 26 that the agreement allows it to cut
imports.  Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said in June
2012 that if Ukraine doesn’t meet its annual take-or-pay
obligations, “the documents we have for the moment will be the
basis of our claim against Ukraine,” according to a transcript
of his comments posted on Gazprom’s  website .  The matter is likely to be decided in international
arbitration, Alexander Burgansky, an oil and gas analyst at
Otkritie Capital, said in a note today.  Under the contract, Ukraine must import or pay for 80
percent of the annual contracted volume of 52 billion cubic
meters a year, according to Gazprom. The company uses the take-
or-pay clause in contracts with most of its clients.  Gas Imports  Ukraine imported 32.9 billion cubic meters of gas last
year, about 26 percent less than in 2011, according to
information on the country’s Energy and Coal Ministry’s  website .
Naftogaz bought 24.9 billion cubic meters, Interfax reported,
without citing anyone.  The average price in the fourth quarter was about $430 per
1,000 cubic meters, according to Naftogaz. That compared with
about $400 per 1,000 cubic meters that Gazprom charged its EU
customers in December.  Ukraine and Shell plan to develop the Yuzivske project, in
the Donetsk region, where production may reach as much as 20
billion cubic meters a year. The area has a mix of conventional
and shale deposits. Ukraine estimates the project will cost at
least $10 billion.  “Very exciting in Ukraine,” Shell Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Voser  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on
Jan. 25. “We are now starting to actually go into the
exploration phase, we are hopeful.”  First Quarter  Eduard Stavytskyi, Ukraine’s energy minister, said last
week that the country expects an agreement with Gazprom in the
first quarter of the year.  Ukraine has an agreement with  RWE AG (RWE)  on gas purchases.
Following Ukraine’s deal with Shell,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  will hold
public hearings on shale gas production in Ukraine from Jan. 30
to Feb. 4, Interfax reported Jan. 25, citing Vasily Plavyuk,
first deputy head of the regional administration.  Ukraine is seeking international aid as its economy suffers
from weaker demand for exports such as steel. An International
Monetary Fund mission is due to arrive this week for talks on
the third bailout since 2008 after foreign reserves fell to the
lowest level in almost three years.  Ukraine is expected to demand 33 billion cubic meters of
gas this year, a Gazprom official said on a conference call
earlier this month.  The gas producer has made concessions to its European
clients, which means a compromise may also be found with
Ukraine, Greenwich Capital’s Snykov said.  The Moscow-based gas producer provided price discounts to
clients including  Eni SpA (ENI) , EON SE and  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe
i Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  last year after the partners sought a review of
contract terms. Gazprom remains in arbitration with RWE’s Czech
unit over prices and take-or-pay volumes.  “Interruption of Russian gas flow to Ukraine is unlikely,
though Europeans should pray for a warm February,”  Mikhail Korchemkin , head of Malvern, Pennsylvania-based East European
Gas Analysis, said by e-mail. “Just in case.”  The Financial Times reported the Gazprom invoice on Jan.
25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  