-- Global Stock Correlations Plunge as Morgan Stanley Buys
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-01-28T15:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/global-stock-correlations-plunge-as-morgan-stanley-buys.html
The lockstep moves in global stocks
that dominated equity markets for the past six years are
breaking down at the fastest rate on record, a sign investor
confidence is finally returning from the financial crisis.  A measure of how much the 2,073 companies in the  FTSE All-
World Developed Index (FTAD01)  swing in unison has dropped 31 percent
since June, the biggest retreat since at least 1993, according
to data compiled by  Societe Generale  SA and Bloomberg. The
indicator ended last month at the lowest level since 2007.  Equities are responding to  earnings  and merger speculation
again after being pushed up and down by events from the credit
freeze to  Europe ’s debt crisis to the stalemate in U.S. budget
negotiations. Diminishing correlation was a buy signal in  1998
and 2003 (SPX)  and has coincided this year with the biggest January
rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since 1997, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you are a good stock-picker or an event-driven picker,
your added value is rewarded as opposed to all stocks going up
or down the same way,” said Jose Gonzalez-Heres, who helps
oversee $15 billion as a manager in the hedge-fund team for
Morgan Stanley Alternative Investment Partners in  West
Conshohocken ,  Pennsylvania . “This is the first time we see a
persistent trend of declining correlation.”  Returns Diverge  The reading, a measurement of how much returns in
individual stocks are attributable to  swings  in the broader
market, stood at 32.4 at the end of last month, down from 47.2
in June, according to Societe Generale in Paris. The drop was
the biggest since the data started in 1993, indicating  stocks 
are moving with greater independence.  The index reached a high of 49.6 in December 2011. A
reading of 100 indicates shares are trading in lockstep.  The divergence in returns is prompting Morgan Stanley to
send more money to managers who buy stocks based on profit
growth and takeover odds, Gonzalez-Heres said in a telephone
interview on Jan. 16. Bears say the improvement will be
temporary as U.S. lawmakers confront March deadlines on spending
plans and elections are held in Italy and Germany.  Equities rose  last week , with the  S&P 500  climbing 1.1
percent to 1,502.96, exceeding 1,500 for the first time since
2007, as better-than-estimated jobless claims and profits showed
the world’s largest economy is improving. The gauge is up 5
percent this year. The equity benchmark declined 0.4 percent to
1,497.15 at 10:19 a.m. New York time today. The FTSE All-World
Developed Index rose 1.1 percent last week to the highest level
since 2008.  Daily Swings  Weakening correlations are reducing daily swings in the S&P
500. The benchmark gauge for American equities has  gained or
lost  an average of 0.42 percent per day in 2013, compared with
0.59 percent in 2012 and 1.74 percent during the credit crisis
of 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show. This year’s average
matches the lowest annual level since 1993.  Loosening ties among shares mean company news is having a
greater impact.  DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest U.S. chemical maker by
market value, climbed 1.8 percent on Jan. 22 after earnings
exceeded projections.  That compares with Jan. 24, 2012, when the Wilmington,
Delaware-based company lost as much as 1.2 percent even after
 releasing first-quarter earnings  that topped estimates. The S&P
500 fell 0.1 percent that day on a report that showed sales of
previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped.  Monsanto Co. (MON)  rose  2.7 percent  on Jan. 8 after reporting
first-quarter results that were higher than analysts predicted.
When the world’s largest seed company said in April that
quarterly profit exceeded estimates and raised its full-year
forecast, the stock slid 1.5 percent amid a 1 percent decline in
the S&P 500 that followed a disappointing Spanish bond auction.  Stock Pickers  “A stock picker’s market is one where there’s real
distinction between winners and losers,”  Jeffrey Davis , who
oversees $5 billion as chief investment officer at Lee Munder
Capital Group in  Boston , said in a Jan. 24 phone interview.
“Investors are much more aggressive about individual equity
selections now, rather than looking for top-down trends.”  They’re also getting more bullish. More than 50 percent of
institutional investors polled this month said equities will
offer the highest returns in the next year, the most since the
quarterly survey of investors, analysts and traders who
subscribe to Bloomberg began in July 2009.  Diverging prices have accompanied rallies in the past and
the same thing is poised happen now, according to Fidelity
Worldwide Investment. As correlations in the FTSE All-World
Developed Index dropped to 12.4 in March 2000 from 28.3 in
September 1998, the S&P 500 rallied 57 percent.  Record High  The gauge of market influence slipped to an almost five-
year low of 20.8 in April 2006 from 34.7 in May 2003 as the S&P
500 surged to an all-time high of 1,565.15, reached in October
of the next year.  “Falling correlations will help the equity prices of the
stronger business with attractive long-term prospects,” Paras Anand, who helps oversee $240 billion at Fidelity in  London ,
said Jan. 24. “Typically this churn process will be positive
for equity prices.”  Lower correlations won’t last because threats to the global
economy haven’t disappeared, according to Supriya Menon, who
helps oversee $400 billion as a strategist at  Pictet & Cie . in
Geneva.  In the U.S., Republicans plan to use two approaching
deadlines -- the March 1 start of automatic spending cuts and
the need to pass a bill by the end of that month to fund the
government -- to extract spending reductions from President
 Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats. Congress agreed to
suspend the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling until May 19 to prevent
a default.  Italian Elections  Policies aimed at preserving the euro face referendums as
the governments of Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and
Germany Chancellor  Angela Merkel  are challenged in elections
this year.  Earnings growth is projected to slow this quarter and the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for 2013 global
economic expansion this month to 3.5 percent, 0.4 percentage
point lower than its July 2012 estimate.  “Given our macro view of the world, you should see
correlation spikes during those periods of stress, which we
don’t think are behind us,” Menon said in phone interview on
Jan. 23. “There are risks that are not completely reflected in
the price of risk assets. Given where sentiment is, things are
ripe for a correction.”  Confidence Climbs  Individual investors are showing increasing confidence in
stocks. Money is flowing into equity mutual funds after four
years in which assets fell by almost $250 billion. The
withdrawals came after the financial crisis erased $11 trillion
in  American equity value , market malfunctions spurred rapid
declines and the U.S. budget deal debate in 2011 led S&P to
lower its AAA rating on the country’s debt.  About $22 billion flowed into stock funds around the world
in the week ended Jan. 9, the second-highest rate on record,
according to data compiled by research firm EPFR Global going
back to 1996. Funds took in money after the FTSE World index
posted a 3.2 percent advance in the first week of 2013, while
the S&P 500 Index reached a five-year high and Japan’s  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Index  extended  its longest advance since 1987.  Looser correlations help money managers because they are
more likely to be rewarded when their convictions prove correct,
said Morgan Stanley’s Gonzalez-Heres. One in three fund managers
posted returns that beat the Russell 1000 Index in 2012, while
only one in five did in 2011, according to data from Bank of
America Corp. on Dec. 26.  Economic Optimism  More than two thirds of the respondents in this month’s
Bloomberg Global Poll said they plan to raise their holdings of
equities in the next six months, while twice as many respondents
said the global economy is getting better than those who said
it’s worsening, the data show.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange S&P 500 Implied
Correlation Index, which uses options to measure expectations
about whether S&P 500 companies will move in unison next year,
shows traders are betting the links will keep weakening. The
gauge has fallen 22 percent since June and reached 59.76 on Jan.
2, its lowest level since November 2010.  Weakening ties among shares indicate investors are less
concerned about economic headlines and are betting that
corporate profits will determine their investment choices,
according to Jason Collins, London-based head of European equity
at  SEI Investments Co. (SEIC)  Almost 70 percent of American and
European companies are forecast to post higher earnings for the
next 12 months, according to Bloomberg data on about 3,000
companies with market values of at least $1 billion.  “Equity correlation tends to spike at times of crisis or
distress as investors’ macro concerns swamp individual company
fundamentals,” Collins, whose firm has $195 billion under
management, wrote in a Jan. 24 e-mail. “As correlation falls
and stock performance starts to better reflect fundamentals,
then stock picking should once again be rewarded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  