-- Labor, Consumer Finance Rulings May Be Invalid, Republican Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/gop-senator-says-labor-consumer-finance-rulings-may-be-invalid.html
Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee
Republican, said hundreds of U.S. labor rulings may be invalid
due to a court decision that found President  Barack Obama ’s
appointments to the National Labor Relations Board are
unconstitutional.  Corker, interviewed on “Fox News Sunday,” yesterday said
that in each case individuals may have to challenge the rulings.
Corker, one of 42 Republican senators who challenged the
president’s recess appointments in court, said rulings by the
Consumer Finance Protection Bureau may also be thrown out
because its director,  Richard Cordray , was appointed without
Senate approval.  “There’s no question that what happened with the NLRB and
Richard Cordray, that was abusive,” Corker said. “These people
just never had a hearing.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington on Jan. 25 sided
with Republican lawmakers in a unanimous opinion, which held
that Obama’s recess appointments to the labor board last year,
made after Republicans refused to consider his nominees, were
“constitutionally invalid” because the Senate wasn’t in recess
at the time.  Corker, who said the decision will probably be appealed to
the U.S. Supreme Court, called the ruling “very far reaching”
and said it knocks down decades of action by presidents.  The White House said the ruling won’t affect Cordray and is
restricted to the company at issue. Republicans, meanwhile, have
demanded the NLRB appointees quit immediately.  Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat appearing on
the same show, said that the appointments were the result of
Senate obstruction. He said he hoped that Senate rules approved
last week would allow more nominees to receive hearings and
votes.  “We have seen this president denied the opportunity to
make appointments over and over and over again because one
senator happens to hate a particular agency or a particular
person,” Durbin said. “For goodness sakes, in fairness, give
them a hearing, give them the vote, let’s get on with it.”  The case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1115, 12-1153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 