-- Gulf Related Plans to Assume Debt for $1 Billion Sowwah
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-29T11:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/gulf-related-plans-to-assume-debt-for-1-billion-sowwah.html
(Corrects Himmel’s job title in second paragraph of story
published on Jan. 27.)  Related Cos., the  New York  developer
founded by billionaire Stephen Ross, and its partner Gulf
Capital plan to build a $1 billion shopping mall focusing on
department stores in  Abu Dhabi .  Gulf Related, the joint venture undertaking the project, is
also aiming construct two towers connected to the mall that will
include a 300-room hotel as well as 120 serviced apartments,
Kenneth Himmel, president and chief executive officer of Related
Urban, told reporters in Abu Dhabi today. Related Urban is a
unit of Related Cos.  Sowwah Central, as the project is named, is the venture’s
second development on Sowwah island, which will be the location
for a financial district and Abu Dhabi’s stock exchange.  The mall, due to be completed in 2017, will be financed by
a combination of equity and debt, Himmel said. Gulf Related
bought the land last year from Abu Dhabi’s sovereign investment
fund Mubadala Development Co. PJSC, which hasn’t yet decided
whether it will invest in this project, Himmel said.  Gulf Related may assume debt to fund as much as 60 percent
of the development, designed to include cinemas, health clubs
and restaurants, Himmel said. He declined to specify the amount
of equity Gulf Related plans to invest in the project or the
price of the land.  Wealth Funds  “Gulf Capital and Related are anchoring this project,”
said Karim El Solh, Chief Executive Officer of United Arab
Emirates’ private equity firm Gulf Capital. “We are approaching
investors such as sovereign wealth funds, pension funds,
insurance companies, financial institutions and family owned
companies who are looking for a long-term cash yield.”  The response has been positive, helped by the company’s
ability to get commitments for seven- to 10-year leases from
retailers it’s in discussions with, El Solh said. Investors
should expect an annual yield of 12 percent to 13 percent once
the mall is fully occupied, he said.  Gulf Related is also looking at funding through bonds and
will announce the details of the financing in about three
months, Himmel said. The company is in talks to bring two
department stores to the mall, with each to occupy 20,000 square
meters, he said. He declined to name the potential tenants.
Sowwah Central will have a gross area of 288,000 square meters
(3.1 million square feet).  “We don’t want to over leverage, so we are looking for
debt of 50 percent to 60 percent,” Himmel said. Debt will
mostly be raised locally and regionally, he said, without
identifying the banks.  The Galleria, a high-end retail and dining district at
Sowwah Square, will open in August and will include shops from
Gucci and  Louis Vuitton  to restaurants such as Zuma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 