-- Gun Control Backer Obama Says He Shoots Skeet at Retreat
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/gun-control-backer-obama-says-he-shoots-skeet-at-retreat.html
President  Barack Obama , who is
seeking a ban on assault weapons, says he shoots skeet “all the
time” at Camp David and respects the nation’s hunting
tradition.  Obama told The New Republic magazine that at the
presidential retreat in  Maryland ’s wooded Catoctin Mountains
“we do skeet shooting all the time.”  “Not the girls, but oftentimes guests of mine go up
there” to shoot skeet, Obama said in an interview published in
the magazine’s Feb. 11 issue. Obama, the father of two
daughters, mentioned his interest in skeet shooting in response
to a question on whether he had ever fired a gun. The president
has made 26 trips to the retreat during his presidency.  Obama responded to a shooting rampage at a  Connecticut 
elementary school last month by proposing legislation Jan. 16 to
mandate background checks for all gun buyers, ban high-capacity
ammunition clips, and reinstate a ban on sales of assault
weapons.  Obama also signed 23 executive actions aimed at
circumventing congressional opposition to new gun restrictions,
including several designed to maximize prosecution of gun crimes
and improve access to government data for background checks.  Twenty students and six educators were killed in a mass
shooting Dec. 14 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
Connecticut. The gunman’s main weapon was an assault-style rifle
with high-capacity magazines, according to police.  “I have a profound respect for the traditions of hunting
that trace back in this country for generations,” Obama said in
the interview. “Part of being able to move this forward is
understanding the reality of guns in urban areas are very
different from the realities of guns in rural areas.”  Bridging those differences will be key to advancing any gun
control legislation and the advocates of limiting firearms will
have to “do a little more listening than they do sometimes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  