-- Inditex Suspends Links With Providers After Bangladesh Blaze
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-01-28T06:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/inditex-suspends-links-with-providers-following-bangladesh-blaze.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, said it stopped doing business with two
subcontractors after garments with the company’s labels were
found at the site of a fatal factory fire in Bangladesh.  Seven people died in the Jan. 26 blaze at Dhaka’s Smart
Export Garments Ltd., according to the fire department. Garments
from Inditex’s Bershka and Lefties brands were found in the
wreckage, the Institute for Global Labour and Human Rights  said 
on its website.  The blaze was the second major fire at a Bangladesh
clothing factory in two months and is prompting labor groups to
renew calls for better conditions at factories supplying the
world’s biggest brands. More than 100 people were killed on Nov.
24 at a local plant producing clothes for companies including
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   While the impact of the blaze on Inditex’s reputation may
be limited, “this is still a warning call to the business,”
said Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at FGA/MG
Valores. “In the last few years, the company has started to
find an increasing chunk of its suppliers in countries close to
the western world as a way to prevent these kind of
situations.”  More than 700 garment workers have died since 2005 in
Bangladesh, according to the International Labor Rights Forum, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  International Brands  Europe’s richest man  Amancio Ortega  founded Inditex, whose
brands include Zara and Massimo Dutti.  Inditex has stopped doing business with Spanish supplier
Wonnover and its Bangladeshi sub-contractor Centex as a
precautionary measure, Inditex spokesman Jesus Echevarria said
in a telephone interview. Both companies deny handing off
production to unauthorized suppliers and Inditex has sent its
own investigators to the scene, he said.  Smart Export wasn’t licensed by the fire department,
Mohammad Mahbub, a director of the Bangladesh Fire Service and
Civil Defence, said in a telephone interview. Mahbub, who is
part of a four-member panel investigating the fire, said today
that the death toll has risen to seven.  Surging wages and inflation in China, the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted global retailers to shift production to
Bangladesh. In response, an $18 billion manufacturing industry
has sprung marred by factories operated in buildings with poor
electrical wiring, an insufficient number of exits and little
fire-fighting equipment.  Mahbub said his team did not find any fire extinguisher or
equipment at the factory during an inspection after the latest
blaze.  Smart Export employees died either after jumping out of
windows or in a stampede, Abdul Halim, a deputy assistant
director of the fire Service, said on Jan. 26.  The government, garment association and western retailers
“need to act rapidly to stop the killings and to ensure a safe
workplace for our workers,” said Kalpona Akter, executive
director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  