-- Iraq Warns Exxon on Kurdish Deals Amid Plans for BP Development
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   K h a l i d   a l - A n s a r y
-- 2013-01-27T15:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/iraq-warns-exxon-on-kurdish-deals-amid-plans-for-bp-development.html
Iraq’s oil minister asked  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to stop dealing with Kurds if it wants to work with
the central government even as he proceeded with plans for  BP
Plc (BP/)  to develop fields in northern areas claimed by the Kurdish
authorities.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and Exxon, which operates the West
Qurna-1 oil field in southern Iraq, are among companies that
have angered the central government with proposals to explore in
the Kurdish area. While the Baghdad authorities don’t recognize
contracts signed by the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional
Government without their permission, foreign investors say
Kurdish authorities offer them more attractive terms.  “Any company that signs deals without the approval of the
central government, we don’t deal with them,” Oil Minister
Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi said in  Baghdad  today. “We can’t allow
Exxon to step over the constitution. It can’t continue to work
in both places at the same time, they have to choose to work
either in Iraq or in Kurdistan. We are waiting for a final
answer in the coming few days.”  The central government and the Kurds are entangled in a
feud over disputed land and the sharing of energy revenue. The
Kurdistan Regional Government halted exports of crude by
pipeline last month, with shipments currently limited to volumes
being trucked to  Turkey . Iraq is seeking to boost oil sales to
rebuild the economy after decades of wars and sanctions.  Disputed Territory  In turn, the Kurdish authorities said in a Jan. 17
statement that the central government would be acting illegally
if it proceeds with a plan to allow BP, Europe’s second-biggest
energy company, to work on  oil fields  in disputed territory. BP
made a “good offer” to develop the Kirkuk fields and the Oil
Ministry in Baghdad has sent the proposal to the government
energy committee for approval, al-Luaibi said today.  Iraq started to export crude through a second single-point
mooring facility in the south of the country, al-Luaibi told
reporters today. The nation also signed an agreement with Kuwait
Energy Co. and Dubai-based partner  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  to explore and
develop oil in Block 9 along Iraq’s border with Iran.  Kuwait Energy plans to invest $125 million in the field as
the company is optimistic about finding commercial quantities of
oil, Chief Executive Officer Sara Akbar said at a ceremony in
Baghdad. Iraq replaced Turkiye Petrolleri AO with Kuwait Energy
for the project to develop the block in November, without giving
any public explanation. The agreement is one of four licenses
awarded since an energy auction last year.  Iraq holds the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves,
according to BP’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The nation
is the biggest producer, after  Saudi Arabia , in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Al-Ansary in Baghdad at 
 kalansary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  