-- Israel Deploys Missiles as Netanyahu Sees Syria Collapse
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-01-27T18:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/israel-deploys-missiles-as-netanyahu-sees-syria-collapse.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
said that Israel must prepare for the threat of a chemical
attack from Syria as the army deployed its new Iron Dome anti-
missile system near the border with its northern neighbor.  Netanyahu told members of the Cabinet during the weekly
meeting in Jerusalem today that Israel faces dangers from
throughout the Middle East. Top security officials held a
special meeting last week to discuss what may happen to Syrian
stocks of chemical weapons amid the civil unrest there, Vice
Prime Minister Silvan Shalom told  Army Radio .  “We must look around us, at what is happening in Iran and
its proxies and at what is happening in other areas, with the
deadly weapons in Syria, which is increasingly coming apart,”
Netanyahu told his Cabinet, according to an e-mailed statement.  Syrian rebels, mostly  Sunni Muslims , have been fighting to
oust President Bashar al-Assad since March 2011 in a conflict
that the  United Nations  says has left at least 60,000 people
dead. Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967
Middle East war.  The Iron Dome system, which was used to shoot down hundreds
of rockets fired from the  Gaza Strip  during Israel’s November
conflict with Hamas and other militant groups, is being deployed
at an unspecified site in the north, according to an Israeli
army spokeswoman. She spoke anonymously in accordance with
military regulations and said setting up the anti-missile
battery was part of routine operations.  Israeli forces must be particularly alert during the period
following last week’s election in which Netanyahu is trying to
form a new coalition government and enemies are looking for
signs of weakness, the prime minister said. Netanyahu’s Likud-
Beitenu alliance lost 11 parliamentary seats in the vote and the
prime minister said he needs a broad and stable coalition to
deal with security threats from the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  