-- Japan’s Ruling Party Wants Next BOJ Chief to Share Abe’s Views
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-01-27T04:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/japan-s-ruling-party-wants-next-boj-chief-to-share-abe-s-views.html
The replacement for  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, whose term ends in April, should be
someone who shares the views and responsibilities of the
government, a senior ruling party official said.  “It all comes down to whether the person can share the
nation’s views and take upon challenges together,” Shigeru Ishiba, secretary general of the  Liberal Democratic Party , said
in a program on public broadcaster NHK today.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has called for “bold
monetary policy” to end  deflation  and weaken the yen, has a
chance to reshape the central bank when his government nominates
successors to Shirakawa and his two deputies. The Bank of  Japan 
last week decided to adopt a 2 percent inflation target and
begin open-ended asset purchases next January.  Ishiba said a joint statement released by the central bank
and the government after the Jan. 22 policy board meeting means
that reviving economic growth is “something they are jointly
responsible for.”  The government should present its choices for the three BOJ
officials to parliament by the end of next month, LDP upper
house parliamentary affairs chief Masashi Waki said on Jan. 21.
The current deputies’ terms end in March. Abe’s nominees must
win approval in the opposition-controlled upper house.  Among potential successors to Shirakawa are former Deputy
Governor Toshiro Muto, who said in a Jan. 21 interview that no
potential monetary step should be considered “taboo,” and
Asian Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda , a former
Finance Ministry currency official, who in 2002 advocated
“innovative” BOJ policies and a 3 percent inflation target.  The yen has slid more than 7 percent in the past month, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, in
anticipation that the central bank will join Abe’s
administration in strengthening measures to lift the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  