-- Ten-Year Treasury Yield Touches 2% as S&P 500 Retreats
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-28T21:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/japanese-equity-futures-gain-as-yen-weakens-amid-recovery-signs.html
Treasury 10-year  yields  touched 2
percent for the first time since April after U.S. durable-goods
orders climbed more than forecast. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index retreated following an eight-day rally, its longest since
2004. The yen strengthened and the pound weakened.  Rates on 10-year notes were up two basis points at 1.97
percent at 4 p.m. in  New York  after climbing to as high as 2.004
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell from a five-year
high, losing 0.2 percent to 1,500.18. The Shanghai Composite
Index jumped to a seven-month high as Chinese industrial
companies’ profits gained for a fourth month.  Japan ’s currency
rose against 14 of its 16 major peers. The pound dropped to its
lowest level against the euro since 2011.  U.S. durable goods orders increased 4.6 percent in
December, surpassing the 2 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Policy in developed countries isn’t “maxed
out” and central bankers can be flexible in meeting inflation
goals,  Mark Carney , who becomes  Bank of England  governor in
July, said at the  World Economic Forum  over the weekend.  “The economy is probably getting on better footing,” said
 Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the central bank. “People down the road will start
speculating when the Fed is going to unwind.”  Two-year notes also retreated, sending yields up less than
one basis point to 0.28 percent. Thirty-year rates increased two
basis points to 3.15 percent.  Fed Meeting  Yields rose before Federal Reserve officials
start a two-day meeting tomorrow as investors speculate when
policy makers will begin to slow stimulus.  Fitch Ratings  said
the temporary suspension of the U.S. debt limit removes the
near-term risk to the nation’s AAA credit rating. The U.S. sold
$35 billion in two-year notes, the first of three auctions this
week totaling $99 billion.  The S&P 500 closed at the highest level since December 2007
last week. The index has rallied 5.2 percent this month, the
best start to a year since 1987. Pension funds may need to sell
stocks and buy fixed income to rebalance asset allocations,
according to Societe Generale SA. U.S. pensions may pull $22
billion from equities, strategist Ramon Verastegui wrote in a
note.  Profit beat  analyst estimates  at 75 percent of the 150
companies in the  S&P 500  that released their latest results as
of the start of trading today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  climbed 3.5 percent in extended
trading as the biggest U.S. Web portal topped analysts’ profit
and sales estimates, benefiting from an increase in prices
charged for advertisements.  Market Leaders  Alcoa Inc., Boeing Co. and Travelers Cos. fell more than
1.2 percent to lead losses in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
which retreated 14.05 points to 13,881.93 after last week
closing within 2 percent of its 2007 record.  Caterpillar Inc., the biggest maker of construction and
mining equipment, climbed 2 percent for the biggest gain in the
Dow after saying growth in its sales and profit in 2013 will
come in the second half as the world economy improves.  Ryland Group Inc. and PulteGroup Inc. fell at least 2.8
percent to pace losses in builders after pending-home sales
declined in December for the first time since August. The index
of contracts for the purchase of previously owned homes fell 4.3
percent to 101.7 after a revised 1.6 percent increase, the
National Association of Realtors said. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey projected no change in the gauge. Compared with
a year earlier, sales before seasonal adjustment climbed 4.9
percent.  European Markets  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.1 percent after rising
to a 23-month high on Jan. 25. SBM Offshore NV rose 3.4 percent
after Morgan Stanley raised its recommendation for the stock.
Debenhams Plc, the second-largest U.K. department-store chain,
dropped 2.9 percent after Morgan Stanley cut its rating of the
shares.  The Bloomberg-JP Morgan Asia  Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, fell for a
fourth day, dropping 0.3 percent. South Korean officials
signaled last week that they would boost measures to curb gains
in the won, which strengthened 8.3 percent against the dollar in
2012. Taiwan’s central bank said today it would intervene if
needed.  ‘Currency War’  The yen appreciated as Economy Minister Akira Amari denied
that the government is trying to weaken the currency and data
showed investors decreased bearish bets. Speculation the  Bank of
Japan  will expand stimulus has driven the yen down 12 percent
against the dollar and 16 percent against the euro since Nov.
14, when elections were announced.  Japan’s highest priority is exiting from deflation and
revitalizing the economy, Amari told the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , on Jan. 26.  Britain’s pound depreciated 0.6 percent to 85.745 pence per
euro and weakened 0.7 percent to $1.5693.  “A currency war, a series of tit-for-tat competitive
devaluations, would trigger trade protection measures that would
damage global trade and therefore growth globally,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  Hong Kong . Kuijs previously worked for the  World Bank . “That
would not be good for any country with a stake in the global
economy.”  Germany ’s 10-year bond yield rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.69 percent, the highest since September.  Commodities, Emerging Markets  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities gained 0.4 percent as
gasoline, sugar and cattle climbed more than 1.7 percent to lead
gains. Oil futures rose 56 cents to $96.44 a barrel. Natural gas
tumbled 4 percent to a two-week low of $3.308 per million
British thermal units amid revised forecasts for mild mid-
February weather that would reduce demand for the heating fuel.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.6 percent as
technology  stocks  led declines. The Shanghai Composite Index
climbed 2.4 percent as industrial companies’ net income
increased 17.3 percent in December, the National Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday. Turkey’s benchmark index tumbled 4.2
percent, the most since September 2011, as a credit-rating
upgrade anticipated by some analysts failed to materialize from
Moody’s Investors Service. Russia’s Micex Index added 1.2
percent, while  Brazil ’s Bovespa index slipped 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  