-- Job Market Probably Kept Making Progress: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/job-market-probably-kept-making-progress-u-s-economy-preview.html
The job market in the U.S. probably
kept making headway in January even in the face of  Washington ’s
budget battles, economists said before reports this week.  Employers added 160,000 workers to payrolls in January
after a 155,000 December increase, according to the median of 67
forecast in a Bloomberg survey before a Feb. 1 Labor Department
report. The average monthly gain over the past two years was
153,000. Other data this week may show manufacturing is
stabilizing, housing is improving and consumers are spending.  Sustained gains in hiring are giving incomes a lift,
cushioning workers from the sting of higher payroll taxes.
Nonetheless, bigger employment increases are needed to drive
down a jobless rate that Federal Reserve officials, who meet
this week for the first time this year, say is too high.  “The labor market is pretty resilient, but it’s also
unspectacular,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It looks like employers didn’t
really blink during the fiscal debates. If we keep adding jobs
at this pace, the  unemployment rate  will gradually come down.”  The  jobless rate , derived from a separate survey of
households, was probably 7.8 percent, matching December and
November as the lowest since the beginning of 2009, according to
the median forecast.  With the January report, the government will also issue its
annual benchmark update, which aligns the data with government
tax records covering the period from April 2011 to March 2012.
The Labor Department has already estimated the revisions will
show payrolls in the period up another 386,000 workers from the
current estimate of 1.94 million.  Upcoming Revisions  It will also include changes to the figures used to adjust
the data for seasonal swings, affecting numbers back to January
2008. Additionally, the report will incorporate new population
estimates from the Census Bureau into the household survey that
is used to calculate the jobless rate.  In the past year, stable job growth has helped reduce
unemployment, enabling  consumer spending , about 70 percent of
the economy, to advance. Analysts forecast a Jan. 31 report from
the Commerce Department will show household purchases rose 0.3
percent last month after increasing 0.4 percent in November. The
same report may also show incomes climbed 0.8 percent, the most
in a year, partly the result of firms pulling dividends forward
to avoid higher taxes in 2013.  Rising household purchases failed to fully offset weak
overseas demand and smaller gains inventories in the fourth
quarter. The nation’s gross domestic product advanced at a 1.2
percent rate in the fourth quarter, the weakest in almost two
years, economists estimate before Jan. 30 figures from the
Commerce Department.  Manufacturing Stabilizing  Manufacturing shows signs of emerging from a lull that
began in the middle of last year. Economists estimate a Commerce
Department report will show  durable goods orders  climbed in
December. A Feb. 1 report from the  Institute for Supply
Management  will show factories expanded for a second month in
January, according to the survey median.  Investors are encouraged by the outlook. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery index, which includes companies
such as Deere & Co., has climbed 11 percent since the end of
November, outpacing a 6.1 percent gain in the broader S&P 500
gauge over the same period.  Fiscal policy may be standing in the way of faster economic
growth. Congress on Jan. 1 allowed payroll taxes to revert to
6.2 percent from 4.2 percent and boosted the levy on top income
earners. Lawmakers are now battling over spending reductions
scheduled for March 1 that would further reduce growth.  Meantime, the housing market represents a bright spot for
the economy.  Home prices  increased 5.5 percent in the 12 months
through November, the most since 2006, economists project a Jan.
29 report from S&P/Case-Shiller will show.  Housing Pickup  Strength in housing will help fuel labor market gains.
Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
said on Jan. 22 that it plans to hire 45,000 seasonal workers,
13 percent more than last year. In addition, the Mooresville,
North Carolina-based company said it will take on 9,000
permanent workers as the housing rebound spurs remodeling.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which will release a
statement on monetary policy at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting on Jan. 30, says it wants to spur a stronger expansion.
In its statement last month, the FOMC said it will keep rates
near zero as long as the jobless rate is above 6.5 percent and
inflation is forecast to be 2.5 percent or less. Previously
policy makers said they would keep  interest rates  low through at
least mid-2015.  The central bank’s chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke , said Jan. 14
that the level of unemployment “is not an acceptable
situation,” especially when  39 percent  of the jobless haven’t
worked for six months or longer.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  