-- Floods Leave Four Dead as Storm Lashes Australian Coast
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-01-28T22:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/new-south-wales-braces-for-rains-as-floods-hit-australian-towns.html
Heavy rain and destructive winds are
lashing the eastern coast of  Australia  after floods caused by
 ex-tropical cyclone  Oswald left four people dead in Queensland
state, inundated thousands of homes and disrupted coal output.  The storm system is tracking south through New South Wales,
with damaging gusts  forecast  to reach more than 125 kilometers
(78 miles) per hour, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.
About 1,000 people were evacuated late yesterday from the
Queensland town of Bundaberg and authorities said they plan to
move patients from the local hospital today.  Australian troops are assisting with rescue efforts in
Queensland and New South Wales, which account for about half the
nation’s economy and experienced about A$9 billion ($9.4
billion) in lost output when they were hit by flooding and
Cyclone Yasi in 2011. Other states are still battling wildfires
after record temperatures earlier this month.  “The thoughts of all Australians are with those
Queenslanders that have been hit hard, particularly those that
have been impacted on top of the devastation two short years
ago,” said Treasurer Wayne Swan, who hails from the northern
state.  Brisbane Flooding  More than 3,000 properties were inundated in Queensland’s
state capital  Brisbane , where the river burst its banks in 2011
destroying roads and bridges.  “It’s an unprecedented event,” Queensland Police Minister
Jack Dempsey, who is the local member for Bundaberg, told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television in an interview from
the town. “At the present time it’s priority of life, then
property.”  The  Insurance Council of Australia  declared a catastrophe
for parts of Queensland, where waters upturned cars and flooded
streets. Oswald caused moderate-to-severe damage in communities
from Cairns in Queensland’s north to the New South Wales border,
Chief Executive Officer Rob Whelan said in a statement. About
5,050 claims have been made so far with estimated insurance
losses of A$43 million, according to the body.  Flight Cancellations  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)   canceled  about 19 flights
today and Qantas Airways Ltd. budget unit Jetstar scrapped
flights to the  Gold Coast  in Queensland and Ballina in northern
New South Wales  Swan told  Sky News  that costs associated with the floods
and bushfires would have an impact on the  federal budget . He
said it was too early to consider whether taxpayers should help
cover the cost of the disasters with a special levy.  Four people have been killed in Queensland, including a 27-
year-old man who was swept away by floodwaters and a three-year-
old boy struck by a falling tree, according to state police.  The flooding affected mines and railways in Queensland, the
world’s biggest source of coal used by steelmakers.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said some of its Australian coal
operations had been disrupted and it’s monitoring the situation
to ensure the safety of employees, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ) , the coal haulage company formerly
known as QR National Ltd., said crews are working to assess
damage to the Central Queensland Coal Network, where the
Blackwater and Moura rail systems remain closed. The Newlands
and Goonyella systems are operating normally, the company said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Coal Operations  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest shipper of thermal coal,
said its mines hadn’t been materially affected, while
acknowledging the rail disruption in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Yancoal Australia Ltd. (YAL)  said in a regulatory statement
that production at its Middlemount open cut mine would be
affected for at least three weeks after a levee bank was
breached, while normal operations are expected to resume this
week at its Yarrabee mine.  Newcastle Port Corp. operations are returning to normal
today after it advised five coal ships and one other vessel to
move their anchorages further out to sea as a precaution at the
weekend, spokesman Keith Powell said by telephone.  The  Hay Point , Dalrymple and Abbot Point coal terminals in
Queensland resumed operations, port agent Gulf Agency Co. said
yesterday in an e-mail. The state accounts for about 50 percent
of global coking-coal shipments.  Coal prices surged in 2011 as heavy rainfall and flooding
from Yasi engulfed mines and crimped production from companies
including Rio Tinto Group and Xstrata.  Queensland may see some cotton crop losses due to the
flooding, particularly in the Darling Downs region,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA)  said in an e-mailed note.  Electricity provider Energex said on its website that about
158,000 people were without power.  Temperatures in Sydney, Australia’s largest city, reached a
record of 45.8 degrees Celsius (114.4 degrees Fahrenheit) on
Jan. 18. A national average of 40.33 degrees was registered on
Jan. 7, the hottest day in more than 100 years of records.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  