-- Nigeria Plans Air Cargo Terminals to Boost Farm Exports
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-01-28T09:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/nigeria-plans-air-cargo-terminals-to-boost-farm-exports.html
Nigeria  is building cargo terminals
at 12 airports to help boost export of farm produce, said Yakubu
Dati, general manager of the airports authority.  “Our airports are being rebuilt to provide means for
exporting perishable and non-perishable agricultural output to
remove waste, save time” and increase farmers’ income, Dati
said in a Jan. 24 interview. The Lagos-based Federal Airports
Authority of Nigeria, also known as FAAN, is working with
farmers’ groups and airlines to identify and serve foreign
markets, he said.  After building the terminals, private investors will
provide refrigeration services, air transport and other
facilities for export, helping to support agriculture, according
to Dati. Products expected to benefit include peanuts, tomatoes,
lettuce, peppers, mangoes and carrots, he said.  Africa’s most populous country of more than 160 million
people is seeking to reduce dependence on oil exports, which
account for about 80 percent of government revenue and more than
95 percent of export income. Nigeria plans to increase  food
production  by 20 million metric tons by 2015 by providing land,
funding and infrastructure and save the $10 billion spent on
food imports every year, according to the  Agriculture Ministry .  Nigeria wants to increase cargo throughput at its airports,
now dominated by passenger traffic, as part of efforts to
increase airport revenue threefold, Aviation Minister Stella Oduah, said on Jan 21.  Passenger Movement  Cargo transported through the nation’s 22 airports declined
11 percent to 78.6 million kilograms (173 million pounds) for
the six months through June 2012, compared with a year ago, with
exports representing 22 percent, or 17 million kilograms,
according to the most recent data obtained from FAAN. Passenger
movement declined 4 percent to 6.8 million with 3.5 million, or
58 percent, leaving the country.  “We have a situation at present where cargo planes fly
into the country and fly out empty,” Dati said. “FAAN has
created a cargo department which underscores the importance it
attaches to the project.”  Apart from building cargo terminals, the aviation ministry
and FAAN plan to reconstruct all the airports in the country and
build five new international airport terminals this year, each
meeting the International Civil Aviation organization standards,
he said.  Cargo shipments will benefit from improved  aviation
security  with the deployment of anti-terrorist police and an
increase in the number of scanners and sniffer dogs at the
country’s airports, Dati said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  