-- Obama Says Football Head Injuries Should Prod Review of Rules
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/obama-says-football-head-injuries-should-prod-review-of-rules.html
President  Barack Obama  expressed
concern about violence and injuries in professional and
intercollegiate football, saying he would “think long and
hard” if he had a son before allowing him to play.  Obama, an avowed sports fan and the father of two
daughters, said in an interview with The New Republic magazine
that the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  in particular
should consider rules changes in view of emerging evidence on
long-term health consequences of head blows suffered by players.  He said he is “more worried” about amateur college
players than professional National Football League players who
are “grown men” represented by a union and paid a salary.  “You read some of these stories about college players who
undergo some of these same problems with concussions and so
forth and then have nothing to fall back on,” Obama said in the
interview, to be published in the magazine’s Feb. 11 issue.
“That’s something that I’d like to see the NCAA think about.”  Obama predicted that football rules will “probably change
gradually to try to reduce some of the violence.”  He said that, while rules changes to tamp down violence,
“may make it a little bit less exciting,” the result “will be
a whole lot better for the players, and those of us who are fans
maybe won’t have to examine our consciences quite as much.”  The family of Junior Seau, the all-pro linebacker who
committed suicide in May, sued the NFL on Jan. 23, claiming his
death resulted from repeated head injuries he suffered on the
field.  Player Lawsuit  More than 3,000 former players have sued the NFL for
damages for head injuries. The complaints, which are
consolidated in federal court in Philadelphia, accuse the league
of negligence and failing to inform players of the link between
repeated traumatic head impacts and long-term brain injuries.  Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl selection who played the last of
his 20 NFL seasons in 2009, was 43 when he shot himself in the
chest at his home in Oceanside,  California . The  National
Institutes of Health  said Jan. 10 that brain-tissue samples
showed Seau had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a progressive
brain disease diagnosed after death.  Seau’s suicide followed that of former Chicago Bears player
Dave Duerson, an 11-year veteran who shot himself in February
2011 at age 50; and Ray Easterling, an eight-year player with
the  Atlanta Falcons  who killed himself two weeks before Seau at
age 62. An autopsy on Duerson found similar traumatic brain
injury.  Evidence has been mounting that repeated concussions harm
brains.  A study of 34 retired NFL players published Jan. 7 in the
journal JAMA Neurology linked mental deficits in former players
with changes in brain structure. About 25 percent of the retired
players suffered with clinical depression, higher than the 15
percent seen in the general population. The researchers also
found physical abnormalities in the brains of some the athletes
in medical scans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  