-- LodgeNet Interactive Files for Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y ,   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2013-01-28T16:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/lodgenet-interactive-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
LodgeNet Interactive Corp. (LNET)  filed for
 bankruptcy protection  with plans to be taken over by affiliates
of  Colony Capital LLC , which will invest $60 million and work
with DirecTV to provide on-demand movies to hotel rooms.  LodgeNet had about $292 million in consolidated assets and
about $449 million in consolidated debt as of Sept. 30, 2012,
according to court papers filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  New York . LodgeNet reported consolidated revenue of
about $379 million for the 12 months ended Sept. 30, according
to court papers.  LodgeNet, based in  Sioux Falls ,  South Dakota , provides
interactive TV and Internet services to the hotel industry. The
company hasn’t posted an annual profit since 2006.  Last year, 95 percent of its revenue came from the hotel
industry, with Hilton Worldwide and Marriott International Inc.
 accounting  for about a third of sales, according to company
filings. LodgeNet has been trying to expand in health care, and
its eSUITE system was installed in 82 medical facilities
representing about 18,600 beds, according to court papers.  “We anticipate being able to complete this process on an
expedited basis,” Frank Elsenbast and James Naro, the company’s
co-chief executive officers, said today in a statement, citing
support from lenders and suppliers as well as “the solid
commitment of Colony Capital and an expanded strategic
partnership with  DirecTV. (DTV) ” The company said it may complete its
restructuring within 60 days.  DirecTV Partnership  The proposed restructuring agreement calls for LodgeNet and
DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV operator, to operate as
strategic partners within the hospitality and health-care
markets, according to the statement. More than 56 percent of the
pre-petition lenders and 73 percent of the total amount of debt
under the agreement have voted to accept the plan, according to
court papers.  Under the plan, Los Angeles-based Colony would become the
company’s controlling shareholder, LodgeNet said in a Dec. 31
statement. A committee of lenders, which controls about
44 percent of the company’s existing credit facility, agreed to
amend the terms of their loan and support the plan, according to
a LodgeNet regulatory filing.  The group will support a multiyear extension of its
$346 million secured credit facility, according to the
statement. LodgeNet said it expects unsecured creditors to be
paid in full at the end of the Chapter 11 process. The agreement
won’t take effect unless the judge overseeing the company’s
bankruptcy case approves.  Existing Lenders  LodgeNet plans to borrow as much as $15 million from some
existing lenders to help fund operations as it restructures,
according to court papers. The company said its business won’t
be interrupted and obligations to customers will be fulfilled.  Colony, with $38 billion in assets under management, also
has invested in Fairmont Raffles Hotels International, hotel
operator  Accor SA (AC)  and Amanresorts International Pte, according
to LodgeNet’s Dec. 31 statement.  Miller Buckfire & Co., FTI Consulting Inc. and Moorgate
Securities LLC served as financial advisers to LodgeNet,
according to the statement. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
and CDG Group LLC advised the agent for the lenders.  The case is In re LodgeNet Interactive Corp., 13-10238,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  