-- Hong Kong Journalists Plan Petition Against Privacy Law Proposal
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-27T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/hong-kong-journalists-plan-petition-against-privacy-law-proposal.html
Hong Kong  journalists plan to
publish a petition in five local newspapers today calling on the
city’s government to drop a proposed law that would limit access
to information about company directors.  Signatures of 1,768 reporters, editors, media teachers and
students will be carried on the petition protesting plans to
make it more difficult for the public to trace company
directors’ home addresses and personal identification numbers,
Mak Yin-ting, chairwoman of the Hong Kong Journalists
Association, said at a press briefing yesterday.  The Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions is considering
a protest march against the proposals, while the Hong Kong Small
and Medium Enterprises Association will write to the
administration, representatives said at the briefing.  If the bill becomes law, “the free flow of information
will be suffocated,” Mak said. “Hong Kong’s claim to be the
regional hub of information, as well as a financial center, will
be jeopardized.”  The plans, put forward by the Financial Services and the
Treasury Bureau and the city’s  Companies Registry  to “enhance
protection of the privacy of personal information,” were
proposed in November as part of a consultation  paper  on a new
companies ordinance. The move comes amid growing media scrutiny
of the assets of China’s leaders.  Business Relationships  Bloomberg News  last year relied on Hong Kong and Chinese
identity card numbers contained in filings to chart the business
relationships and assets of the families of China’s incoming
president,  Xi Jinping , ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai and the
descendants of veteran revolutionaries, known as the Eight
Immortals, who ran China after the death of Mao Zedong in 1976.
The  New York  Times newspaper traced assets owned by the family
of outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao , also with the help of Hong Kong
records, according to an October article.  Although the effects of the plans are hard to assess, “it
definitely damages the reputation of Hong Kong as a free place
to trade and do business,” Danny Lau Tat Pong, life honorary
chairman of the Small and Medium Enterprises Association, said.  Workers use the registry to find employers that abscond
owing wages or redundancy payments, according to Confederation
of Trade Unions chief executive officer Mung Siu Tat. The
confederation has received more than 500 complaints about unpaid
salaries and more than 350 claims relating to overdue redundancy
payments in the past two years, he said.  ‘Money and Power’  “We are lobbying the political parties to vote against the
bill if the government doesn’t change anything,” said Mung.
“Unfortunately the government is only listening to the 1
percent of people who hold the most money and power in Hong
Kong.”  The petition, organized by the Hong Kong Journalists
Association, the Hong Kong Press Photographers Association and
Journalism Educators for Press Freedom, is due to be published
by  Apple Daily , am730,  Hong Kong Economic Times ,  Ming Pao  and
the South China Morning Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  