-- Opium Novel Wins $50,000 Prize, Author Thayil Quits Drugs
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2013-01-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/opium-novel-wins-50-000-prize-author-thayil-quits-drugs.html
The last time I had a rendezvous
with Jeet Thayil 18 years ago at the Taj Hotel  Mumbai , he never
showed. When I finally caught up with him in Hong Kong
recently and asked why he stood me up, his excuse was simple.  “Drugs,” he said.  The Indian writer had been addicted, first to opium and
later heroin, for 20 years. Now, he’s been clean for a decade
and arrives for appointments on time.  His first novel “Narcopolis” won the annual $50,000 DSC
Prize given to the best work of South Asian literature on
Jan. 25. It’s also shortlisted for the $30,000  Man Asia Literary
Prize , to be announced on March 14 in Hong Kong.  Thayil, 53, also shortlisted for the Man  Booker Prize  last
year, says he’s surprised at the acclaim, especially since his
novel was first roundly panned by Indian critics.  “The book was hated by a lot of people,” he said. “The
reviews were savage, brutal, and I thought ‘Wow, five years of
work down the tubes, I’m done for.’”  Then international reviewers started praising it, followed
by the Booker nomination. In India he went from literary pariah
to the country’s new poster boy, virtually overnight.  At times, the prose of “Narcopolis” floats like smoke from
an opium pipe. At others, it is harsh and unflinching -- a far
cry from William Burroughs’s fragmented and hallucinatory
“Naked Lunch.”  Altered State  Thayil says he wrote about drugs “without being druggy
about it, with all the devices and the structural thought that
goes into a novel, even if that novel is about an altered state
of consciousness.”  The downward spiral of violence uncovers inconvenient
truths at odds with the image of  India  as an emerging economic
powerhouse.  “Walking on an Indian street is to develop strategies to
deal with horror,” he says. “One way of dealing with Mumbai is
alcohol and drugs.”  Thayil walked into an opium den for the first time at the
age of 18, just two weeks into college in Mumbai.  “For someone who had been reading the French poets,
Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Verlaine and the English romantics to walk
into that room and see life entirely conducted on floor level,
lit by owl lamps, perfumed by opium smoke, it was absolutely
seductive, romantic. I might have been hooked before I even
tried a puff.”  Heroin Switch  He smoked opium for four years until the city started
closing down the dens, forcing users to switch to heroin, “a
quick and brutal and ugly world.”  To support his addiction,  Thayil  worked as a journalist,
yet never missed a deadline, he says.  “I guess the Protestant work ethic I was brainwashed by as
a child was even stronger than the drug ethic,” he says. (His
father was the co-founder of Asiaweek Magazine in  Hong Kong .) He
also completed a Master of Fine Arts degree in Poetry at Sarah
Lawrence College. His first book of poems was published when he
was 31.  Thayil says that his drug experience was “the opposite of
spiritual. It was as degraded and desolating as it can get. For
me it wasn’t a creative life. Opiates make you feel so good
physically, the last thing you are thinking about is writing.”  While he started writing “Narcopolis” as a memoir, “the
book turned into a novel on its own” after a year.  Though Thayil describes novel writing as “self-imposed
punishment,” he’s willing to inflict it upon himself again.  He’s into his second novel based on a painter who appears
in one chapter of “Narcopolis.”  Others on the shortlist for the Man Asia award are Turkish
Nobel laureate Orhan Pamuk for “Silent House,” Malaysian Tan
Twan Eng for “The Garden of Evening Mists,”  Japan ’s Hiromi
Kawakami for “The Briefcase” and Pakistani author Musharraf
Ali Farooqi’s “Between Clay and Dust.”  DSC Ltd., a road builder, also sponsors the DSC Jaipur
Literary Festival which runs through today, Jan. 28.  Information:  http://jaipurliteraturefestival.org/   (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Elin McCoy 
on wine and  Greg Evans  on film.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 