-- Tornadoes Hit Queensland as Rains Deluge Eastern Australia
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-01-27T05:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/tornadoes-hit-australia-s-east-as-storm-dumps-rain-on-queensland.html
Tornadoes in  Australia ’s Queensland
state felled trees and power lines as  ex-tropical cyclone  Oswald
dumped heavy rain and moved toward New South Wales bringing
damaging winds and possible flooding.  The weather system is centered about 345 kilometers (214
miles) north-northwest of Brisbane and projected to accelerate
tomorrow into New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state,
the Bureau of Meteorology said in an  advisory . The Australian
Defence Force is on standby to assist with the flood effort,
Queensland Premier Campbell Newman said today.  “Two helicopters have been tasked to assist the effort up
in Bundaberg,” Newman said at a televised press conference in
the state capital, Brisbane. “The people of Bundaberg are now
this afternoon preparing for worse flooding than in 2010-2011.”  Queensland was devastated in February 2011 by  Cyclone Yasi ,
which killed at least 35 people and contributed to floods
throughout Australia’s eastern states that cost the nation’s
economy A$9 billion ($9.4 billion) in lost output. Earlier this
month, the country experienced record temperatures during a
heatwave and battled wildfires in southern and eastern states.  Oswald’s flood waters submerged streets in Queensland
towns, with television images showing inundated homes and
upturned cars. Destructive winds gusting as high as 125
kilometers an hour and further tornadoes are likely for today
and may cause damage to homes, the bureau of meteorology said.
The Insurance Council of Australia declared a catastrophe for
parts of the state.  Western Fires  The storm cut power to about  10,000 customers  in the
Bargara area near Bundaberg, 385 kilometers north of  Brisbane ,
according to electricity provider Ergon Energy. A further 41,000
homes, including outer suburbs of the capital, are also without
power, Energex said in an advisory.  As emergency services combat flooding on the east coast,
firefighters are battling blazes in the west of the country. An
alert is in place for the town of  Gingin , 84 kilometers north of
the Western Australian state capital of Perth.  Temperatures in Sydney, Australia’s largest city, reached a
record of 45.8 degrees Celsius (114.4 degrees Fahrenheit) on
Jan. 18 and a national average of 40.33 degrees Celsius was
registered on Jan. 7, the hottest day in more than 100 years of
records. The nation’s hot, dry climate makes bushfires a major
risk in the southern hemisphere’s summer.  The worst fires in the nation’s history, the so-called
Black Saturday blazes, killed 173 people as they swept through
rural Victoria in February 2009.  Flood Watch  The New South Wales emergency service warned of flooding
and damaging winds approaching the north of the state, in an
 advisory  on its website, even as severe thunderstorms from
another system hit southeastern and central areas overnight.  “We’ve got every river system from the Queensland border
down to the Hunter on a major flood watch,” Steve Pearce,
deputy commissioner of the New South Wales State Emergency
Service, said in a televised interview. “It’s just a wait-and-
see to see how quickly this front moves down into the New South
Wales northern areas.”  Moderate to severe damage from Oswald has been experienced
in communities from Cairns in Queensland’s north to the New
South Wales border, Rob Whelan, chief executive officer of the
 Insurance Council  of Australia, said in an e-mailed statement.
Insurers have received several thousand claims and it’s too
early to estimate losses, he said.  Cyclone Yasi  Yasi battered towns with winds stronger than  Hurricane
Katrina  when it crossed the coast on Feb. 3, 2011, smashing
homes and ripping through banana and sugar crops. The cyclone
struck a state already inundated by floodwaters, which swamped
about 15,000 properties in Brisbane, smashed roads and shuttered
the city center.  Coal prices surged in 2011 as heavy rainfall and flooding
from Yasi engulfed mines and crimped production from companies
including Rio Tinto Group and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest
exporter of the commodity used in power stations.  Thermal coal at the port of Newcastle in New South Wales, a
benchmark price for  Asia ,  surged  to $138.50 a metric ton in
January 2011 after the storm crimped output and shipments.
Prices have since declined and were at $91.15 last week,
according to data from IHS McCloskey.  A two-day suspension on ship movements at the port of
Gladstone, which was put in place because of extreme weather
conditions whipped-up by the storm, was lifted today, an
advisory from Maritime Safety Queensland said. Coal, alumina and
aluminum are exported from the harbor, according to the port
authority website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  