-- Paschi Case Hits Campaign as Bersani Says He’ll ‘Shred’ Critics
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-01-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/paschi-case-hits-campaign-as-bersani-says-he-ll-shred-critics.html
  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA (BMPS) ’s revelation it had hidden millions of euros of losses weeks
before a 3.9 billion-euro bailout ($5.3 billion) is roiling
 Italy ’s election campaign, with the front-runner threatening to
shred adversaries trying to politicize the case.  The  Democratic Party  has suffered the brunt of the attacks
of former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and comic-turned-
politician Beppe Grillo over its ties with the Siena-based bank.
The local government is run by the party and controls the
foundation that is Paschi’s biggest shareholder and appoints its
management.  “I can confirm that we will tear them apart, we will shred
them,” Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the Democratic Party, said
in a Jan. 26 speech, referring to his critics.  With elections less than a month away, Bersani is trying to
stem a slide in opinion polls that may be aggravated by Monte
Paschi as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  also fends off criticism
over his plan to rescue the bank. A further drop in support
could make it difficult for Bersani to form a stable government
even if he allies with Monti after the vote.  Narrow Majority?  “The risk that a new government will lack a strong
majority is confirmed and it now appears to be almost a
certainty,” Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180 million at
Glendevon King Asset Management in  London , said by e-mail.  The bank said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts after
 Bloomberg News  reported the lender engaged in a derivative
transaction with Deutsche Bank AG in 2008, dubbed “Project
Santorini,” that obscured losses before it sought an initial
government bailout the next year. The bank said Jan. 23 it’s
reviewing three money-losing structured deals uncovered by newly
appointed executives.  So far investors haven’t punished the euro-region’s second-
biggest biggest debtor for potential political risk. The  yield
premiu m demanded to hold the country’s 10-year bonds over
comparable German bunds fell 14 basis points last week to 249,
the lowest close in more than a year.  Still, Monte Paschi’s share  plunged  12 percent in the week
after the revelations that the bank’s former management hid
details of structured finance deals from regulators that will
saddle the bank with hundreds of millions of euros of losses.  Grilli’s Testimony  The story will remain in the headlines this week with the
bank’s chief executive officer, Fabrizio Viola, and Chairman
Alessandro Profumo holding a press conference in Milan today.
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  will testify in Parliament
tomorrow on the government’s rescue of the bank and the first
polls taken after the news on Paschi broke will be released
later in the week.  “Monte Paschi will be used by the candidates to turn up
the heat in the campaign, even if in the end it may have limited
impact on the election results,” Emanuele Vizzini, who manages
1 billion euros of assets as chief investment officer at Milan-
based Investitori Sgr.  “My worry is that The Monte Paschi story is shifting the
political debate from the candidates’ economic policy to
polemics and personal attacks,” he said.  Berlusconi and his allies have slammed Monti over the
bailout by linking the aid to an unpopular real estate levy,
which raised an amount similar to the emergency loans earmarked
for Monte Paschi. The three-time premier has reserved most of
his fire for Bersani. In a Jan. 26 interview on state-owned RAI
television, he said: “If the Left doesn’t know how to run a
bank, imagine what they will do to the country.”  Latest Poll  Support for Bersani and his coalition partners was at 33.8
percent in a poll by SWG released on Jan. 25, down from 34.9
percent on Jan. 9. Support for Monti and his allies fell to 12.8
percent from 13.8 percent on Jan. 9, while Berlusconi’s
coalition gained 26.6 percent from 25.3 percent.  Even if Bersani wins the race by that margin, it probably
won’t be enough to gain a majority in the senate, where seats
are doled out based on regional races. Bersani may need the
support of Monti in the Senate to reach a majority and risks
falling short of Senate control even with Monti’s backing if
their support continues to decline.  “Naturally this could hurt Bersani’s party,” said
Fabrizio Masia, head of Italian pollster EMG. “At least 1 if
not 2 percentage points could be subtracted from the PD.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net . 