-- Republicans’ Push to Tilt Elections Will Backfire
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-01-27T16:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/republicans-push-to-tilt-elections-will-backfire.html
Imagine if the 2012 elections had
turned out this way: President  Barack Obama  won the popular vote
by five million votes and almost 4 percent, taking seven of the
eight largest states, as he did, yet the Republican candidate,
former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney , took the oath of
office last week.  Such a scenario might not be far-fetched if some Republican
politicians in state houses around the country get their way.  U.S. presidential elections are decided by the Electoral
College. Each state gets electors based on the number of 
congressional districts it has, plus two for its senators. With 
the exception of two small states, Maine and Nebraska, electors 
are awarded on a winner-take-all basis; 270 out of a total of 
538 are necessary to become president.  Individual states set the rules for these electors; the
current system, by most accounts, has worked well. Three times -
- twice in the 19th century and then in 2000 -- the Electoral
College victor lost the popular vote.  Now, Republican state legislators in as many as a half-
dozen states where they control the governmental machinery even
though their state was carried by the Democratic candidate in
the past couple presidential elections, want to change the
system and tilt it decidedly in their party’s favor. They would
do this by scrapping the winner-take-all rule and awarding
electors by congressional districts.  ‘Political Advantage’  “This would amount to a legal subversion of democracy to
game the system for political advantage,” says the legal scholar
Walter Dellinger, who served as U.S. solicitor general in the
Bill Clinton administration.  That’s not a frivolous alarm. Republican legislators, with
tacit support from their governors, in  Pennsylvania ,  Michigan 
and  Wisconsin  are advocating this. The party’s national
chairman, Reince Priebus, is keeping a low profile and signaling
encouragement.  To gauge the potential effect, consider what would have
happened if these states, along with  Virginia ,  Florida  and  Ohio ,
where Republicans also control the state houses, had forced this
through in the most recent presidential election. Obama carried
all these states, sweeping 106 electoral votes. But Romney won
two-thirds of the congressional districts; if all else were
equal, the Republican would have carried the Electoral College,
becoming the first president who was trounced in the popular
vote.  Scratching your head? Some of this maneuvering is due to
redistricting or gerrymandering of congressional districts, a
process largely controlled by Republicans after their big
victories in 2010. Also Democrats tend to congregate in the same
districts while Republicans are more diffuse.  Two examples: Obama won Pennsylvania by five points and
Michigan by nine points, clear cut by any standard. Yet Romney
carried 13 of the 18 congressional districts in Pennsylvania and
10 of the 14 in Michigan, and would have won the lion’s share of
delegates in both states that he lost decisively.  Allotting presidential electors by congressional district
would increase the incentives for partisan gerrymandering,
already a factor in congressional dysfunction.  There is a longstanding and substantive debate over whether
presidents should be decided by the Electoral College or the
popular vote. That flared anew when  George W. Bush  won the
presidency 12 years ago even though  Al Gore  won the popular
vote.  National Election  Supporters of a change say it would create a genuine
national election. Last autumn, Obama and Romney focused almost
all their resources and time in eight states, all carried by
the president. In a general election, voters in Buffalo, New
York,  San Diego , California, Houston,  Texas  or  New Orleans , only
lay eyes on a candidate if they’re in town for a quick-hit fund-
raiser.  Defenders of the Electoral College dismiss this argument,
claiming the present system strikes a political balance between
states and regions that the Founding Fathers envisioned. A
direct popular election, they contend, would depersonalize the
campaign, turning into nothing more than incessant money-
grabbing and  television advertising . The focus last time was on
a handful of states; Romney and Obama had to spend considerable
time meeting real voters in Columbus, Ohio, or the northern
Virginia and Denver suburbs.  Either the current Electoral College or a decision by
popular vote, if the prolonged ballot counting in some states
could be remedied, would produce a winner with legitimacy. The
controversy over Bush’s election in 2000 wasn’t related to the
system but whether he really won Florida, which gave him the
Electoral College victory.  Still, changing to a popular vote probably would require a
constitutional amendment with approval by two-thirds of both
houses of Congress and three-quarters of the states.  Presidential electors are specifically mentioned in the
Constitution. It’s not going to happen.  What might stop these attempts at rigging is if smart
Republicans realize how manipulative it looks, and that it could
come back to bite them; that’s the view of the former party
chairman and ex-Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour . And such a
system would dilute the clout of the states that adopt it, which
is why Governor  Bob McDonnell  of Virginia is opposing any
change.  If this sort of political coup had been pulled off earlier,
instead of celebrations on the streets of Washington during last
week’s presidential Inauguration, there would have been violent
protests.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 