-- Tripling in Debt to $1.7 Trillion Drags on Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-28T03:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/tripling-in-debt-to-1-7-trillion-drags-on-economy-china-credit.html
Chinese companies are spending more
than ever to service debt after their borrowing almost tripled
over five years, prompting strategists to warn of rising default
risk and a threat to economic growth.  Total short- and long-term borrowing by 3,895 publicly
traded non-financial companies rose to almost $1.7 trillion in
their latest filings, from $604 billion at the end of 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Financing costs, including interest,
on all forms of debt climbed to the highest level as a
percentage of gross domestic product last year, according to
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Bernstein says that means less cash for investment to fuel
the world’s second-largest economy, while Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc says the threat of defaults will hold back interest-
rate liberalization. The average 10-year  yield  for top-rated
company bonds is near a 13-month high at 5.27 percent, compared
with the 2.6 percent yield in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
global corporate index.  “There’s just a lot more debt in China today than there
was really ever in the past, relative to nominal GDP,” said
 Mike Werner , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bernstein. “More and
more of the country’s resources have to be put to just financing
outstanding debt, and that itself is a headwind for economic
growth.”  While the nation exited a seven-quarter slowdown in
October-December as the government eased monetary policy,
incoming Premier  Li Keqiang  may need to confront the fading
effects of government support, a likely pickup in inflation and
rising risks from shadow banking.  Price growth accelerated to a
seven-month high in December, driving up benchmark bond yields.
GDP grew 7.8 percent in 2012, the slowest in 13 years.  Stimulus Lending  Chinese banks doled out 8.2 trillion yuan ($1.3 trillion)
of  new loans  in 2012, 10 percent up from a year earlier and the
second-highest level on record, central bank data show. The
government quota for new lending may be set at 9 trillion  yuan 
this year, Caixin reported on Jan. 22.  A 17.6 trillion-yuan binge of stimulus lending in 2009-2010
stoked inflation, weakened banks’ financial buffers and lead to
an increase in  non-performing loans .  Since then,  China’s economy  has become a “credit junkie,
requiring increasing amounts of debt to generate the same unit
of growth,” analysts Edward Chancellor and Mike Connelly at
investment firm GMO LLC, which managed $104 billion as of Sept.
30, wrote in a  research note  this month.  Total credit in the economy, including items off bank
balance sheets, climbed to about 190 percent of GDP by the end
of 2012, up from 124 percent in 2008, Fitch estimated this
month. The burden may need government resources to resolve,
harming  China ’s credit outlook, the ratings company said.  ‘Severe Risks’  “The 2009 stimulus was hailed in its day as one of China’s
greatest historic successes,” said Drew Brick, head of Asia-
Pacific markets strategy in Singapore at RBS. “Instead it may
well represent one of the most severe risks to face the
Communist Party in a generation.”  China’s  total social financing , which includes bank loans,
bond and equity sales, trust loans, entrusted loans and bankers’
acceptance bills, surged 23 percent to 15.8 trillion yuan last
year. A record  share  of that came from non-bank credit,
highlighting the growth of so-called shadow banking activities
that have prompted warnings of rising credit risks.  Wasted Money?  Only 29 percent of last year’s aggregate financing was
translated into economic growth, the lowest on record, according
to Bernstein’s Werner. For the real economy to expand at 8
percent this year, growth in non-loan credit would have to
accelerate to 33 percent from 25 percent in 2012 if the credit-
to-GDP efficiency remains at last year’s level, he said.  “You could see some of this as a result of borrowing to
repay old debt, you could say this is borrowing to be put into
more speculative activities rather than being put into real
investment for the economy,” Werner said.  Even as the central bank cut  interest rates  twice last
year, borrowing costs on total social financing were the
equivalent of 14.3 percent of China’s nominal GDP in 2012, up
from 14.2 percent in 2011 and above the average of 10.1 percent
in 2002-2010, according to Bernstein.  Total social financing may reach 16.5 trillion to 17.5
trillion yuan this year, Bank of Communications Co., China’s
fifth-largest lender, forecast last week.  Too Early  China’s markets are painting an optimistic picture for the
overall economy. The benchmark 10-year government bond yield was
little changed last week at 3.59 percent, rising from a two-year
low of 3.24 percent in July.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting against non-
payment on China’s sovereign debt fell two basis points to 63
last week, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The yuan was little changed today
at 6.2232 per dollar in  Shanghai , after touching a 19-year high
of 6.2124 on Jan. 14.  “It’s too early to tell where the bond yields will head
this year because we saw mixed signals,” said Liu Xiaochang, a
Nanjing-based fixed-income analyst at Huatai Securities Co.
“Liquidity is abundant, inflation is picking up, but whether
the economy is on a solid track to recovery is unknown.”  The average debt of the listed companies is 4.1 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, up
from 2.2 times five years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s lower than the 6 times for the world’s top 500 companies.  The likelihood of the nation’s first bond default is higher
in 2013, according to the annual report of China Central
Depository & Clearing Co. published Jan. 6. There is pressure on
yields to climb and bonds issued by small-and medium-sized
companies accounted for 9.1 trillion yuan of the 26 trillion
yuan of outstanding debt at the end of 2012, it said.  The  yield  on 10-year corporate debt rated AA- is 7.50
percent, up from July’s 18-month low of 7.23 percent, according
to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  “High-yield bonds are at more risk this year,” said Gao Qi, a vice president of the Asia-Pacific market strategy team
for RBS in  Singapore .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  