-- RWE to Tackle ‘Challenging’ Year With Investment Cuts, CEO Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-01-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/rwe-to-tackle-challenging-year-with-investment-cuts-ceo-says.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-biggest
utility, plans to counter a “challenging” year by cutting
investments by as much as 50 percent to offset losses from the
phasing out of nuclear power in the country, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Terium said.  “We want to increase efficiency and therefore we’ll
continue to cut costs and boost revenue,” Terium told reporters
yesterday at a company event in Davos,  Switzerland . The Essen-
based company may lower annual spending to 3 billion euros ($4
billion) to 4 billion euros from 5 billion euros to 6 billion
euros, he said.  Germany’s two biggest power generators, EON SE and RWE, are
trying to cope with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s energy reforms
aimed at cutting  carbon emissions  while ending the use of
nuclear power. The decision, made after Japan’s Fukushima
disaster in 2011, may drive up energy costs for consumers and
hurt the competitiveness of Germany’s industrial companies,
especially as rivals in the U.S. such as Dow Chemical Co.
benefit from the domestic shale-gas boom, Terium said.  The German utility will use “various levers” to boost
efficiency, the CEO said. He declined to comment on potential
job cuts, saying only that the closure of some  power plants 
means positions will be lost, though they may find work in
different businesses.  Terium called on German utilities to look beyond their
borders to  Europe  to face critical energy issues, though he said
there are no current plans to merge with another European
company.  “Two blind people doesn’t create a visionary,” Terium
said, when asked whether he’d consider a merger with companies
such as Iberdrola SA. While RWE can’t entirely rule out such a
combination in the future, it’s currently focusing on mastering
the challenges on its own, he said.  RWE, which is trying to sell assets to raise as much as 7
billion euros in proceeds by the end of 2013, has struggled to
reach that goal. The German utility refuses to sell assets for
less than their value, Terium said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos, Switzerland at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net . 