-- Siemens Eyes Disposal of Security Products Amid Revamp
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-01-28T15:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/siemens-eyes-disposal-of-security-products-amid-revamp.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  is preparing a sale of
its  security products  business as  Europe ’s biggest engineering
company combs through its portfolio to weed out laggards.  The company hired investment bank  Rothschild  for a sale of
the unit, which has fewer than 350 employees and offers products
such as security cameras and access card readers, according to
three people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified as the process isn’t public.  Roland Busch, the head of the infrastructure and cities
division, said in an interview in Davos last week that its
security products unit doesn’t have a “viable business case”
as a stand-alone entity. He also said he’ll retain the low- and
medium-voltage transmissions unit, countering speculation that
it may be sold for as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion).  Siemens Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher , on his
second five-year term, has come under pressure to boost
profitability and refocus the Munich-based company after some
deals that he supervised soured, and a push into more
environmentally friendly energy generation led to spiraling
costs. Busch’s sector, formed in 2011 to better serve municipal
clients as a one-stop shop, last week posted the lowest
profitability of the company’s four main sectors in the three
months through December.  The Solna, Sweden-based  security products  unit is separate
from the security solutions business. The former manufactures
the products while the latter focusses on their implementation
within more complex facility management systems.  Offloading Units  “We are focusing on security solutions that are part of
our building automation solution,” said Busch, whose sector is
also selling building technology, smart grids, train
manufacturing and rail automation equipment. “But doing a
security system, per se, stand-alone, we just don’t have the
products to make a viable business case.”  Siemens today dropped 0.3 percent to 81.55 euros in
Frankfurt trading as of 3:52 p.m., valuing the company at 71.8
billion euros.  Siemens, which last week reported a decline in profits and
rising costs for the three months through December, is already
planning to offload units such as airport luggage systems, mail
automation and water technology after shareholders approved the
spinoff of the underperforming Osram lighting unit.  Siemens spokesman Philipp Encz declined to comment on
potential further assets sales. A spokesman for Rothschild also
declined to comment.  Low-Voltage Margins  Societe Generale’s analysts said in a note to clients this
month that Siemens’ low-voltage business could be an acquisition
option for  Legrand SA (LR) , the world’s biggest maker of wiring
devices and based in Limoges in central  France . The low-voltage
units of both companies would be “very complementary in terms
of product, end-market and geographical coverage,” the bank
said, adding that the Siemens unit could fetch as much as 1
billion euros.  Busch said that Siemens will keep the unit, adding that
the company plans to increase the margin of that business
continuously.  The infrastructure and cities sector can reach its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization target of
between 8 percent and 12 percent of sales “very quickly” when
charges from underperforming rail projects are excluded, Busch
said.  Trailing Rivals  Charges for the delayed delivery of high-speed trains are
the “basic reason why you didn’t see any progress in our
margins,” he said. Such costs reached 116 million euros in the
fiscal first quarter. “If you take that out of the equation,
you can see our other divisions moving forward, making
progress.”  Siemens’ profitability has trailed that at competitors
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  for six consecutive quarters.
Siemens rose 11 percent in 2012, while  Germany ’s benchmark DAX
index gained 29 percent. General Electric increased 17 percent,
while Swiss rival ABB added 6.1 percent  At 4.8 percent, the infrastructure and cities sector’s
operating profitability in the three months through December was
less than half that of the energy businesses at 10.8 percent,
and the only one that did not meet its profitability targets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Davos, Switzerland at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  