-- Stifel Bets ETF to Beat Star Philippines: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-27T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/stifel-bets-etf-to-beat-star-philippines-china-overnight.html
Chinese exchange-traded funds will
lead gains among Asian peers this year as inflows increase amid
a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy, according to
Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Chinese ETFs attracted about $1.2 billion in the first
three weeks of 2013 as data showed  China ’s economy has emerged
from its seven-quarter slowdown. Funds have recorded inflows for
13 of the 16 days through Jan. 23, a record streak, according to
data researcher EPFR Global. The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index
Fund ’s 19 percent total return last year trailed the 48 percent
jump in the iShares MSCI  Philippines  Investable Market Index
Fund, which delivered the highest total return among iShares’
Asian emerging-market ETFs in 2012.  “We saw a lot of hot money flowing into the Philippines
and Thailand ETFs, especially in the third and fourth quarters
last year,” Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading at Stifel in
Baltimore, said by phone Jan. 9. “Lately we’ve been seeing a
big rotation back into China as their economic performance
started turning for the better.”  The iShares FTSE China ETF, which tracks 25 stocks
including  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and Cnooc Ltd., dropped 1.4 percent
last week, paring its advance this year to 1.6 percent. It has
rebounded 28 percent from a Sept. 5 low. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.
fell 2 percent last week to 99.61, led by Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. and  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)   Solid Inflows  Chinese manufacturing is expanding at the fastest pace in
two years, according to an HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics index released last week. Data issued Jan. 17 showed
the world’s largest exporter had emerged from its seven-quarter
slowdown, with the economy expanding 7.9 percent in the last
three months of 2012, the first acceleration in two years.  “People know very little about China, but they know that
this is an investment to be done,” Laurent Kssis, an ETF
trading specialist at Bluefin Europe LLP in  London , said by
phone on Jan. 23. “The conditions are good, the markets are
good. It’s definitely a fund where investment has gone in and
inflows have been very solid.”  The Philippines benefited from a recovery last year, with
the economy growing 7.1 percent in the third quarter, the
fastest pace since 2010. The Philippine Stock Exchange PSEi
Index rallied 33 percent in 2012.  Underlying Indexes  The average valuation for companies on the  FTSE China 25
Index (XIN0I)  is 9.8 times reported earnings, versus 20.8 times for the
MSCI Philippines Index. The China gauge’s 53 percent discount
relative to the Philippine measure compares with a five-year
 average  21 percent gap.  Companies on the MSCI  Thailand  Index trade at a multiple of
15 times earnings. Thailand’s Bangkok SET Index rallied 36
percent in 2012, trailing only  Pakistan  among 13 Asian equity
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflows into China ETFs this year are more than double last
year’s $535 million, EPFR data show. Philippines ETFs have seen
inflows of $10.7 million in 2013, while Thailand-focused funds
have seen $23.3 million of outflows.  “China’s stock market has not been one of the better
performing ones, but things seem to be turning around more
recently,” Ian Wilson, the managing director of fund data at
EPFR, said by phone from Richmond,  Virginia  on Jan. 23. “There
is more confidence that China is going to continue to pick up
steam through 2013.”  Focus Media  The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic shares lost 1.1
percent last week, paring its advance in the year to 1 percent.
The measure added 3.2 percent last year. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Hong Kong-traded Chinese shares declined
0.9 last week, trimming its yearly advance to 5 percent.  Shanghai-based Ctrip, China’s largest web search travel
agency, sank 20 percent in the week ended Jan. 25 as it revealed
plans to cut about 500 employees and a Travel Daily  report  said
the company will extend a program of cash rebates for airline
tickets. Ambow, a private tutoring service provider based in
Beijing, retreated 11 percent for a fifth weekly decline.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  gained 0.4 percent in the week,
erasing a 3.1 percent decline on Jan. 24 amid concern a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into potential
securities law violations would endanger China’s biggest
leveraged buyout.  A consortium of investors, led by the Carlyle Group LP,
which had agreed to buy the Shanghai-based advertising company
for $3.7 billion, said it’s “comfortable” moving ahead with
the transaction, Randall Whitestone, a spokesman based in New
York, said by e-mail Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  