-- Suzlon’s Tanti Predicts ‘Flat’ Wind Turbine Market in 2013
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-28T08:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/suzlon-chief-tanti-predicts-flat-wind-turbine-market-in-2013.html
Wind turbine installations will
probably stall in 2013 as policy uncertainty, financing
difficulties and delayed grid connections weigh down on
projects,  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  Chairman  Tulsi Tanti  said.  Tanti said he expects about 45 gigawatts of installations
worldwide this year, little changed from the 44.8 gigawatts of
turbines Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates were built in
2012. The London-based analyst forecasts the market to drop to
39.3 gigawatts this year. Suzlon expects its share to total 4
gigawatts, he said.  “The industry will be flat,” Tanti said Jan. 25 in a
phone interview from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos. “The
last two years, the wind industry has been really passing
through a difficult time because of overcapacity, uncertainty in
a lot of the markets’ policy framework, and the availability of
financing.”  Turbine manufacturers from  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the
biggest, to Suzlon,  India ’s largest, have struggled to make
profits as overcapacity depressed prices. Suzlon on Jan. 24 said
lenders approved a 95 billion-rupee ($1.8 billion) debt-
restructuring plan and a two-year payment moratorium after the
Pune-based company on Oct. 11 failed to pay $209 million,
India’s biggest convertible note default.  “This year is going to be a tough one for the wind energy
business,” said Debasish Mishra, senior director, Deloitte
Touche Tohamatsu. “Especially in India, Suzlon and its
competitors have to face up to huge overcapacity and falling
orders as the government has withdrawn benefits like allowing
accelerated depreciation and generation-based incentives.”  Grid Problems  Suzlon’s  shares  rose as much as 4 percent to 21.95 rupees
in Mumbai trading and were up 1.9 percent as of 12:04 p.m. They
have fallen 25 percent in the past year compared with a 17
percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Turbine makers haven’t been helped by uncertainty
surrounding government incentives in big markets including the
U.S. and India, Tanti said. Grid-connection problems from
 Germany  to  China  have also stalled projects.  The U.S. on Jan. 1 renewed the production tax credit, which
pays wind-farm owners 2.2 cents for every kilowatt-hour of power
they produce. Developers had rushed projects to completion ahead
of its anticipated Dec. 31 expiration, and without certainty for
2013, had few new farms planned.  “It’s too late for such a capital goods industry to ramp
up,” Tanti said.  Incentives Return  The executive also signaled he expects the Indian
government to bring back incentives to the industry next month,
after the market in the country “collapsed by 40 percent” when
assistance programs were ended last year. Suzlon has a 40
percent to 50 percent share in the Indian market, he said.  Aside from the biggest markets, countries where the
industry looks promising include  Canada , Australia, Mexico and
 South Africa , Tanti said. The  Philippines , Indonesia, Thailand
and  Vietnam  are also looking good as “second-tier” markets, he
said.  Tanti was more optimistic about offshore wind, which he
expects will grow by 30 percent per year for the next five
years, led by the U.K. and Germany, with China and Japan
following. Suzlon’s Repower Systems SE unit currently has a 6.15
megawatt offshore wind turbine, the biggest available.  “This sector is very very promising,” Tanti said.
“Offshore wind is doing well, but a lot of projects are delayed
because of the financial situation and some of the grid
infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  