-- U.S. to Aid French With Aerial Refuelings in Mali Mission
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-01-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/u-s-to-aid-french-with-aerial-refuelings-in-mali-mission.html
The U.S. will deepen its involvement
in  France ’s fight against Islamist militants in  Mali  by
conducting aerial refueling missions, Pentagon spokesman George Little said.  Defense Secretary Leon Panetta pledged the increased
support for France in a phone call with French Defense Minister
Jean-Yves Le Drian, Little said in a statement yesterday.  The U.S. has already been providing France with
intelligence gathering and an airlift that has delivered
hundreds of troops and hundreds of tons of supplies for the Mali
operation, Little said.  Panetta’s decision came a day after President  Barack Obama 
reiterated U.S. support for France’s effort to strengthen
security in North Africa in a call with French President
Francois Hollande.  Panetta also discussed plans by the U.S. to transport
troops from African nations, including Chad and Togo, to Mali,
Little said. He didn’t say when the additional assistance would
begin or offer more details.  France intervened in Mali on Jan. 11 after Islamist
fighters overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might
advance toward Bamako, the capital. The French Defense Ministry
said that 2,500 soldiers have arrived in the landlocked West
African country, which gained independence from France in 1960.
African nations are deploying a force that may total as many as
3,300 troops.  Flow of Weapons  Since the ouster of Libyan dictator Muammar Qaddafi that
unleashed a flow of weapons to militants in the region, the
Obama administration has been torn between wanting to avoid
entanglements in North Africa while warning of the dangers of
advancing Islamist extremism. The U.S. has shown reluctance to
provide weapons or U.S. troops to the fight in Mali, just as it
has largely sidestepped the civil war in Syria.  U.S. officials say shifting alliances among at least four
rebel groups in Mali have made it difficult to get a clear
picture of the conflict there.  While the U.S. provided intelligence and some airlift in
the initial weeks of the Mali operation, it had stopped short of
offering refueling support. Panetta, on a trip to  Europe  this
month, pointed to legal questions in explaining the need for
caution.  “I find that every time I turn around, I face a group of
lawyers,” Panetta told reporters on Jan. 16 in  Rome . The
administration’s legal counsel wanted “to be sure that they
feel comfortable that we have the legal basis to do what we are
being requested to do” in aiding the French, he said.  Helping Allies  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said Jan. 15
that the U.S. couldn’t directly aid Mali’s current government,
which was installed through a coup. She said there were no
restrictions on helping allies such as France.  The legal restriction “is not implicated by the support we
are providing to the French,” Little said. “We remain mindful
of, and are carefully taking into account, the coup restriction
as our plans for assistance develop.”  French and Malian forces pushed back Islamist rebels from
Diabaly, 425 kilometers (264 miles) north of Bamako and three
other towns this week.  At least 11,000 people have been forced from their homes by
the recent fighting, according to the United Nations Office for
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. About 230,000 have
been displaced since the crisis began, the agency said Jan. 22.  “Secretary Panetta and Minister Le Drian resolved to
remain in close contact as aggressive operations against
terrorist networks in Mali are ongoing,” Little said.  In their call, Obama and Hollande also affirmed their
broader interest in containing terrorist groups, such as al-
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, blamed for a surge of violence in
North Africa. The two leaders also discussed the humanitarian
crisis in  Syria  and the need for a swift political transition
there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  