-- Mugabe Can Lead Zimbabwe for 10 More Years; Constitution
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-01-28T14:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/mugabe-can-lead-zimbabwe-for-10-more-years-constitution.html
President Robert Mugabe of  Zimbabwe 
will be allowed to try and extend his 33-year rule for another
decade, according to a new constitution agreed to between his 
party and its main opponents to pave the way for elections.  While the constitution limits the holder of the office of
president to two five-year terms, the measure is not
retroactive, according to a copy of the document obtained by
Bloomberg News from an official who helped negotiate the law.
The position of Prime Minister, currently held by Mugabe’s
political opponent Morgan Tsvangirai, will be abolished.  “A person is disqualified for election as President or
Vice-President if he or she has already held office as President
under this Constitution for two terms,” according to the
document. The official confirmed that this means that terms
served under the existing constitution will be disregarded for
the purposes of eligibility for the next election.  The agreement of a new constitution between the Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front party of Mugabe, 88, and
Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change, announced by the
two leaders on Jan. 18, paves the way for a referendum on the
new law to be followed by an election. Still, the clause
allowing Mugabe to compete for the presidency represents a
setback for the party of Tsvangirai. An initial draft of the
constitution proposed by the MDC had disqualified Mugabe from
further rule.  “We will definitely campaign for a yes vote at the
referendum,”  Rugare Gumbo , a spokesman for Zanu-PF, said in an
interview today. “We’re happy with this constitution.”  Flawed Elections  Mugabe and Tsvangirai have ruled Zimbabwe in a coalition
government since 2009 when the 15-nation Southern African
Development Community compelled the leaders to form a government
together to end a decade-long political dispute and economic
recession. Mugabe and his party won a series of elections
between 2000 and 2008 that were described by observers including
those from the European Union as flawed by violence and
irregularities.  In the last election in 2008 Tsvangirai won a first-round
presidential vote without taking the more than 50 percent of the
vote needed to avoid a run off. He withdrew from the run-off,
citing violent attacks on his supporters by backers of Mugabe.  “It’s clearly a compromise document, but I think its
clearly the basis for a move forward,” said Brian Raftopoulos.
director of research at the Solidarity Peace Trust, a Cape Town-
based human rights group, in an interview. “It’s likely to pass
through a referendum.”  Yes Vote  Eric Matinenga, the country’s constitutional affairs
minister, declined to discuss the contents of new constitution
at a Jan. 26 press conference in the capital, Harare. He said he
expects it to be endorsed by parliament next month and said the
document would be released to the public soon. Tsvangirai told
Bloomberg in Davos on Jan. 18 that the president would be
limited to two terms without giving further information. He said
a referendum will likely be held in March and election later
this year.  The constitution also bars members of the security services
from furthering the interest of political parties.  In addition clauses regarding land ownership mean that the
ownership of white-owned commercial farms, seized in a program
begun by Mugabe in 2000 and given to mainly black subsistence
farmers, will not be restored. Mugabe has maintained that as the
land was taken from its original black owners during British
colonial rule the U.K. should pay compensation for any seized
land.  Payment Obligation  “The former colonial power has an obligation to pay for
land compulsorily acquired for resettlement, according to the
constitution. ‘‘The Government of Zimbabwe has no obligation to
pay compensation.’’  The seizures slashed exports of tobacco, then Zimbabwe’s
biggest export, and cut flowers and turned the country into an
importer of its staple food, corn.  Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome
deposits after South Africa and also has reserves of coal,
diamonds and gold.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  operate platinum mines in the country
while  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  runs a diamond mine. Units of  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  operate in the country.  Mugabe helped lead an armed struggle and subsequent
negotiations that led to the end of whites-only rule in 1980. He
later consolidated power by merging his party with the rival
Zimbabwe African People’s Union in 1987 after a crackdown on the
Ndebele ethnic group from which that party drew its support.  ‘‘Given the balance of political forces in Zimbabwe it was
predictable that his influence, his continued support from the
armed forces for him meant that his continued presence there was
always going to be a factor,” Raftopoulos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  