-- Mursi Under Fire From Islamists, Opposition After Dozens Killed
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-27T09:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/mursi-under-fire-from-islamists-opposition-after-dozens-killed.html
Small groups of protesters clashed
with security forces in Cairo early today, raising the prospect
of further bloodshed after 32 people were killed in fighting in
Port Said and authorities warned that a state of emergency may
be declared in the country.  The unrest in the Egyptian capital built on two days of
violence surrounding the second anniversary of the start of the
uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  from power, and highlighted
increasing tensions in the nation since Mohamed Mursi’s election
as president in June.  Mursi, who was fielded for office by the Muslim Brotherhood
after the vote, faces mounting criticism from secularists and
youth activists who contend he has put the Islamist group’s
interests ahead of the country’s and failed to fulfill any of
his pledges or revive an economy that, since the revolution, has
 grown  at the slowest pace for two decades.  Dissatisfaction with Mursi’s handling of the crisis also
comes from his supporters, with Mohamed El-Beltagy, secretary-
general of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, asking:
“What more are you waiting for to happen until intervening with
all strength and decisiveness to prevent the killing of
civilians, torching of state installations and the blocking of
roads and bridges?  ‘‘Your responsibility is the immediate intervention to
combat this thuggery with all legal means afforded under the
constitution and the law,’’ El-Beltagy wrote on his Facebook
page in an unusually direct message for Mursi, his prime
minister, Hisham Qandil, and the defense and interior ministers.
‘‘God, history and the people will judge you’’ if a strong stand
is not taken.  Death Sentences  The military was deployed in Port Said yesterday to quell
fighting triggered by a court’s announcement earlier in the day
of death sentences for 21 people for their roles in the nation’s
worst-ever soccer-related rioting. The violence at a Port Said
stadium left more than 70 fans dead during a game Feb. 1 between
the city’s al-Masri team and Cairo’s al-Ahly.  A final verdict in the soccer case is scheduled for March
9. It will come after a review by the Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa,
 Egypt ’s highest religious authority, the court in Cairo said.  Families and supporters of the defendants tried to storm a
prison where they were being held, triggering clashes that left
32 people dead and another 322 injured, according to Abdel-
Rahman Farag, head of Port Said hospitals.  A day earlier, at least nine others were killed and 534
hurt in anniversary-related violence across the country, most in
the port city of Suez, where protesters also stormed four police
stations, according to the Interior Ministry.  Emergency, Curfew  Meeting yesterday for the first time, Egypt’s National
Defense Council, which is headed by Mursi and includes the
interior and defense ministers, said it may declare a state of
emergency and a curfew. It also called for national dialogue to
resolve differences and ensure stability in the Arab world’s
most populous nation.  The NDC is constantly meeting to monitor the crisis, the
Cabinet said today in an e-mailed statement.  Tension in the country has alternated between simmering and
boiling over for the past two years, though rifts between
Islamists and secularists have widened since Mursi’s election.  His critics have pointed to his issuing of decrees that
temporarily expanded his powers and pushing through ratification
of an Islamist-drafted constitution as evidence that he has
abandoned the goals of the revolution and reneged on promises to
be a president for all Egyptians.  At the same time, the government is struggling to revive
the economy while trying to defend the pound, which has plunged
almost 7 percent in the past month. The central bank has spent
about 60 percent of its  foreign reserves  since the start of
2011. The budget deficit exceeded 11 percent of economic output
last year, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Opposition Demands  The National Salvation Front, the main opposition bloc,
called yesterday for another round of protests against Mursi on
Feb. 1 unless its demands for a new government and
constitutional amendments are met. The NSF also threatened to
boycott parliamentary elections later this year if the
government doesn’t comply with the demands.  ‘‘The current crisis could lead up to a civil war,” Ayman Nour, head of the opposition El-Ghad El-Thawra party, said
yesterday in televised comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  