-- Wynne Chosen by Liberals to Be Ontario’s First Woman Premier
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-27T02:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/wynne-wins-liberal-contest-to-be-ontario-s-first-female-premier.html
Provincial lawmaker  Kathleen Wynne 
has been chosen as leader of the ruling Ontario Liberal Party,
beating out Sandra Pupatello and four other candidates during
the party’s leadership contest. She’ll be the first female
premier of Canada’s most populous province.  Wynne, 59, gained the majority of support of delegates who
voted at the leadership convention today in Toronto, beating out
Pupatello, 50, in the third ballot. The victory by Wynne, who’ll
be Canada’s first openly gay premier, puts women in charge of
provincial governments overseeing about 90 percent of Canada’s
economy and population.  Wynne succeeds Dalton McGuinty, who stepped down as premier
on Oct. 16 amid controversy over canceled power plants and an
inability to implement budget cuts in his minority government.
McGuinty, after nine years as premier and 16 years as Liberal
leader, said he resigned in order to allow his party to renew
itself and to spend more time with his family.  “This is going to be a great government, and we’re going
to build on the legacy of Dalton,” Wynne said in her victory
speech. “We’re going to build on the work that Dalton McGuinty
has done over the last nine years.”  Wynne won after getting 1,150 votes in the final round of
voting, compared with 866 for Pupatello. She gained support of
candidates Gerard Kennedy, 52, and Charles Sousa, 54, who both
withdrew from the contest after the second ballot, and Eric
Hoskins, 51, who was eliminated after the first round of voting.  Wynne, a Toronto resident, was first elected to Ontario’s
provincial parliament in 2003. She was re-elected to her third
term in October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net  