-- Wynne Chosen by Liberals to Be Ontario’s First Woman Premier
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-27T18:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/wynne-chosen-by-liberals-to-be-ontario-s-first-woman-premier.html
Provincial lawmaker  Kathleen Wynne 
was chosen as leader of the ruling Ontario Liberal Party,
beating out Sandra Pupatello and four other candidates during
the party’s leadership contest. She’ll be the first female
premier of Canada’s most populous province.  Wynne, 59, gained the majority of support of delegates who
voted at yesterday’s leadership convention in Toronto, defeating
Pupatello, 50, in the third ballot. Wynne succeeds Dalton McGuinty, who on Oct. 15 said he’s stepping down after nine
years as premier and 16 years as Liberal leader.  “This is going to be a great government, and we’re going
to build on the legacy of Dalton,” Wynne said in her victory
speech.  The Liberals hold 53 of the 107 seats in the provincial
legislature, meaning they need some support from opposition
lawmakers to pass budgets and remain in power. The Progressive
Conservatives have 36 seats and the New Democratic Party has 18.  According to poll-tracking  website  ThreeHundredEight.com,
Liberal support in recent surveys has averaged about 27 percent,
putting them seven percentage points behind the Progressive
Conservatives and three behind the New Democrats.  “Wynne is going to have big problems because she is more
closely identified with McGuinty,” said Nelson Wiseman, a
University of Toronto associate professor of political science,
who expected Pupatello to win.  McGuinty Resignation  McGuinty’s resignation came as opposition lawmakers accused
his government of hiding the costs related to the cancellation of
two power-plant projects, and refused to support a wage freeze
for public employees to curb the province’s deficit. McGuinty
said at the time of his resignation that he wants to allow his
party to renew itself, and to spend more time with his family.  Wynne, a Toronto resident, won the Liberal leadership race
after getting 1,150 votes in the final round of voting, compared
with 866 for Pupatello. She gained support of candidates Gerard Kennedy and Charles Sousa who both withdrew from the contest
after the second ballot, and Eric Hoskins who was eliminated
after the first round of voting.  “The Liberal Party has decided to tack to the center left
from the center right,” Wiseman said in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “The focus will be more on the social policy
side, rather than economic policy, which is what it would have
been under Pupatello.”  Ontario is home to much of  Canada ’s manufacturing industry,
which has struggled in recent years amid a strong Canadian
dollar and sluggish demand from the U.S. The province’s
unemployment rate was 7.9 percent in December, above the
national rate of 7.1 percent.  Openly Gay  The province has about C$256 billion of debt outstanding,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said Jan. 22 the province’s deficit in the fiscal year
that began in April will be C$11.9 billion ($12 billion),
less than the C$14.8 billion he previously forecast. The
province plans to return to a balanced budget in 2017.  Moody’s Investors Services downgraded Ontario’s credit
rating in April, citing the province’s growing debt burden and
slowing economic growth. Since the downgrade, the Ontario
government has fought with public workers’ unions to institute a
wage freeze and levied a 2 percent surtax on wage earners of
C$500,000 ($497,000) or more.  The victory for Wynne, who’ll be Canada’s first openly gay
premier, puts women in charge of provincial governments
overseeing about 90 percent of Canada’s economy and population.  In  Quebec , the French-speaking region with about 24 percent
of the population, Pauline Marois, 63, of the Parti Quebecois
party took power in a Sept. 4 election. In  Alberta , home to
the country’s booming oil industry, Conservative Alison Redford,
47, became leader in October 2011 and won an election six months
later. And in British Columbia, Liberal Christy Clark, 47, took
over from Gordon Campbell as premier in 2011.  Wynne was first elected to Ontario’s provincial parliament
in 2003. She was re-elected to her third term in October 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  