-- Myanmar Clears ADB, World Bank Overdue Debt With Japan Help
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-01-28T03:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/myanmar-clears-adb-world-bank-overdue-debt-with-japan-s-help.html
Myanmar cleared about $1 billion in
overdue debt with the  Asian Development Bank  and World Bank
using a bridge loan from  Japan , opening the door for increased
lending as the country seeks to overhaul its infrastructure.  The ADB announced a $512 million loan, its first to Myanmar
in more than 30 years, while the World Bank separately said it
would lend $440 million to the Southeast Asian nation. The funds
will be used to pay back the  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , which this month provided financing to Myanmar to
clear arrears with the government-backed lenders.  “We need  capital investment  to do development and
business,” Maung Maung Thein, Myanmar’s deputy finance
minister, said by phone today. “This will help for financing
development work.”  Myanmar is aiming to resolve $11 billion in overdue debt
from decades of military rule that left the country among  Asia ’s
poorest. President Thein Sein’s moves to modernize the country’s
financial and physical infrastructure after years of neglect
have lured private equity funds and companies such as General
Electric Co. and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   Japan, Myanmar’s largest creditor, agreed last year to
settle $6.6 billion in arrears. Myanmar’s  finance ministry  said
today that Norway canceled $534 million in debt after a meeting
with the 19-member  Paris Club  group of creditor nations, which
includes the U.S., Australia,  Canada , Japan,  Russia  and 14
European nations.  Debt Cancellation  “More debt cancellation is coming on the way in the next
six months,” the ministry said in a statement. Myanmar had
about $3.5 billion in arrears with Paris Club members other than
Japan, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The authorities recognize that a successful arrears
resolution is essential for Myanmar to re-engage with the
international community and ensure debt sustainability,” the
IMF said in a report this month. The  IMF  called on Myanmar to
limit non-concessional external borrowing to financing energy
and infrastructure projects, and cap it at $2 billion for 2013.  Thein Sein ’s moves to dismantle a fixed  exchange rate  and
modernize the banking system are starting to boost the economy,
the IMF said. Gross domestic product may grow 6.3 percent in the
fiscal year ending March 31, up from 5.5 percent a year earlier,
and reach about 7 percent over the next five years if reforms
continue, the IMF report said.  Positive Momentum  “We have on the part of the government a set of very
serious reform-minded politicians and technocrats, and we also
have on the positive side a momentum behind these reforms that
will be extremely difficult to reverse,” Stephen Groff, an ADB
vice president, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
today. “The challenges are intense and great and there are a
lot of things the country is going to have to overcome.”  The ADB last year returned to the country for the first
time since 1988, when military leaders suppressed demonstrators
pushing for democracy. The  World Bank  opened an office for the
first time.  ADB assessments of seven Myanmar sectors released last year
found that a quarter of the population lives in poverty,
agriculture accounts for 70 percent of employment and about
three in four people don’t have access to electricity. Myanmar
has about 18 vehicles for every 1,000 people, compared with 250
in  Indonesia  and 370 in  Thailand , it said.  ‘Responsible Nation’  “As Myanmar could clear the debt, it would be recognized
as a responsible nation,” the finance ministry said in a
statement. Funds saved through debt relief would be invested in
schools, hospitals and poverty reduction programs, it said.  Myanmar last week attracted at least four expressions of
interest for telecommunications licenses, including from Telenor
and  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , Southeast Asia’s biggest
phone company. The government aims to boost telecom coverage to
as much as 80 percent of the country by 2016 to improve upon a 9
percent penetration rate, one of the lowest in Asia.  The World Bank approved $80 million in aid for Myanmar last
year and pledged to lend $165 million when overdue debts are
cleared. The $80 million grant will go to local communities for
roads, bridges, irrigation systems, schools, health clinics or
rural markets, according to the bank.  “Myanmar has come a long way in its economic
transformation, undertaking unprecedented reforms to improve
people’s lives, especially the poor and vulnerable,” Annette Dixon, the World Bank’s Myanmar country director, said in a
statement. “Much work remains to be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Yangon at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  