-- Yudhoyono Buffeted by Fuel as Indonesia Election Nears: Economy
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-01-28T09:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-27/yudhoyono-buffeted-by-indonesia-fuel-dilemma-as-election-nears.html
Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is under growing pressure to raise fuel prices and
curb oil imports as currency risks persist and the window to act
narrows ahead of elections in 2014.  The government will probably need to increase subsidized-
fuel prices this year, according to economists at Bank of
America Corp., Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd.,
 Standard Chartered  Plc, PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  and Moody’s
Analytics. The country limited the use of partially government-
funded diesel last week and the trade minister said Yudhoyono
will evaluate energy charges in the next few weeks.  The president has avoided raising fuel prices since
protests derailed an increase early last year, highlighting the
political minefields in a country where riots spurred by soaring
living costs helped oust the dictator Suharto in 1998. Subsidies
that keep charges below international market rates have
bolstered demand for energy imports in the world’s fourth most-
populous nation, contributing to a widening current-account gap
and a 5.9 percent drop in the rupiah last year.  “This is a dilemma for the president,” said  Fauzi Ichsan ,
a Jakarta-based senior economist at Standard Chartered and a
former  Finance Ministry  analyst. “If the president raises fuel
prices, it won’t be good politically, yet without an increase,
the current-account deficit will remain high and the rupiah will
continue to decline, adding imported inflation.”  The rupiah, the worst performer among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded
currencies excluding the yen last year, fell 0.6 percent to
9,710 per dollar as of 3:50 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. A daily fixing used to
settle non-deliverable forwards was set at 9,783 today by the
Association of Banks in  Singapore .  Coalition Support  The central bank has refrained from adding to a February
2012  interest-rate  cut to shore up the declining currency, as
inflation held above 4 percent for three quarters. Yudhoyono,
who can’t run for president next year after serving two terms,
struggled to win support from within his own coalition for last
year’s proposed fuel-price increase.  “It’s a trade-off between a difficult political choice and
an economic choice,” said  Aninda Mitra , Singapore-based head of
Southeast Asia economics at ANZ. “He could risk more potential
political unpopularity for his party if he doesn’t manage this
trade-off skillfully and the benefits are obvious: Your current
account would start to get capped, your fiscal deficit would
encounter less pressure.”  Fuel subsidies rose to 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion)
last year and the country imported about $26 billion of oil
products in the 11 months through November, according to
official data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Forced Hand’  The price of  Brent crude  traded in  London , a benchmark for
more than half the world’s oil, has risen more than 8 percent in
the past six months.  “It’s going to come down to a point where it’s a forced
hand,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. If  oil prices  keep increasing, “the
rising subsidy will compound the current-account deficit factor
and that will be even more negative for the rupiah.”  The government should try to reduce fuel subsidies early
this year “because 2013 is the year of politics, before the
bigger year of politics of 2014,” Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan 
said in Singapore last week. Yudhoyono has met with the energy,
finance and economy ministers on the issue, he said.  Policy Imperative  “I think the president understands that it is a priority
and a policy imperative from an economic standpoint, but surely
there is a political consideration, and that is something that I
know he is evaluating in the next few weeks,” Wirjawan said.
“To the extent that it does become something that will be
doable, I think he will consider it seriously.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, South Korean
 consumer confidence  climbed to the highest level in eight months
while New Zealand’s services industry grew at a slower pace in
December.  In  Europe , Hometrack Ltd. said U.K. house prices fell 0.3
percent from a year earlier in January. M3  money supply  in the
euro area unexpectedly grew at a slower pace in December from a
year earlier than in November, a European Central Bank report
today showed.  U.S. durable-goods orders and pending home sales probably
rose in December, Bloomberg News surveys showed.  Indonesia’s  current-account  deficit last year was probably
2.4 percent of gross domestic product, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  said Jan. 7. That would be the largest since 1996.  Domestic Demand  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. said in a Jan. 25 report that
Indonesia is unlikely to raise fuel prices to reduce strains on
the current account and may instead use monetary policy and
other tools to “fine-tune domestic demand growth.”  An elevated subsidy bill prevents Yudhoyono from diverting
funds to build the highways, airports and ports needed to lure
investment to Southeast Asia’s largest economy and achieve an
average growth target of 6.6 percent by the end of his second
term in 2014.  The country spends more on energy subsidies for households
and companies than it does on  capital expenditures  or social
welfare,  Fred Gibson , a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s
Analytics, wrote in a May 2012 report.  “This year is the right time to do it when the economy is
in a sweet spot and doing well,” Gibson said. “Since minimum
wages in Indonesia have also increased, households will have
some scope to bear higher costs.”  Raising Prices  To reduce spending on energy subsidies, the government
raised power prices by an average 15 percent this month. The
increase will save the government 14 trillion rupiah, Energy
Minister Jero Wacik has said.  “You can tinker around at the margins with macro-
prudential measures and power tariff hikes and so on, but the
elephant in the room still is a very low price of gasoline at
the retail level,” ANZ’s Mitra said.  The price of subsidized fuel may rise by about 1,500 rupiah
a liter to 6,000 rupiah, Rudi Rubiandini, then Deputy Energy and
Mineral Resources Minister, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in September. Rubiandini was named head of the
country’s oil and gas regulator this month.  Such an increase would lead to a spike in inflation to
about 8 percent for about one to three months, according to
Anton Gunawan, chief economist at Bank Danamon in Jakarta.
Consumer prices rose at a slower pace for the second time last
month, climbing 4.3 percent from a year earlier.  “The government has to raise fuel prices this year,”
Gunawan said. “March will be an ideal time as normally that
will be harvest time, so inflation pressure from foodstuffs
won’t be too high.”  Limits on the use of subsidized fuel announced last week
won’t be enough to help Indonesia’s balance of payments or
 budget deficit , according to Bambang Brodjonegoro, head of
fiscal policy at the Finance Ministry. “We need to find
something bigger,” he told reporters in Jakarta on Jan. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at   nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  