-- AB InBev Sales, Profit Increase on Bud Light Platinum
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-04-30T07:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ab-inbev-first-quarter-sales-rise-on-bud-light-platinum-stella.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
world’s biggest brewer, reported higher sales and profit in the
first quarter after U.S. beer shipments were aided by sales of
Bud Light Platinum and  Stella Artois .  Revenue in three months ended March 31 gained 6.2 percent,
excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations, the
Leuven, Belgium-based company said in a  statement . The median
estimate of eight analysts was for a 6.6 percent increase, and
represented a 1.8 percent advance in the volume of beer sold.  Earnings per share, excluding some items, rose to $1.05
from 73 cents in the same period a year earlier. The company
reported an effective  tax rate  of 17.3 percent in the quarter,
lower than 23.9 percent a year earlier due to “shifts in profit
mix to countries with lower marginal tax rates, as well as
incremental tax benefits in  Brazil .”  Sales were “slightly light compared with consensus, but
there was a significant below-the-line beat,” aided by the
lower tax rate, Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Banco Santander SA
in London, wrote today, citing the company’s  consensus for
earnings per share on the same basis of 88 cents.  “There is a
lot to like in this press release.” Bucalo has a buy rating on
the stock.  AB InBev shares slid 1.3 percent to 54.37 euros at 9:17
a.m. in Brussels, paring their advance to 15 percent this year.  Lower Tax Rate  AB InBev also adjusted its guidance for its full-year  tax
rate , saying it expects it to be in the range of 19 percent to
21 percent, compared with previous forecasts of 21 percent to 23
percent.  The brewer sells the majority of its beers, including
Budweiser, in  North America  and northern Latin America. Sales to
retailers by volume rose 1 percent in the U.S., helped by
purchases of the newly released Bud Light Platinum beer and
Stella Artois, even as its Budweiser brand declined 4.3 percent.
In Brazil, another key market, volumes rose 4 percent even as
heavy rains restrained sales in January.  AB InBev is focusing on sales of more profitable beers in
the U.S., and narrowing the price gap between its so-called sub-
premium brands and premium brands, Chief Financial Officer
Felipe Dutra said today.  “Our goal is not to lose market share, but we’ve set a
clear strategy,” he said. “We’re willing to take some short-
term pain.” U.S. market share slid 14 basis points, the slowest
pace since 2009, he said.  China Sales  Sales in  China , the world’s biggest beer market, were
affected by “poor weather conditions” in the first quarter,
although “early indications are that we gained market share,”
the company said. Rival  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the second-biggest global
brewer, reported volume growth at its Asia-Pacific unit that
missed estimates as rain in March cut volume sales in China.  AB InBev said today it will focus on expanding in China
through “selective acquisitions and greenfield developments.”  So-called normalized earnings before interest, tax,
amortization and depreciation totaled $3.55 billion, compared
with the median estimate of $3.6 billion. That’s an organic
increase of 7.4 percent, smaller than an anticipated 8.9 percent
gain. Total revenue rose to $9.3 billion.  Ebitda margin, a measure of profitability, slid 55 basis
points in  Latin America  North, the brewer’s second most
profitable region, as tax increases in Brazil held back revenue
growth and transport costs and sales and marketing expenses
increased.  The company said today it expects second-quarter U.S.
shipments to be “softer” as it adjusts sales patterns,
restraining Ebitda growth. Brazilian beer volumes should
increase this year, it said.  AB InBev, formed through the $52 billion takeover of
Anheuser Busch Cos. by InBev NV in 2008, agreed to buy control
of Dominican brewer Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana for $1.24
billion this month to expand in the Caribbean. The company said
today it is fully committed to cutting debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  