-- Accretive Health Asks Court to Toss State of Minnesota Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-30T20:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/accretive-health-asks-court-to-toss-minnesota-lawsuit-1-.html
Accretive Health Inc. asked a U.S.
judge to throw out  Minnesota  Attorney General Lori Swanson’s
lawsuit accusing the company of breaching privacy laws after a
laptop containing data on about 23,500 patients was lost.  Accretive, which manages hospital billings and collections,
filed a motion today with U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle in
 St. Paul , Minnesota, in which it called some of Swanson’s
allegations “factually baseless and legally indefensible.”  The Chicago-based company’s filing comes six days after the
attorney general released a six-part report critical of its
practices.  The laptop containing patient data was lost last year,
Swanson said when she sued the company in January. She filed a
revised complaint six weeks later, in both instances challenging
the company’s work for Minnesota-based Fairview Health Services
and North Memorial Health Care.  “Rather than litigate this case in the courtroom, the
attorney general orchestrated a nationwide media campaign
against Accretive Health,” according to its dismissal request,
“giving numerous television and print interviews to trumpet her
release of a so-called ‘compliance review.’”  ‘First Step’  Ben Wogsland, a spokesman for Swanson, said today that the
dismissal request is a “typical first step” for a corporate
defendant.  “We’re very confident in the legal claims that are laid
out in the complaint,” Wogsland said in a telephone interview.
The state’s opposition papers are due on July 12, he said. A
hearing before the judge is scheduled for Aug. 2.  The attorney general’s report alleged Accretive improperly
posted its debt collectors in hospital emergency rooms and at
patient bedsides. Fairview Health patients in some instances
were pressured for payment before they received care by debt
collectors who didn’t properly disclose their roles, according
to the report.  “Those claims “grossly distort and mis-characterize”
Accretive’s revenue cycle services, the company said in a
statement issued yesterday. It called the bedside collection
claims, a “flagrant distortion of fact.”  Accretive shares fell almost 42 percent the day after
Swanson’s report was released, sparking an investor lawsuit
claiming  securities fraud  and the interest of  Illinois 
regulators.  Since closing at $19 on April 23, Accretive’s value has
fallen about 47 percent to $10.06 at the end of New York Stock
Exchange trading today.  Holds License  “We are reaching out to the Minnesota attorney general’s
office, to get a sense of what they’re working on,” to see if
Illinois authorities can be of assistance, said Natalie Bauer, a
spokeswoman for Illinois’ Attorney General Lisa Madigan, in a
telephone interview today.  Because it is a collections agency, Accretive Health holds
a license issued by Illinois’ Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation. A spokeswoman for that agency, Sue Hofer, today said the department has authority to lift a license
in the event a licensee is found to have committed wrongdoing in
another state.  “We’ve been aware of the Minnesota attorney general’s
investigation,” Hofer said, adding that state law bars her from
confirming or denying whether Accretive is being probed by her
agency.  Swanson’s case is State of Minnesota v.  Accretive Health
Inc. (AH) , 12-cv-00145, U.S. District Court for Minnesota (St. Paul).
The shareholder’s lawsuit is Wong v. Accretive Health Inc., 12-
cv-3102, U.S District Court, Northern District of Illinois
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  