-- Actelion Lung Drug Meets Main Goal in Pivotal Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-30T16:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/actelion-lung-drug-meets-main-goal-in-pivotal-patient-study-1-.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ’s experimental lung
drug macitentan met the main goal of a late-stage clinical
trial, giving the company a possible successor to a treatment
that accounts for 89 percent of sales. The shares rose the most
since the company went public in 2000.  Patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension given 10-
milligram doses of macitentan were 45 percent less likely to
experience worsening of the disease than those who got a
placebo, Actelion said in a statement today. The drug showed a
trend toward reducing premature deaths, though the result wasn’t 
statistically significant, the Allschwil, Switzerland-based 
company said.  The results will help sustain sales growth when Tracleer,
the company’s top-selling drug, starts losing patent protection
in 2015, said Adrian Howd, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in
 London . It’s also likely to make Actelion a takeover target, he
said.  “A lot of companies would be interested in looking at
Actelion,” Howd said by phone. “They have a specialty
franchise in a disease area with a poor survival rate and a lot
of scope for future therapies. This actually increases the
chance of an acquisition in the future.”  Seeking Approval  Actelion jumped 14 percent to 38.40 Swiss francs in Zurich,
the biggest gain since 2000, giving the company a market value
of 5 billion francs ($5.5 billion). The stock has lost 23
percent in the past year including  reinvested dividends ,
compared with an 18 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index (BEPHARM)  of 18 companies.  Actelion plans to submit macitentan to regulators by the
fourth quarter, the company said.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  or  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  may be interested in buying
Actelion, Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies International
Ltd. in London, said by phone today. Spokesmen for Bayer and
Actelion, and a spokeswoman for Amgen, declined to comment.
  Bayer has its own experimental pulmonary hypertension drug,
riociguat, which is in late-stage trials. Phase-three data on
the drug is due by the second half of this year, the company
said.  The results bolster Actelion’s Chief Executive Officer
Jean-Paul Clozel, who said last year that macitentan’s prospects
justified keeping the company independent. He fought off an
attempt by a hedge fund to oust board members and force the
company to consider a sale. The board would have had to consider
“all options” if macitentan failed, Clozel said Jan. 10.  ‘Extensive Effect’  “I was not expecting such an extensive effect,” Clozel
said on a call with analysts today. “Our previous evaluation
might have to be revisited,” he said in response to a question
about comments he made previously about macitentan and a follow-
up drug, selexipag, being bigger earners than Tracleer.  Clozel co-founded Actelion with his wife, Martine Clozel,
and three other executives in 1997 to develop medicines that had
been abandoned by  Roche Holding AG. (ROG)  Martine Clozel is an
Actelion senior vice president, head of drug discovery and chief
scientific officer.  Tracleer had revenue of 1.52 billion francs last year, or
89 percent of  product sales . Macitentan may garner as much as
1.5 billion francs in peak sales,  Andrew Weiss , an analyst at
Bank Vontobel in Zurich, wrote in a note today.  Tracleer is losing market share to  Gilead Sciences Inc.’s (GILD) 
Letairis after U.S. regulators allowed the  Foster City ,
California-based company to remove a reference to the risk of
liver damage from its drug’s label in March 2011. Sales of
Tracleer fell 7 percent last year, while Letairis rose 22
percent to $293 million.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  sells Letairis
outside the U.S. under the name Volibris.  ‘Best-in-Class’  Macitentan was well tolerated by patients in the trial,
Actelion said. Full results from the study of 742 people will be
made public at a medical meeting or in journal articles.  “This is indicative of a best-in-class label,”
Berenberg’s Howd said, referring to the macitentan results.
“Everyone who says that the label’s not important, look what
Letairis did to Tracleer sales. It’s clear the market is
sensitive to label claims.”  Tracleer and macitentan are designed to treat  pulmonary
arterial hypertension , in which the arteries that move blood
from the heart to the lungs narrow, making the heart work harder
and causing elevated  blood pressure .  Over time the  heart muscle  can weaken and fail, causing
death. The drugs block a chemical called endothelin that causes
blood vessels to constrict.  Actelion has no plans to do a trial comparing macitentan
directly with Tracleer or Letairis, Clozel said.  ‘Brighter’ Future  The trend toward preventing premature death was better than
expected, said Michael Leuchten, an analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in London who described the result as a “kiss of life” for
Actelion. He had predicted macitentan would prevent patients’
disease worsening but thought it may not show a so-called
mortality benefit.  “We were not convinced the Seraphin trial results would be
robust enough to convince physicians, yet the trend to mortality
may prove this to be too conservative,” Leuchten wrote. “We
believe the future looks a lot brighter for Actelion than last
week.”  Leuchten rates Actelion overweight/neutral and is the  top-
ranked  analyst on the stock over the past 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Macitentan failed in a trial for idiopathic pulmonary
fibrosis last year, one of a number of setbacks for Actelion in
 drug development . Actelion scrapped development of an insomnia
pill in January 2011, after abandoning another drug called
clazosentan that didn’t help patients with bleeding in the
brain. The company also failed in 2010 to have Tracleer approved
for wider use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  