-- Adidas Surges to Highest Since 1995 After Raising Forecast
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-04-30T09:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/adidas-raises-forecast-as-first-quarter-profit-beats-estimates.html
Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-
biggest sporting-goods maker, jumped to the highest since the
company’s 1995 initial public offering after increasing its
profit forecast as first-quarter earnings beat estimates.  The company, which also said today it’s investigating
“commercial irregularities” in India, reported a 38 percent
gain in first-quarter net income to 289 million euros ($383
million), in a statement brought forward from May 3. Adidas now
forecasts 12 percent to 17 percent growth in full-year profit,
compared with a previous prediction of 10 percent to 15 percent.  Profit beat the 230.6 million-euro average estimate of five
analysts in a Bloomberg survey, fueled by higher golf sales and
growth in  China , Adidas said. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company said it discovered irregularities at the Indian arm of
its  Reebok  unit, which it estimates will cost as much as 125
million euros. It gave no further details of the irregularities.  “I am still nervous about India, but the profit numbers
and the guidance are very strong,” said Mark Josefson, an
analyst at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH in Frankfurt.  Adidas  jumped  as much as 6.6 percent in Frankfurt trading,
the steepest intraday advance since Sept. 7. The shares were up
4.8 percent at 62.66 euros as of 10:31 a.m.  First-quarter sales in  Asia  rose 26 percent on a currency-
neutral basis, compared with a 7 percent increase in western
 Europe , Adidas said. In European emerging-markets and  North
America , sales climbed 15 percent and 11 percent, respectively.
Revenue at Adidas’ TaylorMade golf brand jumped 32 percent.  Sales Forecast  Full-year revenue will rise almost 10 percent, the company
predicted, compared with a previous goal for growth of a “mid-
to high-single-digit” percentage. Like competitors  Nike Inc. (NKE) 
and Puma SE, Adidas stands to benefit from major sporting events
taking place this year such as the European soccer championships
in Poland and Ukraine, and the London Olympics.  Adidas also forecast that the operating margin this year
will rise to almost 8 percent of sales, even as it faces one-
time charges of as much as 70 million euros in the remaining
quarters linked to potential restructuring costs in India.  Reebok, which represented about 15 percent of group sales
last year, has installed a new management team in India and
plans to accelerate restructuring there, Adidas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  