-- Madoff Costs Surpass Victim Payouts as Strategy Fails
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/madoff-costs-surpass-victim-pay-offs-as-strategy-lies-in-ruins.html
Irving Picard , who said last year
he hoped to pay investors in Bernard Madoff’s defunct firm as
much as $65 billion, has only put his hands on about $2.6
billion to actually give back to customers.  More than three years after Madoff’s epic swindle collapsed,
Picard, the trustee responsible for liquidating the firm, has
paid investors back about $330 million, while holding about $2.3
billion in customer accounts. About $6.4 billion that Picard has
won in settlements with former Madoff investors is being
challenged in court and is unavailable for disbursement.  So far, winding down the Madoff estate has cost more than
Picard has sent to customers, with total administrative spending
as of March 31 at about $554 million, including fees for Picard,
his firm and consultants he hired, according to his April 25
report. At the same time, Picard’s strategy of filing $100
billion of lawsuits to claw back money from Madoff winners has
largely collapsed, as federal judges led by U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in New York have dismissed about $90 billion of
Picard’s claims.  “There is a huge risk about making predictions, because
you can never be sure what a court will do,” said Chip Bowles,
a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in
Louisville,  Kentucky . “People can object to his fees if he
spent millions on litigation and promised a lot of stuff and it
didn’t work out.”  Claim Prices Slump  As a result of Picard’s setbacks in court, bids for claims
on the Madoff estate, which peaked at about 70 cents on the
dollar in January 2011, now sell in “the low 50s,” said Joseph Sarachek, CRT Capital Group LLC’s managing director of claims
trading.  The price also reflects the likelihood that the payoff for
investors who lost money in Madoff’s fraud may be far off,
Sarachek said. That in turn makes it harder for claimholders to
sell their IOUs at attractive prices.  “It does look like the case is going on for several
years,” he said.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail asking if the trustee has revised his
estimate of how much he will ultimately pay Madoff customers.  Picard’s latest estimate of the con man’s fictitious
customer statements is $52 billion. That includes $17.3 billion
in actual money invested, with the rest being the fake profits
Madoff invented for customer statements. As of December, Picard
estimated the total at $65 billion, before the withdrawal of
some claims.  SIPC Payments  The $330 million he has sent to customers, out of the $2.6
billion set aside for them, contrasts with about $800 million
they’ve received from the insurance program of the Securities
Investor Protection Corp., which hired Picard and pays him.  SIPC, which is funded by brokerage firms, no longer expects 
Picard to pay all currently allowed claims of $17.3 billion in 
full, “based on current trustee assets, lawsuits filed, and the 
estimated possibilities for recoveries arising from that 
litigation,” the U.S. Government Accountability Office said in 
a March report.  Even if Picard gets all of the $9 billion he says he has
raised, he would need another $8 billion or so to pay the claims,
the GAO said.  “SIPC does not now expect this level of recoveries to
occur,” the report said.  Picard Fees  As of March 31, Picard himself has been paid about $5.1
million in fees. His  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, has been
paid about $262.2 million in fees. All professional fees and
expenses now stand at about $522 million, with about $31.7
million having been spent on general administrative costs such
as office rent and telephones. By 2014, the bill will top $1
billion, Picard has estimated.  Most of the money Picard says he has raised came from
settlements, not court victories for his lawsuits, and he is
fighting to preserve his exclusive right to sue parties that
allegedly profited knowingly from the fraud.  Some customers say he is usurping their rights. After a
district judge in March upheld Picard’s $5 billion agreement
with Jeffry Picower’s estate -- his biggest settlement by far --
lawyer Helen Chaitman appealed on behalf of a client. Chaitman
will “absolutely” take the case as far as the U.S. Supreme
Court if necessary, she said in an e-mail -- a process that
could take more than a year.  Picower Withdrawals  Picard’s 2009 suit claimed that Picower, one of the con
man’s largest individual investors, should have known Madoff ran
a  Ponzi scheme  when he withdrew $7.2 billion from the brokerage.
Sarachek said Madoff claim prices were around their peak in
January 2011, when a judge approved the Picower forfeiture, with
$5 billion going to the Madoff estate and $2.2 billion to the
U.S.  Some customers regard the Picower settlement as unfair
because it stops them from suing the Picower estate themselves.  Picard says he can’t distribute the Picower money until
there’s a final court order that can’t be appealed. He didn’t
have to lock himself into waiting for finality, as Picower’s
estate didn’t make that a condition of forfeiting money,
Chaitman said in a court filing.  The delay in paying customers “is totally of the trustee’s
own making,” she said. Chaitman has also challenged most of his
fee requests.  “Unfortunately, Madoff’s victims have not received the
benefits of Mr. Picard’s services,” Chaitman said in an e-mail.  Overlapping Claims  Picard opposes her right to sue the Picower estate, saying
her claims overlap with his, which take priority as he is
trustee. Moreover, if Chaitman wins the right to sue the Picower
estate for her customers, and wins her suit, she may be choosing
who gets the money. Only the trustee can claw back and allocate
money allegedly stolen from Madoff customers, Picard has said.  Picard’s claim to an exclusive right to sue for Madoff
recoveries has embroiled him in a battle with California
Attorney General  Kamala Harris  over investment adviser  Stanley Chais ’s estate. Harris is trying to pursue a $270 million action
against the estate, alleging Chais passed himself off as an
“investment wizard” and collected fees for “doing nothing
more than funneling all of his investors’ capital into an epic
Ponzi scheme.”  Picard sued Harris Jan. 4 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan , saying her suit interferes with the collection of
assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims. A Manhattan
court hearing is set for May 17.  Tremont Group  Madoff customers also have challenged Picard’s $1 billion
deal with Tremont Group Holdings Inc. and a $220 million
settlement struck with the heirs of Norman F. Levy. Chaitman
alleges that Levy, who died in 2005 at age 93, financed Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme to the tune of about $100 billion.  Picard also won’t pay out any more from the customer fund
without a “final unappealable decision” on whether he owes
them not only the money they invested, but also the fictitious
profit on their brokerage statements, according to his website.
The owners of the  New York  Mets baseball team, whom Picard had
sued for $1 billion, were among those challenging Picard’s
calculation of how they should be paid, until they reached a
$162 million settlement that doesn’t require them to pay any
money for at least four years, if ever.  The U.S. Supreme Court delayed a scheduled conference on
whether it will consider an appeal by Madoff customers who say
they should be compensated for loss of profits reported on their
brokerage statements until after May 25, when it wants the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission to weigh in on the subject.
Allowable claims would treble to $52 billion if the judges
agreed with the customers -- Picard’s current estimate of total
fictitious profits in the Ponzi scheme.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  