-- Afghan War Poses ‘Acute Challenges,’ Pentagon Report Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-05-01T20:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/afghan-war-poses-acute-challenges-pentagon-report-says.html
The U.S.-led effort in  Afghanistan 
faces “long-term and acute challenges” from militant
sanctuaries in neighboring Pakistan and “widespread
corruption” in the Afghan government, the Defense Department
said.  “The insurgency remains a resilient and determined enemy
and will likely attempt to regain lost ground and influence this
spring and summer,” the department wrote in a semi-annual
report sent to Congress yesterday and planned for release in
Washington today. “Additionally, the Afghan government
continues to face widespread corruption that limits its
effectiveness and legitimacy.”  The findings contradict accounts of progress U.S. and other
coalition officials say will let them withdraw most of their
combined 128,000 personnel by the end of 2014. That drawdown
leaves Afghan security forces and governing authorities
increasingly in charge as the U.S. struggles to mend frayed
relations with  Pakistan  over drone strikes that are critical to
stemming the insurgency.  The report cited “pervasive mistrust” as hindering U.S.-
Pakistan relations and said that the Pakistan-based Haqqani
network threatens a “stable political solution” in
Afghanistan.  The report, covering the six months ended March 31,
recounted “significant shocks” to relations between the NATO-
led coalition and the Afghan government. They included video of
U.S. Marines urinating on Taliban fighters’ corpses, news that
American troops inadvertently burned copies of the Koran,
attacks by Afghan security personnel on coalition forces and the
March killing of 17 Afghan civilians allegedly committed by a
U.S. soldier.  Green-on-Blue Assaults  In a section on so-called “Green-on-Blue” assaults by
Afghan troops on U.S. personnel, the department said such
attacks, while “high-profile,” are “rare,” with 52 occurring
between May 2007 and March 31 -- killing 86 personnel and
wounding 115.  “While statistically small in number,” the report said,
“Green-on-Blue attacks have significant negative operational
and strategic impact on the coalition mission,” such as a brief
February suspension of U.S. military mentoring for the Ministry
of Interior.  The incidents undermine a key element of the U.S. plan for
ending the war: close work with Afghans to ensure they are
trained to take over. Still, the report’s authors defended the
overall administration strategy on Afghanistan as “sound.”  ‘Diplomatic Rift’  “These attacks have not yet caused a major diplomatic rift
nor have they significantly hurt relations” between  Afghan and
NATO forces, officials said in the report.  Post-attack investigations determined that a large number
of assaults stem from “isolated personal grievances” against
coalition personnel, not insurgent infiltration, the department
reported. “There is no indication these attacks are part of a
deliberate effort by insurgents, nor were they coordinated with
each other,” the department said.  The U.S. reports only deaths resulting from such insider
incidents, not injuries or cases in which the attacker misses
the coalition target, the  Associated Press  reported.  The Pentagon report strikes a pessimistic tone on improving
U.S.-Pakistan relations, which suffered a major setback in
November when 24 Pakistani troops were accidentally killed in
U.S. airstrikes during a cross-border attack. Pakistan cut off
land-based supply routes in Afghanistan, and none have been
reopened.  Supply Routes  The supply routes to and from Afghanistan via Pakistan will
become even more important as the U.S. exits from the war and
removes billions of dollars of equipment. While coalition troops
have been able to receive supplies via northern routes, such as
one using an air base in  Kyrgyzstan , those alternatives largely
rely on goodwill with  Russia , a relationship set to become more
strained with the return of  Vladimir Putin  to that country’s
presidency.  The report outlined several attempts at meetings between
U.S. and Pakistani officials to improve relations, concluding
that the two nations have “divergent strategic interests” that
“continue to make genuine cooperation difficult.”  A missile strike that is suspected to have come from a U.S.
drone killed two people and injured three in Pakistan’s North
Waziristan tribal region this weekend, two days after the latest
round of talks. Pakistan told the Obama administration in March
it would no longer let U.S. drones use its airspace to attack
militants or to collect intelligence on al-Qaeda or other
groups, according to officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the drone program is classified.  Stable Solution  Taliban and allied Haqqani network attacks from northwest
Pakistan “continue to threaten the emergence of a durable and
stable political solution,” the Pentagon says.  Last year, then-chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Admiral Mike Mullen said the Haqqani militant group essentially
had become a proxy for Pakistan’s intelligence services.  Pakistani leaders have allowed an insurgent sanctuary in
North Waziristan “due to their concerns that Pakistan will be
left alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-
influenced Afghanistan on its borders,” according to the new
report.  The havens threaten areas of Afghanistan, such as Kandahar,
that the report’s authors described as “among the most
contested provinces in Afghanistan, due in part to insurgent
safe havens and freedom of movement across the border in
Pakistan’s Balochistan province.”  Fatal Injury  The Pentagon yesterday announced the death of another U.S.
soldier in Ghazni Province in Afghanistan’s east. Private First
Class Christian Sannicolas, 20, of Anaheim,  California , died
April 28 of blast injuries after his vehicle hit a roadside
bomb. He was part of 1st Battalion, 504th Parachute Infantry
Regiment, 1st Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division in
Fort Bragg,  North Carolina .  Overall, the level of attacks initiated by militants in
Afghanistan dropped last year for the first time in five years,
according to the report. Still, the decrease was limited to 8
percent during the six months ended March 31.  Such enemy attacks rose 3 percent in eastern Afghanistan,
where the Haqqani network is most active. The region accounted
for 34 percent of attacks initiated by militants nationwide.  Insurgents probably will step up assassinations, high-
profile attacks and the use of roadside bombs this year to
regain lost territory and influence, the department said. The
capital, Kabul, and three other cities saw such incidents in an
18-hour period two weeks ago, attacks that Pentagon officials
ultimately said were the responsibility of the Haqqani group.  “The capital continues to face persistent threats, many of
which are planned in and controlled from Pakistan,” according
to the report.  Al-Qaeda Status  Al-Qaeda, one year after the death of its founder  Osama Bin Laden , continued to suffer “major setbacks” that have
“constrained” its role in Afghanistan, the report said. Bin
Laden planned the September 11, 2001 attacks from there.  The terrorist group has been “degraded” and become
“reliant on a shrinking cadre of experienced leaders primarily
inside a Haqqani-facilitated safe haven in North Waziristan,”
it said.  Al-Qaeda has a small presence in Kunar and Nuristan
provinces and views continued involved in Afghanistan as
“integral to its global image and relevance,” the Pentagon1
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  