-- Malaysia Introduces Minimum Wage as Najib Eyes Election
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-04-30T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/malaysia-introduces-minimum-wage-as-najib-eyes-election.html
Malaysia  will introduce its first
 minimum wage  to benefit an estimated 3.2 million workers,
joining neighbors Thailand and  Vietnam  in strengthening support
for low-income households as elections approach in  Southeast
Asia ’s third-largest economy.  “The lowest-paid will now be guaranteed an income than
lifts them out of poverty and helps ensure that they can meet
the rising cost of living,” Prime Minister Najib Razak said,
announcing the plan in a speech in Putrajaya, near Kuala Lumpur,
ahead of tomorrow’s Labor Day holiday. “The proposed rates take
into account the needs of business, while ensuring that no
Malaysian is left behind.”  The government has been preparing for a possible early
election in May or June, before the due date in early 2013,
according to four officials who spoke in March on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private. Najib, 58, has raised
civil servant salaries and pensions, waived school fees and
boosted handouts for the poor in a bid to extend the ruling
party’s 55-year lock on power.  The pay plan comes two days after police arrested 512
people who took part in a street protest in  Kuala Lumpur  to
demand cleaner and fairer elections. Najib’s government enacted
legislation in April banning such protests after police detained
more than 1,600 people during a similar rally in July.  Workers on Peninsular Malaysia will get a minimum 900
ringgit ($297) per month starting in October, said Najib, who is
also finance minister. The rate will be 800 ringgit in some more
rural areas, including the eastern Sabah and Sarawak states, he
said. The government has already begun distributing one-time
500-ringgit ($165) cash payments to the poor after announcing a
record 232.8 billion-ringgit spending plan for 2012 in his
October budget.  Wealth Gaps  Asian nations from Thailand to  Taiwan  are introducing or
raising minimum pay to address wealth gaps in a region that is
leading global growth.  Thailand  increased its minimum wage to 300 baht ($9.75) a
day in Bangkok and six provinces in April, and by an average of
40 percent in the rest of the country. The move partly fulfilled
a campaign pledge that helped propel Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra’s party to a majority win in July elections.  Vietnam in May will raise the minimum wage for state
employees by about 27 percent to 1.05 million dong ($50) per
month, according to a National Assembly decision last year. The
government enacted a minimum wage increase of as much as 69
percent in October that applied to workers employed by private
and state-owned enterprises.  Taiwan’s move last year to increase minimum pay by 5
percent to NT$18,780 ($644) per month helped President Ma Ying- jeou win a second term in January.  Labor Day  Hong Kong  introduced its first statutory minimum wage of
HK$28 ($3.61) an hour last year. Thousands of workers are
expected to take to Hong Kong’s streets on the Labor Day holiday
tomorrow, demanding Chief Executive-elect Leung Chun-ying
address a widening wealth gap when he takes office in July.  Najib, who took over as prime minister mid-term in 2009,
sparked speculation of an early vote when he said in December
that preparations had begun for the contest. His National Front
coalition, which has governed Malaysia since independence, had
its narrowest election victory in half a century in 2008.  Malaysia’s minimum wage policy is part of the government’s
long-term economic plan to move the country up the value-added
chain into higher-yielding industries from its agricultural
base.  The country’s per capita income has risen to $9,700 from
$6,700 when the government’s economic transformation program was
started two years ago, Najib said on April 3. This means
Malaysia is on track to achieve its target of per capita income
$15,000 by 2020 when the Southeast Asian nation wants to achieve
developed-nation status, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  