-- Allied Irish Said to Consider Murphy to Succeed McCrohan
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-30T11:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/allied-irish-said-to-consider-murphy-to-succeed-mccrohan-1-.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the largest
government-controlled lender, may appoint Fergus Murphy, chief
executive officer at its EBS Ltd. unit, to head its corporate,
institutional and commercial banking division, according to
three people with knowledge of with the matter.  Murphy, 48, would replace Jerry McCrohan, who is retiring,
according to the people, who declined to comment as the process
isn’t public. McCrohan, 62, who reached  retirement age  in 2010,
had agreed to remain with the lender as his role evolved from
head of capital banking to include oversight of the corporate,
institutional and commercial banking division, which was set up
last year.  Allied Irish was ordered by Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
to take over EBS, also owned by the state, in July after the
government injected 20.7 billion euros ($27.4 billion) into the
two lenders following the collapse of a domestic real estate
bubble in 2008.  Allied Irish  has lost 28.1 billion euros and EBS
1.16 billion euros on soured loans in the past four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  McCrohan “has announced his intention to retire from
AIB,” Niamh Hennessy, a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based bank,
said today. “His successor will be announced in the coming
weeks. In the meantime Jerry has agreed to stay on in his
present role.” She declined to comment further and said Murphy
wasn’t available for comment.  Murphy took over as CEO of EBS in January 2008, having
previously worked for Utrecht, Netherland-based lender  Rabobank
Groep , which he joined in 1993, and where his jobs included head
of the Asian region of Rabobank International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  