-- Ambac Withdraws From Litigation Over Countrywide Settlement
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-30T21:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ambac-withdraws-from-litigation-over-countrywide-settlement-1-.html
Ambac Assurance Corp. is
withdrawing from litigation over  Bank of America Corp. ’s
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage bond settlement, according to a
court filing.  The bond insurer didn’t give a reason for the withdrawal in
a letter filed today in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  by Rachel A. Gupta, first vice president and assistant
general counsel. Gupta declined to comment on the letter in a
telephone interview.  Ambac intervened in the case along with others that have
challenged Bank of America’s proposed settlement or sought more
information. The proposed settlement, which would resolve claims
from investors in Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds, is
awaiting court approval.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest bond insurer before
the 2008 financial crisis, when defaults on mortgages swamped
the company with claims. It guaranteed about $256 billion of
$1.4 trillion in insured municipal debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  A U.S. bankruptcy judge in Manhattan on March 15 approved a
plan to reorganize the $1.7 billion in debt of New York-based
 Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , the bankrupt holding company for
Ambac Assurance.  Ambac earlier this month sued Bank of America in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan, accusing the company of breach
of contact over mortgage-backed securities.  The case is In the application of the Bank of New York
Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 