-- Manchester City Takes Premier League Lead, Beats United 1-0
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-01T10:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/manchester-city-beats-manchester-united-to-lead-premier-league.html
Manchester City  took control of the
Premier League title race and local bragging rights with a 1-0
win against  Manchester United .  Vincent Kompany ’s header from a corner kick in first-half
stoppage time secured the home win at Etihad Stadium last night
that lifted the Blues past United atop the standings on goal
difference with two games remaining.  “It’s still neck and neck,” City midfielder Gareth Barry,
who was named man of the match, said in a televised interview.
“We can’t just think this is it.”  The Manchester rivals both have 83 points after 36 of 38
games, though City holds first place because it has scored 61
more goals than it has conceded, while defending champion
United’s goal difference is 53. The last time the first- and
second-ranked teams in English soccer’s top division finished
level on points was in the 1988-89 season.  City trailed United by eight points following a 1-0 defeat
at Arsenal on April 8. While City has won all four games since
that loss, the Red Devils have taken four points out of a
possible 12 as they chase a record-extending 20th championship.
City claimed the last of its two English league titles in 1968,
when it beat defending champion United in a late-season match
widely seen as title decider.  “As long as there are games of football to play, it’s not
over,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  said. “We have the same
number of points, but they have an eight-goals advantage and
that’s a big advantage at this time of the season.”  City visits fifth-place Newcastle next on May 6 before
ending the season at home seven days later against Queens Park
Rangers, which is 17th out of 20 teams and fighting to avoid
relegation. United hosts 12th-placed Swansea before wrapping up
the campaign at Sunderland, which is 11th.  ‘Easier Games’  While the Blues are favored to take the title with U.K.
bookmakers including Coral Racing Ltd., their manager said
United still holds the upper hand.  “They have easier games,” City manager  Roberto Mancini ,
who had a touchline argument with Ferguson during the game, said
on his club’s website. “Not because Swansea and Sunderland are
bad teams, but because we have Newcastle who are fighting for
Champions League and QPR who are trying to avoid relegation.”  City had three times as many shots as United last night in
a match that was available to more than 650 million homes in 212
territories, according to the Premier League.  Diego Maradona  was
among the crowd of 47,259 at Etihad Stadium to watch City
striker  Sergio Aguero , the son-in-law of the World Cup-winning
Argentine.  Kompany, City’s captain, got the only goal just before the
break, outjumping United’s Chris Smalling to power the ball past
goalkeeper David De Gea with his head. It was the Belgium
international defender’s third goal in the league this season.  Predictive Text  “I guess a lot of predictions go wrong, but I remember
someone texting me and saying, ‘You’re going to score the goal
today,’ and I thought he was a lunatic,” Kompany said. “It’s
far from over and we know that. We have to finish it off.”  City had chances to extend its lead in the second half.
Yaya Toure went close with two shots, Aguero fired into the side
netting from a narrow angle and  Gael Clichy  had an effort saved
by De Gea.  United, which failed to test home goalkeeper  Joe Hart ,
couldn’t muster a late rally as City secured a sweep of this
season’s Manchester derbies in the league following its 6-1 rout
at Old Trafford on Oct. 23.  It was City’s first so-called double against its crosstown
rival since 2007-08 and only the second time in Premier League
history.  City, owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , will now try to become the fifth team in the Premier
League’s 20 years to win the competition after United,  Blackburn
Rovers , Arsenal and Chelsea.  “It’s a fantastic result and a confidence high, but
Newcastle have had a great season and they’ll be desperate to
put one over on us,” Barry said. “We’re in the driving seat
now. If we can go there and get the three points, we’re in a
great position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  