-- Annaly CEO’s $35 Million From REITs Dwarfs Dimon Pay: Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-04-30T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/annaly-ceo-s-35-million-from-reits-dwarfs-dimon-pay-mortgages.html
Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) 
Chief Executive Officer Mike Farrell was paid $35 million last
year, more than the CEOs of the six largest U.S. banks, from
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon  to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
 Lloyd Blankfein , and more than double their average
compensation.  The bounty underscores the growing influence of real estate
investment trusts that buy U.S. home-loan debt, mostly with
borrowed money that costs almost nothing as the  Federal Reserve 
keeps rates low to bolster the economy after the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Holdings of government-backed mortgage securities by the
lightly regulated firms have almost tripled to about $270
billion since 2009. Annaly, the 15-year-old New York-based REIT
that more than doubled its assets over four years to enter 2011
with $110 billion, is the largest, followed by  American Capital
Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the debt buyer guided by former  Freddie Mac 
investment chief Gary Kain. The company, which started in 2008,
sold enough shares in March to reach more than $70 billion.  “The industry has been playing an increasingly important
role in the mortgage-securities market,” said FBR & Co. CEO
Richard Hendrix, whose Arlington, Virginia-based investment bank
was spun off from a REIT. “And right now, they’re providing
great returns to shareholders, though there’s no question that
when  short-term rates  rise, those returns will be compromised.”  Record Low Rates  Mortgage REITs’ purchases of agency mortgage bonds, those
guaranteed by government-backed  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or
U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, are contributing to record low 30-year
 home-loan rates  that are bolstering homeowner refinancing and
the housing market.  The industry is picking up the slack as the U.S. remakes
its housing-finance system, starting with a reduction in the
holdings of taxpayer-supported Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC) 
REITs, which are also helping fuel a rally in non-agency debt,
have driven the only issuance of private home-loan securities
since markets seized up in 2008 and will be central to providing
mortgage financing as the government withdraws, according to
 Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the main sponsor of the deals.  The growth may also create new risks. The Securities and
Exchange Commission is examining whether REITs should retain
their ability to use unlimited leverage. Annaly and  American
Capital  Agency also face tests for determining which firms aside
from banks need special oversight because they’re too-big-to-
fail, some of which they meet.  ‘Systemic Risk’  “They pose  systemic risk  because their financing structure
is so poor,” said Doug Dachille, CEO of investment firm First
Principles Capital Management LLC and former head of proprietary
trading at JPMorgan. The borrowing is dangerous because it’s
short-term and subject to daily margin calls, meaning that they
may be forced to sell assets when values are falling, he said.  Since 2007, when a previous generation of REITs with
lending arms including New Century Financial Corp. and American
Home Mortgage Investment Corp. started failing, the compensation
of Annaly’s Farrell has climbed to $35 million from $12.5
million. The amount is tied directly to its book value, which
increases as Annaly sells shares, an incentive for growth at a
number of the firms, regulatory filings show.  “If mortgage REITs were not delivering to investors they
would not be in a position to raise capital,” Farrell, 61, also
Annaly’s chairman and president, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Last I checked, the  United States  was still a
capitalist country despite efforts to the contrary.”  Mortgage REITs have sold more than $5 billion of stock this
year after a record $16.8 billion in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg and JMP Securities LLC show. Individual investors are
lured by annual dividend yields of 13.8 percent, or about seven
times the average for Standard & Poor’s 500  companies , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Pillar of Support’  Mortgage-bond analysts at Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan said
they were surprised by this year’s pace of capital-raising. The
top-rated JPMorgan research team called REITs a “pillar of
support” and “one of the main sources of levered mortgage
buying” in the $5.4 trillion market for securities guaranteed
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.  Annaly and American Capital Agency buy only that mortgage
debt, wagering on  interest rates  and the pace of homeowner
refinancing. They also have affiliates that mix those bonds with
securities with  default risk , joining rivals such as  MFA
Investment Corp. (MFA)  and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO)  that have
accounted for about 40 percent of share sales this year.  ‘Master of Mortgage Market’  Farrell stands out for his colorful conference calls and
shareholder letters that discuss broader themes through
historical allusions and literature such as Christopher Marlowe’s “Doctor Faustus” and the 1970 book “Future Shock”
by Alvin Toffler.  In November, Michael Diana, at the time an analyst with
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, in a research report called Farrell a
“Master of the Mortgage Market” who would “pontificate about
anything and everything except what Annaly actually did during
the quarter,” the Wall Street Journal reported. Diana, who has
left the firm, couldn’t be reached for comment.  JPMorgan’s Dimon was awarded $23 million last year, to top
the pay of leaders of the six largest U.S. banks, which averaged
$14.2 million, according to their filings.  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc. CEO
Laurence D. Fink, who oversees the world’s largest money manager
with $3.7 trillion in assets, received $21.9 million.  Farrell, who disclosed in January he has cancer that he
said “was caught early and is treatable,” started Annaly in
1997, following a career in bonds that began at E.F. Hutton and
Co. in 1971 and included stints at Morgan Stanley and Merrill
Lynch & Co.  Censured and Fined  In 1994, when he was president of Citadel Funding Corp.,
Farrell was censured and fined along with the Colorado-based
broker and two other executives for failing to maintain required
capital and filing inaccurate reports, according to regulatory
records. Jay Diamond, a spokesman for Annaly, declined to
comment on the episode.  By the time Annaly was started, Farrell had concluded that
REITs and mortgage bonds were a “perfect marriage between asset
class and vehicle structure,” in part because they can be
“buy-and-hold” investors, he said. Unlike hedge funds or many
mutual funds, REIT shareholders can’t withdraw money from the
firms. Instead they buy and sell shares in the companies.  In 2007, Annaly created  Chimera Investment Corp. (CIM) , which
buys non-agency residential bonds, and two years later,  CreXus
Investment Corp. (CXS) , focusing on commercial real estate debt. The
separate publicly traded firms, which are overseen by one of its
units, owned a combined $9 billion assets of as of Dec. 31.  Return to Shareholders  Annaly’s  returns  to shareholders since its initial public
offering have totaled more than 580 percent, compared with about
85 percent for the  S&P 500  in the same period. That includes a
44 percent decline in its stock price in 2005 as the Fed raised
rates, or 39 percent assuming reinvested dividends.  With short-term rates now as low as they can go, long-term
yields near nadirs and government efforts boosting  refinancing 
of high-rate home loans, the best days for REITs that wager on
government-backed securities are already behind them in this
economic cycle, said Richard Eckert, an analyst in  San Francisco 
at securities firm B. Riley & Co. Some are sure to be tempted to
take larger risks as conditions worsen, he said.  “You’re going to see some people make mistakes, big
mistakes, perhaps fatal,” said Eckert, who worked as a risk
management analyst at the Federal Home Loan Bank of San
Francisco in 1990s and started covering REITs in 1998.  Tougher Times  REITs don’t save much for tougher times because they have
to pay out 90 percent of most types of earnings in dividends, a
provision that allows the firms to avoid taxes on the income.  Unlike other vehicles used by retail investors in the  bond
market  such as mutual funds, mortgage REITs aren’t subject to
the Investment Company Act, which limits leverage. Most that
invest in agency securities borrow between 6 and 9 times their
equity, compared with between 1 and 3 times for non-agency debt,
according to the companies’ financial reports.  The exemption is being questioned by the SEC, which last
year sought comments on altering the treatment. The agency’s
“staff is actively considering the issues raised in the comment
letters, but no determinations have been made,”  John Nester , a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Kain, American Capital Agency’s president and chief
investment officer, disagrees a shift in fortunes has begun.  The biggest factors making REITs such as his successful are
still in place -- low funding costs, relatively steady  yield
premiums  on agency bonds and generally low levels of home loan
prepayments -- he said. Those aren’t going away soon, and when
they do, the firms can adjust, he said in a telephone interview.  Handling Transition  “If you look at the next three years going forward, it’s
pretty logical that the conditions will still be there,” said
Kain, 47. “The challenge for us as a management team is to
handle the transition from one environment to another.”  American Capital Agency was started in 2008 by its outside
manager,  America Capital Ltd. (ACAS) , an asset manager and investor in
companies such as a dental-practice management services firm and
a provider of technology-based programs for schools. Last year,
it began a REIT that also buys non-agency debt,  American Capital
Mortgage Investment Corp. (MTGE) , with Kain as president and co-CIO.  Kain was lured to mortgages in 1988 after hearing about a
financial modeling job at Freddie Mac from a family friend while
working after college at  Johns Hopkins University ’s Applied
Physics Lab. He ended up overseeing the portfolio of more than
$800 billion of bonds and loans on the firm’s balance sheet.  ‘Extremely Bullish’  He was recruited to American Capital after Freddie Mac and
rival Fannie Mae were seized by the government in September
2008. The two companies are being forced to shrink their
portfolios, which peaked at a combined $1.7 trillion in 2009.
Both Republican and Democratic lawmakers say those holdings,
which are separate from their credit guarantees, should be
eliminated if the companies are reformed or replaced.  “I was extremely bullish on the future of the REIT
industry, given that their two largest competitors were not
going to be there anymore,” Kain said.  The Fed’s low target rate, which it’s pledging to restrain
until 2014, has created a so-called steep yield curve, or large
difference between short-term borrowing costs and long-term
investment yields. One-month repo backed by agency mortgage
bonds  costs  0.29 percentage point, as yields on those securities
average about 2.6 percent, ICAP Plc and Barclays Plc data show.  Mortgage REITs rose 0.1 percent today in New York Trading
and have returned 11.9 percent this year including share gains
and dividends, according to a  Bloomberg index . In 2011, they
fell 1.9 percent amid the SEC’s move and because of concern
their funding could be roiled by  Europe ’s debt crisis and U.S.
government downgrade, as well as rising agency prepayments and
slumping non-agency prices.  Rising Rates  The damage from rising rates will depend on how fast they
increase, and probably won’t be as much as when the Fed under
former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  in the mid-2000s contributed to a
flat yield curve as it sought to “slow down a runaway housing
market,” said Steven Delaney, an analyst at JMP Securities.  While higher long-term yields will boost margins on new
investments, the prices of existing holdings will drop, damaging
REITs’ book value, which is used as a stock valuation tool, and
creating margin calls. Annaly is preparing by hedging a
“significant portion” of its rate exposure via swaps, Farrell
said, with other REITs also employing such protection.  Any downside may be limited by REITs  trading  at price-to-
book ratios of one on average. Agency mortgage REITs have seen
factors that would create premiums “negated by aggressive
capital-raising” that benefit earnings when valued higher, and
“fear of nuclear, policy-driven refinancing activity,” Merrill Ross, a Wunderlich Securities analyst, said today in a report.  Financial Stability  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a board of
regulators including the Treasury and SEC established by the
Dodd-Frank Act, under that law must decide which nonbanks need
closer supervision because their collapse could roil markets.  JPMorgan and Nomura Securities International analysts say
some consideration may be given to Annaly and American Capital
Agency, before they escape the distinction. The FSOC says it
will start with  tests  including whether firms have more than $50
billion of assets, and then study their short-term funding,
leverage, ties to important entities and current oversight.  Unlike banks and insurers, REITs have no primary
regulators. Their leverage averages about 7.7, down from 11 in
2008, JPMorgan says. More than 90 percent of Annaly and American
Capital Agency’s debt is short-term, according to Nomura.  Survivors of Crisis  The size and liquidity of the agency mortgage-bond market
suggest that even the biggest mortgage REITs aren’t a broader
risk, said Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at TCW Group
Inc. Many are survivors of the financial crisis, he said.  “We’ve seen a lot and they managed their way through it,
there’s something to be said for that,” said Whalen, whose Los
Angeles-based firm oversees $124 billion.  Taxpayers may need REITs to keep growing to shed their own
risks. Along with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s shrinking balance
sheets, the Fed needs to eventually unwind its about $1 trillion
of mortgage holdings, said Calvin Schnure, a vice president at
the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.  The government also wants to stop covering default risk on
most new mortgages, after swelling to serve that role on about
90 percent, said  Michael McMahon , a managing director at
Redwood, the  Mill Valley , California-based REIT specializing in
so-called jumbo loans.  “The banks certainly can’t do it all, nor do we believe
they want to do it,” McMahon said. REITs’ tax advantages and
ability to invest for the long-term make them the “ideal”
companies to lead the way on the rest, he said.  Until last month, Redwood was only issuer of non-agency
securities backed by new home loans since the market collapsed
in 2008. That’s when Annaly’s Chimera partnered with Credit
Suisse Group AG to join it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 