-- Maple Group Extends Offer to Acquire TMX Group to May 31
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-30T21:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/maple-group-extends-offer-to-acquire-tmx-group-to-may-31-1-.html
A group of Canadian banks and
pension funds extended its C$3.73 billion ($3.78 billion) offer
to buy  TMX Group Inc. (X)  to May 31, its seventh extension as it
pursues regulatory approval to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose 13 members include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec 
and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , also renegotiated an agreement
with TMX that extended the date to close the deal to July 31,
the company said in a statement.  Maple agreed to buy bank-owned exchange operator Alpha
Group for C$175 million and the Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd. clearinghouse for C$167.5 million, as part of
its plan.  TMX shares  rose 40 cents to C$45.10 at 4 p.m. trading in
Toronto. The shares are about 9.8 percent below Maple’s C$50-a-
share offer.  Maple has been seeking approvals from provincial regulators
and  Canada ’s Competition Bureau to push ahead with its offer to
buy TMX shares from investors. The Competition Bureau said April
27 its concerns on the deal may be “substantially mitigated”
with rules from Ontario’s securities regulator governing
operations of the combined company.  Maple, which first proposed to buy Toronto-based TMX in
May, proposes to acquire between 70 percent and 80 percent of
TMX shares in a tender offer. The group ultimately intends to
buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate it with the CDS and Alpha,
which competes TMX.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  was the adviser to the Alpha and
CDS transactions.  Competition Bureau  TMX shares had its biggest surge April 27 in 11 months
after the statement from the Competition Bureau, which five
months earlier said it had “serious concerns” about Maple’s
plan in connection with equities trading and clearing
settlement.  The Ontario Securities Commission will publish draft terms
and conditions for a 30-day public comment period before making
a final decision, Maple said. Quebec’s financial markets
authority said March 15 that it intends to approve the proposed
takeover. TMX also operates the Montreal-based  derivatives
market .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  