-- Las Vegas Monorail Sends Latest Reorganization Plan to Judge
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-30T19:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/las-vegas-monorail-sends-latest-reorganization-plan-to-judge-1-.html
Las Vegas Monorail Co.  officials
will know their plan to reorganize the insolvent, driverless
tram is approved if they get a call from the clerk of the judge
overseeing the company’s bankruptcy case.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Bruce A. Markell ended a
hearing on the plan today by telling lawyers that if they don’t
hear from his staff, he is rejecting the plan a second time. He
didn’t say when he might rule.  “To the extent I decide I would like to confirm the plan I
will have my deputy call and ask for any updated findings of
fact,” Markell said today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Las
Vegas .  Markell rejected the first plan in November, finding it
wasn’t economically feasible, in part because it proposed paying
bondholders $44.5 million by issuing new debt.  Las Vegas Monorail is trying to get out of bankruptcy and
pursue an expansion plan as Las Vegas recovers from its steepest
gambling and convention decline, casino operators such as  MGM
Resorts International (MGM)  and  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  have said.
Proceeds for casinos on the Las Vegas Strip climbed 5.1 percent
last year and 4.1 percent in 2010, after record declines of more
than 9 percent in 2008 and 2009.  Interest Rate  Markell found that the last plan was unrealistic because
Las Vegas Monorail couldn’t afford the debt it was taking on to
pay bondholders, according to court documents. He was also
critical of the 10 percent  interest rate  on that debt.  The new plan pays bondholders with $13 million in new debt
that carries a lower interest rate. Should revenue rise above a
certain level, bondholders would share in the extra money,
according to the proposed plan.  The company said it changed its plan to meet Markell’s
concerns.  Las Vegas Monorail’s 3.9 mile track runs from near the  Las
Vegas Strip  to the convention center and carries passengers
between gambling resorts. One of those resorts, the Sahara
Hotel, closed last year, causing ridership to drop and a loss of
about $800,000 in fares for the second half of 2011, Monorail
said in court papers.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail, 10-10464, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  