-- Stocks, Euro Retreat on Spain Recession, U.S. Data
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-30T20:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/asian-stocks-advance-as-won-climbs-aussie-drops.html
Stocks fell, while the euro
weakened for a third day against the yen, as reports showed
Spain entered its second recession since 2009 and U.S. business
activity cooled. Treasuries and German bunds advanced.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,397.91 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and snapped its longest streak of
monthly gains since 2009. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined
0.7 percent. The euro weakened 0.7 percent versus the yen. Ten-
year Treasury yields decreased one basis point to 1.92 percent
and the rate on similar-maturity German bunds declined four
points to 1.66 percent, approaching last week’s record low of
1.63 percent. Oil slipped 6 cents to $104.87.  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the government said today as it struggles to
narrow a  budget deficit  by 3.2 percentage points of GDP. U.S.
consumer spending rose 0.3 percent in March, according to
Commerce Department data, while an Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. report showed  business activity  expanded
in  April (SPX)  at the slowest pace since 2009.  “We see a shift out of risk assets,”  Matt McCormick , who
helps oversee $6.2 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati,
said in a telephone interview. “Europe is still considerably
weak. We’re in a recovery albeit a tepid one. Expectations have
gotten too high.”  Monthly Rally in Jeopardy  The  S&P 500  extended its April retreat to 0.7 percent. The
index snapped a string of four monthly gains, its longest streak
in more than two years. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost
14.68 points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,213.63 to trim its monthly
advance to 0.01 percent. The 30-stock Dow capped its seventh
straight monthly advance, the longest streak since 2007.  Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest provider of U.S.-backed
Medicare insurance, retreated 8.1 percent today as profit
declined.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  soared 52 percent, its biggest
gain ever, after Microsoft Corp. said it will invest $300
million in a venture with the bookstore chain.  NYSE Euronext fell 4.9 percent after reporting a 44 percent
decline in earnings. VeriFone Systems Inc. slipped 12 percent as
the largest maker of credit-card terminals was cut to sell from
hold by Deutsche Bank AG.  Takeover news lifted some stocks, limiting the overall
market’s retreat.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  climbed 20 percent after the
refiner agreed to be acquired for $5.3 billion in shares and
cash by Energy Transfer Partners LP.  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  surged 19
percent as Hologic Inc. agreed to buy the company for about $3.7
billion.  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  jumped as much as 28 percent
after the Wall Street Journal reported Coca-Cola Co. is in talks
to buy the maker of energy drinks, then erased the gain to close
down 0.8 percent after Coca-Cola denied the report.  Economic Data  Stocks retreated as the ISM-Chicago’s business barometer
decreased to 56.2 during the month, lower than the most
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. Economists projected the gauge
would fall to 60, according to the median of 55 estimates in the
survey. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas’ general economic
index unexpectedly showed contraction in April, dropping to
minus 3.4 from 10.8 in the prior month.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased for a ninth month after a revised 0.9
percent gain the prior month that was stronger than first
reported, Commerce Department figures showed. The median
estimate of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.4 percent rise. Personal incomes rose 0.4 percent, more than
the median forecast.  Beating Estimates  Quarterly earnings-per-share have risen 6.7 percent for the
276 companies in the S&P 500 that reported since April 10, with
per-share results beating analyst estimates by 7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Before the start of the
earnings season, analysts forecast growth of 0.8 percent.  Analysts predict U.S. shares will rise enough this year to
boost the S&P 500 to a record, even as Wall Street strategists
say the best is already over for American equities.  Individual price forecasts for stocks show the combined
projection for the benchmark gauge has climbed to 1,569.74,
according to more than 10,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with the October 2007 high of 1,565.15.
At the same time, strategists who base their predictions on
assessments of the economy say this year’s 11 percent rally
represents all the gains investors will see.  Actelion Climbs  Today’s decline in the Stoxx 600 extended this month’s  drop 
to 2.3 percent, its worst since September. Spain’s  IBEX Index (IBEX) 
lost 1.9 percent today as S&P cut its credit ratings for 11
Spanish banks.  “It will become increasingly difficult for Spain to
fulfill its deficit target and that will be a risk factor for
the euro zone and the euro,” said  Niels Christensen , chief
currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “It’s not
something that’s going to disappear in the short term.”  Luxemburg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said he is
leaving the job as head of the euro group within the European
Union as he is tired of Franco-German interference in managing
the crisis.  “They act as if they are the only members of the group,”
in managing the debt crisis, he said at a podium discussion held
today in Hamburg.  Global stocks rallied earlier after Adidas AG, Bank of
Communications Co. and Samsung Heavy Industries Co. posted
better-than-estimated earnings.  Adidas climbed 5.3 percent after the sporting-goods maker
raised its 2012 profit forecast and reported a 38 percent jump
in first-quarter net income, fueled by golf sales and growth in
 China .  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  jumped 14 percent, its largest gain since
going public in 2000, as its experimental lung drug macitentan
met the main goal of a late-stage clinical trial, giving the
company a possible successor to a treatment that accounts for 89
percent of sales.  Currencies  The euro declined 0.1 percent to $1.3239. The Australian
dollar depreciated 0.4 percent against the greenback, and fell 1
percent versus the yen on speculation the nation’s central bank
will reduce  interest rates  tomorrow. The Dollar Index, a gauge
of the currency against six major peers, rose 0.1 percent to
halt a four-day retreat.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.6 percent, paring
this month’s slide to 1.5 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland stocks advanced 1.6 percent and
South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.3 percent.  Cocoa, cotton, silver and nickel lost at least 1 percent to
lead declines in 10 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
Index, while natural gas and coffee rallied to leave the gauge
little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  