-- Asian Stocks Advance as Won Climbs, Aussie Drops
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2012-04-30T06:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/asian-stocks-advance-on-korean-manufacturer-s-confidence.html
Asian stocks climbed for a fifth
day, the best winning streak in three months, and South Korea’s
won gained as companies reported better-than-estimated earnings.
European equity futures climbed after German retail sales rose.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  added 1 percent
as of 2:15 p.m. in Hong Kong, where the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced
1.6 percent. Euro Stoxx 50 Index futures climbed 0.8 percent
while Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.3 percent.
South Korea’s won appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar
after a pickup in manufacturers’ confidence. Australia’s dollar
weakened before a forecast interest-rate cut. Copper advanced.  Bank of Communications  and  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140) 
rallied after reporting earnings that exceeded analyst forecasts.
Data today may show U.S. consumer spending rose for a ninth
month and Spain’s economy contracted for a second quarter,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Retail sales in
 Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, increased 0.8 percent in
March following a 0.9 percent slide the previous month,
according to figures released today.  “We’re quite optimistic about  Asia ,” said Adrian Zuercher,
who helps oversee $150 billion in asset allocation strategies at
Credit Suisse Asset Management in Hong Kong. “It’s clear that
 China  and the rest of Asia will be generating a higher growth
rate compared to the rest of the world.”  All 10 industry groups in MSCI’s Asian index advanced and
more than twice as many shares rose as fell. Financial markets
in Japan and China are closed for holidays.  Earnings Season  Bank of Communications  rose 4.2 percent in Hong Kong after
China’s fifth-biggest lender reported a first-quarter profit of
15.9 billion yuan ($2.5 billion) on April 27, beating the 15.3
billion yuan median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Samsung Heavy Industries, which makes oil tankers and container
ships, jumped 5.8 percent in Seoul after announcing net income
of 252.7 billion won ($223 million). Analysts forecast 162.2
billion won, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Quarterly earnings-per-share have risen 6.7 percent for the
271 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported since April 10, with
per-share results beating analyst estimates by 7.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Before the start of the
earnings season, analysts forecast growth of 0.8 percent.  Adidas AG shares may be active today after the German
sporting-goods maker raised its 2012 profit forecast and
reported better-than-expected net income for the first quarter.  Rising Confidence  Manufacturers in  South Korea  are the most upbeat in nine
months and business confidence is climbing in  New Zealand , where
home-building approvals rose to the highest in almost two years,
according to reports released today.  U.S. consumer spending probably rose 0.3 percent in March,
according to the median estimate of economists in surveyed by
Bloomberg before data today. Spain’s gross domestic product fell
0.4 percent in the first quarter from the fourth, when it
declined 0.3 percent, a separate survey showed.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower its overnight cash
rate target by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 4
percent, according to 26 of 27 forecasters in a Bloomberg survey.
One economist predicted a 50-basis-point reduction.  Australia ’s currency weakened 0.2 percent to $1.0455, while
the  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  of the nation’s shares rose 0.8 percent to
a nine-month high. Bond risk fell to a three-week low, based on
the  Markit iTraxx Australia  index of credit-default swaps.  Copper, Corn  Copper for three-month delivery rose to $8,462 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange, headed for the highest close since
April 4. Crude for June delivery was little changed at $104.94 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Corn for July delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent to $6.30
a bushel, the most expensive level for the most-active contract
in two weeks. The U.S. government announced the biggest one-day
corn sale since December 1994 on April 27 as rising meat demand
in China fuels imports of crops used as livestock feed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  