-- Tattooed Ricci, Slinky Neuwirth Make ‘Midsummer’ Dreamy
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-04-30T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/tattooed-ricci-slinky-neuwirth-make-midsummer-dreamy.html
Two months before Shakespeare in
the Park, a sprightly, slapstick “A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
near  New York ’s Union Square Park inspires giggles.  The  Classic Stage Company  production features modern dress
and modern luggage, which Christina Ricci fits her tiny frame
into when her character, Hermia, goes to sleep in the woods.
She’s a game presence in an able cast, many of the performers
playing multiple roles and instruments.  Even with cuts in the text, the two-hour and forty-minute
diversion about the foibles of love offers more plot twists than
the first season of NBC’s “ Smash .”  Director Tony Speciale rolls out the gags: Oberon, the king
of the fairies played by Anthony Heald, sits with Puck (Taylor
Mac) watching action onstage while eating popcorn; later,
Titania (Bebe Neuwirth) has an extended, athletic under-the-
covers romp with Bottom (Steven Skybell) while he’s in a
donkey’s mask.  No magic love drops are needed to appreciate Neuwirth’s
regal pulchritude, especially when she’s in a tiny black get-up
designed by Andrea Lauer that a trapeze artist might covet.
Equally magisterial is Heald, a stage veteran perhaps best known
for playing Hannibal Lecter’s last dinner in “ The Silence of
the Lambs .” In distressed black leather, he looks here as if he
wandered off the set of 1981’s “ Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior. ”  Nice Tattoos  Ricci’s discrete tattoos, partly visible when she’s
performing in her underwear, are more noteworthy than her stage
technique or shrill delivery. Also evoking an Athenian valley
girl is Halley Wegryn Gross, as her rival Helena.  Mark Wendland’s minimalist set nicely evokes a fantasy
forest, with a dark rubbery carpet and a sea of rose petals that
fall from the ceiling. A wall of mirrors behind the thrust stage
offers useful perspective on the actors, especially when they’re
napping on the ground.  Choreographer George De La Pena gives all the actors moves.
Even Neuwirth is upstaged by the dancing donkey.  Through May 20 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-352-
3101;  http://www.classicstage.org . Rating: **1/2  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  book  and  wine  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 