-- Aurora Oil Seeks More Shale Deals as U.S. Gas Declines
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-04-30T07:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/aurora-oil-considers-more-shale-deals-as-u-s-gas-prices-decline.html
Aurora Oil & Gas Ltd. (AUT) , an
Australian company developing shale holdings in  Texas , said the
lowest U.S. natural-gas prices in a decade have created
opportunities for further deals in the Eagle Ford region.  “With the poor natural gas price in  North America  there
are a lot of capital-constrained companies over there,”  Jon Stewart , chief executive officer of the Perth-based company,
said in a telephone interview today. “The volume of
opportunities coming across our desk has really escalated.”  Aurora is interested in more purchases and partnerships
after a A$104 million ($109 million) bid announced today to
acquire  Eureka Energy Ltd. (EKA) , another Australian explorer active
in the Eagle Ford, Stewart said. A drop in U.S. natural-gas
prices has led some shale producers to consider asset sales to
cut debt or seek partners to develop oil assets, he said.  “The growth path for Aurora is M&A,” David Wall, an
analyst for Hartleys Ltd. in Perth, said by phone today. “And
there are a lot of opportunities for Australian companies.”  Natural gas prices have declined 27 percent in  New York 
this year after falling 32 percent in 2011. Gas futures earlier
this month fell below $2 per million British thermal units, the
lowest level in a decade, and traded at $2.183 today.  The price decline, caused by a glut of the fuel from
onshore North American wells, has prompted some U.S. producers,
such as Chesapeake Energy Corp. to shift to higher-profit oil.  ‘Subdued Prices’  “We expect gas prices to remain subdued through this year
and next year,” Stewart said. “But it’s unsustainable for gas
prices to remain as low as they presently are because there is
little if any incentive for companies to drill gas wells.”  Aurora, which has a  stake  in more than 76,000 acres in the
Eagle Ford shale formation, has said it plans to more than
double the number of wells drilled in the area to about 150 this
year. The company, developing shale holdings with  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO)  as operator, is generating more than 95 percent of its
revenue from liquids such as oil, Stewart said today.  The Eagle Ford is a formation that lies under a 50-by-400
mile swath of South Texas, according to the Railroad Commission,
which regulates oil and gas production in the state.  Aurora has $210 million in cash, and $35 million in undrawn
debt, which can increase as the company boosts the size of its
reserves, according to Stewart.  Eureka surged 44 percent to 47.5 Australian cents a share
in Sydney to the highest in more than five years, surpassing the
takeover offer from Aurora. Aurora offered 45 cents a share in
cash for the shares of Eureka it doesn’t already own, 36 percent
more than its closing price of 33 cents on April 27. Aurora
currently holds 2.79 percent of Eureka.  “We’re just at the start of the process,” Stewart said.
“This is an attractive offer at a significant premium.”  Aurora shares rose 0.7 percent to A$4.15 at the close of
trade in Sydney, valuing the company at about A$1.7 billion.  The company may need to increase its offer for Eureka by
about A$10 million, Hartleys’ Wall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  