-- Australian Dollar Drops Versus Peers on RBA Easing Bets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-04-30T06:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/australian-dollar-drops-versus-peers-on-rba-easing-bets.html
The Australian dollar weakened
versus all of its 16 major counterparts before a central bank
meeting tomorrow, at which officials are expected to reduce
borrowing costs for the first time this year.  The so-called Aussie fell against the greenback and yen
after a gauge of the South Pacific nation’s monthly inflation
rate slowed this month and new homes sales dropped in March to a
record low, increasing the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia ’s scope to
lower its benchmark rate. Declines in New Zealand’s dollar were
limited after data showed home-building  approvals  climbed by the
most in seven months in March, boosting demand for the currency.  “Some type of interest-rate cut is all but locked in” for
Australia’s central bank, said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a Singapore-
based currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp., the
country’s second-biggest lender. “I don’t think the Aussie is
going to rally too far from here.”  The Australian dollar lost 0.1 percent to $1.0459 at 4:08
p.m. in Sydney after rising 0.9 percent last week. It declined
0.3 percent to 83.84 yen. New Zealand’s currency was at 82.20
U.S. cents from 82.25 cents on April 27. The so-called kiwi
bought 65.91 yen from 65.99.  The Aussie is set for a 1.1 percent advance versus the
dollar this month, while its  New Zealand  counterpart has gained
0.5 percent over the same period.  RBA policy makers are predicted to lower the overnight  cash
rate  target tomorrow by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage
point, from the current level of 4.25 percent, according to 27
of the 29 forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey. Two economists
have predicted a 50-basis-point reduction.  Housing, Inflation  Sales of new homes in Australia dropped 9.4 percent to
5,443 in March from a month earlier, the Housing Industry
Association said today in a statement that urged the central
bank to cut  interest rates  by half a percentage point at
tomorrow’s meeting.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent this month from March,
when they climbed 0.5 percent, according to an  index  compiled by
TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute released in
Sydney today. Figures from the  Australian Bureau of Statistics 
last week showed the increase in core consumer prices last
quarter was the slowest since 1998.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled April 3 he may end a
three-month pause in interest-rate cuts as soon as tomorrow if
weaker-than-forecast growth slows consumer inflation.  ‘Meaningful Number’  “In Australia, the consumer is really struggling,”  Kumar Palghat , managing director and founder of Kapstream Capital Pty
in Sydney, told Bloomberg Television. “I really think tomorrow
the RBA should cut 50 basis points. That will be a meaningful
number to kick-start the economy again.”  The yield on Australia’s 10-year debt rose four basis
points to 3.70 percent after dropping to a record 3.636 percent
on April 27. New Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, gained three basis points to
2.78 percent.  The number of  home-building permits  in New Zealand surged
19.8 percent in March from the previous month, when they fell a
revised 6.2 percent, the country’s statistics office said today.
That compared with a median forecast of a 6 percent advance in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The New Zealand building report “is encouraging,” said
 Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The kiwi does have a bid
tone to it. It can go a bit higher over the next few days.”  The nation posted a trade surplus of NZ$134 million ($110.2
million) last month, according to a separate report. The  median
estimate  was for a surplus of NZ$417 million.  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 3.2 percent this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which
tracks 10 developed-nation currencies. Its Australian
counterpart has lost 0.4 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  