-- Aviva CEO Waives 2012 Salary Rise Amid Compensation Concern
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-04-30T14:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/aviva-ceo-not-to-accept-2012-salary-rise-amid-pay-concern-1-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-
largest insurer by market value, said Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Moss will not accept his 2012 salary rise as investors
pressure the company to reassess its compensation structure.  The move follows talks with  shareholders  on whether the
compensation of executive directors reflects the firm’s 2011
performance, London-based Aviva said in a statement today.
Moss’s salary was due to rise 5 percent to 1 million pounds
($1.6 million) this month from 951,000 last year according to
the company’s annual report.  “Shareholders have reacted badly to the pay of executive
directors which has been linked to operating profit rather than
bottom line profit, which includes the impact of the turmoil in
 Europe ,” said  Barrie Cornes , a London-based analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. with a buy rating on the stock. “While the company
argues it cannot control factors below the operating line, it is
the bottom line that has impacted the share price.”  Moss follows  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO  Robert Diamond , who also
changed the terms of his remuneration package following investor
unrest. Diamond and Finance Director Chris Lucas this month
agreed to cut their deferred bonuses for 2011 at Britain’s
second-largest bank by assets until the lender improves
profitability.  Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd. , which
advises investors with 1.5 trillion pounds of assets, said
Aviva’s plan is “welcome” in an e-mailed statement today. PIRC
is keeping its earlier recommendation investors vote against
Aviva’s “excessive” remuneration at its annual general meeting
this week, it said.  Crisis Hurt Sales  Aviva’s stock declined 24 percent in 2011, compared with a
7 percent fall in the nine-member  FTSE All-Share Life Insurance
Index. (FALIFE)  The European sovereign debt crisis hurt sales in the
region, which the firm said was a strategic priority in 2009,
and forced the insurer to cut its holdings of Greek, Portuguese,
Irish, Italian and Spanish government bonds.  “We take the views of our shareholders very seriously,”
said Scott Wheway, chairman of Aviva’s compensation committee.
“A number of shareholders have indicated that they would like
to see a different approach to the way we compensate senior
directors on recruitment and an even closer correlation between
our pay packages and shareholder returns.”  Moss also received a 1.16 million-pound bonus in cash and
stock, 480,000 pounds as part of a long-term incentive plan and
98,000 pounds in other benefits. The 2.69 million-pound total
for 2011 compares with 2.47 million pounds in 2010, according to
the annual report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  