-- Avon Investors Vote for CEO in Pushign Coty to Raise Bid
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-30T20:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/avon-investors-vote-for-ceo-in-pressing-coty-to-raise-its-bid.html
Coty Inc. Chairman Bart Becht said
two weeks ago it was time for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  shareholders to
persuade the board to accept his company’s $10 billion bid.
Several investors have discussed the offer with the board, and
their message is clear: Get more money or forget about it.  These shareholders said they now have more confidence that
Avon can revive its fortunes since announcing April 9 it was
replacing  Andrea Jung  as chief executive officer with Johnson &
Johnson alumna Sherilyn McCoy. Coty needs to raise its bid to
reflect that reality, according to Josh Strauss, co-portfolio
manager of the Appleseed Fund at Pekin Singer Strauss Asset
Management in  Chicago , which oversees 1 million Avon shares.  “I certainly hope they don’t take the Coty offer -- I
think the Coty offer is not a fair deal, it’s a lowball bid,”
Strauss said in telephone interview. McCoy has “a lot of
motivation to turn this around. It’s not going to take much of a
business turnaround to move the stock considerably.”  Shareholders are weighing in at a pivotal moment for Avon.
Coty gave the company until today to respond to its offer.
Tomorrow Avon reports first-quarter earnings, and on May 3
convenes its annual shareholder meeting.  Jennifer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Avon hired McCoy, 53, to reverse three years of  profit 
declines at the world’s biggest door-to-door cosmetics seller.
The New York-based company’s shares fell 40 percent last year,
the largest annual decline since at least 1974, leading to
growing disenchantment with Jung, who led the company for more
than a decade and remains chairman. Tomorrow Avon will report
first-quarter earnings of $118.9 million, or 27 cents a share,
according to an average of analysts’ estimates, down 17 percent
from a year ago.  Potential Violations  Avon also is investigating potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign
officials. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
conducting its own probe into the company’s foreign operations
and its dealings with analysts. In 2011, Avon said it fired four
executives at its Chinese operations. In January,  Charles Cramb ,
the former chief financial officer and vice chairman of the
company’s developed market group, departed in a “personnel
action.”  Coty, the maker of perfumes by Heidi Klum and  Beyonce
Knowles , wants to conduct due diligence, in part because of
concern about the investigations, Becht said earlier this month.  “We have clearly laid out our position to the shareholders
and have no further comment at this stage,”  Tom Johnson , a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Higher Offer  If Coty is open to paying more, it should have communicated
a higher offer contingent upon a detailed look at Avon’s books,
said Gregg Fatzinger, head of the consumer banking group at
Nomura Securities International in New York.  “The cart was put before the horse,” he said in a
telephone interview today.  Bids from other possible acquirers aren’t likely because
direct-selling companies don’t offer much room to cut costs and
their operations are so different, Fatzinger said.  Coty’s cash offer, which would help it triple sales and
expand into  emerging markets , was valued at $23.25 a share,
almost 24 percent higher than Avon’s 20-day stock trading
average at the time. Avon rose 0.1 percent to $21.60 at the
close in New York. The shares closed at $19.36 on March 30, the
day before the bid from New York-based Coty was announced.  Too Low  When Avon called Liu-Er Chen, the Boston-based head of
emerging market equity strategy at Delaware Investments, for his
opinion on the Coty offer, he said the bid was too low, adding
that the cosmetics company needed to focus on cutting costs if
it wanted to increase value for shareholders.  “I’m fully aware of the mismanagement of Avon,” Chen, who
oversees 14.5 million shares, said in a phone interview.
“That’s how I bought it. That’s how the stock was cheap.”  While Avon’s profit has been shrinking, the cosmetics
seller generated $11.3 billion of revenue in its most recent
fiscal year, compared with $8.81 billion at rival Estee Lauder
Cos., convincing investors that with new management, there is
value to be had.  “It’s a tremendous property and a tremendous business, and
I think they have a footprint most people would be envious of,”
said Howard Hansen, the co-portfolio manager of the $35 million
 Linde Hansen Contrarian Value Fund (LHVAX) , which holds Avon shares.
“The issues have been more managerial.”  ‘Very Disappointed’  Hansen, who’s based in  Florham Park ,  New Jersey , said he
would be “very disappointed” if Avon accepted Coty’s offer. At
a higher price, a combination of McCoy and executives from Coty
may make for a more successful Avon, he said.  Strauss said he reached out to Avon lead independent
director Fred Hassan, a managing director and partner at
private-equity firm  Warburg Pincus  and chairman at Bausch & Lomb
Inc., to let him know the offer price was too low.  Hassan “is a good manager, a good steward, he will do
what’s right,” Strauss said.  Hassan, lead director of Avon’s board since February 2009,
is giving investors such as Strauss and Chen confidence that the
company will only accept a strong offer. He established a name
for himself by restoring Schering-Plough Corp. to profitability
and selling it to Merck & Co. in 2009.  “If Coty has money, they should offer something like a $30
bid before Avon should open the books for them,” Chen said.
“The Coty people are very smart and they should understand,
even if they pay $30 or above, they get a great, great deal.”  Outright Rejection  While several shareholders said Coty’s offer is too low,
Avon’s April 2 outright rejection rankled some investors.  Raymond Bragar, partner and founder of Bragar Wexler Eagel
& Squire PC in  New York , is preparing an amended consolidated
complaint on behalf of five different shareholders, set to be
filed in early May. He already filed a complaint from an
individual shareholder this month.  “The new CEO certainly hasn’t publicly pushed the company
to negotiate with Coty,” Bragar said. “One would think the new
CEO would have a strong incentive not to negotiate with Coty
because upon an acquisition, the new CEO would be most likely
out of a position. All this works to the detriment of the
shareholders who stand to make a significant profit on the stock
if the merger were to go through.”  Don Wordell , an Orlando-based  fund manager  who oversees
about $2.4 billion in the RidgeWorth Mid Cap Value Equity Fund,
said he was happy with the amount of bid because it gave him the
chance to sell Avon stock in line with the offer price.  “I would buy it back in the mid- to high teens, but not
until I get some more clarity around what the new CEO’s game
plan is for turning around Avon,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  