-- Ax-Wielding Lincoln Joins $10.6 Billion Box-Office Push
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ax-wielding-lincoln-joins-10-6-billion-box-office-push.html
Batman, Tony Stark and Abe Lincoln
will have to do a lot more than save the planet this summer.  They’re also leading Hollywood’s drive for record summer
ticket sales, starting May 4 with “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s $220 million film featuring  Iron Man , Thor and
Captain America.  Studios have a head start at beating 2009’s full-year
domestic sales record of $10.6 billion. Attendance is up 17
percent at U.S. and Canadian cinemas, driven by  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “The Hunger Games” and “Dr. Seuss’ The
Lorax,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures. Summer films
like “The Dark Knight Rises” will determine whether Hollywood
recovers from last year’s 16-year low in admissions. Summer
sales typically account for 40 percent of annual revenue.  “When you look week to week, you don’t see many weekends
when you have films that are probably going to tank,” said  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst in  Los Angeles  with researcher
Exhibitor Relations Co. “This summer more than any other looks
like it has hits every other weekend.”  “The Avengers” is expected to take in $400 million in the
U.S. and Canada, including $170 million in its opening weekend,
the forecast of researcher Boxoffice.com. That would exceed the
$152.5 million debut for “The Hunger Games.”  The movie opened last week overseas and has made $178.4
million so far, setting records in Mexico,  Brazil , New Zealand
and other territories, Disney said yesterday.  A successful run would help Burbank, California-based
Disney deflect attention from the $200 million loss it
registered on the science-fiction flop “ John Carter ” last
month and the resignation of its studio chairman.  Batman Returns  Director  Christopher Nolan  says “The Dark Knight Rises”
is his last Batman film.  Starring Christian Bale and Tom Hardy as Batman’s
adversary, Bane, “The Dark Knight Rises” may generate $500
million in U.S. cinemas for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros .
after it opens July 20, Bock said. The 2008 predecessor had
domestic sales of $533 million, according to Box Office Mojo,
another researcher. “The Avengers” may do as well, he said.  U.S. cinemas will probably end 2012 with mid-single-digit
percentage sales growth over last year’s $10.2 billion, said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los
Angeles. A 5 percent gain would put revenue at about $10.7
billion, topping 2009’s record.  Summer box-office revenue probably will exceed last year’s
record of $4.4 billion, Bock said. More important for studios
and cinema operators, attendance may top the record 629 million
tickets sold in the summer of 2002, he said. Last year, theaters
sold 545 million tickets.  Ax-Wielding President  Sequels and superhero films aren’t the only fare expected
to play well with audiences. This year a dead president gets in
on the action in a picture that tells “the untold story” of a
nation, according to IMDB.com, a movie website.  “Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter,” opening June 22 from
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox, pits the 16th president
against a cabal of the undead plotting to take over the U.S.
Lincoln, played by Benjamin Walker, makes it his mission to
eliminate them, becoming the greatest vampire hunter.  Johnny Depp plays vampire Barnabas Collins in director Tim Burton’s send-up of the 1960s television series “Dark
Shadows.” The film, from Warner Bros., opens May 11 and is
expected to generate $108 million in its U.S. theatrical run,
according to Boxoffice.com.  Social Media  This year’s gains and the strength of the summer slate,
including “Men in Black III” and “The Amazing Spider-Man,”
both from  Sony Corp. (6758) , are partly the result of good luck, said
Exhibitor Relations’ Bock.  Films such as  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ’s “Madagascar
3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” set for release on June 8, can be in
development for years and are scheduled one to two years before
they are completed.  What may have changed is that studios have gotten better at
utilizing social media to target their audiences, Bock said.
They are also focusing on big movies with well-known stars or
smaller pictures with little risk and a lot of potential.  John Davis , producer of this year’s successful teen film
“Chronicle,” didn’t bother to create a Web page for his
picture about high-schoolers with superpowers, deciding it would
be a waste. Targeting a teen audience, he focused on  Facebook (FB) ,
Twitter and Google Inc.’s YouTube.  “You’ve got to understand their attention spans and the
things they do to get information,” Davis said. “You’ve got to
use all of those bloggers out there to build an early sense of
acceptance.”  “Chronicle,” made for $12 million, has collected $64.3
million in domestic ticket sales and an additional $58.8 million
outside the U.S. and  Canada , according to Box Office Mojo. A
sequel is in development, he said.  Sales, Attendance  So far this year, sales and attendance have risen every
weekend except three. Six films have more than $100 million in
domestic sales, compared with three a year ago at this time,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “The Hunger Games,” the $80 million action/adventure
film, leads with $372.5 million, according to Hollywood.com Box-
Office. It’s followed by Universal’s $70 million animated
feature “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax,” at $207.6 million.  Those two films, while successful, fall into a category
where fewer pictures are being made: the so-called middle.
Pictures at $50 million-plus typically risk a significant amount
of capital without giving producers enough money for major stars
and extravagant effects, Davis said.  “You’ve either got to make a movie for a low price or
you’ve got to have a well-known piece of IP and spend $200
million and make it a real event,” said Davis, whose credits
also include costlier fare such as “I, Robot.” “You’ve got to
make sure you’ve got the goods going in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  