-- Axtel, Maxcom Drop on Slim Phone Competition: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-30T21:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/axtel-maxcom-drop-on-slim-phone-competition-mexico-city-mover.html
Mexican phone carriers  Axtel (AXTELCPO)  SAB
and Maxcom Telecomunicaciones SAB dropped in Mexico City trading
after reporting sales declines amid increased competition from
billionaire Carlos Slim.  Axtel, Mexico’s second-largest phone company, fell 7.5
percent to 3.56 pesos at the close, the biggest decline in six
months and the lowest price since its 2005 initial public
offering. Maxcom, partly owned by  Bank of America  Corp., slid
5.2 percent to 2.93 pesos, the biggest drop since Feb. 14.  Slim’s  America Movil  SAB, Mexico’s largest phone carrier,
cut prices on international phone traffic, hurting Axtel’s
sales, Felipe Canales, the smaller company’s chief financial
officer, said in an April 27 conference call. Axtel’s first-
quarter revenue fell 6 percent from a year earlier to  2.5
billion pesos ($192 million).  Maxcom (MAXCOMCP) ’s first-quarter sales slid 7.1 percent to 547.3
million pesos, the company reported April 27 after the close of
trading. That included a 5 percent decline in wholesale revenue
to 103 million pesos, which Maxcom attributed to price cuts from
competition.  “Maxcom reported first-quarter results below our
expectations, which may pressure the share prices in the short
term,” Alexandre Garcia, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in
a research note dated today. While the company missed
Citigroup’s estimate of sales of 552 million pesos, Garcia
recommended buying the shares because they are trading at the
company’s “liquidation value,” he said.  Bank of America controls a 40.5 percent stake in Maxcom.  In addition to  America Movil (AMXL)  and Axtel, Maxcom trails
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Megacable Holdings SAB in fixed phone lines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  