-- Azerbaijan May Rethink Pro-Western Stance If No Karabakh Support
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-04-30T17:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/azerbaijan-may-rethink-pro-western-stance-if-no-karabakh-support.html
Azerbaijan may rethink its pro-
Western stance and realign with “a new bloc” if it doesn’t get
more support, particularly in its conflict with neighboring
 Armenia , a senior Azeri official said.  The Caspian Sea nation wants  Europe  and the U.S. to
pressure Armenia into pulling out of Azeri districts adjacent to
the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region, according to Novruz Mammadov, head of the presidential office’s foreign-relations
department. The country has also been invited to join another
political alliance, he added, without elaborating.  “We aren’t paying attention to those proposals for now.
But if it continues like this, we may consider it in five to 10
years,” Mammadov said today in an interview in the capital,
Baku. “We’re expecting help from the West on the Karabakh
issue.”  The mostly Muslim nation of 9 million people fought a war
with Christian Armenia after the  Soviet Union  broke up in 1991.
About 30,000 people were killed and 1 million displaced in the
conflict, which left Nagorno-Karabakh, a predominantly ethnic
Armenian region previously under Azeri control, in the hands of
Armenia. While hostilities largely ended with a Russia-brokered
cease-fire in 1994, a peace accord has never been signed.  Azerbaijan is the third-largest oil producer in the former
Soviet Union after Russia and Kazakhstan, with energy companies
including  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP)  investing more than $35
billion there since 1992. The government has sent troops to join
NATO peacekeeping operations in  Afghanistan  and Iraq and sells
oil to Israel, from whom it also buys weapons.  ‘Tied its Destiny’  “We’re the only secular Muslim nation in the world that’s
tied its destiny with the West,” said Mammadov, who estimates
that about 35 percent of all NATO supplies to Afghanistan
transit his country. “But we haven’t seen a positive attitude
in return.”  While Azerbaijan is also a member of the Commonwealth of
Independent States, which unites some former Soviet nations, its
closeness to the West has caused “some tension” in relations
with  Iran , according to Mammadov.  “Iran’s telling us: Why are you selling your oil to the
West? You should sever your relations with the U.S. and  Israel 
because they’re our enemies,” Mammadov said.  He accused some Western media of seeking to stoke tensions
between Azerbaijan and Iran after Foreign Policy magazine
reported last month that his nation had offered some of its
airports to Israel for possible air strikes against Iran, citing
unnamed U.S. intelligence agents. Azerbaijan has strongly
rejected the report.  Mammadov also complained that Israel broke an agreement to
keep the $1.6 billion purchase of Israeli weapons secret.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  