-- Babe Ruth’s Yankees Cap Is Being Sold at Auction by David Wells
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/babe-ruth-s-yankees-cap-is-being-sold-at-auction-by-david-wells.html
A New York Yankees baseball cap worn
by Hall of Famer  Babe Ruth  has gone up for auction, 15 years
after  David Wells  donned it for an inning on the mound at Yankee
Stadium.  Worn by Ruth in the early 1930s, the navy blue flannel cap
is worth an estimated $400,000, according to  SCP Auctions , which
is handling the sale. The auction opened yesterday and closes on
May 19, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Wells, 48, bought the hat for $35,000, according to the  New
York Times (NYT) , and wore it in the first inning of a game he pitched
on June 28, 1997, against the  Cleveland Indians .  “Babe Ruth has always been my biggest idol,” Wells said
in the statement. “It has been an honor to be the caretaker of
his Yankees cap for all these years. I’ll never forget what a
thrill it was to honor the Babe by bringing the cap back to
Yankee Stadium and wearing it on the mound.”  In a 22-year career spent with the  Boston Red Sox , Yankees
and Boston Braves, Ruth hit 714 home runs, third on the career
list behind  Barry Bonds  and  Hank Aaron . An outfielder and
pitcher, Ruth led the  American League  in home runs 12 times and
his 2,213 runs batted in are second only to Aaron.  The Ruth cap is identifiable to a period from 1930-33,
according to the statement. It features the Yankees’
interlocking “NY” logo, as well as “G. Ruth” embroidered on
the interior leather band. Worn in an era before batting
helmets, it is believed that Ruth -- whose full name was George
Herman Ruth -- wore the cap both in the field and at the plate.  ‘Truly Exceptional Relic’  “This is a truly exceptional relic that captures the
essence of the most prolific athlete in the history from the
Golden Age of American sports,” SCP Auctions President David
Kohler said in the statement.  The last game-worn Ruth hat to be auctioned sold in 2008
for $327,750, Kohler told the  New York  Times.  The cap is part of a spring auction that includes a Ruth
game-worn Yankees jersey estimated to be worth as much as $2
million, a game-used bat worth around $200,000 and a baseball
signed by Ruth and Yankees Hall of Fame first baseman Lou Gehrig
worth up to $45,000, according to the release. Also included in
the auction is the hat that New York Giants outfielder Bobby Thomson wore when he hit the “Shot Heard Round the World,” a
season-ending home run against the crosstown Brooklyn Dodgers to
win the 1951 National League pennant.  -- Editors: Jay Beberman, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  