-- Banks in EU May Face 3% Capital Surcharges Under Basel Agreement
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-04-30T14:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/banks-in-eu-may-face-3-percent-capital-surcharges-in-basel-deal.html
Bank regulators in the European
Union may win powers to impose capital surcharges of as much as
3 percent on lenders’ activities at home and abroad as part of a
compromise plan for applying Basel rules.  Denmark , which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, made the
proposal to resolve a clash over how much freedom national
authorities should have to impose capital rules on their banks
that exceed a minimum standard, a Danish presidency official
told reporters in Brussels today. Finance ministers will seek to
thrash out a deal on the rules at a May 2 meeting.  Nations are divided over proposals by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core capital
requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, with
limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. Barnier proposed the limit in 2011 as part of a
draft law to apply rules agreed on by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  Denmark called the May 2 meeting to reach an accord on the
bill. The EU faces a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline set by the Basel
committee for adopting the measures. The ministers will also
discuss candidates to run the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development.  The U.K., Spain and  Sweden  are among countries warning that
Barnier’s bank-capital plans would restrain national regulators.
Others, including France, Italy and  Austria , back the
commissioner’s approach.  ‘Outstanding Issue’  The clash is “the main outstanding issue” that must be
resolved to reach an agreement on the law, Denmark said in an e-
mailed copy of the compromise plan, dated April 27.  The document replaces previous proposals from Denmark that
would have allowed regulators to impose surcharges of as much as
5 percent, but only on a bank’s activities in its home country.
Both the U.K. and  France  had criticized the plan as
unacceptable.  Under the new proposals, the surcharges would cover both
domestic and cross-border activities.  The draft law must be agreed on by governments and the
European Parliament before it can enter into force.  “It is very important to get a deal, but in this issue we
have some core principles that we will defend quite heavily,”
 Anders Borg , Sweden’s finance minister, said in an interview on
April 27. If ministers fail to reach an accord this week, they
will return to the issue at their next scheduled meeting on May
15, he said.  Larger Surcharges  There is “no technical reason” why ministers shouldn’t be
able to reach a deal on the law on May 2, the Danish official
said, adding that the 3 percent surcharge plan is a “rather
substantial” compromise. The official couldn’t be named because
negotiations are continuing.  Under the compromise plan, regulators would have to seek
prior approval from the European Commission if they wanted to
impose surcharges of more than 3 percent.  Governments are split over what kind of EU-level checks
should take place before nations can introduce larger
surcharges, including whether the commission should have the
power to veto them.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K., and  China  to set prudential
rules for banks. Its agreements must be implemented into
nations’ laws before they can come into effect.  The  European Central Bank  has said that countries should
 have the power  to toughen capital rules for their banks beyond
normal EU standards if their financial stability is threatened.  ‘Policy Tools’  The European Systemic Risk Board, a group of central
bankers and other regulators charged with monitoring threats to
markets in the EU, has made similar calls.  “Authorities will require flexibility in the set of
available policy tools to both prevent and mitigate specific
risks,” the ESRB said in a  statement  this month.  Denmark is also seeking agreement on other outstanding
issues in the draft law, said the official.  Governments have clashed over proposals from the commission
to apply  capital requirements  to banks with insurance arms
lighter than those approved by the Basel committee. Such
companies include Societe Generale SA, Credit Agricole SA, and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  While the Basel committee has sought to prevent lenders
from counting their insurance arms’ reserves toward meeting
their capital requirements, the commission proposals would allow
banks such double-counting.  The commission plans are backed by France, while Sweden and
the U.K. oppose them. The ECB has also said it’s opposed in
general to banks relying on their insurance business to meet
requirements. Denmark has backed the commission’s approach,
saying a majority of EU nations are behind the plan.  Another split concerns how strictly the EU should define
and police which securities lenders can count toward their core
reserves and when banks should have to start publishing whether
they meet an indebtedness limit drawn up by the Basel committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  