-- Bank CEOs to Meet With Fed’s Tarullo on Credit-Limit Plan
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2012-04-30T12:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/bank-ceos-to-meet-with-fed-s-tarullo-on-credit-limit-plan.html
Chief executive officers of the
largest U.S. banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , will meet
with  Federal Reserve  Governor  Daniel Tarullo  to discuss the
Fed’s stress tests and a proposal to limit credit exposure,
according to four people familiar with the meeting.  The CEOs will meet with Tarullo, who has led the Fed’s
drive to strengthen oversight of the financial system, at the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  on May 2, according to the
people, who didn’t want to be named because the meeting isn’t
public.  The banks have objected to a proposed 10 percent limit on
counterparty risk for the biggest firms, saying it would be
unnecessary and hamper their ability to provide liquidity to
other banks. They have also said the Fed has failed to explain
the assumptions used in the stress tests, intended to determine
if banks had enough capital to weather a crisis, and that the
Fed didn’t disclose the economic models used in the tests.  “It is simply unfair to ask a bank to pass a test -- and
manage towards the standards of that test -- if the parameters
are largely unknown or otherwise opaque,” says a letter to the
Fed from the Financial Services Roundtable and four other trade
groups obtained by Bloomberg News.  JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon helped organize the meeting,
according to two of the people.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, and  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Stress Tests  The stress tests showed that 15 of 19 banks would be able
to maintain capital levels above a regulatory minimum in an
“extremely adverse” economic scenario, even while continuing
to pay dividends and repurchasing stock, the Fed said on March
13. In their letter last week, the five banking trade groups
urged the Fed to make public the design of models used in the
tests and explain their economic assumptions.  The letter also objected to a proposed 10 percent limit for
credit risk between a company considered systemically important
and a counterparty when each has more than $500 billion in total
assets. The 10 percent limit, part of a Fed proposal to apply
tougher standards to banks whose collapse could jeopardize the
economy, is more restrictive than a 25 percent limit in the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law.  “The Federal Reserve has provided no basis to determine
that imposing the dramatically lower and arbitrary 10 percent
credit limit on certain major covered companies would even help
mitigate risks to the U.S. financial stability, much less be
necessary,” the letter says. The groups also say the Fed’s
model for calculating exposure overstates their risk.  Signers of Letter  The signers of the letter include the Clearing House
Association, the Financial Services Roundtable, the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, the Financial
Services Forum and the  American Bankers Association . The
Clearing House Association represents Citigroup Inc., and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and JPMorgan.  The Fed has argued that the limit on counterparty risk is
needed to protect the financial system in a crisis.  “The financial crisis also revealed inadequacies in the
U.S. supervision approach to single counterparty credit
concentration limits, which failed to limit the
interconnectedness among and concentration of similar risks
within large financial companies that contributed to a rapid
escalation of the crisis,” the Fed said in its December
proposal.  Executives of the eight largest banks met with Tarullo on
March 27, according to a Fed disclosure. The Fed’s proposed
rules would set triggers for regulatory enforcement for systemic
firms and require boards of directors to oversee and approve
plans for limiting  liquidity risk . Comments on the Fed’s
proposal are due today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  