-- Batista Considers Partner to Tap $1.5 Trillion Assets
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-05-01T03:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/batista-seeks-partner-to-tap-1-5-trillion-resources.html
Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista
said he’s considering partnering with an industrial group to
help develop iron-ore, oil, coal and gold resources that he
estimates could be worth about $1.5 trillion.  The sale of another stake in his EBX Group Co., following
the $2 billion purchase of a 5.63 percent share by  Abu Dhabi ’s
Mubadala Development Co., would help boost global investors’
confidence in his projects, the billionaire said yesterday in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves.” Rio de
Janeiro-based EBX’s assets have the potential to yield 80
percent margins, he said, without elaborating.  “We have the privilege to work in the resources arena with
very rich assets,” Batista, 55, said in the interview at the
Milken Institute Global  Conference  in Beverly Hills,  California .
“With $1.5 trillion in underlying assets with 80 percent
margins, just give me the time.”  Batista is raising money to diversify into industries
ranging from precious metals to sports management, while
investing in his existing iron-ore, oil, coal, shipping and
power-generation companies. He said March 26 that he’s in talks
with sovereign-wealth funds to sell an additional $1 billion
stake in his empire of commodity companies.  “We just wanted to have maybe an extra stamp,” Batista
said, when asked about why he’s selling the stake. “We like to
have the structure audited and when somebody like Mubadala comes
in, the world knows how deeply they go into the auditing
process.”  Wealth Surge  The magnate’s net worth surged 39 percent this year to
$31.3 billion, making him the world’s 10th richest person,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index daily ranking. His
fortune declined $616 million yesterday after shares of oil
explorer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA , his largest
holding, fell 2.1 percent in  Sao Paulo .  OGX, which began production in January, estimates it has
10.8 billion barrels of recoverable crude and natural gas, worth
about $1.1 trillion at current prices. OGX plans to ramp up
production from about 11,000 barrels a day at present to 1.38
million barrels a day in 2019, or about half of  Brazil ’s current
output.  Underlying assets are all the potential resources held by
the company, including those that require geological research
and investments to be turned into reserves for production, EBX
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “He’s counting his oil reserves and adding up all his
assets to reach that value,” Rafael Andreata, an analyst at
Planner Corretora de Valores, said in a telephone interview.
“That’s not the market value of his companies.”  Interlinking Start-Ups  The son of a former  Vale SA (VALE)  chief executive officer,
Batista built his fortune by selling shares in a series of
interlinking commodity start-ups. He’s pursuing ventures ranging
from gold and iron ore to technology and managing ATP World Tour
tennis tournaments.  Batista’s main holdings are five publicly traded companies
including OGX, shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and iron-ore producer
 MMX Mineracao (MMXM3)  & Metalicos SA. He also controls  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) ,
which is building what the billionaire says will be the world’s
third-largest port, and  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , his power generation
unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  