-- Benzion Netanyahu, Father of Israel’s Premier, Dies at 102
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-04-30T15:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/benzion-netanyahu-father-of-israel-s-premier-dies-at-102-1-.html
Historian Benzion Netanyahu, the
father of the Israeli prime minister and a scholar of the
Spanish Inquisition, died in  Jerusalem  early today at age 102.  Benjamin Netanyahu , who frequently cited his father’s
advice about being vigilant toward Israel’s enemies, visited at
his bedside last night just hours before he died, the prime
minister’s office said.  “You always showed us what our obligation was to the
nation,” Netanyahu said in a eulogy during the funeral at
Jerusalem’s Har Hamenuchot cemetery. “You taught me to
concentrate on what was most important.”  The elder Netanyahu was born in Poland and moved to
British-ruled Palestine in 1920 with his parents at age 10.
Before the state of Israel was founded in 1948, he was active in
the Revisionist Movement, a forerunner of the Likud party his
son leads. He was a top aide to Revisionist leader Vladimir
Ze’ev Jabotinsky, the rival of Labor Zionist chief David Ben-
Gurion, who became  Israel ’s first prime minister.  “Professor Netanyahu was an important scholar, both
profound and original,” Education Minister Gideon Saar told
Israel Radio. He was “a great historian and a great Jew,”
President  Shimon Peres  said in broadcast remarks.  Labor Party leader Shelly Yacimovich postponed a motion of
no-confidence in Netanyahu’s government, which had been
scheduled for today, after the death was announced, Army Radio
said.  Academic Career  Netanyahu’s father appeared with him in a 2009 election
campaign commercial, showing the two playing chess at home.
“You need the steadfastness to act, to do the unpopular thing
that may ultimately save the country,” Netanyahu said in the ad
after his father moved a piece across the board.  The elder Netanyahu was editor-in-chief of the Encyclopedia
Hebraica and taught at several schools, including Dropsie
College in Philadelphia and  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New
York. Among his published works were “The Origins of the
Inquisition in Fifteenth Century Spain” and “The Founding
Fathers of Zionism.”  Yonatan Netanyahu, his older son, was killed in 1976 when
he led a commando rescue of hostages from a hijacked  Air France (AF) 
plane at Uganda’s Entebbe airport. Ido Netanyahu, his younger
son, is a doctor and playwright. His wife Cela died in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  