-- A Peace Legacy for Netanyahu’s Hard-Line Dad?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-04-30T19:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/benzion-netanyahu-left-his-son-the-gift-of-credibility.html
The historian Benzion Netanyahu,
who died today at 102, was sometimes asked to explain the
miracle of Jewish survival through millenniums of persecution.
 Netanyahu -- the father of  Israel ’s prime minister, Benjamin --
would answer the question in a way his interlocutors did not at
all expect.  “The Jews didn’t survive,” he would say. About 1,900 years
ago, he would explain, there were about 9 million Jews in a
world population of roughly 300 million. Today, there are about
13 million Jews in a world of 7 billion. How is it that the
number of Jews has stayed essentially stagnant, even as global
population has grown exponentially?  Persecution, he explained, has driven the Jews nearly to
extinction. So many murdered, so many forcibly converted to
Christianity and Islam, so many choosing the dubious path of
assimilation as a defense against hatred and isolation. The Jews
of today, he said, are a remnant of a remnant. It wasn’t merely
the German Holocaust, but a “history of holocausts,” that
brought the Jewish people to such a debased position.  This forlorn outlook shaped Netanyahu’s hard-right
politics. As Reuven Rivlin, the speaker of the Israeli Knesset,
 put it today , “With Benzion there was no place for compromise,
and for that reason he sometimes showed displeasure with needs
that his son had as a politician, both in the  United Nations  and
as a person who was elected to serve as the prime minister of
Israel.”  Paranoid or Realist  Was Benzion Netanyahu simply a paranoid who saw the half-
full glass of Jewish history as entirely empty, or was he a
clear-eyed realist with a tragic understanding about the eternal
nature of anti-Semitism? The answer helps inform the debate
about two surpassingly important questions in Middle East
politics today. The first is whether Iran ultimately plans to
try to destroy Israel with nuclear weapons; the second is
whether the Arabs actually want to achieve a political
compromise with Israel.  The prime minister derides the idea that he is simply a
vehicle for his father’s militancy. At a meeting shortly after I
wrote an article about their relationship,  Benjamin Netanyahu 
asked me, only half-smiling, “Are you going to be doing more
psychoanalysis today?” But it is possible to see Netanyahu’s
preoccupation with the Holocaust -- he is very forthright in
comparing a theoretical Iranian nuclear weapon to the reality of
Auschwitz -- as a reflection of his father’s basic
understandings of the world.  Benzion Netanyahu was a foremost scholar of the  Spanish
Inquisition , and he revolutionized his field by arguing
convincingly that the Spanish weren’t motivated by religious
feeling, but by racial hatred. In other words, conversion wasn’t
enough to save the Jews: The Spanish hated the idea of Jewish
blood mixing with their own. The Inquisition, then, presaged the
Holocaust. He believed that physical acts of anti-Semitism are
always preceded by years of hate-filled rhetoric meant to
desensitize the world to the coming slaughter.  Thus Netanyahu, like his son, saw it as a foregone
conclusion that  Iran  seeks to build a nuclear weapon with
genocide in mind. But unlike his son, Netanyahu thought that
Iran should have been attacked long ago. “From the Iranian side,
we hear pledges that soon -- in a matter of days, even -- the
Zionist movement will be put to an end and there will be no more
Zionists in the world,”  he said  at a party marking his 100th
birthday. “The Jewish people are making their position clear and
putting faith in their military power. The nation of Israel is
showing the world today how a state should behave when it stands
before an existential threat: by looking danger in the eye and
calmly considering what should be done and what can be done. And
to be ready to enter the fray at the moment there is a
reasonable chance of success.”  Destruction of Israel  The elder Netanyahu was similarly militant on questions of
compromise with the Palestinians. Just as he saw the Iranians
bent on committing genocide, he saw the Palestinians and their
Arab allies singularly focused on the destruction of Israel. He
 described  the coming confrontation to an interviewer in 2009:
“They won’t be able to face war with us, which will include
withholding food from Arab cities, preventing education,
terminating electrical power and so on. They won’t be able to
exist, and they will run away from here. But it all depends on
war, and whether we will win the battles with them.”  Netanyahu stood at the far right of the Israeli political
spectrum, but his understanding of history is shared by many of
his fellow citizens. Israel’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Michael Oren , himself a historian of note, told me today that he
believes “Israeli society has internalized the interpretations
of history of Benzion Netanyahu, that is, that Jews are hated
not because of their beliefs but because of their peoplehood,
and that anti-Semitism is an undying and powerful presence in
history.” Oren went on, “He also believed that the Jewish people
alone bear the responsibility of defending themselves. That is
the clarion message of his life.”  Many Israelis have argued that Netanyahu’s death would
eventually allow his son to show more willingness to compromise
on  Iran’s nuclear program  and on Palestinian statehood. But we
shouldn’t expect to see immediate or radical change. Many people
underestimate Benjamin Netanyahu’s sincerity: He appears to
truly believe that Iran poses a Nazi-like threat, and he doubts
Palestinians seek something less than the entirety of  Palestine .  He is a man very much shaped by his father, and his
father’s worldview has helped shape the Israel of today.  But there is an opportunity: Benjamin Netanyahu, precisely
because he is the son of a man like Benzion, is the only Israeli
politician today who could deliver the majority of Israel’s
Jewish population to a painful compromise with the Palestinians.
He is also one of the few whose endorsement of a deal between
Tehran and  Washington  over the Iranian nuclear program -- a deal
that would allow the Iranians to have a supervised civilian
program, for instance -- would allay the concerns of even more
hawkish Israelis. The average Israeli trusts that Netanyahu
would not sell out their interests for a Nobel Peace Prize.  Israel’s security depends in part on Benzion Netanyahu-
style vigilance and militancy. But it also depends on
recognizing that the Jews of today are not the Jews of 1938, and
that Jewish history is not preordained to repeat itself forever.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 