-- Billionaire Birla to Acquire Stake in Pantaloon Unit
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-04-30T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/billionaire-birla-to-acquire-stake-in-pantaloon-unit.html
Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s
 Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL)  will buy a controlling stake in an entity
to be created by splitting store operator  Pantaloon Retail India
Ltd. (PF)  to widen the reach of its apparel brands.  Pantaloon Retail  will issue 8 billion rupees ($152 million)
of debentures to Aditya Birla Nuvo that will be convertible into
shares of the new entity, Mumbai-based Aditya Birla Nuvo said in
a statement yesterday. Pantaloon Retail, India’s largest
retailer, will turn its 65 Pantaloons branded stores and 21
Pantaloons Factory outlets into a separate unit, Swetank Jain,
chief communications officer for the  Future Group , said.  The acquisition will help Aditya Birla Nuvo gain
operational synergies including supply chain and widen its
retail offering to larger variety of stores. The deal will help
Pantaloon Retail lower debt, according to Abhishek Ranganathan,
an analyst at MF Global Sify Securities  India  Pvt., after higher
interest payments hurt its second-quarter results.  “The proposed acquisition is in line with our strategic
intent to be on the top of the league and to create the largest
integrated branded fashion player in the country,” Birla,
chairman of Aditya Birla Nuvo, said in the statement. “This
acquisition will catapult Aditya Birla Nuvo to the pole position
in the branded fashion space in all the segments with a pan
India presence.”  Open Offer  Pantaloon Retail, based in Mumbai, will transfer the assets
of its Pantaloons format business, debt of 8 billion rupees and
debentures of 8 billion rupees to the new entity, Aditya Birla
Nuvo said in the statement. Aditya Birla Nuvo will make an open
offer of a minimum 26 percent to the shareholders of the
resulting entity, it said.  Aditya Birla Nuvo expects to hold a minimum of 50.01
percent of the new entity after the open offer and the
transaction will probably be completed in eight to 10 months,
the company said. The founders of Pantaloon Retail will own
about 25 percent in the new company, Jain said.  Aditya Birla Nuvo had 10.3 billion rupees of cash and
equivalents as of Sept. 30, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Aditya Birla Nuvo fell 0.4 percent to 927.20
rupees in Mumbai yesterday. Pantaloon Retail surged 9.4 percent
to 187.70 rupees, the highest level since Feb. 29. The deal
announcement came after the close of trading. Markets will
remain closed today for a public holiday.  Aditya Birla Nuvo’s Madura Fashion & Lifestyle through its
network of stores across the country sells brands including
Louis Philippe, Van Heusen, Allen Solly and Peter England. It
has 1.6 million square feet of retail space, the company said.
Pantaloons format business is spread over 2.05 million square
feet, Aditya Birla Nuvo said.  Debt Burden  After the transaction Pantaloon Retail’s debt will reduce
by 16 billion rupees, according to the company.  “This should take care of the debt level significantly”
at Pantaloon, MF Global’s Ranganathan said in a phone interview.
“For the next six months, the interest cost and the absolute
debt may not go down because the transaction has to get
completed, but thereafter it would.”  Pantaloon Retail reported a net loss of 79.6 million rupees
in the three months ended Dec. 31 as interest costs increased.  India on Dec. 7 suspended a decision to allow as much as 51
percent overseas ownership of multibrand retail stores after
protests by opposition political parties and some allies of the
ruling coalition paralyzed parliament. Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh  later said he would make a bid to revive the retail
proposals.  Birla, who had a net worth of $8 billion according to
 Forbes magazine , controls companies including aluminum maker
 Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , a
telecommunications service provider, and Aditya Birla Retail
Ltd., which operates hypermarkets in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  