-- Blasts Hit Syrian Government Targets as UN Agreement Falters
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-30T14:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/blasts-hit-syrian-government-targets-as-un-agreement-falters-1-.html
Attacks on the Syrian central bank
in Damascus and three blasts in the northern city of Idlib
killed at least eight people and injured many more, state
television reported.  Syrian state television broadcast images of residential
buildings and cars damaged by two Idlib explosions and a woman
carrying a wounded boy. The blasts injured 100 people, the
 Syrian Arab News Agency  reported, without saying where it got
the information. A third blast struck near the office of the
Popular Army in Idlib, Al Jazeera television reported, citing an
unidentified activist.  Most of those killed in today’s attack in Idlib were
members of the security forces, the  U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement. It
put the death toll at 20 and said the attack targeted a security
headquarters. Gunmen attacked the Syrian central bank in
Damascus with rocket-propelled grenades, state television
reported.  “There has been a shift in tactics targeting Damascus with
 suicide bombers  and an increase of assassinations of
intelligence officers,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis, said today in a phone interview. “We are continuing
to move in a direction of a slow deterioration.”  Saudi Cabinet  The start of the April 12 cease-fire brokered by UN special
envoy  Kofi Annan  has failed to halt more than a year of violence
that started when peaceful protesters sought political change
from President Bashar al-Assad’s government. More than 500
people have died since the cease-fire started, according to the
website of the Local Coordination Committees, an opposition
group.  Saudi Arabia ’s cabinet said the international community
shouldn’t allow the Syrian authorities to “evade their
obligations” under the UN peace agreement, the official  Saudi
Press Agency  reported today, citing a government statement. The
international community is giving the Syrian government time and
that’s costing lives, the news service aid.  At least 28 people were killed by the security forces
yesterday, the human rights observatory said. Nine more died
today,  Al Arabiya  television reported.  Government forces continue to conduct raids and shell
opposition forces in urban areas, while rebels have escalated
their attacks against targets associated with the Assad
administration. An explosion struck a pipeline transporting
crude oil in the Syrian province of Deir Ezzour yesterday, the
 Syrian Arab News Agency  reported, citing oil ministry officials.  Heavy Weapons  The head of the UN monitoring force arrived in Damascus
yesterday, Al Arabiya said, without saying how it got the
information. The advance team of 15 UN observers has reported
that the security forces are still deploying heavy weapons in
populated areas, a violation of the UN agreement, Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon told reporters on April 27.  If violence continues, the U.S. and its allies anticipate
raising pressure on the government through travel bans,
additional financial sanctions and an arms embargo at the UN
Security Council, U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said last week in  Washington .  Nuland blamed Assad for the plan’s lack of success, citing
attacks by government forces on civilians and the military’s
failure to withdraw heavy weapons. She said it was essential to
deploy as many as 300 unarmed UN cease-fire observers in the
effort to limit the violence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  