-- BNP Buying More Emerging-Market Debt on ‘Virtuous Cycle’
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-30T00:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/bnp-buying-more-emerging-market-debt-on-virtuous-cycle-.html
BNP Paribas Investment Partners is
buying emerging-market debt because of a “virtuous cycle” of
strong economic growth and improved national finances, while
hedging against a worsening of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  BNP’s Fischer Francis Trees & Watts unit, which manages $56
billion of assets, holds about 25 percent of its global fund in
developing-nation securities, compared with 15 percent a year
ago and the weighing of almost zero in the benchmarks it uses to
track performance, according to Chief Investment Officer Guy Williams, who added that there is room to add more. The company
is using credit-default swaps and currency forwards to protect
against losses in euro-denominated securities, he said.  “If you look at the things that worry us, they tend to be
things in the developed world, sovereign-debt issues in Europe
and U.S.,” Williams said in an April 25 interview in  Hong Kong .
“The improved fundamentals of  emerging markets  have been
rewarded by a virtuous cycle of strong performance, portfolio
inflows and credit-rating upgrades.”  Emerging debt markets have become more active, increasing
BNP’s appetite for the higher returns available, he said. The
yield on developing-nation sovereign debt denominated in dollars
was 4.69 percent, compared with 2.96 percent on developed-market
bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its world growth
forecast to 3.5 percent this year and 4.1 percent next year on
April 17, up from January projections of 3.3 percent and 4
percent, as the U.S. economic outlook improves.  Developing
countries  will grow 5.7 percent this year, while the euro zone
will contract 0.3 percent, the IMF said.  Going Downhill  European government austerity plans are at odds with the
need for economic stimulus, while government changes may
complicate efforts to find a balanced solution, said Williams.
Unemployment in the euro zone surged to 10.8 percent in
February, the highest since June 1997.  France will hold the second round of presidential elections
on May 6, with two polls suggesting Socialist Francois Hollande,
who has vowed to stop job cuts, would beat President  Nicolas
Sarkozy . Greeks will vote for lawmakers on the same day. The
Netherlands is set to choose a new prime minister on Sept. 12.  “There’s a clear event-risk calendar in the second
quarter,” said Williams. “As long as neither fiscal union nor
European Union break-up occurs, Europe will remain in a
difficult muddle-through environment. Growth is the way out of
this difficult period, but growth remains elusive.”  The euro will depreciate in the medium term, said Williams,
either because of concerns over the crisis or central bank
printing of the currency. The Hungarian forint and Russian ruble
both gained more than 10 percent this year against the dollar,
as the euro climbed 2 percent.  Weak Greenback  The U.S. has similar issues, which will bolster the
performance of Asian currencies against the greenback, according
to Williams. The American economy has “significant structural
headwinds” as the government and companies curb spending,
strangling consumer demand, he said. The U.S. will expand at
around 2 percent or less this year, he added.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , tracking the greenback against currencies
of major trading partners, has fallen 1.8 percent this year,
partly on expectations the central bank would flood the economy
with the currency. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
on April 25 he stands ready to add to stimulus if necessary.  “The trend is the dollar will remain weak,” said
Williams. “The U.S. has one advantage which Europe doesn’t,
which is an ability to print money and thus to effectively
gently reflate or inflate their way out of debt and growth
trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  