-- BOE to Pay More to Move PRA Home From London’s Canary Wharf
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-30T10:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/boe-to-pay-more-to-move-pra-home-from-london-s-canary-wharf-1-.html
The  Bank of England  will shift the
planned Prudential Regulation Authority from London’s  Canary
Wharf  district to more expensive premises near the central
bank’s headquarters.  The Bank of England has signed contracts on 20 Moorgate in
the  City of London , the U.K. capital’s main financial district,
according to an e-mailed statement released today. The building
will house the PRA, which will be a unit of the central bank
responsible for banking supervision when it takes over from the
Financial Services Authority next year.  The estimated extra cost of relocating to Moorgate rather
than continuing to use the FSA’s current offices is less than 1
million pounds ($1.6 million) a year over the next 15 years, the
central bank said. The existing premises in  Canary Wharf ,
 London ’s second financial district, are about 3.5 miles (5.6
kilometers) east of the Bank of England’s headquarters.  “Locating PRA staff close to the rest of the bank is
highly desirable,” the Bank of England said in the statement.
“The bank’s firm intention continues to be that prudential
regulation will operate in the future at a lower real cost than
it does now as part of the FSA.”  The central bank, advised by Drivers Jonas Deloitte and
 Clifford Chance , signed contracts on the property until July
2027 from the current tenant and by agreement with the landlord,
a private fund managed by Bonn, Germany-based  IVG Immobilien AG ,
it said.  The building was originally constructed in 2001 and
provides 150,000 square feet (13,936 square meters) of office
and support space, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  