-- Bonds Prove Only Winners for First Time Since 2008
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-05-01T15:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/bonds-prove-only-winners-for-first-time-since-2008.html
For the first time since the start of
2008, bonds were the only investments to provide positive
returns amid renewed concern the global economy is slowing and
as widening deficits in  Europe  threaten contagion.  Fixed-income assets -- from Australian government debt to
U.S. Treasuries to global  junk bonds  -- gained 0.7 percent last
month including reinvested interest, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 1.1 percent including dividends while the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and
agricultural products fell 0.5 percent. The U.S. Dollar Index
dropped 0.3 percent.  “Concerns of an economic slowdown and renewed risks over
Europe are the biggest drivers,” Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in San Diego at  LPL Financial , which oversees $330
billion, said April 26 in a telephone interview. “There’s
renewed concerns about Europe, and  Spain  in particular.”  Investors sought the perceived safety of fixed-income
investments after U.S. job growth in March failed to meet
economists’ forecasts and amid growing concerns that European
leaders will fail to manage their debt loads. Joblessness in the
euro area probably rose to 10.9 percent last month, the highest
since 1997, according to economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Austerity Opposition  In Europe, growing political opposition to austerity
measures forced Italy to delay its goal of balancing the budget
by one year to 2014, joining Spain in missing fiscal targets
amid a worsening recession. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  may
be toppled in a May 6 vote and the Netherlands will hold
elections in September after the cabinet resigned over spending
cuts and tax increases.  The Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said in an
April 17 report that the world economy will expand 3.5 percent
this year, down from 3.9 percent in 2011, as growth in Europe
shrinks 0.3 percent.  “Europe came to the forefront of a lot of people’s
concerns,” Matthew Duch, a taxable fixed-income  money manager 
in Bethesda, Maryland, at Calvert Investments Management Inc.,
which oversees more than $12 billion, said April 27 in a
telephone interview. “Driving this month has been a reluctance
to invest in risk.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index,
which tracks more than 19,600 securities with a market value of
$43.2 trillion, rebounded from a 0.14 percent loss in March,
bringing its year-to-date return to 1.9 percent. Average yields
fell to 2.02 percent from 2.12 percent a month ago.  Treasuries Gain  The last time bonds were the only assets with positive
returns was January 2008. Government debt globally returned 0.7
percent in April, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed.  U.S. Treasuries, perceived as the safest of assets, gained
1.5 percent, led by a 4.8 percent return for 30-year bonds in
their best month since September. Yields on Treasuries due in 10
years, which were 1.95 percent as of 11:29 a.m. in  New York , are
forecast to climb to 2.26 percent in June 2012, according to the
median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Portugal’s bonds were the best performers among the 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, jumping 6.13
percent. Debt of Italy and Spain were the worst, losing 1.3
percent and 1.8 percent, respectively.  Corporate Bonds  Investment-grade corporate securities gained 0.8 percent.
High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds returned 0.7 percent.
Speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc.
uses to track the currency against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss
franc, Canada dollar and Swedish krona, fell to 78.78 from 79 at
the end of March.  The index peaked last month at 80.177 on April 5, a day
before the U.S. Labor Department said employers created 120,000
jobs in March. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an increase of 205,000.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the
central bank stands ready to add to its stimulus measures if
necessary, which for many investors means the printing of more
dollars to buy bonds.  After his comments, a U.S. government report showed the
economy expanded at a 2.2 percent annual pace in the first
quarter, down from 3 percent in the final three months of 2011.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 2.5 percent rise.  ‘Cost-Reduction Mode’  “I’m going to question to whether  consumer spending  is
sustainable over the long term,” said Calvert’s Duch, who
favors intermediate-maturity Treasuries. “Employers are still
in cost-reduction mode. Employees are feeling that they don’t
have the leverage, and wages are going to remain static for a
long period of time.”  Among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg, the yen appreciated the most, strengthening 3.82
percent, followed by Singapore’s dollar at 1.66 percent. The
biggest loser was Brazil’s real, which depreciated 4.27 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The euro weakened 0.78 percent against the dollar. The 17-
nation currency was the second-worst performer among the 10
developed-nation exchange rates tracked Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes, losing 1.05 percent. Sweden’s krona
depreciated 2 percent.  Currency Forecasts  Currency analysts forecast the euro will end the second
quarter at $1.29, 2.7 percent lower than where it is now. The
yen will be at 82 per dollar by the end of June, or 2.8 percent
weaker, according to strategists’ estimates.  Greece’s debt is 165 percent of gross domestic product,
while that of  Italy  is 120 percent and Ireland and Portugal’s is
108 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Germany’s
ratio is 81 percent and Spain’s is 69 percent.  “I’m not convinced that Europe is OK,” Stephen Mahoney, a
money manager in Philadelphia at Glenmede Investment Management,
which oversees more than $20 billion, said April 27 in a
telephone interview. “There’s always going to be contagion.”  Mahoney said he favors investment-grade debt and bonds of
industrial corporations. He is “underweight” financial-company
debt, meaning he owns a smaller percentage of the securities
than is contained in his benchmark index.  Commodities, as measured by the S&P GSCI Total Return
Index, fell for the second consecutive month after losing 2.4
percent in March. Sugar was the biggest loser.  Sugar, Gasoline  Sugar plunged 11 percent on the ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the biggest monthly decline since September, while the 6.1
percent drop in gasoline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was
the first since November. Cattle futures on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange slipped to a nine-month low on April 24, as
the U.S. reported its first case of mad cow disease since 2006.  Natural gas was the biggest winner, rallying 7.5 percent on
the Nymex for the largest monthly advance in a year, partly as
unusually cool weather. Soybeans jumped 7.3 percent on the
Chicago Board of Trade, as drought-reduced crops in  South
America  signaled an 11 percent decline in global output, the
most since 1984. Prices reached $15.07 a bushel on April 30, the
highest since July 2008.  Crude oil futures rose 1.8 percent to $104.87 a barrel in
New York on speculation that increased U.S. consumer spending
and incomes will help boost demand. Gold retreated for the third
straight month in the absence of further quantitative easing by
the Federal Reserve.  Stocks Retreat  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks retreated for
the first time since December after rallying 11.3 percent in the
January through March period. The MSCI index is  valued  at 14.8
times reported profit, 16.4 percent below the average from the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.75 percent while the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose 0.01 percent. From AT&T Inc. to 3M Co.,
about 74 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 that reported
quarterly results since April 10 topped the average analyst
estimate, data compiled by Bloomberg as of April 24 showed.  While corporate earnings “have come in strong, ‘‘the
economy is going to just sputter along here,’’ Glenmede’s
Mahoney said. ‘‘You have to be a little bit cautious.’’  Second Recession  Spain’s economy contracted in the first quarter, putting
the euro region’s fourth-largest economy into its second
recession since 2009, the Madrid-based National Statistics
Institute said yesterday.  The Italian government, which had vowed to balance the
budget in 2013, now expects a shortfall of 0.5 percent of gross
domestic product next year, the Cabinet said April 18 in an e-
mailed statement after meeting in Rome to revise its three-year
economic plan. The deficit of 0.1 percent previously estimated
for 2013 won’t be reached until 2014.  ‘‘Contagion is in the air,”  David Blanchflower , an
economics professor at Dartmouth College and former  Bank of
England  policy maker, said April 26 in a telephone interview.
“This is the inevitable consequence of failed austerity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  