-- Brazilian Stocks Post Monthly Decline on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-04-30T21:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/bovespa-index-futures-advance-as-traders-bet-drop-was-excessive.html
The Bovespa index posted its
biggest monthly drop since September as concern mounted that
Spain would become the next European country to need a bailout
while cooling U.S. growth damped demand for Brazilian exports.  BRF - Brasil Foods SA, the world’s largest poultry
exporter, fell after reporting first-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates, pushing its monthly decline to 3.2 percent.
 Redecard SA (RDCD3) , Brazil’s second-biggest card-payment processor,
extended its April loss to 9.5 percent after controller  Itau
Unibanco (ITUB)  said it may give up on its plan to buy out minority
shareholders if a second valuation of the company indicates a
price higher than it initially offered.  The Bovespa retreated 4.2 percent this month as mounting
signs of a slowdown in China, the country’s main trading
partner, stoked speculation that demand for commodities exports
may falter. The gauge added 0.2 percent to 61,820.26 today after
erasing an earlier drop of as much as 0.8 percent.  “After regaining confidence in the beginning of this year,
investors turned cautious again with data that showed  China  is
slowing down, the  U.S. economy  is not recovering so fast and the
debt crisis in  Europe  is far from a happy end,”  Pedro Galdi , an
analyst at SLW Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Brazilian economy and markets are very dependent on these
other countries. And we see clearly a shift out of risk
assets.”  Spain’s Recession  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, putting the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
into recession as it struggles to cut its  budget deficit .
 Consumer spending  in the U.S., which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, increased 0.3 percent in March after the
biggest gain since August 2009, while an Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. report showed business activity expanded
in April at the slowest pace since 2009.  Brasil Foods  dropped 2.8 percent today to 34.85 reais, the
most in a month. First-quarter net income slumped to 153 million
reais, from 383 million reais a year earlier, company said April
27 after markets closed. That compares with a 243.7 million-real
average estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Redecard fell 0.8 percent to 32.10 reais. Itau, Latin
America’s biggest lender by market value, said it may give up
its plan to buy out the company’s minority shareholders for 11.8
billion reais after Lazard Asset Management LLC, Redecard’s
second-biggest investor with a 10 percent stake, asked for a new
appraisal. Itau reaffirmed its offer of 35 reais a share,
according to a regulatory filing today, and said it won’t
increase its bid if a second valuation of the company indicates
a higher price.  BTG Pactual Drops  Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Bank led by Brazilian billionaire
 Andre Esteves , fell for the first time below the price of its
initial public offering in  Sao Paulo . Shares dropped 2.1 percent
to 30.59 reais at the close of trading.  Brazilian markets will be closed tomorrow for a national
holiday.  The Bovespa trades at 10.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the 10.6 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure
of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading  volume  was 4.86 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.23 billion reais this year through April
27, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  