-- Brent Oil Heads for First Monthly Drop Since December
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-30T12:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/brent-oil-heads-for-first-monthly-drop-since-december-on-demand.html
Brent crude  headed for its first
monthly decline this year amid concern that  Europe ’s economic
recovery is stalling.  Futures dropped as much as 0.7 percent, extending this
month’s decline to 2.9 percent.  Spain ’s economy contracted in
the first quarter, sending the country into its second recession
since 2009, the National Statistics Institute said. The
country’s ministers will hold a press conference today on
measures to cut its  budget deficit . Equities dropped.  “Brent oil started the week in negative territory, amid
persistent concerns about a slowdown in the oil demand,
following poor economic data from Spain that showed the Spanish
economy is sliding back into recession,” Myrto Sokou, an
analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, said by e-mail.
“The situation in the  euro zone  looks very vulnerable.”  Brent for June settlement was at $119.27 a barrel, down 56
cents, on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as of 12:48
p.m. local time. Prices are poised for their first monthly drop
since December. The European benchmark contract’s front-month
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate was at $15.01, compared with
$14.90 on April 27.  Crude for June delivery was at $104.31 a barrel, down 62
cents, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices rebounded 1.3
percent this month after a 3.8 percent decline in March.  Brent dropped to a 10-week low of $116.70 a barrel this
month, partly because of signs of easing tensions between  Iran 
and Western nations. The first international talks on  Iran’s
nuclear program  in more than a year yielded an agreement to
reconvene next month and were called “constructive” by the two
lead negotiators from Iran and the European Union.  Iran Stance  “The market has a shaky feel to it, with Iran now looking
less hawkish and the euro-zone debt crisis rearing its head once
again,” analysts at KBC Energy Economics, a consultant based in
Walton-on-Thames, England, said in an e-mailed note.  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced bullish bets
on Brent crude by 8,968 contracts in the week ended April 24,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Oil demand may fall in the second half of the year, pushing
up global stockpiles, Ole Hansen, a senior manager of trading
advisory at Saxo Bank A/S, said by phone from Copenhagen. U.S.
crude inventories rose for the past five weeks, according to the
Energy Department.  Money managers, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity trading advisers, cut bullish oil wagers by 2,878, or
1.4 percent, to 196,426 futures and options combined in the
seven days ended April 24, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on April 27.  In gasoline, hedge funds cut bullish bets by the most in
four months as demand dropped and refiners negotiated to save
two East Coast plants from the scrap heap, allaying concern of a
supply shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  