-- Britain’s High-Speed Mobile Service to Cost $9 Billion
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-04-30T11:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/britain-s-high-speed-mobile-service-to-cost-9-billion.html
Everything Everywhere said its plan
to offer high-speed mobile-phone services as the first U.K.
operator will spur rivals including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  to
increase investments as carriers need to spend 5.5 billion
pounds ($9 billion) on the service by 2015.  The U.K. venture of  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  has asked regulators for permission to deploy the faster
technology on its existing airwaves, as it targets a so-called
fourth-generation service by the end of this year. Vodafone has
opposed the move, seeking to prevent London-based Everything
Everywhere from offering faster services before anyone else.  “This will spur investment in the U.K.”, Everything
Everywhere Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee said today in an
interview. “Without 4G, it’s really difficult for our networks
to cope with the traffic.”  Everything Everywhere wants to move ahead of rivals, who
are waiting for more frequencies to become available before
starting their own services. The carriers are betting that high-
speed services will persuade subscribers to use more
applications on smartphones including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
handsets using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  “We strongly believe that a competitive market for 4G
services – as exists in other European markets – is in the best
interests of everyone,” Vodafone said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Everything Everywhere today said operators will spend 5.5
billion pounds to upgrade equipment and build out new networks
by 2015, citing research it commissioned from  Capital Economics .  Everything Everywhere is spending 1.5 billion pounds over
three years to cope with soaring demand for mobile Web services
and will invest about 9 percent of its revenue, or more than 500
million pounds per year, on the network thereafter, Swantee
said.  Everything Everywhere will submit further documents to U.K.
regulator Ofcom by May 8, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  