-- Canada Dollar Falls as Economy Decline Trims Rate View
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-04-30T21:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/canada-dollar-falls-as-economy-decline-trims-rate-view.html
Canada ’s dollar fell the most in
one month against its U.S. counterpart after the nation’s gross
domestic product unexpectedly shrank in February, weakening the
argument for higher borrowing costs.  The currency extended losses after a report showed the
economy was hurt by mining shutdowns and the first drop in
manufacturing in six months. The Canadian dollar advanced
against all of its major counterparts except the yen last week
on speculation the  Bank of Canada  will become the first among
Group of Seven peers to raise borrowing costs.  “The number this morning has taken the whole market by
surprise,” said  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the
online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp. “Aggressive long
positions in Canadian dollars were quickly taken out.” A long
position is a bet that an asset will increase in value.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, declined 0.7
percent to 98.72 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5:02 p.m. in Toronto
It fell as much as 0.9 percent, the most since March 20. The
currency touched 98 cents on April 27, the strongest since
September. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0130.  The loonie has appreciated 1.2 percent this month versus
the greenback in the fourth-best performance among its 16 most-
traded peers, trailing the yen, the pound and  Singapore ’s
dollar. The Canadian dollar is up 3.4 percent this year.  Rate Projections  The probability central bank Governor  Mark Carney  will
raise rates by September fell to about 66 percent after the GDP
report, representing 22 basis points of tightening, or less than
a full quarter-percentage point, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on overnight index swaps. Odds were 75
percent at the end of last week, with 27 basis points priced in.  The Canadian dollar is likely to lose momentum later this
year as “markets realize that the Bank of Canada isn’t going to
be able to tighten in the way it’s pricing in,”  Jeremy Stretch ,
head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Stretch said he is
forecasting a price of 96 cents per U.S. dollar and parity by
the end of the year, and no interest-rate move by the Bank of
Canada this year.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark two-year yield
down eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.34
percent, the biggest one-day drop since Dec. 1. The price of the
0.75 percent securities due in May 2014 advanced 16 cents to
C$98.85.  Economic Data  Economic output fell 0.2 percent to an annualized C$1.28
trillion ($1.30 trillion) after a January gain of 0.1 percent,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had forecast a 0.2 percent increase, according to
the median of 24 responses.  The world’s 10th largest economy will be challenged by the
“persistent strength” of the Canadian dollar and slow growth
in the U.S. and  Europe , Carney said in April 27 remarks in
Ottawa. Carney is relying on consumption and housing to
contribute two-thirds of the country’s projected 2.4 percent
economic growth this year.  The Canadian dollar rose 1.1 percent during the past three
months in the third-best performance among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The biggest gainer was the British pound, up
2.6 percent.  “We’ve seen investors adding to long positions; I think
there is some way to run in that,” Stretch said. “The question
is whether the data will be strong enough to back up that degree
of rate tightening. I’m not convinced it’s going to come through
in the way markets are anticipating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  