-- Canada Feb. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-04-30T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/canada-feb-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Feb. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product declined 0.2% in February.
Temporary closures in mining and other goods-producing
industries contributed to the decline. Decreases in mining and
oil and gas extraction, manufacturing, utilities as well as
forestry and logging outpaced advances in construction. In
service-producing industries, gains in wholesale trade and in
the finance and insurance sector outweighed declines in retail
trade and in the transportation and warehousing sector.  Mining and oil and gas extraction falls  Mining and oil and gas extraction fell 1.6% in February
following a small decrease in January and a 2.0% increase in
December. Excluding oil and gas extraction, mining declined 7.0%
in February, as output at potash and nickel mines was reduced by
temporary shutdowns. Potash mining was down 19% as a result of
the closure of mines in Saskatchewan in response to weak world
demand. Copper, nickel, lead and zinc mining declined 9.9% as
several nickel mines in Ontario, which also produce copper and
precious metals, were closed for safety issues in early February.  Oil and gas extraction decreased 0.9%. Crude petroleum
production declined partly as a result of unplanned maintenance
activities in  Alberta . Natural gas production was also down.
Storage levels of natural gas remained high in February. Support
activities for mining and oil and gas extraction increased 1.6%.  Manufacturing declines  Manufacturing declined 1.2% in February after increasing
for five consecutive months. Non-durable goods manufacturing
decreased 1.4% on reduced output of food, chemical, and plastic
and rubber products. Durable goods production fell 0.9% as lower
output in transportation equipment and primary metal
manufacturing more than offset increases in non-metallic mineral
products and machinery manufacturing.  Utilities decrease  The output of utilities decreased 1.9% in February, partly
as a result of unseasonably warm weather leading to lower demand
for electricity and natural gas. Output of electricity was also
lowered by planned maintenance activities at some facilities.  Construction and home resale market up  Construction rose 0.5% in February with increases in
residential and non-residential building construction as well as
in engineering and repair work. The output of real estate agents
and brokers increased 1.1% in February on increased activity in
the home resale market.  Wholesale trade increases while retail is down  Wholesale trade (+1.5%) increased in February for a third
month in a row, on the strength of wholesaling of building
materials, motor vehicles and parts, machinery and equipment as
well as personal and household goods. In contrast, wholesaling
of petroleum and farm products declined.  Retail trade (-0.4%) decreased for a second consecutive
month. The decrease was led by a decline in activities at new
car dealers, which experienced a notable increase in January.
Excluding new car dealers, retail trade edged down 0.1% in
February. Decreases at food and beverage stores, health and
personal care stores as well as electronics and appliance stores
outweighed increases at building materials stores, clothing
stores and general merchandise stores.  Transportation and warehousing services decline  Transportation and warehousing services declined 0.9%, as
trucking and support activities for transportation were affected
by the weakness in other industries.  The finance and insurance sector rose  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.5%. Management
activity of mutual funds, residential mortgages and personal
loans as well as the brokerage of securities increased. The
output of insurance carriers was also up.  Other industries  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) was unchanged in February as gains in
 health services  were offset by decreases in education services
and public administration.  Forestry and logging as well as accommodation and food
services declined.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2011. For more information about
monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  