-- Carlyle Counts on Trader Petrick to Broaden IPO’s Appeal
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-04-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/carlyle-counts-on-trader-petrick-to-broaden-ipo-s-appeal.html
As  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s management
fanned out across the globe over the past two weeks to pitch its
initial stock sale, the man whose business is critical to the
firm’s success as a public company was at his desk in New York.  Mitch Petrick, the 50-year-old head of Carlyle’s hedge-fund
and structured-credit group, isn’t the type who schmoozes with
investors or rubs elbows with superiors. At Morgan Stanley,
where Petrick spent 20 years gaining a reputation as a hardnosed
trader, he preferred reading through stacks of offering
memorandums to the small talk and after-work drinks that others
used to build teams and win promotions, according to interviews
with seven former executives at the bank.  That attitude stands out at Washington-based Carlyle, a 25-
year-old firm run by deal makers who have thrived by carefully
tending political and corporate relationships, while struggling
to break into markets such as hedge funds and debt trading where
rivals have expanded. That’s starting to change under Petrick,
whose success is necessary for the firm to convince potential
shareholders it has evolved from a specialized buyout shop into
a  diversified  asset manager with a more stable revenue base.  “Diversification is crucial to create a sustainable, long-
term business that’s not personality-driven,” Richard Marin,
former chief executive officer of Bear Stearns Cos. asset
management unit, said in a telephone interview. “You need that
so you can’t literally have the wind taken out of your sails
because one segment of the industry goes into a decline.”  Rubenstein’s Forecast  Carlyle, which is scheduled to price its initial public
offering on May 2, is seeking a market capitalization of as much
as $7.6 billion. That’s about three-quarters the value of KKR &
Co., even though KKR manages less than half the assets of
Carlyle. The firm would have half the market capitalization of
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which oversees 29 percent more money.
Carlyle’s numbers are as of Dec. 31, the most recent available.
KKR and Blackstone assets are as of March 31.  Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  told investors in New
York last week the firm is selling its shares at a discount to
competitors to increase the chances that shareholders see gains
after the IPO. Most private-equity IPOs have fared poorly.
Blackstone has  lost  about half of its value since selling shares
in 2007.  Yet the lower valuation for Carlyle also reflects that it
has trailed Blackstone and KKR, which are both based in New
York, in reducing its reliance on leveraged buyouts, a business
whose fees rise and fall with the value of fund holdings.  Relying on Buyouts  Carlyle depends on private equity for more than half of its
revenue, compared with almost 18 percent at Blackstone. The
company’s fee-related earnings, which exclude its cut of profits
from buyout investments, have over the past three years lagged
behind those of Blackstone and KKR. Fee-related earnings are a
key metric for public investors.  Stockholders put less value on buyout profits, also known
as performance fees or carry, because they are unpredictable,
especially during an economic slowdown when it’s tougher to exit
investments.  Carlyle last year met privately with analysts in an effort
to convince them it should be worth at least as much as
Blackstone, people briefed on the meetings said in August.
Carlyle has one of the most global private-equity businesses in
the industry with 26 funds dedicated to specific regions from
the Middle East and North Africa to  South America .  Private Investors  Private-equity firms pool money from investors such as
pension plans and endowments, with a mandate to buy companies,
overhaul and then sell them, and return funds with a profit
after about 10 years. The firms, which use debt to finance the
transactions and amplify returns, typically charge an annual
management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed
funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Hedge funds raise money from many of the same investors and
have a similar fee structure, though they usually don’t lock up
capital for long periods and buy more liquid assets. Unlike most
mutual funds, they can bet on rising and falling securities.  To reduce reliance on buyouts, Carlyle last year acquired a
private-equity fund-of-funds business. It recruited Petrick in
2010, one of the firm’s biggest executive hires ever, to expand
investments various types of credit, equities and other liquid
alternative assets.  Those efforts have helped the firm triple assets under
management since 2006 to $147 billion. Petrick’s global market
strategies unit has almost doubled assets and quadrupled revenue
since he started, and now employs 145 professionals overseeing
$24.5 billion, or 16 percent of Carlyle’s assets as of Dec. 31.
His business accounts for more than 19 percent of Carlyle’s
economic net income and has the highest growth rate within the
firm, co-founder  Daniel D’Aniello  told investors this month.  Aiming for CEO  Petrick declined to comment for this story, as did  Chris
Ullman , a spokesman for the firm. Companies close to an IPO
usually refrain from speaking publicly to avoid violating rules
on promoting stock sales. The people who spoke about Petrick’s
career and personality asked not to be identified because they
didn’t have his approval to speak publicly.  Petrick, who received a B.S. in chemistry and economics
from Grinnell College in  Iowa  and a master’s of business
administration in finance from the University of  Chicago , spent
the bulk of his career at Morgan Stanley.  Two people familiar with his plans at the time said he had
his sights set on one day running the New York-based bank. He
worked 15-hour days, according to one of his former colleagues,
and was promoted to head of sales and trading in 2007 after his
boss at the time, Zoe Cruz, was fired.  Cleaning Up  Petrick was part of a team assigned to clean up the bank’s
balance sheet, which had ballooned to more than $1 trillion, was
leveraged more than 30 times and held more than $10 billion of
subprime assets. The firm was coming off a quarter in which it
had written down more than $9 billion related to mortgage
assets, leading to its first-ever quarterly loss.  “When many people at the bank thought the world was coming
to an end, Mitch took a surprisingly reassuring tone by saying
we’d see the other side of it,” said Thomas Nides, the bank’s
former chief operating officer and a deputy secretary for
management and resources at the U.S. State Department. “Then he
went to work grinding through the portfolio, selling toxic
mortgages and assets.”  His weakness, Nides said, is “he expects people to work as
hard he does.”  Detail-Oriented  Among the deals Petrick was involved in at Morgan Stanley
was the turnaround of Marvel Entertainment. Morgan Stanley was a
creditor when the comic book publisher sought  bankruptcy
protection . Petrick persuaded other debtors in the late 1990s to
back the company’s turnaround plan. In 2009, Walt Disney Co.
agreed to buy Marvel Entertainment for about $4 billion in stock
and cash.  In 2007, he and other Morgan Stanley executives were
responsible for a 2007 deal to back construction of Revel, a
3,800-room resort in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey . The investment
turned sour after Atlantic City casino revenue registered its
worst decline ever in 2009 and financing markets had dried up.
Morgan Stanley wrote down its $1.2 billion investment a year
later. The resort’s developer has since found new backers and
the casino opened on this year.  James Gorman , Morgan Stanley’s current chief executive
officer, ousted Petrick in 2009 as part of a broader management
shuffle and after revenue in Petrick’s division fell below
rivals.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on Petrick’s departure.  Culture of Collaboration  People who worked with Petrick describe him as detail-
oriented, thoughtful about risk and technology, and fair. He had
few friends and kept his thoughts to himself, though he could be
very blunt when he did talk, said one these people.  “A trading background is extremely helpful for a senior
investment guy,” said Marin. “That said, trading is not asset
management.”  Before Petrick joined in 2010, Carlyle’s credit business
was a loose collection of funds with 57 investment
professionals. Although offerings included distressed and
mezzanine funds, the cornerstone of Carlyle’s credit business
was a manager of collateralized loans.  The firm consolidated those operations under Petrick, who
then went on a year-long deal-making spree, scouting for teams
with investing strategies that could set Carlyle’s offerings
apart. Today, Petrick’s unit oversees 46 active funds investing
in mezzanine debt, distressed assets, collateralized-loan
obligations and two recently acquired hedge funds.  Government Roots  For Carlyle, which prides itself on a culture of
collaboration, Petrick’s hire was the biggest commitment yet to
expanding these businesses, according to a person familiar with
the company, who asked not to be named because the person wasn’t
authorized to speak.  Unlike competitors who began their careers in  investment
banking , the three founders came from government and the Fortune
500. Rubenstein is a lawyer who worked in the administration of
President  Jimmy Carter . Co-founders D’Aniello and  William Conway 
held executive posts at Marriott International Inc. and MCI
Communications Corp., respectively. With its main competitors
domiciled in  New York  skyscrapers, Carlyle has maintained its
headquarters in second-floor offices along  Washington ’s
Pennsylvania Avenue.  The trio has built a firm that pushed into overseas markets
to raise funds and buy companies. For introductions and advice,
they tapped people like former U.S. Defense Secretary Frank
Carlucci; Louis Gerstner, the ex-CEO of International Business
Machines Corp.; and former Secretary of State  James Baker , once
a Carlyle senior adviser. Carlucci was the firm’s first
chairman.  Carlyle’s Deals  Carlyle’s earliest deals involved buying unwanted pieces of
defense contractors and selling them for profits several years
later. Even as Carlyle moved beyond government deals it
maintained a non-Wall Street feel.  “We differentiate ourselves by combining deep industry
expertise with a strong ‘One Carlyle’ cultural base of
collaboration across all of our funds and geographies,” said
D’Aniello in a pre-IPO marketing presentation posted on
RetailRoadShow.com. “In our business, information and resource
sharing are keys to success.”  Carlyle’s previous attempts to expand into the Wall Street
domain of credit trading left the firm scarred. A foray into
hedge funds ended when the credit crisis prompted Carlyle four
years ago to shut its only hedge fund, a venture it had started
with Deutsche Bank AG executives Rick Goldsmith and Ralph
Reynolds. Assets in that fund had dropped by a third to $600
million.  Madison Avenue  Another fund, the publicly traded mortgage-bond fund
Carlyle Capital Corp., was suspended from trading after it
failed to meet more than $400 million of margin calls on
mortgage-backed collateral. The firm had started the fund less
than two years before, hiring John Stomber, a former managing
director of Cerberus Capital Management LP, to head it.  Today, the Madison Avenue office where Petrick works is
Carlyle’s biggest. Petrick’s unit is larger than KKR’s credit
business, which has tripled in size over the past five years to
$15.4 billion as of Dec. 31 and was responsible for 7.7 percent
of profit last year. KKR oversees $62.3 billion across all
units.  Blackstone’s credit investment arm, GSO Capital Partners
LP, managed $37 billion, about 22 percent of the New York firm’s
assets at the end of last year. GSO has 92 deal makers in
offices in New York,  London  and Houston.  Carlyle has “fantastic relationships in places like the
 Middle East , but if you’re only selling blue widgets and the
world is buying the full rainbow, what a missed opportunity,”
said Marin, the former CEO of Bear Stearns Asset Management.
“And obviously that’s the opportunity Carlyle is trying to
seize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  