-- Celtics Guard Rajon Rondo Suspended 1 Game for Bumping Official
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/celtics-guard-rajon-rondo-suspended-1-game-for-bumping-official.html
Boston Celtics All-Star point guard
 Rajon Rondo  will miss tonight’s playoff game at the  Atlanta
Hawks  because of a suspension he received for bumping a referee
in the previous game.  Rondo yesterday was suspended one game without pay by the
 National Basketball Association , his second punishment this
season for his conduct toward an official.  “Rondo is an emotional player,” Celtics coach Doc Rivers
told reporters yesterday before the suspension was announced.
“You know the old saying, ‘I would rather kindle a fire than
start one.’ I like his fire and sometimes he burns you. I like
the fire that he has.”  The Celtics trail 1-0 in the best-of-seven Eastern
Conference first-round series. Now they’ll have to play Game 2
without the player who led the NBA this season with an average
of 11.7 assists per game.  Rondo, 26, was suspended for two games in February for
throwing a ball at an official.  “He is a fighter for his team,” Rivers said. “You didn’t
want him to go that far, obviously. It’s just who he is. It’s
also what makes him great. It’s that fine line that you have to
walk and every once in a while, he crosses it.”  Rondo was ejected following an altercation with a referee
in the closing minute of the series opener two days ago, an 83-
74 loss to the Hawks. The suspension was announced yesterday in
an e-mailed release from NBA Executive Vice President of
Basketball Operations Stu Jackson.  With 41 seconds remaining in Game 1, Rondo objected to a
foul that referee Marc Davis called on Boston forward Brandon Bass. Rondo yelled at the official, and bumped into Davis’s back.  Accidental Contact  Rondo left with 20 points, 11 assists and four steals. He
told reporters that, while he was upset about the call, the
contact with Davis was unintentional.  “As I was walking, I thought he stopped and my momentum
carried me into him,” Rondo said. “I didn’t intentionally
chest bump him, but that’s what it appears to be.”  The Celtics have advanced past the first round of the
playoffs in every year since Rondo’s second season in 2008, when
the team won its most recent NBA title. The guard is averaging
13.9 points, 8.5 assists and 5.8 rebounds in 74 career playoff
games.  “We have a hard and fast rule,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  told ESPN radio before the announcement of the suspension.
“Unless someone trips you and sends you into him, you don’t
touch a referee.”  -- Editors: Dex McLuskey, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  