-- Chavez Puts His Trust in Christ as He Heads for Cancer Treatment
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-04-30T20:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/chavez-seeks-permission-to-fly-to-cuba-for-more-cancer-treatment.html
Clutching a crucifix and holding
back tears, Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez  appeared live on
television for the first time in 17 days, saying he was counting
on Christ for help as he returns to Cuba for more cancer
treatment.  Addressing the nation on television from the Miraflores
presidential palace, Chavez said he’ll leave Venezuela today for
a sixth trip to the communist island this year. The National
Assembly today approved his request to be absent from the
country for more than five days.  “We’re in the final stretch of this radiation therapy,”
Chavez said in the nationwide broadcast. “These are not easy
days, but we are warriors ready to confront adversity. With this
infinite faith I depart and will return in a few days to
continue my recuperation.”  Since announcing in February he would require a third
operation to remove a second tumor from his pelvic area, Chavez
has spent more time in Cuba than  Venezuela , while insisting
he’ll recover in time to campaign in an October election for six
more years in office. His absences have sparked a rally in
Venezuelan bonds on speculation his illness will lead to a
change in government and policies that have stoked inflation and
driven away investment.  Chavez has refused to say what kind of cancer he has, where
it’s located or give his prognosis.  During today’s broadcast, filmed in front of a group of
ministers and officials, Chavez signed a new labor law.  Farewell Salute  Speaking about his health as he finished his speech, Chavez
said he hoped to be playing baseball in a few weeks and walking
the streets of Venezuela. As he made his customary farewell
salute, his voice cracked and as the cameras panned away he
looked down and appeared to be holding back tears.  Since the operation on Feb. 26, the former tank commander
has shuttled back and forth between Cuba and Venezuela as he
receives radiation treatment. He had said he would complete his
fifth and last session of radiation treatment during his
previous trip to Cuba.  Venezuelan bonds have returned 37.5 percent in the past
year, the most among  emerging markets , according to data
compiled by JP Morgan Chase & Co.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 fell 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 10.79
percent at 15:04 p.m. in Caracas, the most in two months
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
1.83 cents to 88.53 cents on the dollar.  Bond Rally  “Venezuela has been outperforming in the last few days
because of ongoing questions about Chavez’s health,”  Jeff Williams , an emerging market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc.,
said in a phone interview from  New York . “There are concerns
longer term, but there’s still a lot of room to rally.”  Bonds issued by state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA
were today the third most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers behind Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP) , with 124 trades of $1 million
or more as of 3:33 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Chavez last made a public television appearance on April
13, when he addressed followers from a balcony in the
presidential palace before departing for Cuba the following day.  Since state television aired images of his return on April
26, Chavez hadn’t appeared in public, choosing instead to call
into television events or send messages on his Twitter account.  Chavez’s opponent in October’s presidential election,
Henrique Capriles Radonski, called on the Venezuelan leader
yesterday to be more transparent about the state of his health.  As he bade farewell, Chavez held up a crucifix, saying it
was the same one he had carried with him when he was removed
from power and sent to an island off the Venezuelan coast after
taking part in a 2002 failed coup.  “It’s the same one I had when I thought I was going to die
but a miracle occurred,” Chavez said. “I’m sure that our
Christ will repeat this miracle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 