-- Chicago Gasoline Jumps to Three-Month High on BP Pump Failure
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-04-30T22:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/chicago-gasoline-jumps-to-three-month-high-on-bp-pump-failure.html
Chicago  gasoline advanced to the
highest level against gasoline futures in more than three months
after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting refinery had a pump failure that kept it
from sending products over the West Shore pipeline.  A “pump issue” at the 420,000-barrel-a-day Whiting
refinery prevented the company from delivering products to the
West Shore pipeline near Chicago, said Marty White, right-of-way
director for  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL) , which operates the line. The
malfunction forced BP to make its deliveries from other sources,
he said.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Chicago jumped 8 cents
to a discount of 0.5 cent a gallon against gasoline futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 4:52 p.m. New York
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest level for the fuel in Chicago since Jan. 10.  The artery connecting the Whiting refinery to the West
Shore line is expected to be reopened tomorrow, White said.
Operations on the pipeline, which carries refined products from
the Chicago area to Madison,  Wisconsin , weren’t affected, he
said.  The discount for the same fuel in the Gulf Coast region
widened 0.87 cent to 17 cents versus gasoline futures, the
lowest level for the fuel since March 15.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  started the crude and coker units at
the 250,000-barrel-a-day St. Charles refinery after more than
three months of work,  Bill Day , a spokesman at the company’s
headquarters in  San Antonio , said in an e-mailed statement. The
310,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur plant also finished catalyst
work on the hydrocracker that began March 27, he said.  The discount for conventional gasoline in New York Harbor
narrowed by 0.5 cent to 10.5 cents a gallon against gasoline
futures.  Unleaded gasoline in the Midwest, or Group 3, was unchanged
at a 19-cent discount to futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  