-- Manufacturing Cools Even as U.S. Consumers Still Spend
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-30T22:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/chicago-purchasing-managers-index-decreased-in-april.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded in April at the slowest pace since the end of 2009,
adding to evidence that manufacturing is cooling.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its  barometer  decreased to 56.2 during the month, lower than the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 62.2
in March. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  The pace of production eased in April, reflecting a
recession in Europe and a slowdown in  China  that may keep
holding back orders. A separate report today showed U.S.
 consumer spending  and incomes climbed in March, indicating that
household demand will help underpin the economy as long as the
job market continues to heal.  “We’re likely to see manufacturing growth ease a bit,”
said  Peter Newland , a U.S. economist at Barclays in New York.
“A gradual improvement in the labor market is going to be key
for consumer spending. This is consistent with further moderate
growth.”  Economists projected the purchasing managers’ gauge would
fall to 60, according to the median of 55 estimates in the
survey. Projections ranged from 58 to 62.9.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased 0.3 percent in March, after a revised 0.9
percent gain the prior month that was stronger than first
reported, Commerce Department figures showed. The median
estimate of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.4
percent rise.  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  declined, halting a four-
month advance, after the Chicago index and a report showing
 Spain ’s economy entered into a recession. The  S&P 500  slid 0.4
percent to 1,397.91 at the close of trading in New York. The
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 1.92
percent from 1.94 percent on April 27.  Spain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
the same as in the previous three months, the Madrid-based
National Statistics Institute said today. The contraction put
the euro region’s fourth-largest economy into its second
recession since 2009.  Other reports today showed  Taiwan ’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009,  Singapore ’s jobless rate unexpectedly
rose and growth in South Korean industrial output eased in
March, underscoring the impact of  Europe ’s crisis on trade-
reliant Asian economies.  American companies are also bracing for the impact.  Headwinds From Europe  “We continue to anticipate headwinds from continued
economic uncertainty in Europe,” Juan Figuereo, chief financial
officer at Atlanta-based household products maker Newell
Rubbermaid Inc., said on an April 27 conference call with
analysts. Still, “we are seeing continued momentum in our
 emerging markets .”  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, is among companies still seeing gains in
demand. The Peoria, Illinois-based company last week raised its
earnings forecast and posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates.  Economists watch the Chicago index and regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  Data from the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and  New
York  showed manufacturing expanded at a slower pace in April.  ISM Report  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s national factory
index probably slid to 53 in April from 53.4 the prior month,
according to the median projection in a Bloomberg survey ahead
of the group’s report tomorrow. As in the Chicago survey, a
reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  The Chicago group’s  production gauge  decreased to 57.1, the
weakest since September 2009, from 68.6, today’s report showed.
The index of  new orders  dropped to 57.4, the lowest in 11
months, from 63.3. The employment measure climbed to 58.7 from
56.3 the prior month.  Income gains may help fuel demand. Today’s Commerce
Department report showed incomes advanced 0.4 percent, the most
in three months, and the savings rate rose.  Even with the slowdown in March, household purchases grew
in the first quarter by the most in more than a year as sales
climbed at  car dealerships  and retailers like Target Corp.  A pickup in hiring and wages is needed to maintain last
quarter’s pace of spending. Hiring probably accelerated in April
after the weakest gain in five months, and the jobless rate
stayed at 8.2 percent, showing improvement in the labor market,
economists said before reports this week.  Employment Data  Payrolls climbed by about 160,000 workers after a 120,000
gain in March, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey before Labor Department data due May 4. Employers
increased payrolls by 635,000 from January through March, the
biggest quarterly gain since the first three months of 2006.  Unseasonably mild temperatures may have also spurred
Americans to dine out and shop. The January to March period was
the warmest first quarter in records going back to 1895,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Retailers posted gains in March as stores offered discounts
and shoppers stocked up early on spring gear. March same-store
sales at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and  Gap
Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. apparel chain, beat the average estimate
of analysts. Cars  sold  last quarter at the fastest pace in four
years, according to industry data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra at 
 Schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  