-- Chile Demand Surged in March as Copper Production Slowed
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-30T15:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/chile-demand-surged-in-march-as-copper-production-slowed.html
Chilean retail and supermarket
sales surged in March, even as manufacturing slowed, fueling
speculation that the central bank will raise its key  interest
rate  toward the end of the year.  Retail sales rose 9.2 percent last month from the previous
year and supermarket revenue climbed 10.3 percent, the National
Statistics Institute said in a report today. Manufacturing
expanded 0.2 percent, compared with the 3 percent median
estimate of 13 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Mining contracted
0.6 percent as copper output declined.  Five interest rate increases by the central bank last year
have failed to slow internal demand and economic growth, which
exceeded market forecasts in two of the past three months. Last
month’s deceleration in manufacturing is unlikely to deter
policy makers from raising borrowing costs toward the year-end,
Banco Santander Chile economist Juan Pablo Castro said today.  “Industry isn’t what’s driving the economy today, and
nobody would think that because the driver is internal demand,”
he said by telephone from Santiago. “March numbers continue to
confirm the economic trend we’ve seen recently, as data on
demand is particularly strong.”  Chile’s peso declined 0.2 percent to 484.41 per  U.S. dollar 
at 10:25 a.m. Santiago time from April 27.  Thirty of the 60 of traders and investors surveyed by the
central bank on April 24 forecast policy makers will raise
borrowing costs within six months after a surprise reduction in
January. The bank has kept rates unchanged for its past three
monthly meetings.  Economic Growth  The  Imacec index , which acts as a proxy for gross domestic
product in the world’s leading copper producer, expanded 6.1
percent in February from the previous year and 5.5 percent in
January. GDP will expand 4 percent to 5 percent in 2012 after
surging 6 percent in 2011, according to central bank forecasts.  Chile’s economy probably will start a “moderate”
deceleration in the second or third quarter, Scotiabank Chile
economist Benjamin Sierra said by phone on April 27.  “We still haven’t started paying the price for last year’s
increase in the monetary policy rate, which of course will have
to have an impact on growth,” he said.  Chile produced 423,064 metric tons of copper in March, down
2.6 percent from the previous year, the statistics institute
said today. Production of wood and oil derivatives declined 7.7
percent and 13.9 percent respectively over the same period as
output of paper climbed 1.5 percent.  Unemployment Rate  The  jobless rate  rose to 6.6 percent in the three months
through March from 6.4 percent in February, and compared with
7.3 percent in the year-earlier period, the institute said today
in a separate report. The increase was in line with the median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Unemployment typically increases after summer ends in
February, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told a tax forum in
Santiago last week.  “The labor market remains tight,”  Alberto Ramos , a Latin
America economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note e-
mailed to investors today. “The economy is operating at around
full employment.”  Inflation dropped to 3.8 percent in March from 4.4 percent
in February. Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or
minus 1 percentage point over two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 