-- China’s Population Crash Could Upend U.S. Policy
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/china-s-population-crash-could-upend-u-s-policy.html
It isn’t quite true that demography is
destiny. But if Nicholas Eberstadt is right, our destiny is
going to be shaped by demography in ways we may not expect.  Eberstadt studies demographics for the  American Enterprise
Institute , and makes projections in full awareness that the
field has gotten the future wrong before. In the 20th century,
the global population increased almost fourfold, to 6.1 billion
from 1.6 billion.  “Nothing like this magnitude or tempo of population change
had ever previously been witnessed in the history of our
species,”  he has written .  It was reasonable to fear, as many people did during that
period, that the result would be mass famines. Instead, the
world saw rising prosperity.  Today’s most important population trend is falling
birthrates. The world’s total fertility rate -- the number of
children the average woman will bear over her lifetime -- has
dropped to 2.6 today from 4.9 in 1960. Half of the people in the
world live in countries where the fertility rate is below what
demographers reckon is the replacement level of 2.1, and are
thus in shrinking societies.  A Few Predictions  In the U.S., we are accustomed to thinking about how this
trend affects the welfare state: Longer lives and fewer children
make it harder to finance retirement programs. But the rest of
the developed world is aging faster, and it’s worth thinking
about how that will change America’s global position, as well.  As Eberstadt points out, we can make predictions about the
next 20 years with reasonable accuracy. The U.S.’s traditional
allies in western  Europe  and  Japan  will have less weight in the
world. Already the median age in western Europe is higher than
that of the U.S.’s oldest state: Florida. That median age is
rising 1.5 days every week. Japan had only 40 percent as many
births in 2007 as it had in 1947.  These countries will have smaller workforces, lower savings
rates and higher government debt as a result of their aging.
They will probably lose dynamism, as well.  All these effects will, in turn, almost certainly make
these countries even less willing than they already are to spend
money on their armed forces. Americans who want Europe to bear
more of the free world’s military burden -- or even provide for
its own defense -- are probably going to be disappointed. So
will those who expect Europe to take on humanitarian missions.
It won’t even be able to maintain its current weight in future
debates about the values of peace and democracy.  But one country that worries American military strategists
will also face serious demographic challenges.  China ’s rise over
the last generation has been stunning, but straight-line
projections of its future power and influence ignore that its
 birthrate  is 30 percent below the replacement rate.  The Census Bureau  predicts  that China’s population will
peak in 2026, just 14 years from now. Its  labor force  will
shrink, and its over-65 population will more than double over
the next 20 years, from 115 million to 240 million. It will age
very rapidly. Only Japan has aged faster -- and Japan had the
great advantage of growing rich before it grew old. By 2030,
China will have a slightly higher proportion of the population
that is elderly than western Europe does today -- and western
Europe, recall, has a higher median age than  Florida .  China’s Challenges  China, notoriously, has another demographic challenge. The
normal sex ratio at birth is about 103 to 105 boys for every 100
girls. In China, as a result of the one-child policy and sex-
selective abortion, that ratio  has been  120 boys for every 100
girls. From 2000 to 2030, the percentage of men in their late
30s who have never been married is projected to quintuple.
Eberstadt doesn’t believe that having an “army of
unmarriageable young men” will improve the country’s economy or
social cohesion.  He thinks demographic change will pose two problems
specific to China. Its society has relied heavily on trust
relationships within extended-family networks. In a country
where fewer and fewer people will have uncles, those networks
will rapidly atrophy. The government, meanwhile, relies for its
legitimacy on a level of economic performance that demographic
trends imperil.  All in all, Eberstadt concludes, “we might want to have
some additional new friends and allies in the world.” America’s
growing ties to  India , a nation he describes as “aging
moderately,” strike him as promising. But he warns that it has
not made the most of its population: “India has an appalling
education deficit.”  Foreign-policy thinkers can often lose sight of demographic
trends, Eberstadt says, because from a policy makers’ view
“they tend to look really glacial. If it’s not happening in the
next 48 to 72 hours, it’s not in the inbox.” But “population
change gradually and very unforgivingly alters the realm of the
possible.”  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Osama bin Laden
anniversary  and  Spain ’s  labor reforms ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the
 death of Benzion Netanyahu ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
on the  benefits of work-sharing ; and Peter Viktor Kunz on the
 benefits of Swiss banks .  To contact the author of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 