-- China Forestry Probe Verifies Under 1% of Reported Sales
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-30T08:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/china-forestry-probe-verifies-under-1-of-reported-sales.html
China Forestry Holdings Co. (930) , the
logging company that last week said its only able to account for
1 percent of its historical sales, still has value in its
assets, according to its third-largest holder, Carlyle Group.  “We believe the company has stabilized and is
recovering,” Brian Zhou, a Beijing-based spokesman of private
equity firm Carlyle, said today by phone. “It still has real
value. We’ll continue to be one of its shareholders.”  Chinese companies are facing increased investor scrutiny
after short seller Muddy Waters LLC last year alleged tree
grower Sino-Forest Corp. had overstated its timber holdings.
 China  Forestry said last week records kept by its units prove
only 8.8 million yuan ($1.39 million) in revenue for the three
years through 2010, compared with 2.4 billion yuan in earlier
disclosures.  “The valuation of forestry assets is more abstract,
leaving room for discrepancies,” as calculations may be done on
sample size forests, Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing
director of China Merchants Securities Co., said by phone.
Corporate governance in China also hinders valuations, he said.  Beijing-based China Forestry has been halted from trading
in Hong Kong since January last year as an independent committee
investigated accounting irregularities brought to light by its
auditor.  Carlyle Group , the world’s second-biggest buyout firm
by assets under management, holds 10.5 percent of the group,
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Carlyle Holding  Washington-based Carlyle held 322.7 million shares since
China Forestry sold shares at HK$2.07 in an initial public
offering in December 2009, according to a statement by China
Forestry. Investors have lost about HK$4.2 billion ($541
million) since China Forestry shares peaked in November 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Acting Chief Executive Officer Li Jian resigned April 15,
after the company’s  net loss  widened in 2011 as it struggled to
rebuild its management and business relationships, according to
separate filings on April 27. China Forestry hired Crowe Horwath
HK CPA Ltd. as its auditor in January replacing  KPMG  LLC which
resigned, saying the company needs to verify ownership and
valuation of assets.  “Last year, the company experienced difficulties in
resuming its business operations as more effort was put into the
investigations,” Chairman Li Kwok Cheong said in the 2011
annual report, which was released April 27. “As a result, the
recovery of our business was slower than expected and harvesting
and trading business were limited.”  Outstanding Bonds  China Forestry, which began operations in 2003, has forests
in Yunnan and Sichuan provinces. It owned or operated about
171,780 hectares of forests at the end of 2009, according to its
website.  China Forestry’s net loss for last year was 4.19 billion
yuan, compared with a net loss of 2.71 billion yuan in 2010.
Sales fell 63 percent to 392.3 million yuan  The company has $180 million of  bonds  outstanding with
10.25 percent interest rate, it said in its annual report. It
had 749.6 million yuan ($119.3 million) in cash and bank
balances as at Dec. 31, it said.  Financial statements for the years from 2006 through 2009
aren’t verifiable because the independent board committee
conducting the probe found that some of the underlying
supporting information isn’t available, the company said on
April 27, detailing findings from the investigation.  Police Detention  Most former managers who were involved in irregularities
refused to cooperate, the computer hard drives of key former
managers were reformatted and major customers declined to
provide information, according to the statement. Kunming Ultra
Big Forestry Resource Development Co., a unit in southwestern
China’s Yunnan province, was keeping a second set of accounting
records to those at the head office, China Forestry said.  China Forestry’s former CEO, Li Han Chun, was detained by
police in China’s Guizhou province in February 2011 for alleged
embezzlement of 30 million yuan, the company said in March 2011.
Li and his personal company allegedly committed insider dealings
when they sold 119 million shares of China Forestry through a
share placement,  Hong Kong ’s securities regulator said in March
2011.  The company formed a committee of independent directors in
January 2011 to conduct an inquiry after KPMG identified
irregularities. China Forestry said last April the bank
statements given to KPMG by the former management team were
falsified and some logging permits were fake.  Sino-Forest Bankruptcy  Hong Kong-and Mississauga, Ontario-based Sino-Forest
conducted an eight-month investigation that wasn’t able to reach
“definitive conclusions” about certain relationships with
suppliers and intermediaries of the company, it said in
February.  Sino-Forest filed for  bankruptcy protection  last month as
part of an accord with bondholders owed $1.8 billion to either
sell the company to a third party or undergo a restructuring
that would give them most of the remaining assets.  China Forestry said tax payments that could be verified by
Chinese authorities in 2008 and 2009 are “significantly less”
than amounts the company claimed, according to China Forestry’s
April 27 statement. The area covered by forestry rights
certificates reviewed by investigators represents about 41
percent of the area the company said it owned the rights to in
its 2010 annual report.  Personal Accounts  The investigation also discovered use of personal bank
accounts in receiving funds from sales of logs by some units,
and employees of indirectly held unit Yichun Jingfeng Forestry
Development Co. altered bank statements to cover up unapproved
payments, according to the filing.  Chairman Li will be the acting CEO before the company finds
a replacement. The company didn’t give a reason for Li Jian’s
departure.  Sino Forestry said today in a statement it’s making
improvements to its internal controls as recommended by a
consultant. Review of internal controls found that the company
lacked an internal audit department and standard procedures for
sales, it said.  Hong Kong’s  Financial Reporting Council  announced April 11
that it had identified 13 Chinese companies in need of close
monitoring. The agency, which investigates auditing and
reporting irregularities of publicly traded companies, declined
to name them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  