-- Chinese Competition Cited for U.S. SolarWorld Worker Aid
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-30T18:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/chinese-competition-cited-for-u-s-solarworld-worker-aid.html
Former employees of  SolarWorld AG (SWV) 
will get health and education assistance from the U.S.
Department of Labor after the government concluded they lost
their jobs due to unfair trade practices.  The federal government will provide “trade adjustment”
aid to employees out of work as a result of a shutdown of
SolarWorld’s plant in Camarillo,  California , according to an
April 27  notice  in the Federal Register. The assistance would
help many of the 186 laid-off employees, the company said.  The U.S. International Trade Commission, a quasi-judicial
group, said in December that domestic solar-energy companies
have been hurt by the imports. The Commerce Department suggested
duties of as much as 4.73 percent, though the complaint and
duties are still being adjudicated.  “How many more U.S. manufacturing jobs must the  United
States  lose in this most promising renewable-energy industry,
which Americans pioneered, before adequate remedies are put in
place to offset the illegal practices of Big  China  Solar?”
Gordon Brinser, president of SolarWorld Industries America Inc.,
said in a statement.  The Commerce Department decision only focused on wrongful
trade practices. It is scheduled to decide on May 17 whether to
add duties based on allegations the Chinese companies are
selling the products at a loss to drive out U.S. competition.  Campaign Issue  Trade between China and the U.S. has become an issue in the
U.S. presidential campaign. The trade deficit with China widened
to $295 billion last year and U.S. leaders have called for a
harder line on the Asian nation to drive down the 8.2 percent
U.S. unemployment rate.  Additionally, U.S. action in the solar industry has come
under fire after Solyndra LLC, which was backed by the Obama
administration, went bankrupt.  SolarWorld’s U.S. unit, based in Hillsboro,  Oregon , is
owned by the biggest German maker of solar modules, SolarWorld
AG of Bonn. The company said Sept. 2 that it was cutting almost
200 jobs at its Camarillo facility.  The trade-assistance program augments health and
unemployment benefits to workers who lose their jobs because of
overseas competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 