-- Coca-Cola Denies Discussions to Acquire Monster Beverage
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-30T22:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/coca-cola-says-it-isn-t-in-talks-to-acquire-monster-beverage.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  said it isn’t in
discussions to buy  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  after the Wall Street
Journal reported the companies were in talks. Monster fell after
posting the biggest intraday gain in almost eight years.  Monster dropped 0.8 percent to $65 in New York after
climbing as much as 28 percent, its biggest  intraday  gain since
May 7, 2004. The Corona, California-based company still has
risen 41 percent this year.  “At this time, we are not in discussions to acquire the
Monster Beverage Corporation,” Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, which
has a distribution deal with Monster, said in a statement today.
“We continue to review the best ways to maximize the value of
our relationship.”  Monster shopped itself to Coca-Cola and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  a year
ago, and both beverage companies passed on an acquisition,
citing the cost of a deal, said a person familiar with the
matter. A few months ago, Coca-Cola and Monster spoke again
about a deal, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the talks were private. Coca-Cola again decided Monster was too
expensive and pressed to start talks about an expanded
partnership that could lead to a small stake sale to Coca-Cola,
said the person.  The Journal, citing unidentified people familiar with the
situation, reported today that Coca-Cola was in talks to buy
Monster and may sell some of its bottling assets to pay for the
company. Monster trades at more than 30 times estimated 2012
 earnings , and Coca-Cola may not want to pay a large premium for
the beverage-maker because the two companies already have a
distribution deal, the Journal reported.  Monster Distribution  Coca-Cola already distributes almost half of Monster’s U.S.
volume.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  distributes roughly the same
amount with a few small distributors making up the balance.  Judy Lin Sfetcu, a spokeswoman for Monster, declined to
comment.  Peter Land , a PepsiCo spokesman, declined to comment.
 Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola, said the company had no
comment beyond the statement.  As of the April 27 close, Monster had a market
capitalization of about $11 billion. At that price it would be
Coca-Cola’s second-biggest deal after its $12.2 billion
acquisition of the North American operations of bottler Coca-
Cola Enterprises Inc. in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Monster, which got its start selling juices in the 1930s,
had the highest  operating margins  in the industry as of March
and was projected to boost earnings 70 percent in the next three
years, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed. U.S.
alternative-beverage sales reached almost $32 billion last year,
according to estimates by the Beverage Marketing Corp.  Energy Drinks  Monster Beverage, formerly known as Hansen Natural Corp.,
sold juices and sodas under the Hansen name before introducing
the first Monster Energy products in 2002 to capture growing
demand for drinks made with added caffeine or supplements to
deliver an energy boost. Monster brands, ranging from coffee-
based Java Monster to its Nitrous drink injected with nitrous
oxide, now account for about 91 percent of sales, according to
the company’s most recent annual statement.  Monster Beverage’s revenue climbed an average of 24 percent
in each of the past five years, compared with 15 percent for
Coca-Cola and 14 percent for PepsiCo, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Monster’s operating margin of 27 percent in 2011
was the highest among publicly traded North American soft-drink
companies with a market value greater than $500 million, the
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  