-- Collective Brands Said to Select Wolverine Over E-Land
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-30T20:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/collective-brands-said-to-select-wolverine-over-e-land.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) , owner of
the Payless ShoeSource chain, selected a group made up of
 Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW)  and Golden Gate Capital Corp. as the
leading contender to buy the company, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The acquisition may be announced early this week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The Wolverine-Golden Gate offer values Collective
Brands at $21 to $22 a share, and is likely to be chosen over a
bid from South Korean retailer E-Land Group, the people said.
The decision isn’t final and could change at the last minute as
the companies work out contract terms and financing, they said.  The buyers will gain Collective Brands’ Sperry Top-Sider,
Stride Rite, and Keds lines and the chance to continue a
turnaround at the U.S. Payless stores, where sales fell after
the company tried to introduce more expensive offerings, said
Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. in New
York. Wolverine owns the Merrell and Hush Puppies shoe brands,
while San Francisco-based  Golden Gate  has invested in brands
including Eddie Bauer and J. Jill.  Collective Brands fell 2 percent to $20.77 at the close in
New York. The shares have gained 45 percent this year. Wolverine
rose 6.6 percent to $41.95.  A takeover of Collective Brands would be the largest of a
U.S. footwear company since  VF Corp. (VFC)  paid $1.97 billion for
Timberland Co. last September, Bloomberg data show. Greensboro,
North Carolina-based VF paid 12.3 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, compared with
Collective Brands’s April 27 enterprise value to Ebitda multiple
of 15.2, the data show.  Strategic Alternatives  Spokespeople for Collective, Wolverine and Golden Gate
declined to comment on the potential deal. E-Land spokesman Ro
Byung Gyoo couldn’t be reached.  After reporting a $35 million loss in August, Collective
Brands said it would review strategic alternatives and shut 475
stores in the following three years. The Topeka, Kansas-based
company’s loss for the year ended Jan. 28 was  $164.5 million 
compared with a $112.8 million profit a year earlier.  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007. Its retail
operations, which included about 3,500 Payless ShoeSource
outlets in the U.S. last fiscal year, accounted for about 78
percent of revenue, according to a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The remainder came from its wholesale
business, which supplies Saucony, Sperry Top-Sider, Stride Rite
and Keds shoes to retailers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  