-- Colombia Peso Bond Yields Fall to One-Week Low on Rate Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-30T20:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/colombia-peso-bond-yields-hold-near-week-low-on-rate-outlook.html
Yields on  Colombia ’s peso bonds
fell to a one-week low as investors speculated the central bank
would refrain from increasing borrowing costs at a meeting
today.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
kept the  overnight lending rate  at 5.25 percent, matching the
forecast of all 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
decision was unanimous, Uribe told reporters after the meeting.
The announcement came after 1 p.m. Bogota time when Colombia’s
foreign-exchange and bond markets close. Uribe also said the
central bank extended its daily dollar purchases for at least
three more months to Nov. 2.  “The economy is growing but not as much as last year, and
inflation is under control,” said Francisco Chaves, a
strategist at brokerage Corredores Asociados in Bogota. “The
central bank has room to wait and see what future data show.”  The yield on Colombia’s 9.25 percent peso-denominated debt
due in May 2014 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 5.82 percent, according to the central bank. That’s the
lowest level on a closing basis since April 20. The bond’s price
was at 106.406 centavos per peso.  Banco de la Republica has raised the benchmark rate nine
times since February 2011 from a record low 3 percent. Policy
makers will raise the target rate to 5.5 percent by year-end to
curb lending, Chaves forecasts.  While the pace of growth in  consumer lending  has fallen
“slightly, it’s still not a significant” drop, Uribe told
reporters.  Consumer Credit  “Inflationary risks originating from expectations have
moderated,” the central bank said in the statement announcing
the decision. “Those that may come from the behavior of
 consumer credit  prevail.”  In a bid to ease gains in the peso, Banco de la Republica
will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in the  spot market  until
at least Nov. 2, Uribe said.  Colombia’s peso rose 0.1 percent to 1,762, from 1,764.40 on
April 27. It advanced 1.5 percent this month and has rallied 10
percent this year in the second-best performance after the
Hungarian forint among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Chaves sees the peso appreciating toward 1,733 by the
beginning of June as foreign investment rises.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  