-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Increases as Incomes Rise
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-30T13:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/consumer-spending-in-u-s-increased-in-march-as-incomes-rose.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
climbed in March after the biggest gain since August 2009, and
 incomes  picked up, indicating the biggest part of the economy
will help sustain the expansion.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased 0.3 percent, after a revised 0.9 percent
gain the prior month that was stronger than first reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
median estimate of 72 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 0.4 percent rise. Incomes advanced 0.4 percent, the
most in three months, and the savings rate rose.  A job market that’s on the mend and warmer weather
underpinned household purchases, which grew in the first quarter
by the most in more than a year as sales climbed at  car
dealerships  and retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT)  A pickup in hiring
and wages is needed to maintain this quarter’s pace of spending.  “This report sets up fairly well for the second quarter,”
said  Peter Newland , a U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York. “What was encouraging was that the income numbers
improved. Our expectation is that job growth does increase
gradually” this quarter, he said.  Separately, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc. said today its business barometer decreased to 56.2 in
April from 62.2 a month earlier. Economists forecast the gauge
would fall to 60, according to the median of 55 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Stocks Decline  Stocks extended declines after the purchasing managers’
report. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to
1,397.36 at 9:52 a.m. in  New York .  Projections for consumer spending ranged from increases of
0.2 percent to 1.2 percent. The February reading was revised
from a gain of 0.8 percent.  The increase in March incomes followed a 0.3 percent gain
the prior month that was revised higher. Last month’s increase
matched the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.  Wages and salaries climbed 0.3 percent after 0.4 percent
gains in the prior three months.  Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes,
climbed 0.2 percent after adjusting for inflation, the first
gain this year.  Spending adjusted for inflation, the figures used to
calculate gross domestic product, rose 0.1 percent after a 0.5
percent increase. Purchases of durable goods fell 0.2 percent
March after a 2.1 percent surge in February. Services spending
was little changed after a 0.4 percent gain.  Saving Rate  The saving rate increased to 3.8 percent from 3.7 percent.  Household spending rose 2.9 percent from January through
March, Commerce Department data showed on April 27. Gross
domestic product climbed at a 2.2 percent annual rate, less than
projected and following a 3 percent pace the prior quarter.  The report was a reminder of the concerns of Federal
Reserve officials, who last week said growth will be
“moderate” as unemployment remains “elevated.”  The central bank “expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,”
policy makers said in an April 25 statement. They repeated a
plan to hold borrowing costs low through 2014 to spur growth.  Employers increased payrolls by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006.  April Employment  Later this week, the Labor Department may report payrolls
advanced in April by 165,000 after a 120,000 gain the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Unemployment
probably held at 8.2 percent. The rate has been above 8 percent
since early 2009.  Unseasonably mild temperatures may have also spurred
Americans to dine out and go shopping. The January to March
period was the warmest first quarter on records going back to
1895, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Retailers posted gains in March as stores offered discounts
and shoppers stocked up early on spring gear. March same-store
sales at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and  Gap
Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. apparel chain, beat the average estimate
of analysts. Cars  sold  last quarter at the fastest pace in four
years, according to industry data.  Employment and income gains may have given Americans some
relief from higher  fuel prices . The cost of a gallon of gasoline
at the pump jumped 65 cents from the beginning of the year to
$3.93 on March 31, which was the highest level in 10 months,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. auto group. Fuel costs have
eased since, reaching $3.82 on April 29.  More Travel  Consumers also are spending on leisure.  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W
brands, said first-quarter earnings rose more than fourfold,
driven by sales of vacation units at the company’s new resort in
south Florida.  “Our corporate clients and our leisure guests tell us that
their appetite for travel is quite robust,” Frits van Paasschen, president and chief executive officer, said in an
earnings conference call with analysts on April 26. “I still
have yet to hear from a customer that plans to travel less in
2012 than in 2011.”  Some reports indicate Americans are becoming more confident
as their outlook on the economy improves. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s final index of sentiment
increased in April to the highest level in a year. Its gauge of
consumer expectations for six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, also rose.  Today’s data showed an index of inflation, which is tied to
spending patterns and excludes food and fuel, increased 2
percent from March 2011, compared with a 1.9 percent gain in the
12 months ended in February.  The so-called core price index rose 0.2 percent from the
prior month, matching the median forecast.  Fed officials have defined their inflation goal as 2
percent a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  