-- DBS to Hold Off on Acquisitions After Danamon, CEO Says
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-04-30T09:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/dbs-to-hold-off-on-acquisitions-for-next-1-to-2-years-ceo-says.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  will hold
off on making acquisitions for the next one to two years
following its $7.2 billion offer for PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia ,
Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said.  DBS made the bid on April 2 for what would be the biggest
takeover by a Southeast Asian lender as the bank seeks to tap a
market growing at the fastest pace since before the 1997 Asian
crisis. The acquisition will give the Singapore-based bank a
3,000-branch network in Indonesia.  “We do these things step by step and it will take us some
time to actually integrate and get the value we want from
Danamon, so we will not be in the market looking for other
opportunities,” Gupta said in a Bloomberg Television interview
aired today.  DBS expects its earnings per share to rebound from the
third year of the  Danamon (BDMN)  acquisition after declining in the
first two years as it merges its operations with those of the
Indonesian lender. The purchase would allow DBS to diversify
into an economy that’s three times the size of its home market
and reduce its dependence on  Singapore .  The acquisition also fills a void in the bank’s “three
axis of growth” that include North, South and  Southeast Asia ,
Gupta said in the interview recorded on April 27 in Singapore.  DBS said in a slide presentation on April 2 that its 2011
revenue from South and Southeast Asia would have surged to 27
percent from 7 percent with Danamon, while its reliance on
Singapore would decline to 49 percent from 62 percent. The
regional data excludes figures from the city-state.  ‘Relatively Light’  “We’re relatively light in Southeast,” Gupta said. “If
we can bulk up the Southeast Asian portion of our portfolio, it
will give us a more balanced book of businesses and more
exposure, presence in growth markets.”  DBS dropped 0.3 percent to S$13.96 at the close in
Singapore, paring an earlier 1.1 percent decline. The Singapore
benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  also lost 0.3 percent. Danamon
retreated 5.1 percent to 5,600 rupiah, the lowest since March 30,
before the DBS bid was announced.  The Danamon purchase may face headwinds in Indonesia as the
country’s central bank said last week the bid won’t be approved
until it sets new ownership rules for financial institutions and
agrees with Singapore on reciprocity in treatment of lenders.
The new ownership rules will be finished by June, Bank Indonesia
Governor Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta on April 27.  ‘Not a Priority’  Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a report today that the
Indonesian central bank may be seeking reciprocity from its
Singapore counterpart to “accommodate” the complaints from
local lenders expanding abroad.  “We believe reciprocity was not a priority for  Bank
Indonesia  and should not be an absolute requirement in order for
DBS to proceed with takeover of Danamon,” Nicolaos Oentung and
Dewi Kusuma, analysts at Macquarie in Jakarta, said in the
report. “We view the fact that BI is setting a deadline for
issuing the bank ownership regulation as positive for the DBS-
Danamon takeover.”  Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd. has given in-
principle approval for listing 439 million new shares on the
local exchange as part of the transaction, DBS said on April 28.  DBS said last week its first-quarter profit climbed 16
percent to a record on higher income from interest and trading.
Net income advanced to S$933 million ($751 million) in the three
months ended March 31 from S$807 million a year earlier,
exceeding the S$755.2 million  average  of six analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  