-- Sternlicht Says Debt ‘Bubble’ in U.S. Property Like 2007
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-01T19:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/debt-bubble-in-property-is-like-2007-sterlicht-says.html
(Corrects number of Westfield malls being purchased and
price in fifth paragraph of story published April 30.)  Competition to buy high-quality
commercial real estate has led to a debt “bubble” in some U.S.
property sectors, said  Barry Sternlicht , chief executive officer
of Starwood Capital Group LLC.  “It’s dangerous,” Sternlicht, also chairman of the
Greenwich, Connecticut-based investment company, said today
during a panel discussion at the Milken Institute Global
Conference in Beverly Hills, California. “You don’t know where
rates will be in two years, and that creates a difficult
investing challenge.”  Investors have bid up prices for buildings perceived as
lower-risk bets in markets such as  New York  and Washington,
reducing yields. Some deals are being completed with the use of
financing that doesn’t have fixed  interest rates , known as
floating-rate debt, Sternlicht said. That’s a “redux” of 2006
and 2007, before the commercial real estate downturn, he said.  Yields on U.S. office buildings fell to 5.9 percent in the
first quarter, the lowest since 2007, according to New York-
based research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  Starwood has been increasingly looking at “off-market”
deals that can be completed in as little time as three days,
Sternlicht said. Earlier this month, the company agreed to buy
seven U.S. shopping malls from  Westfield Group (WDC)  for $1 billion.
Retail is the “second-best” commercial real estate sector,
after apartments, and Starwood is searching for “B-minus”
malls to purchase, Sternlicht said.  Excess Debt  Excess debt, also known as leverage, is weighing on most
U.S. commercial property investors, with the exceptions being
companies that own apartments and some large regional mall
landlords, such as  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , according to Sam Zell, chairman of Chicago-based  Equity Residential (EQR) , the
country’s largest publicly traded multifamily owner.  Commercial property owners are stuck with lower rents
compared with the market peak, and haven’t been adequately
helped by loan workouts known as “extend and pretend” or
rising occupancy rates, Zell said during the panel discussion.  “Until the leverage is taken care of, real estate won’t
trade, operate and function as it should,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  