-- Delta to Buy ConocoPhillips Refinery for $180 Million
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/delta-air-said-to-near-accord-to-acquire-conocophillips-refinery.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  is bringing some
jet-fuel production in house, breaking with U.S. carriers’
reliance on outside providers, by acquiring a refinery that
Phillips 66 had targeted for shutdown.  The world’s second-biggest airline will pay $180 million
for the complex in suburban Philadelphia, according to a
statement yesterday.  Pennsylvania ’s state government is putting
up $30 million in assistance to defray the expense.  An airline-owned refinery is an experiment in the U.S.
industry, said  Ray Neidl , an airline analyst at Maxim Group LLC
in New York. Atlanta-based Delta estimated the accord will save
$300 million on its annual fuel bill, which was $11.8 billion
last year, or about $32 million a day.  “Nothing ventured, nothing gained,” said Neidl, who has a
 buy  rating on Delta shares. “Delta likes to try new things and
I’m sure they studied this for months and ran the calculations.
Nobody has done something quite like this before.”  Delta is buying the refinery in Trainer, Pennsylvania,
through a subsidiary called Monroe Energy LLC, a nod to the
airline’s  original headquarters in Monroe, Louisiana.  Trainer
will add to earnings, boost margins and allow the airline to
recoup its upfront investment in the first year, Chief Financial
Officer Paul Jacobson said in the statement.  Delta fell 1.5 percent to $10.80 late yesterday in extended
trading.  Phillips 66 (PSX-W)  begins trading today after the pipeline-
and-refining company’s spinoff from Houston-based
ConocoPhillips. The new company also will be based in Houston.  $100 Million Upgrade  Trainer can refine  185,000 barrels of crude per day , and
Delta said it will spend $100 million to convert the refinery to
maximize production of jet fuel, of which the airline consumed
3.86 billion gallons last year.  The plant had been idled for months, and without a buyer it
would have been closed by the end of May because tighter profit
margins are squeezing East Coast refineries.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  are among companies also shutting or
planning to sell refineries along the U.S. East Coast, in  Europe 
and the  U.S. Virgin Islands  as oil prices rise and demand wanes.  BP Plc (BP/)  will supply crude oil to be refined at the Trainer
refinery, and Delta said it will exchange gasoline and other
refined products for more jet fuel through multiyear agreements
with BP and Phillips 66.  Delta estimates that refining costs account for $2.2
billion of its fuel bill, and those production-related expenses
are the fastest growing at the airline, Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Anderson  told reporters yesterday on a conference call.  Delta Fuel Access  The deal also will help ensure jet-fuel availability at
important Delta hubs, including New York’s John F. Kennedy
International and LaGuardia airports, Anderson said.  “We have had this matter under study for the better part
of the year,” Anderson said. “It was clear we needed to exert
much more control over the supply chain.”  Delta’s purchase was also “driven somewhat by the alarming
rate of shutdowns” of refineries in the northeastern U.S.,
President Ed Bastian said.  Fuel accounted for 36 percent of Delta’s operating costs
last year. Delta has hedged 70 percent of this quarter’s fuel
needs pegged to prices at $3.05 to $3.40 a gallon, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jet fuel for immediate delivery in  New York  Harbor rose 0.2
percent to $3.30 a gallon yesterday. The average price in 2012
before today was $3.23 a gallon, 6 percent more than for the
same period a year earlier.  Profit Challenge  One challenge for Delta may be showing that it can operate
the Trainer refinery more profitably than its previous owner
did.  “You do have to question a little bit Delta management’s
thought that they can run it better than ConocoPhillips,” said
 Kyle Cooper , director of research at Houston-based consultant
IAF Advisors. “They’ve hopefully done their work and their
analysis that says that this hedging cost is going to be lower
than their current hedging cost.”  Cory Garcia, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
in Houston, said letting the Trainer plant close might have been
a better outcome for the oil industry, which is adding refining
capacity outside the U.S.  “What you need to see is these less-profitable refineries
come out of the market, shut down in order to rationalize or
balance the overall supply-demand equation,” said Garcia, who
rates  ConocoPhillips (COP)  as market perform.  Trainer will be run by Jeffrey Warmann, who has 25 years of
experience in the industry, most recently as refinery manager
for Murphy Oil USA Inc.’s plant in Meraux,  Louisiana , Delta
said.  Delta’s longer-term commitment is to invest $350 million at
the facility, including acquisition costs, and keeping at least
402 full-time workers for five years from the date of occupancy,
Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania Department of
Community and  Economic Development , wrote in an e-mail message.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  