-- Dewey LeBoeuf Said to Be Close to Extending Deadline
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-01T10:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/dewey-leboeuf-is-said-to-be-near-extending-credit-deadline-1-.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, as it faces a
possible bankruptcy after losing more than 80 lawyers, is near
an agreement with banks about extending its line of credit, a
person familiar with the talks said.  The extension, giving the New York law firm more time to
keep operating and collecting bills from clients, would be for a
couple of weeks, much less than the 120 days envisaged this past
weekend before Dewey’s talks with Greenberg Traurig LLP about a
partial combination ended, said the person, who declined to be
named because the talks were private.  An accord between Dewey and lenders, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc., wasn’t yet signed, the person
said.  Dewey has drawn about $75 million of a $100 million  credit
line  from banks, the person said. The firm said April 29 in an
internal memorandum that New York prosecutors were probing
possible wrongdoing at the firm. The memo said that Steven Davis, formerly sole chairman, was ousted from a five-person
chairman’s office and the executive committee.  Davis hired criminal defense attorney Barry Bohrer, a
partner at Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer,
as he faces allegations of misconduct.  “Every action of Mr. Davis as chair of the firm was taken
in good faith and in the best interests of the firm,” Bohrer
said in an e-mail confirming his retention. “He is confident
that fair-minded professionals will conclude that he engaged in
no misconduct.”  Bonds Reeling  The turmoil at Dewey has upended the firm’s plans to find a
merger partner and sent prices of its bonds reeling. The
privately placed debt, issued in 2010 to refinance older bank
loans and once valued at 100 cents on the dollar, were seen to
trade April 27 in the 60s, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT
Capital Group LLC.  “If the firm reorganizes, the loan and the notes could be
money good, but if it liquidates, it will come down to the
valuation of accounts receivable,” he said, referring to
Dewey’s bills to clients for legal services. CRT, which trades
distressed debt, didn’t handle the sale of Dewey bonds by an
investor last week, he said.  No single firm currently appears willing to buy all of what
is left of Dewey, according to a person familiar with the
situation. Dewey now is talking with several firms that might
take parts of its specialized practice groups, as part of a
bankruptcy plan devised with lenders’ consent, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs  Patton Boggs LLP, based in  Washington , is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. Under Dewey’s plan,
different firms might pay to acquire receivables generated by
lawyers they took on, he said. The law firm does have something
to sell -- groups of strong practices, he said.  Dewey’s most profitable practices include bankruptcy,
corporate law, litigation and public policy, the firm has said.  The plan remains uncertain because firms considering taking
some of Dewey’s lawyers might do better to pick up the pieces
after a bankruptcy filing, the person said.  Patton Boggs wouldn’t say if it will take on some of
Dewey’s lawyers.  “From time to time we have conversations with other firms
in connection with our interest in making strategic acquisitions
to strengthen our practice,” said  Patton Boggs  Managing Partner
Edward Newberry. “We have only the highest regard for the
lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf. They have a legacy of being among
the very best in the areas in which they practice.”  Job Opportunities  Dewey management sent another memo to all the firm’s
partners yesterday informing them they are free to explore other
job opportunities, said a person familiar with the contents of
the document. The firm is carrying on business as usual and at
the same time trying to find employment for legal and non-legal
staff, according to the person who saw the memo and who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  At least 11 lawyers announced departures from Dewey
yesterday including Marshall Stoddard, the U.S. head of Dewey’s
bank and institutional finance practice group, and Charles Moore, an energy partner in Houston, who both left for
Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP along with two
counsel lawyers and an associate.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired disputes partner Peter
Gray for the firm’s Dubai office, and Clifford Chance LLP hired
Howard Adler, co-chair of Dewey’s compensation and benefits
practice and Gary Boss, a partner who specializes in mergers and
acquisitions and insurance. Dewey partner Gary Apfel, co-chair
of the consumer financial services group, also announced his
departure yesterday to Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton LLP to
lead that firm’s California expansion.  Vance Probe  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s investigation
is in a preliminary stage, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  Prosecutors, tipped by disenchanted Dewey partners, are
investigating possible wrongdoing at the firm, the person said.  Vance seeks to ensure documents and other evidence is
preserved ahead of any bankruptcy, merger or dissolution, the
person said.  Partners have been leaving Dewey, the No. 3 law firm
adviser to banks handling merger deals, amid complaints about
pay and a plan to restructure the firm. It has drawn about $75
million of a $100 million credit line from banks including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to a person
familiar with the firm’s finances. The banks extended an initial
April 16 deadline to come up with a plan, according to another
person who is familiar with a merger proposal that Dewey
presented to other law firms.  Internal Probe  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey, declined to comment
yesterday on the probe, a possible bank extension and Davis’s
hiring of a criminal defense attorney.  In a copy of an internal memorandum obtained by Bloomberg
News and dated April 27, the law firm said it’s aware of an
investigation by Vance into one Dewey attorney involved in the
firm’s management. The firm said in the memo that it has begun
an internal probe and plans to cooperate with Vance’s office.
Harvey Kurzweil and Seth Farber, as counsel to the firm, were
asked to conduct the internal investigation, the memo stated.  In March, as defections mounted, Dewey restructured its
chairman’s office to include the heads of four practice groups
in addition to Davis. The group includes  Martin Bienenstock , who
runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich Shutran, head of the
corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head of litigation; and
Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington office and the
legislative and public-policy group.  ‘Various Paths’  The firm said last week that it was considering “various
paths including continuing to operate as an independent global
law firm and a strategic combination with another leading law
firm.”  A possible partner was  Greenberg Traurig , which has ended
its discussions with Dewey.  “Dewey is a firm we hold in high regard, with many fine
lawyers, though we never considered a merger,” said Greenberg’s
CEO, Richard A. Rosenbaum, in a statement sent yesterday by Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for the firm.  Dewey partners, who were getting less pay than expected as
profit fell, learned at a partnership meeting in Manhattan that
the firm had struck special deals with some partners who would
have to be paid before others, according to a person familiar
with those events.  Junior Partners  Davis said at the meeting that the special deals requiring
Dewey to defer pay for most partners involved fewer than 100
lawyers, the person said. Pay at the firm ranged from about
$300,000 for junior partners to as much as $5 million to $6
million for a handful of top lawyers, the person said.  Dewey’s executive director, Stephen DiCarmine, had a deal
putting his salary and bonus at $2 million a year, said the
person, who wasn’t authorized to comment on these matters and
didn’t want to be named.  In addition to the bank deadline, the firm has $125 million
in bonds sold to insurance companies in 2010 to refinance
previous bank loans.  The bonds, placed by New York-based JPMorgan, come due from
next year to 2020, Dewey said at the time. The firm’s revenue
last year was $782 million, compared with about $760 million in
2010, according to the American Lawyer, a trade magazine that
tracks law firm results. The publication lowered its numbers for
Dewey last month after getting what it called “newly obtained
information.”  Bankruptcy Considered  Rich Shutran, head of the corporate department at Dewey and
a member of the chairman’s office, told Bloomberg in March that
the firm earned about $250 million last year. American Lawyer’s
revision of its report on Dewey’s 2011 results came after that.  A team led by partners Bienenstock and  Bruce Bennett  was
weighing a so-called pre-packaged bankruptcy, one of the people
familiar with the firm said. A bankruptcy plan approved in
advance by creditors could lead to a merger with another U.S.
firm, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the plans.  The team also explored what might happen if the firm shut
down, the person said. Closing Dewey would make it much more
difficult for members of the firm’s limited liability
partnership and creditors to get any money back, the person
said.  Bienenstock, whose restructuring team represented Los
Angeles Dodgers LLC in its sale to a group including former
professional basketball player  Magic Johnson , didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment on plans for Dewey.  Mergers Ranking  Dewey ranked third among legal advisers to investment banks
advising companies on mergers this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm placed 28th in American Lawyer’s
ranking of the largest 100 law firms, with 190 partners and 2011
revenue of $782 million.  Most large law firms that fail don’t come out of
bankruptcy, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham
Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . Instead, they
liquidate, he said, citing New York-based Finley Kumble, which
went bankrupt in 1988. The firm had almost 200 partners,
according to the American Lawyer.  Dewey might struggle to find a merger partner because many
rivals prefer to select only the partners they want, Bowles
said. The serial defections suffered by Dewey were “a form of
cherry picking with groups of partners leaving,” he said.  While a pre-packaged bankruptcy “in theory could work,”
Dewey’s challenge would be to keep control of the firm’s assets,
which are mainly its partners, Bowles said. “The money is in
the books of business of the productive partners.”  Firms Hiring  Dewey’s defections began in March with the departure of a
group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers for Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. The firm has since lost lawyers to DLA Piper LLP,
 Reed Smith LLP , Patton Boggs, Hunton & Williams LLP and
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  In Dewey’s international network, the 42-lawyer Moscow
outpost was recently assessing its options after approaches from
firms including King & Spalding LLP, said a person familiar with
the negotiations. The Russian office focuses on energy and
corporate law.  In April, Dechert LLP took a five-partner corporate and
securities team from Dewey’s Dubai office to open in the city.  Dewey’s Rome office head, Stefano Speroni, has said the
Italian business wasn’t negotiating with anyone to leave.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and so-called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to a letter to the partners
obtained by Bloomberg News in March. Revenue for the 12 months
through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in billable
value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 