-- LDK Solar Cuts 5,554 Workers Amid Clean-Energy Shakeout
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-04-30T15:20:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ldk-solar-cuts-5-554-workers-amid-clean-energy-shakeout.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest maker of wafers for cells, cut 5,554 jobs this year
after plunging prices cut margins to a record low amid a
renewable-energy shakeout that’s pushed at least eight solar
companies into bankruptcy and prompted thousands of industry
firings.  LDK, which reported the lowest margins among its publicly
traded peers, has cut its staff about 22 percent to 19,195
workers since the end of 2011, Chief Operations Officer Xingxue Tong said on a conference call today. The Chinese maker of
polysilicon, wafers and solar panels has pared a third of its
workforce since July, when it peaked at more than 28,000, in
reaction to the “highly competitive” solar market.  Solar manufacturers from  China  to the U.S., such as  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , are under pressure after oversupply in all parts of
the supply chain depressed prices. Since September, the spot
price of polysilicon has fallen by a third, wafers are 35
percent lower and silicon-based solar panels are 25 percent
cheaper, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data shows.  “The solar industry experienced a tremendous supply and
demand imbalance throughout the value chain during the fourth
quarter,” LDK’s Chief Executive Officer Xiaofeng Peng said in a
results statement. “In 2012, we expect that excess capacity and
further policy uncertainties in  Europe  and the U.S. will result
in continued intense competition within the solar industry.”  Renewable-Energy Firings  First Solar, the biggest maker of thin-film solar panels,
announced April 17 plans to cut about 30 percent of its
workforce, or 2,000 jobs. The Tempe, Arizona-based company is
closing a factory in  Germany  and will idle production lines in
 Malaysia .  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the largest turbine maker, is
firing about about 10 percent of its staff, or 2,335 employees.
The Aarhus, Denmark-based company may announce further cuts this
year if U.S. lawmakers don’t extend incentives that are set to
expire Dec. 31.  The manufacturer reported an operating margin of minus
126.5 percent and a gross margin of minus 65.5 percent due to a
“significant” drop in prices, according to the statement
released today. Margins were positive a year ago and at least
minus 16.3 percent in the third quarter.  The decline in prices led to a net loss of $588.7 million
for the quarter, compared with a net income of $145.2 million a
year ago. Inventory writedowns and provisions for purchases
totaled $232.6 million, while “doubtful” receivables and
prepayments required a $179.2 million provision, LDK said.  The company’s margins were the lowest among the companies
in the Bloomberg Large Solar index, which tracks the biggest
listed players in the industry. In the fourth quarter, operating
and gross margins for these companies averaged minus 36.4 and
minus 7.6 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  