-- Dotcom’s Political Donation Up to Police, Says N.Z.’s Key
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-04-30T03:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/dotcom-s-political-donation-up-to-police-says-n-z-s-key.html
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key
said allegations that a coalition ally and minister failed to
disclose political donations from Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom are a matter for the police.  John Banks , leader of the one-seat ACT party that supports
Key in parliament, received NZ$50,000 ($41,000) from Dotcom to
help fund his unsuccessful 2010 bid for the Auckland mayoralty,
TV3  reported  on April 27, citing an interview with Dotcom. Banks
incorrectly reported the donations as anonymous, TV3 said. The
politician has denied any wrongdoing.  Key sought ACT’s support in his campaign for re-election
last year, appearing to endorse Banks over his own  National
Party ’s candidate to ensure backing for votes on crucial issues
including the sale of state-owned assets. New Zealand’s so-
called mixed member proportional system typically forces the
most popular party to align with smaller rivals to govern.  “If somebody thinks that John Banks isn’t telling the
truth, they have a very simple remedy -- they go to the
police,” Key said in a Television  New Zealand  interview today.
“That’s not my job to do a forensic investigation.”  Auckland police said they will investigate a complaint over
the donation they received from a member of the public.  Dotcom is accused of orchestrating the biggest copyright
infringement conspiracy in U.S. history and is awaiting an
extradition hearing in New Zealand, scheduled for August. He was
arrested at his Auckland residence in January and spent four
weeks in jail before being released on bail.  Small Business Minister  Banks, who represents the Auckland seat of Epsom, was
appointed by Key as Minister for  Small Business  and Regulatory
Reform after last year’s election.  “When I signed my declaration for the mayoralty I signed
it in good faith in the knowledge as a justice of the peace as
true and correct,” Banks said on  Television New Zealand 
yesterday. “I have nothing to fear and nothing to hide.”  New Zealand’s electoral law allowed for anonymous donations
to a maximum of NZ$1,000 at the time of the 2010 election. The
limit has now been raised to NZ$1,500 and any contributions
above NZ$30,000 within a 12 month period must be disclosed to
authorities. Concealing the identity of a donor when the donor
isn’t anonymous is an offense, according to the  law .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  