-- The Worst Deal in Mutual Funds Faces a Reckoning
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-04-30T21:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/the-worst-deal-in-mutual-funds-faces-a-reckoning.html
     Imagine an investment that is guaranteed -- at least
initially -- to lose you money. Such an investment was once
quite common and still exists: the front-loaded mutual fund.  To buy into such funds, investors pay as much as 5.75
percent of their initial investment in a load charge. That
$40,000 you wanted to invest? It instantly shrinks by $2,300.  Plenty of investors still pay loads. According to fund
research firm Strategic Insight, 5 percent of mutual fund
shares were bought with a load of 4 percent or more in 2010.
Mutual funds charge the fee, but almost all of its proceeds
are sent to the broker or adviser recommending the
fund. However, the percentage of funds sold with front-end
loads is dropping rapidly, and excessive loads could disappear
almost entirely under new regulations.  Worst offenders  Front-end loads are hardly the only way brokers are
compensated for recommending funds. Less visible annual 12b-1
"distribution" charges in a fund's expense ratio also flow
through to brokers. According to the Investment Company
Institute, or ICI, investors paid $10.5 billion in 12b-1 fees
in 2010, typically through 0.25 percent charges on front-end
funds or annual 1 percent fees on so-called "level load"
funds. Even no-load funds can have 12b-1 charges, though they
must be less than 0.25 percent.  Still, front-end loads are the worst offenders. That's
because while the funds can make financial sense for those who
hold them for a long time, Dalbar data shows that investors
hold on to equity mutual funds an average of 3.3 years and
bond funds for 3.1 years. For these investors, paying a
front-end load is a bit like paying a lifetime's rent for a
place you might live for only a few years.  The cost of advice  Defenders of load funds say they’re a way to cover the
costs of advice. For those who pay a maximum 5.75 percent
load, American Funds's $130 billion Growth Fund of
America, the largest equity load fund, charges a 0.68 percent
expense ratio. That's much lower than the 1.46 percent expense
ratio on its no-load version. Yet, the load version pays off
only after eight years, and it's pricier than more than 1,500
mutual funds in the U.S. The largest equity fund, the no-load
Vanguard Total Stock Market Index fund, has an expense ratio
of 0.17 percent.  That's why so many investing experts warn against
front-loaded funds. “In no event should you ever buy a load
fund,” Princeton University professor Burton Malkiel advises
in his best-selling investment guide “A Random Walk Down Wall
Street,” now in its 10th edition.  “There’s no point in paying
for something if you can get it free.”  "Suitable" debates  Two trends should hearten long-time critics of loads. In
2011, investors pulled a net $110 billion from front-loaded
funds, while putting a net $24 billion in all mutual
funds, according to the ICI. And Strategic Insight estimates
that 48 percent of shares bought in 2010 went into no-load
funds, up 14 points from 2007.  By contrast, 12b-1 fee payments are holding steady. The
$10.5 billion paid in 2010 matches the annual average for the
previous decade.  There's another reason paying load fees can hurt
investors: Broker-dealers and other advisers paid via
loads, 12b-1 fees and other commissions need only recommend
“suitable” products for clients. They don’t need to meet the
fiduciary standard imposed on other investment advisers, which
requires them to give advice in the client's best interest --
much like the ethical code a doctor or lawyer must follow.  That's particularly significant since those paying loads
are the poorest and least sophisticated of investors. The top
5.75 percent charge is typically reserved for purchases of
$50,000 or less, according to the ICI. These are exactly the
sort of investors who need more protection from inappropriate
investment products, says Dan Candura, chief executive officer
of PennyTree Advisers. “They have less assets to lose and less
ability to recover from a mistake.” At front-loaded
funds, purchases of $50,000 to $100,000 usually trigger a 4.5
percent load, while purchases of $1,000,000 or more aren’t
charged at all.  There is a battle in Washington over whether, and to what
extent, all advisers to retail customers should be
fiduciaries. “Being a fiduciary means you have your clients’
best interests at heart; it doesn’t mean you can’t get paid,”
says Bob Grohowski, senior counsel at ICI.  Yet there’s evidence that brokers -- those who lack a
fiduciary standard -- offer worse advice. A 2009 study led by
Harvard Business School Professor Daniel Bergstresser looked
in detail at funds sold by brokers from 1996 to 2004. He found
they lagged other funds, even before taking into account
commission costs.  New standards  Merely disclosing conflicts of interest isn't
enough, says Boston University law professor Tamar Frankel.
Instead, she says, new standards should require that a
broker's charges be reasonable. It’s by no means clear that
investors will get such rules from regulators. “We do not
expect that the new standard will undertake to examine the
reasonableness of fees charged by advisers or the commissions
charged by brokers,” says Kevin Carroll, managing director and
associate general counsel at the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, or SIFMA, in a statement to
Bloomberg.  The average broker may, in any case, already be preparing
for a world without load funds. Wake University law professor
Alan Palmiter has noticed how the financial industry often
reacts to expected regulations as if they’re already in place.
Thus, it’s significant that, from 2007 to 2010, the number of
shares sold with loads of 2 percent or more has fallen by
half, from 24 to 12 percent. “Brokers are beginning to worry
there may be a fiduciary standard and they may get into
trouble if they push [load funds] the way that they have in
the past,” says Palmiter.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  