-- Heathrow Passport Delay Times Exaggerated, U.K. Minister Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2012-04-30T16:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/heathrow-passport-delay-times-exaggerated-u-k-minister-says.html
Reports that air travelers have
been waiting for many hours to pass through passport control at
London’s  Heathrow Airport  are exaggerated, though there are
still too many delays, Britain’s immigration minister said.  “The vast majority of passengers pass through immigration
control quickly,” Damian Green told lawmakers in the House of
Commons today. “Over the weekend, there were some breaches of
acceptable waiting times at Heathrow. This was caused mainly by
the severe weather leading to flight diversions and changing
flight schedules and bunching of arrivals. Queuing times bore no
resemblance to some of the more wild suggestions.”  London Mayor  Boris Johnson , who’s seeking re-election May
3, wrote yesterday to Home Secretary Theresa May, Green’s
superior, saying that delays at BAA Ltd.’s Heathrow,  Europe ’s
largest hub, are damaging London’s reputation. BAA said last
week that recent waiting times at peak periods have been
“unacceptable.” Heathrow will be the main entry point for
those arriving for this summer’s  Olympic Games .  Green said the longest wait for arriving passengers -- of 1
1/2 hours -- was at Heathrow’s Terminal 5 on the evening of
April 27. He cited data from the U.K. Border Force as showing
that target times for U.K. and European Union passengers to pass
through Heathrow passport control in less than 25 minutes were
met every day during the first two weeks of April. A 45-minute
target for non-EU travelers was met on 11 out of 15 days.  “These times are too long,” Green said. “While we
maintain the right levels of security checks, we will always
seek to improve performance.”  The minister said measures being taken at Heathrow within
the next few weeks would allow immigration officers to be
deployed more flexibly to meet surges of demand.  “It is extremely unfortunate that, in a time of economic
difficulties, when I as mayor and the government are working so
hard to attract inward investment to  London  and the U.K., that
our main port of entry is gaining such a poor reputation,”
Johnson wrote to May, according to an e-mailed copy of the
letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  