-- Edwards Told Aide’s Wife Checks for Mistress Were Legal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-04-30T19:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/edwards-told-aide-s-wife-checks-for-mistress-were-legal.html
John Edwards , the former
presidential candidate, told the wife of a campaign aide that
checks sent from a donor to his mistress were legal, the wife
said at Edwards’s criminal trial.  Cheri Young testified today in federal court in Greensboro,
North Carolina, that Edwards called her shortly before
multimillionaire heiress Rachel Mellon began forwarding the
checks to say he had inquired with campaign lawyers and the
payments were legal. Cheri Young’s husband, Andrew, worked on
Edwards’s bid for the 2008 Democratic presidential nomination.  “Get the money in,” Cheri Young said Edwards told her
during that conversation. Young said her role was to endorse the
checks in her maiden name and deposit them into the couple’s
bank account. “I ultimately agreed. I knew the campaign would
fall to pieces if I didn’t do it. Andrew Young and I had given
everything to the campaign and we were at the peak point.”  Edwards is accused of illegally using almost $1 million in
contributions from Mellon and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial
lawyer, to conceal his affair with  Rielle Hunter , an unemployed
filmmaker he met in a New York bar in 2006 and hired as a
campaign videographer. Edwards, who fathered a child with
Hunter, faces as long as five years in prison for each of the
six counts against him if convicted.  Targeting Supporters  Andrew Young, a witness for the government, spent most of
last week testifying that Edwards targeted supporters for cash
to support Hunter and asked him to approach those people. He
also said Edwards assured him that the plan was absolutely
legal. The former senator abandoned him after suspending his
2008 presidential campaign, Young testified.  Cheri Young told prosecutors today that she was
“disgusted” about the plan to support Hunter.  “My husband always had to fix the problem, and now I had
to,” Cheri Young said.  Mellon gave more than $725,000 toward Hunter’s support,
prosecutors said. Cheri Young testified today about $38,000 in
checks passed from the Youngs’ account to Hunter’s from June
2007 to December 2007.  Defense lawyers have tried to paint Andrew Young as an
opportunist who saw Edwards as a ticket to the top. Some of
Mellon’s money was used to build the Youngs’ $1.5 million home
in  Chapel Hill ,  North Carolina , lawyers for Edwards said.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  