-- Telecom Italia Owners Said to Discuss Telco Capital Increase
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-04-30T15:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/telecom-italia-owners-said-to-discuss-capital-increase-this-week.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s largest
shareholders plan to meet this week to discuss a capital
increase for Telco SpA, the group of investors that own about 22
percent of the country’s former phone monopoly, people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Officials at  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are set to gather on May 3
to discuss the proposal, and the size of the recapitalization
will depend on the loans that Telecom Italia’s holding company
needs to refinance in the coming months, said the people, asking
not to be identified because the talks are private.  Telco investors agreed in February to renew their
shareholding agreement by three years through February 2015.
They wrote down the value of their Telecom Italia stake last
year, with the three banks now valuing the stock at 1.50 euros.
Milan-based Telecom Italia has been trading at less than that
level since 2008.  “I don’t see any clear rationale why they would increase
the amount of inter-company debt unless external lenders are
looking less likely to refinance, which might be the case,”
said Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .
“Telefonica’s balance sheet needs improvement, they don’t need
to be injecting more money into assets like Telco.”  Bank Loans  Representatives at Assicurazioni Generali, Mediobanca,
Intesa Sanpaolo and Telefonica declined to comment. Il Sole 24
reported the scheduled meeting of the Telco shareholders
yesterday.  Telecom Italia fell 1.3 percent to 85.9 cents at the close
of trading in Milan, valuing the company at 15.8 billion euros
($21 billion). Telefonica, Spain’s largest phone company,
dropped 2.7 percent to 11.01 euros on the Madrid exchange. It
has a market value of 50.2 billion euros.  Telco has more than 2 billion euros of bank loans expiring
this year, of which 1.3 billion euros are due in May. The
shareholders have also subscribed to 1.3 billion euros in bonds
expiring this year that can be extended to 2013. Telefonica
holds about 600 million euros of Telco debt, Marsch said.  Selling new bonds is another option the Telco shareholders
may consider, said one of the people.  Telecom Italia last month posted a 4.73 billion-euro  net
loss  for 2011 because of a goodwill writedown and as the
European debt crisis sapped demand from consumers in its home
market. The company, alongside other operators including
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , has struggled in the Italian market as the
new government implements spending cuts and tax increases.  Dividend Payout  In February, Telecom Italia cut its dividend payout for
2011 to lower debt to 27.5 billion euros and retain its  credit
rating . Executive Chairman Franco Bernabe said April 4 that a
spin-off of the company’s fixed-line network was one of several
studies being considered to help raise cash.  Telefonica is also searching for ways to safeguard its
shareholder payout after it reduced its 2012 dividend forecast
by 14 percent in December, abandoning a policy set up two years
ago, because of “significantly” changed market conditions. It
was its first dividend cut in a decade, highlighting the extent
to which  Spain ’s high unemployment has hit the company.  “It’s not obvious that the stake in Telecom Italia is that
essential,” said Jean-Michel Salvador, an analyst at AlphaValue
in Paris. “I think Telefonica should sell its stake -- not
today, but in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  