-- Telenor May Leave India as Fee Dispute Prompts Write-Off
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2012-04-30T08:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/telenor-writes-down-681-million-in-remaining-india-assets.html
Telenor ASA (TEL)  said it may have to
exit  India , the world’s second-largest mobile market, after the
country’s telecommunications regulator proposed an 11-fold
increase to license fees.  Acceptance by the Indian government of the regulator’s plan
would amount to “forcing Telenor Group to exit,” Sigve Brekke,
head of Telenor’s Asian operations, said today by e-mail.
Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor will write down its remaining
fixed and intangible assets in India amounting to 3.9 billion
kroner ($682 million) as a “precautionary measure,” the
company, the Nordic region’s biggest phone operator, said in a
separate statement.  At stake is Telenor’s 140 billion-rupee ($2.7 billion)
investment in India, and the fate of its more than 40 million
customers. Investors have called on Telenor to pull out of the
country. Telenor’s licenses India were canceled in February, and
the regulator later recommended re-auctioning the spectrum at
higher prices.  “It is evident that India is the main reason that
investors are hesitant” about investing in Telenor, Saeed Baradar, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , said in an e-
mailed note to clients. “Removal of that fear will result in at
least a 15 percent to 20 percent re-rating in the stock.”  Telenor  rose  as much as 3 percent to 103 kroner, the
biggest intraday jump since Feb. 15, and was trading 2.9 percent
higher at 10:06 a.m. in Oslo. The shares have gained 4.9 percent
this year, valuing the company at 165.5 billion kroner.  Seeking to Stay  The proposed auction terms make it “almost impossible to
participate in the auction,” Telenor said today. The company is
“working actively” with Indian authorities in an effort to
continue operations there.  Today’s writedown follows a 4.2 billion-krone charge
Telenor said it would take on Feb. 3 stemming from a decision by
India’s  Supreme Court  to cancel 122 mobile-phone licenses
industrywide, including 22 held by Telenor’s Uninor venture. The
Indian assets no longer have accounting value after today’s
charge, Telenor said.  The writedown on the permits and goodwill, which amounts to
2.6 billion kroner after non-controlling interests, will be
booked in the first quarter of this year, Telenor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Alastair Reed in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  