-- English Soccer’s Care of Millionaire Players Behind Elite
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-01T11:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/english-soccer-s-care-of-millionaire-players-lags-behind-elite.html
English Premier League soccer clubs
spend more on acquiring players than teams in other countries,
yet trail continental rivals when it comes to looking after
those expensive assets, trainers and doctors say.  “Compared to the rest, we’re probably catching up,” Dr.
Peter Brukner, the Australian who oversaw 18-time champion
Liverpool’s medical services, said in an interview.  “Italians
have always been pretty good in this area. I think the Spanish
are pretty good in the way they look after their players and I
think we’ve been a bit behind.”  Brukner left Liverpool last month, about two years after
joining from  Australia ’s national soccer team. His appointment
in March 2010 followed criticism of the club’s sports-medicine
department by former players and ex-owners  George Gillett  and
 Tom Hicks . According to website  physioroom.com , a U.K.-based
aggregator of injury news, Liverpool has suffered the lowest
number of injuries in the 20-team league since the start of the
season.  “It’s all very well spending millions and millions of
pounds on players but you have to do everything you can to
ensure those players are out on the pitch rather than the
medical room,” Brukner said. “It’s a simple matter of a
looking after your assets.”  Making Changes  Managers in English soccer have a tradition of replacing
backroom staff, including doctors and physiotherapists, with
individuals they’ve worked with in the past, according to Mike
Davison, U.K. managing director for sports medicine company
Isokinetic, who’s recruited medical personnel for Champions
League finalist Chelsea and advised  England ’s Football
Association. Brukner started work about six months before
current Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish .  “The quality of doctors and physiotherapists in the
Premier League is as high anywhere in the world but they work in
suboptimal conditions,” said Davison, who described a recent
example where Aston Villa manager  Alex McLeish  replaced the
club’s doctor Mark Waller without ever working with him and
brought in a former colleague Dr. Ian McGuinness from Birmingham
City, his previous club, as a replacement. Aston Villa spokesman
Brian Doogan didn’t immediately return a voicemail message.  Graham Taylor, a former Villa manager and also coach of
the England national team between 1990 and 1993, said managers
shouldn’t be responsible for medical appointments.  “The doctor belongs to the club not the manager,” he said
in an interview.  ‘Continuity’  Doctors need to have “a continuity of work,” Jiri Dvorak,
chief medical officer at soccer’s governing body FIFA, said in
an interview. “They know the team.”  In English soccer the average tenure of a manager is 14
months, according to Davison. That often means disruption to the
medical departments, something that happens less frequently
overseas. Real Madrid and Juventus historically keep medical
teams for between 10 and 12 years, he said.  “In that time the number of managers and presidents will
have exceeded 11 or 12 in both instances,” Davison said.
“Having a platform of stability is certainly important when it
comes to the health of footballers.”  Sanitas, a private-medical company, started running Real’s
medical team about four years ago.  Teams must “develop the highest-quality medical staff
independent of the manager,” Brukner said. His departure, he
said, was the club’s decision.  ‘Trust and Faith’  “I would rather not comment on the relationship with the
manager,” he added when asked about Dalglish.  Still, speaking generally, he said, “If the manager
doesn’t have trust and faith in the medical staff then it’s a
very difficult situation.”  Gillett, Liverpool’s co-owner, had railed at the number of
injuries the team was suffering. Brukner said before he got to
the club it had no “gym culture” and “there wasn’t a lot of
fitness work done.”  As well as having fewer injuries than their opponents,
Liverpool’s players also run on average 14 percent more than
their rivals each game, the  Daily Telegraph  said April 19. The
results have come on the back of spending on staff and
infrastructure that’s less than the average annual wage of a
Premier League player, Brukner said.  Injury Prevention  Liverpool’s players now work on injury prevention,
something that wasn’t done previously. Antonio Acedo, who worked
as a physiotherapist at Real Madrid between 1981 and 2008, said
“80 percent of the work” done at the Spanish club focuses on
prevention.  Cristiano Ronaldo , who’s scored 43 goals this season
for Real, does as much as five hours a week in the weight room
to help guard against injuries, Acedo said.  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard , 31, has missed much of
the last two seasons through injury, mainly to his groin.
Brukner says the midfielder’s chances of extending his career
have been boosted by a change to his fitness regime.  “It may come back to bite me, that statement, but he’s
certainly doing everything he should to improve his chances of
prolonging his career,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  