-- EPA Official Resigns After Taped ‘Crucify’ Comment in 2010
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-04-30T18:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/epa-official-resigns-after-taped-crucify-comment-in-2010-1-.html
An Environmental Protection Agency
regional administrator resigned after comments surfaced from
2010 in which he compared enforcing laws against polluters to
Roman conquerors who crucified foes.  Al Armendariz, who had led the EPA office based in  Dallas 
since 2009, sent a letter of resignation to agency Administrator
Lisa Jackson yesterday. Jackson said she accepted the
resignation.  “My continued service will distract you and the agency
from its important work,” Armendariz wrote to Jackson in the
letter released today by the agency. The comments “do not
represent the work you have overseen as EPA administrator.” He
had already apologized last week.  In  videotaped  remarks from a 2010 meeting in Dish,  Texas ,
Armendariz said he told staff members enforcing environmental
laws to follow the example of the Romans, who would subdue
Turkish towns by crucifying the first five people they ran
across. “And then you know that town was really easy to manage
for the next few years,” he said.  Armendariz  called for a similar approach to get companies
to obey environmental laws: “You make examples out of people
who are not complying with the law,” he said.  Congressional Pressure  The video was highlighted last week by Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican, who said the comment showed
President  Barack Obama  intended to shut down U.S. energy
exploration. Republicans in the  House of Representatives  began
an investigation into how Armendariz was enforcing the law, and
said they would call him to testify at a hearing in Washington.  The “resignation in no way solves the problem of President
Obama and his EPA’s crucifixion philosophy,” Inhofe said today
in a statement, and vowed to continue to investigate the agency.  Tension between Obama and U.S. energy producers has
increased in the past year, as he delayed an oil pipeline from
 Canada  to the U.S. Gulf Coast and pushed to end tax breaks for
the industry. The  American Petroleum Institute  has paid for
commercials to oppose Obama’s tax proposals.  Jackson, speaking to reporters on April 27, said
Armendariz’s comments were both disappointing and wrong. “They
are not representative of the agency, they don’t reflect any
policy that we have, and they don’t reflect our actions over the
past two years,” she said.  USDA Resignation  In last week’s apology, Armendariz said his comments were
an “offensive and inaccurate way to portray our efforts to
address potential violations of our nation’s environmental
laws.”  Armendariz resigned almost two years after U.S. Department
of Agriculture official  Shirley Sherrod  was forced to quit when
her videotaped comments on race drew criticism. In a recording
posted by website biggovernment.com, Sherrod appeared to say
that she didn’t help a white farmer in 1986. In fact, in the
unedited video, Sherrod said she contacted “everybody I could
think of” to help him.  After her forced resignation, Sherrod was offered a new job
with USDA, which she declined to take.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  