-- Hermes Wins $100 Million Damages From Counterfeit Websites
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-30T20:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hermes-wins-100-million-in-damages-from-websites-selling-fakes.html
Hermes International SCA (RMS) , maker of
Birkin handbags and silk scarves, won a judgment that includes
$100 million in damages against 34 websites that sold fake
copies of its  luxury goods .  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in New York ruled the
sites, which didn’t defend themselves in court, sold items that
infringed upon at least nine Hermes products including Birkin
and Kelly handbags, wallets, watches, belts and jewelry.  Cote said the websites, with names such as HermesBags-
Outlet.net, HermesBirkin-Bags.org and HermesOutletStore.Com,
were liable for federal trademark counterfeiting and
infringement. They had also disregarded her previous temporary
orders restraining them from selling counterfeit Hermes items,
Cote said.  “Collectively, the defendants sold and offered for sale at
least nine distinct types of goods, each bearing numerous
counterfeits of the Hermes trademarks and designs,” Cote said
in the ruling made public today.  “If plaintiffs discover new domain names registered by the
defendants containing one or more of the Hermes trademarks or
marks confusingly similar thereto plaintiffs may bring the
additional infringing domain names to the court’s attention,”
Cote said.  Accounts for Payment  Liquidated accounts of websites held by PayPal Inc. will be
tapped to award Hermes the damages, Cote ruled. She said
Internet service providers and merchant account providers, as
well as third-party processors and search engines including
Google Inc., Microsoft Corp.’s Bing and Yahoo! Inc., must
immediately stop providing services to the defendants or links
to their sites.  The judge also directed social media companies including
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Twitter Inc. to “de-index” and remove from
any search pages links to the infringing defendants.  The online sale of counterfeit clothes, bags and jewelry
costs luxury goods makers about $30 billion a year, Tiffany &
Co. and other retailers claimed in a U.S. lawsuit.  Hermes won a lawsuit in 2008 claiming EBay Inc. hadn’t done
enough to stop a vendor from selling fakes of its handbags. The
same year, a Paris court ruled against EBay, awarding  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest luxury-goods
maker, 40 million euros ($51.3 million) in damages for trademark
violations and harm to its brands’ image. The court halted the
sale of some perfumes and cosmetics to French buyers.  A French appeals court in September 2010 slashed the fines
to 5.6 million euros while upholding the lower court’s findings.
That ruling, part of a continuing dispute between EBay and
French brand owners over online sales, has been appealed.  The case is Hermes International v. John Doe, 12-CV-1623,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  