-- Terra Firma Buys Four Seasons Health for 825 Million Pounds
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-04-30T09:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/terra-firma-buys-four-seasons-health-for-825-million-pounds-1-.html
Guy Hands’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. agreed to buy Four Seasons Health Care, a U.K.
care-home operator, for 825 million pounds ($1.34 billion), his
biggest purchase since losing control of EMI Group Ltd.  Terra Firma will inject fresh equity into the company, the
London-based private equity firm said in a statement today.
Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will arrange about 525
million pounds of financing for the purchase, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified because the terms are private.  “By investing new equity, Four Seasons’s debt has been
very substantially reduced,” Hands, chief investment officer of
Terra Firma, said in the statement. “Terra Firma has brought
stability to the company.”  Four Seasons was taken over by its lenders in 2009, three
years after being bought by Qatari-backed fund Three Delta LLP.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which became Four Seasons’s
largest shareholder after the debt-for-equity swap, will retain
a stake, Terra Firma said today.  Hands, 52, lost almost a third of his London-based firm’s
most recent 5.4 billion-euro ($7.1 billion) buyout fund after
ceding control of EMI to lender Citigroup Inc. when the record
label struggled to meet the terms of the loans used to finance
its takeover in 2007. Hands last month agreed to buy the Garden
Centre Group, which sells plants and vegetables in 129 stores
throughout the U.K., for 276 million pounds.  Care Homes  Four Seasons operates 445 care homes and 61 hospitals and
special units in the U.K., Isle of Man and  Jersey . It recorded
about 100 million pounds of earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization in 2011, Terra Firma said.  Buyout firms are likely to drive a boom of health care
deals in  Europe  in the next 18 months, according to an analysis
by Credit Suisse Group AG. Acquisitions of European private
equity-owned facilities such as hospitals and lab operators in
Europe last year more than doubled from 2010 to 6.2 billion
euros. Fresenius SE agreed last week to buy  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) 
for 3.1 billion euros, the biggest deal in European health-care
services in more than five years.  Four Seasons was advised by Rothschild, Gleacher Shacklock
and Deutsche Bank AG. Barclays and Goldman Sachs advised Terra
Firma, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net  