-- Erste Cuts Profit Outlook on Hungary, Romania Loan Losses
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-04-30T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/erste-net-up-8-as-buyback-gain-exceeds-hungary-romania.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  said bad loans
in  Hungary  and Romania will remain a drag on profit for longer
than it predicted after they cast a pall over first-quarter
results at eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender.  Bad debt charges will be about 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion), or about 10 percent more than it predicted Feb. 29, as
asset quality continues to worsen in Hungary and Romania, the
Vienna-based lender said in  slides prepared for an analyst
meeting  in  London  today. That also means operating profit will
be only stable this year, rather than rising “slightly” from
3.63 billion euros in 2011.  “We are slightly more cautious on the income side and on
the risk-cost side,” Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl
told analysts in a conference call. Asset reductions the bank
has made to improve its  capital ratios  will cut revenue and
contribute to the lowered profit forecast, he said.  Like other banks operating in the former communist part of
Europe such as market leader  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , Erste is betting that risk costs in the region
will come down and boost profit. Hungary, where Erste owns the
second-biggest bank, and Romania, where its unit is the biggest,
are holding back that recovery. In both countries, about one in
four loans on Erste’s book is delinquent. The bank had its first
loss since at least 1988 last year because of writedowns there.  Charges Quadruple  Erste’s bad debt charges more than quadrupled from 2007 to
2009, when they first crossed the 2 billion-euro mark. The new
guidance means they could remain above that level for the fourth
straight year.  “When we had that for the first time in 2009, it looked
like a one-off,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, with a buy rating on Erste. “It’s 2012 now and we’re
still there. That’s not so great.”  Erste climbed 1.6 percent to 17.395 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of Vienna trading, beating the 43-member  Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index , which was down 1 percent. It
remains one of the index’s top 10 performers this year as it
advanced 28 percent.  “That’s still the main story for Erste, and indeed for
Raiffeisen,” Becker said. “At some point asset quality
deterioration will relax and they can write back provisions.
That is going to happen at some point, but not this year.”  Buybacks Helped  Erste’s net income rose 8 percent to 346.5 million euros in
the three months ended March 31, helped by a 250.6 million-euro
pretax gain from hybrid-bond buybacks that more than canceled
out the Romanian and Hungarian loan losses. That beat the
average estimate of a drop to 302 million euros in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 analysts. Erste said it will have another buyback
gain of 160 million euros this quarter.  Risk provisions rose 26 percent to 580.6 million euros,
more than the 22 percent rise analysts in the Bloomberg survey
had estimated. The bank booked extra charges on corporate and
real estate loans in  Romania , and on Hungarian foreign-currency
mortgages. Erste had predicted Feb. 29 that 2012 charges would
decline to 1.8 billion euros from 2.27 billion euros last year.  Erste exceeded the 9 percent capital goal determined by the
European Banking Authority, reaching a core Tier 1 ratio as
defined by EBA of 9.7 percent. It has to reach that target by
June 30. Excluding state aid and other non-voting capital, the
core Tier 1 ratio stood at 8.6 percent, up from 7.8 percent
three months earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  