-- ETP Bonds Drop After It Agrees to Buy Sunoco for $5.3 Bln
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-30T16:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/etp-bonds-drop-after-it-agrees-to-buy-sunoco-for-5-3-bln.html
Bonds of  Energy Transfer Partners
LP (ETP) , owner of more than 17,500 miles of natural-gas pipelines,
dropped by the most since they were issued in January as the
company agreed to buy Sunoco Inc.  Energy Transfer’s $1 billion of 6.5 percent senior
unsecured notes maturing in February 2042 slumped 4.7 cents to
102.7 on the dollar to yield 6.30 percent, the highest ever, at
11:58 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That’s the biggest fall since the bonds started trading on Jan.
11. The Dallas-based firm’s $1 billion issue of 5.2 percent
notes maturing in February 2022 fell 3.3 cents to 103.9 cents,
and was the most actively traded security with 57 trades of $1
million or more.  The pipeline operator agreed to buy Sunoco for $5.3 billion
in shares and cash to add oil terminals and transportation
assets, the pipeline owner said in a statement today.  Energy
Transfer  Equity LP, which controls Energy Transfer Partners,
bought Southern Union Co. last month for more than $5 billion.  “Half of the price is being paid for in cash, so ETP has a
funding need to meet,”  Andy DeVries , an analyst at CreditSights
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The parent company just
bought Southern Union,” he said. “You usually try and digest
such an acquisition before moving on to the next one, and
bondholders are wary about this management move.”  The transaction represents the next step in Energy Transfer
Partner’s transformation into a more diversified enterprise, the
company said in the statement.  Credit Outlook  Standard & Poor’s , which ranks Energy Transfer at BBB-, the
lowest rung of investment grade, has a negative watch on the
company’s ratings. New York-based Moody’s Investors Service has
an equivalent long-term rating of Baa3 on the company.  The Sunoco deal may end negative credit outlooks, Kelcy Warren, the chief executive officer of Energy Transfer said in a
call with investors.  “Bondholders are always worried about M&A,” said DeVries,
adding the decision is good in the long run. “It all hinges on
how they finance the cash component.”  Energy Transfer Partners had $9 billion of total debt as of
Dec. 31, it said in its February annual filing. The company had
$108 million of cash and equivalents as of Dec. 31 and $108
million of bonds maturing in 2012, Bloomberg  data  show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  