-- Eurobills Depose Common Bonds as Crisis Fix: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-04-30T10:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/eurobills-depose-common-bonds-as-crisis-fix-euro-credit.html
German opposition to euro countries
becoming responsible for each other’s debts is being tested by
proposals for a program of European bill sales that would mirror
the U.S. Treasury market.  Eurobills would be “a very good first step” toward common
euro-region bonds,  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund , said in  Washington  last week.
Securities maturing in a year or less would pose “very little
risk for the participating countries,” he said.  Euro-region countries are seeking to ease the debt crisis
without lessening the pressure on profligate governments to curb
deficits. Proposals for common bonds that would cut borrowing
costs for countries such as Spain, where  10-year yields  have
held at about 6 percent for the past month, collide with German
reluctance to transfer resources, and treaties that prevent
 member states  from sharing their financial burdens.  The Eurobills proposal  put forward  by Christian Hellwig, a
professor at Toulouse School of Economics, and Thomas Philippon,
an associate professor of finance at New York University’s
Leonard N. Stern School of Business, calls for a European debt
management office as the monopoly seller of euro-denominated
bills. No euro nation would be allowed to have bills outstanding
worth more than 10 percent of its gross domestic product,
reflecting the relative size of the U.S. market.  No Panacea  “The idea is to transpose the U.S. Treasury market to the
euro area,” Hellwig said in a telephone interview. “Will it
help? Yes, absolutely. Does it solve everything? That’s not our
claim.”  Yields on  Spain ’s 10-year bonds were little changed at 5.87
percent today, 4.2 percentage points more than the 1.68 percent
yield on similar-maturity German notes. The  average rate  on
bonds that are older than one year of euro countries is 3.49
percent, according to Bloomberg/European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies index data, compared with a 0.34 percent yield
on German bills repayable in March 2013 and the 2.25 percent
investors get for lending to Italy for the next year.  “The choice is becoming somewhat binary,” said  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
in  London , who floated a similar proposal in a September paper.
“Moving forward means taking steps toward a fiscal union and,
in this regard, euro bills are a good place to start.”  Integration Momentum  A deteriorating growth outlook is driving closer
cooperation between European governments as opposition to more
austerity increases.  Francois Hollande , the frontrunner in the
French presidential race, wants to renegotiate  Europe ’s fiscal
pact and push for growth. The government of the Netherlands fell
after Geert Wilders’s Freedom Party withdrew support for
spending cuts and tax increases.  “There’s new momentum with the French election and what
Hollande is saying,” said Markus Brunnermeier, a professor of
economics at  Princeton University . That’s bumping up against the
same obstacles met by previous efforts. “The French would very
much like a joint liability, the Germans don’t,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s cut Spain’s credit rating last week for
the second time this year, lowering it two levels to BBB+. With
the Spanish economy floundering and deposits leaving its banks,
measures to support investor confidence and stabilize capital
flows may include “a greater pooling of fiscal resources and
obligations, possibly direct bank support mechanisms to weaken
the sovereign-bank links,” S&P said.  Nothing Ventured  While not all countries issue bills, euro-region sovereigns
have about 570 billion euros ($750 billion) of the securities
outstanding, data compiled by Bloomberg show. German Bubills
make up 52 billion euros of the total, behind  France , which has
about 180 billion euros of BTFs, and  Italy , with about 170
billion euros of BOTs, the data show. Spain has about 76 billion
euros of Letras outstanding.  Only countries complying with agreed targets get to benefit
from Eurobill issuance. Hellwig offers the analogy of venture
capitalists, who monitor and control the entrepreneurs they back
by handing out funds a little at a time, a strategy being
followed in the international bailout of  Greece .  While having to refinance the bills at least once a year
gives a supervising agency greater bargaining power, Princeton’s
Brunnermeier questions the credibility of a threat not to allow
rollovers.  “Would the authority really kick out a country that was
breaking the rules?” he said. “I doubt it. It would be hugely
unpopular.”  ‘Diabolic Loop’  He also questions whether Eurobills tackle the real issues,
which he defines as the flight to safety that has sent capital
pouring out of the peripheral nations and into the core, the
issue of transfers in the other direction, and what he calls
“the diabolic loop” of banks and sovereigns propping each
other up.  Eurobills would offer banks an “unambiguously safe”
instrument they could use to meet new  capital requirements ,
according to Hellwig. He suggests European regulators view them
as the main, or only, asset to be used when assessing a bank’s
access to liquidity.  “We have to recognize that government debt isn’t
necessarily risk-free,” he said. “The Greek crisis made it
clear that  Italian securities , say, are not the same as German
ones, and that’s meant a lot of liquidity has been lost in the
banking sector.”  Printing Euros  Yields on German Bubills are close to zero, with the note
maturing in July at about 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point.  Italy’s three-month bill  trades at about 94 basis points
and Spain’s at 30.  “The key advantage of Eurobills is that they are issued
centrally, because while the stressed countries can’t print
their own money, the ECB can, so the bills would be paid,” said
 Steven Barrow , head of G10 research at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “The danger is that you bring down the average maturity
of sovereign debt significantly.”  Eurobills are a “sensible approach,” according to Ernst-
Ludwig von Thadden, professor of finance and economics at
 Germany ’s Mannheim University, who helped Hellwig organize a
presentation at the Bundesbank. The proposal permits some risk-
sharing to stabilize nations’ finances at the same time as it
prevents governments from being “irresponsible,” he said.  There would be investor demand for Eurobills, said Sylvain
Champonnois, a strategist in London at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
world’s biggest asset manager. The real drawback is the politics
of the proposal, he said.  “You’d have to get all the politicians on board,” he
said. “You’d need the whole architecture of political
agreement, treaty changes and so on, plus there would be a cost
to Germany. Still, it’s also going to cost them something if it
all breaks up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  