-- Euro-Region Inflation Slowed in April as Oil Gains Weakened
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-30T09:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/euro-region-inflation-slowed-in-april-as-oil-gains-weakened.html
European inflation  slowed in April
as energy costs increased at a weaker pace than a year ago.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro area fell to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in March, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. Economists forecast consumer prices to rise 2.5 percent,
the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  softened his
tone on the euro region’s inflation outlook on April 25, calling
risks “broadly balanced.” Growth in loans to households and
companies weakened in March, the ECB said today. With oil prices
retreating and the region’s economic slump deepening, economists
forecast the central bank would keep its  benchmark interest rate 
at 1 percent when council members meet on May 3.  “Some of the decline is probably due to oil prices,”
Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Group in Brussels, said
in an e-mailed note. “It looks as if pricing power among
European companies is weakening again.” The ECB’s  borrowing
costs  will probably “remain at the current low level at least
until the end of 2013, and perhaps even longer.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3235 at 11:06 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slipped 0.1 percent.  ECB Projections  Euro-region inflation may average 2.4 percent this year and
1.6 percent in 2013, the ECB said on March 8. The Frankfurt-
based central bank, which will publish its latest economic
projections in June, aims to keep annual gains in consumer
prices just below 2 percent.  Crude- oil prices  have declined about 1.7 percent in the
past two months, leaving consumers with more money to spend as
the region’s debt crisis undermines confidence and hiring.
European  economic sentiment  dropped more than economists
forecast in April, partly as households grew more pessimistic.  With the region’s economic slump deepening and consumers
reluctant to boost spending, companies have been forced to lower
costs to protect earnings. Unemployment probably rose to 10.9
percent in March from 10.8 percent in the previous month, a
Bloomberg survey shows. The European Union’s statistics office
will release the report on May 2.  ‘Massive Liquidity’  The ECB has injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the banking system to fight the crisis. That may
have increased council members’ reluctance to lower borrowing
costs further after two cuts in the fourth quarter, said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London , citing concern about “the longer-term inflationary
impact of the massive liquidity.”  Still, ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said on April 25
that the central bank’s assessment of inflation risks has
changed as the economy weakens.  “Because we see everywhere economic growth is slowing down
a little bit, so we have a different perspective now on the risk
for inflation coming from oil and commodities,” he said. “We
believe that oil prices will not continue to go up.”  The statistics office is scheduled to release a breakdown
of April consumer prices next month. Euro-area  core inflation ,
which excludes volatile costs such as energy, quickened to 1.6
percent in March from 1.5 percent in the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  