-- Fed Says Banks Eased Loan Standards As Demand Increased
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-30T18:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/fed-says-banks-eased-loan-terms-as-demand-rose-in-first-quarter.html
U.S. banks saw increased demand for
lending in the first quarter and made loans easier to get,
according to a Federal Reserve survey.  “Domestic banks generally reported having eased their
lending standards and having experienced stronger demand over
the past three months,” the Fed said today in  Washington  in its
quarterly survey of senior loan officers. It said the number of
banks reporting eased standards and improved demand, rather than
the reverse, was “modest.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this month cited improving
credit conditions as removing a restraint to faster growth that
should allow the economy to “approach more quickly its longer-
run full employment level.” In its April 25 statement, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said it expects growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to “pick up gradually.”  The Fed said in its survey that banks were more likely to
ease than tighten terms on business loans to firms of all sizes
amid increased competition from other banks and non-bank
lenders.  Banks saw easier standards and strengthening demand for
commercial real-estate loans, a “moderate” strengthening in
demand for prime residential  mortgage loans  and easier standards
for most types of consumer loans.  Loosening Strings  “Banks are slowly loosening those strings and making
credit more available,” said  Millan Mulraine , U.S. economic
strategist for TD Securities in New York. “We will hopefully
get this positive feedback loop between economic growth, credit
flows and employment growth.”  The survey of loan officers at 58 domestic banks and 23
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks was conducted from
March 27 to April 10, the Fed said. The report doesn’t identify
respondents.  The  American Bankers Association , a Washington-based trade
group, said April 5 that U.S. consumer-loan delinquencies fell
across the board in the fourth quarter as borrowers benefited
from improving job and housing markets.  U.S. banks “reported having eased standards on  credit
card , auto and other consumer loans,” the Fed said today in its
survey. “Demand for consumer loans reportedly continued to
increase, especially for auto loans.”  The  U.S. economy  grew 2.2 percent in the first quarter,
compared with 3.0 percent in the fourth quarter, according to a
Commerce Department report last week. Gains in  consumer spending 
were offset by a diminished contribution from business
inventories and  government spending  that fell for a sixth
straight quarter.  Financials Index  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index, which tracks
the performance of 81 companies, has risen 18.4 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent increase in the broader  S&P
500 Index . The S&P 500 index remained lower today after the
Fed’s report. The index fell 0.6 percent to 1,394.64 at 2:44
p.m. in  New York .  An improved environment for lending has boosted the outlook
for companies like PNC Financial Services Inc., which this month
reported that income from its residential mortgage business
gained 18 percent to $230 million. Total loans grew to $164.6
billion as of March 31 from $150.1 billion at the same time last
year as PNC recorded a 23 percent increase in commercial loans.  “The economy is, I think, continuing to do a little better
each time we look,” said Jim Rohr, PNC’s chief executive
officer, in an April 18 earnings call. “We’re seeing
unemployment has come down, employment has gone up. We’re seeing
 capital expenditures  grow.”  Special Set  The Fed asked a special set of questions on residential
mortgage lending and how standards had changed for borrowers
with lower credit scores.  “Banks reported that they were less likely than in 2006,
to varying degrees, to originate mortgages to any borrowers
apart from those with the strongest credit profiles,” the
survey said.  Mortgage rates  near record lows may be helping to stabilize
the U.S. housing market. The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
was 3.88 percent in the week ended April 26, according to
 Freddie Mac . The index reached the lowest level in 40 years in
February at 3.87 percent.  Mortgage rates have stayed low as the Fed’s $400 billion
program to swap short-term debt for longer-term debt, known as
Operation Twist, has helped hold the 10-year Treasury yield near
2 percent or lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell
to 1.91 percent today from 1.94 percent on April 27.  More Jobs  Demand for new U.S. homes was stronger than projected in
March, showing more jobs and cheaper borrowing costs are helping
stabilize the market. Houses sold at a 328,000 annual rate, down
from an upwardly revised 353,000 pace in February that was the
highest in two years, according to Commerce Department data last
week.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped at a slower pace in
the year ended February, pointing to stabilization in the real-
estate market. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
fell 3.5 percent, the smallest 12-month drop since February
2011.  The Fed survey also included a special set of questions on
lending to firms in  Europe . Banks “reported tightening
standards on loans to European banks and on loans to
nonfinancial firms with substantial business in Europe,” the
survey showed. U.S. banks also “reported increased demand owing
to reduced competition from European banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  