-- Fidelity’s Stairs ‘Culpable’ of Hong Kong Insider Trading
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/fidelity-s-stairs-culpable-of-hong-kong-insider-trading.html
Former Fidelity Management & Research
Co. portfolio manager George Stairs traded shares of  Chaoda
Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)  on inside information of a
share placement, a  Hong Kong  tribunal found.  Chaoda Chairman Kwok Ho and Chief Financial Officer Andy Chan, who were also specified in the civil inquiry, didn’t break
 insider trading  laws when they divulged the Chinese vegetable
producer’s plans to issue shares on investor calls, according to
the 135-page  ruling  by Hong Kong’s Market Misconduct Tribunal.  “It was not a coincidence that, on the very day on which
he had received material price sensitive information from Kwok
Ho and Andy Chan, George Stairs placed an order to sell a parcel
of those shares,” the tribunal wrote in its report, noting that
analysts at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  notified their compliance departments
about the information.  The three-member tribunal, led by High Court Judge Michael
Lunn, held hearings in February and March to investigate whether
material non-public information was improperly disclosed on
phone calls involving Kwok, Chan and U.S. institutional
investors in 2009. Stairs took part in one of those calls and
sold some of his Chaoda holdings before the placement, according
to Hong Kong’s government.  Vincent Loporchio , a Boston-based spokesman for Fidelity,
wrote in an e-mail yesterday that the company is reviewing the
tribunal’s conclusions, and said the panel didn’t “indicate any
criticism of Fidelity’s policies and procedures.”  Internal Review  The company said in February that it had concluded after an
internal review that their employees hadn’t violated any laws or
regulations. Stairs told the tribunal he believed the share-
placement information was already public.  Kwok and Chan didn’t commit insider trading when they
“deliberately and knowingly ignored the proper protocols for
providing information” to Stairs, according to the tribunal.
“Whatever were their purposes for disclosing the information to
George Stairs, we are sure that it did not include the purpose
that he use the information to deal in Chaoda shares.”  Stairs netted HK$1.98 million ($255,200) for his funds by
selling Chaoda shares ahead of the announcement. He later bought
more at a lower price in the offering, according to a government
 notice .  BlackRock employees who also participated in conference
calls with Kwok and Chan in June 2009 reported the information
to their compliance department “immediately” and were
restricted from trading, the tribunal heard.  Merrill Lynch  The panel also criticized Merrill Lynch Asia Pacific Ltd.,
which was competing with other banks for the share issue mandate
and which arranged the investor calls, for failing to take into
account the “very substantial risk” that price sensitive
information would be divulged. No Merrill Lynch employees were
targets of the inquiry.  Mark Tsang, a spokesman for Bank of America-Merrill Lynch,
declined to comment on the ruling.  The civil tribunal inquiring into the allegations has the
power to force the disgorgement of profits made or losses
avoided. It can also ban individuals from dealing in any
securities, and from serving as a director or manager of a
corporation. A hearing will be held on May 21 to determine
Stairs’ penalty, according to the Market Misconduct Tribunal’s
 website .  The ruling, dated April 26, was posted on the tribunal’s
website.  Simon Shi, a spokesman at Chaoda, wasn’t available when a
phone call was made to the company’s investor relations office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  