-- Former Israeli Premier Olmert Cautions Against Iran Strike
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-04-30T17:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/former-israeli-premier-olmert-says-now-not-time-to-strike-iran.html
Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said now isn’t a good time to strike  Iran  and that quiet
diplomacy may be effective, adding to domestic criticism of the
way the government is handling the Iranian threat.  “There is enough time to try different avenues of pressure
to change the balance of power with Iran without the need for a
direct military confrontation with Iran and now is not the right
time,” Olmert said at a conference hosted by The Jerusalem Post
in New York yesterday. His comments were published today in the
English-language newspaper.  Olmert’s remarks followed those of Yuval Diskin, former
chief of  Israel ’s Shin-Bet internal security service, who said
on April 27 that Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak  have exaggerated the country’s ability to
halt  Iran’s nuclear program  using military means. Israel’s Chief
of Staff Lieutenant General Benny Gantz said in an interview
published on April 25 that he doesn’t believe Iran would build
an atomic bomb.  Netanyahu has expressed skepticism that international
sanctions will stop Iran from enriching uranium. He has warned
that the Islamic Republic’s leaders want to build nuclear
weapons and has said that Israel has taken no option off the
table in dealing with Iran. President  Barack Obama  has said
diplomacy must be given more time to work before military
options are exercised.  “Iranian deception concerning their nuclear program is
ongoing and well documented, yet parts of the world, including
politically motivated Israeli figures prefer to bury their heads
in the sand,” Barak said today at a press conference in
 Jerusalem .  Nuclear Program  “I’m not certain that when we speak loudly it is more
helpful than when we speak privately and quietly with the
leadership of those countries,” Olmert said.  Olmert, a former Netanyahu ally, split from the Likud party
and helped found Kadima in 2006, which now serves as the prime
minister’s main opposition. Kadima is headed by former Defense
Minister Shaul Mofaz.  The U.S. and European Union have imposed financial
sanctions on Iran and are pressuring nations including  China  to
buy less of its oil as they seek to curtail its nuclear
activities.  Iran says its nuclear program is to produce electricity and
is solely for peaceful purposes. Tensions over the Iranian
nuclear program helped drive Brent crude prices to about $125 a
barrel last month, the highest in more than 3 1/2 years. Prices
fell more than 2 percent on the next trading day after Iran and
the world powers broke a 15-month stalemate on the nuclear
conflict during talks April 14 in Istanbul. Negotiations are set
to resume May 23 in  Baghdad .  Coalition Dispute  “Sanctions that are stronger than ever have forced the
Iranians to take note, sit down and talk,” Barak said.
“However, this doesn’t fill me with confidence.”  The criticism of Netanyahu comes amid talk of early
elections in Israel. Netanyahu said yesterday he may call an
vote because of disagreements with coalition parties over
military service exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews and Arabs.
Opposition leaders have vowed to introduce a no-confidence
motion to parliament next week. The governing coalition is in
its third year and elections are scheduled for 2013.  ‘More Sensitive’  Attacks on Netanyahu are “accumulating and because of talk
of elections, everyone is more sensitive,” Uri Dromi,
government spokesman in the 1990s under the late Prime Minister
 Yitzhak Rabin , said in a telephone interview. “People like
Diskin are sincere in their concern and have no political
considerations, but there is the spin that is definitely the
product of people who are now looking to elections and using
this against Netanyahu or are up in arms to defend him.”  Gabi Ashkenazi, Gantz’s predecessor as chief of staff, who
retired last year, told the conference in  New York  yesterday
that “we still have time.”  “It is better to persuade our friends in the world that it
is a global threat,” Ashkenazi said, adding that Netanyahu’s
government has done a “good job” emphasizing the danger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  