-- Fracking ‘Health Challenges’ to Be Examined by U.S. Advisers
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-30T21:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/fracking-health-challenges-to-be-examined-by-u-s-advisers-1-.html
The  Institute of Medicine  will
examine whether the process of hydraulic fracturing to extract
natural gas from rock “poses potential health challenges,” a
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official said.  Health concerns related to fracking, in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
break up rock and free gas, include the potential for water
contamination and air pollution, Christopher Portier, director
of CDC’s National Center for  Environmental Health , said at a
workshop in  Washington  today.  Fracking has enabled energy companies to access fuel
trapped in previously impenetrable shale rock, reversing a
decline in U.S. gas production. Environmentalists have claimed
the chemicals used contribute to water contamination and
airborne toxins.  “As public health officials, we are committed to ensuring
that development happens responsibly,” Portier said in
introductory remarks. Portier, who also directs the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, said that agency has
received complaints from people in communities with gas wells.  “They have mentioned health effects like nausea,
respiratory issues and irritating odors,” he said.  The Environmental Protection Agency finished regulations
this month on capturing air pollution at wells. The rules will
be phased-in so that companies have until 2015 to fully comply.  Wastewater Recycling  David Cole , regional discipline leader for production
technology/chemistry at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Shell Upstream
Americas, attended the workshop and said his company recycles
all of the wastewater produced at most of its wells and flares
“really a small amount” of the gas a well produces.  “We understand that just because it’s a common chemical
doesn’t mean you want it in your drinking water,” Cole said of
the fracking fluids. He said Shell uses small amounts of the
fluid and tries to isolate the well from drinking water
supplies.  One aim of the Institute of Medicine workshop is to discuss
whether studies called “health impact assessments” can help
communities plan for gas wells and mitigate public health
problems. A “comprehensive” study can cost as much as $300,000
and take a year of work, said Aaron Wernham, project director at
the Pew Charitable Trusts’ Health Impact Project.  The Institute of Medicine, a branch of the  National Academy
of Sciences , advises the U.S. government on health topics. The
institute’s examination of fracking isn’t a formal study and
won’t result in a report or recommendations to the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  