-- Fracking Sand Threatens Gas Well Workers, Researcher Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-30T19:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/fracking-sand-threatens-gas-well-workers-researcher-says.html
Sand dust created from the
hydraulic fracturing to extract natural gas from rock is one of
the most dangerous threats to workers at wells blossoming across
the U.S., a government safety researcher said.  About four out of five air samples from well sites in five
states in the past two years exceeded recommended limits for
silica particles, said Eric Esswein, an industrial hygienist at
the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. The
particles in sand dust created during the so-called fracking
process can lodge in the lungs and cause potentially fatal
silicosis, he said today at a conference sponsored by the
 Institute of Medicine .  Drilling companies and their workers do a better job
handling potentially toxic chemicals than they do sand dust, for
which “there’s really no inherent protection” at well sites,
Esswein said. Fracking involves pumping millions of gallons of
chemically treated water and other matter underground to break
up rock and free sources of natural gas.  “There’s lots more sand used these days in fracking
operations than there was 10 or 15 years ago,” Esswein told an
IOM panel that is studying health issues related to fracking.  The gas industry says that its wells, sometimes blamed by
people who live nearby for air and water contamination, are safe
for both workers and the communities where they drill.  “When it comes to claims that hydraulic fracturing is
causing people to get sick more frequently or more severely, the
data simply do not support that conclusion,” said Steve
Everley, a spokesman for Energy In Depth, in an e-mail. His
group advocates for drilling-friendly policies on behalf of gas
companies including Oklahoma City-based  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   Focus on Safety  Workers at gas wells are generally safer than in other
businesses, Everley said, pointing to U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics data that show the  incidence  of non-fatal injuries in
the oil and gas extraction industry is less than half the
national average.  Esswein, whose agency is part of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, said his team spent about 225 hours
visiting 11 well sites in  Colorado ,  Arkansas ,  Pennsylvania ,
 Texas  and  North Dakota  in 2010 and 2011, with the consent of
drilling companies, to examine safety practices.  Workers were careful while handling dangerous chemicals and
generally knew what to do in the event of emergencies, he said.  “There’s a big focus on safety” at well sites, Esswein
said. “There isn’t as much emphasis on health. We call it big
‘S’ and little ‘H.’”  He took air samples from workers and near wellheads, to
test for contaminants, and found elevated levels of silica most
places. In about one-third of the samples, he said, silica
levels were more than 10 times recommendations.  Esswein said he didn’t know whether the sand dust may be
harmful to local residents because his team didn’t take
measurements at the edges of well sites. He plans to publish
data from his survey in trade and scientific journals this year.  The Institute of Medicine , a branch of the  National Academy
of Sciences , advises the U.S. government on health topics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  