-- LG Display Settles Price-Fix Claims With Eight States
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/lg-display-settles-price-fix-claims-with-eight-states.html
LG Display Co. (034220)  reached a settlement
with eight U.S. states and consumers over claims that the
company colluded with other makers of liquid-crystal displays to
fix prices.  The company said yesterday in a  regulatory filing  that it
reached an agreement in principle with a class of so-called
indirect purchasers and with the attorneys general of Arkansas,
California, Florida, Michigan, Missouri,  New York , West Virginia
and Wisconsin. Terms of the settlement, which must be approved
by a judge, weren’t disclosed.  The settlement doesn’t resolve claims by Illinois,
Mississippi, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina and Washington,
according to the filing.  Sharp Corp., Samsung Electronics Co. and five other makers
of thin-film-transistor LCD panels used in computers and
televisions agreed in December to pay $538.6 million to settle
antitrust claims by indirect purchasers. The cases are
consolidated in federal court in  San Francisco . A jury trial is
scheduled to start this month.  Bong-Soo Lee, a spokesman for Seoul-based LG Display,
didn’t immediately respond yesterday to an e-mail seeking
comment on the terms of the settlements. Brad Brian, a Los
Angeles-based lawyer for the company, didn’t immediately return
a call to his office.  AU Optronics, Toshiba  Joseph Alioto , a lawyer for the class-action plaintiffs,
said that all panel makers have now agreed to settle with the
consumers, including Hsinchu, Taiwan-based  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) 
and Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which weren’t part of the
settlement announced in December.  The terms of the settlement will be disclosed in court
filings seeking preliminary approval, Alioto said in a phone
interview.  Christopher Nedeau, a lawyer for AU Optronics, declined to
comment on the settlement. Christopher Curran, a lawyer for
Toshiba in New York, didn’t immediately return a call to his
office seeking comment on it yesterday.  The case is In Re TFT-LCD (Flat Panel) Antitrust
Litigation, 07-01827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  