-- Gap Hires H&M Global Sales Head to Lead Old Navy Amid Expansion
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-30T22:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/gap-hires-h-m-global-sales-head-to-lead-old-navy-amid-expansion.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  hired Stefan Larsson, the
former head of global sales at  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , to lead Old
Navy as the largest U.S. apparel chain prepares to take the
division overseas in July.  Larsson, 37, will start as Old Navy’s first global brand
president by October as he moves his family from Europe to San
Francisco, where Gap is headquartered, Edie Kissko, a Gap
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. Gap plans to open an
Old Navy store in Japan this July, its first outside  North
America , according to a statement today.  Gap is seeking to revamp Old Navy, introduced as the
company’s value-oriented brand in 1994, after sales at the unit
declined last year amid higher cotton prices and a failed
marketing campaign. Gap hired Jill Stanton, the former vice
president of global apparel at  Nike Inc. (NKE) , as creative adviser
for Old Navy earlier this year, another reflection of the
brand’s international ambitions.  “We were really looking for someone who had experience in
the apparel sector and the value sector and how to perform on
the global stage, so Stefan really fits the bill,” Kissko said.
Larsson led the introduction of H&M stores on the West Coast,
living in San Francisco about seven years ago, so he’s familiar
with the area, she said.  Larsson will replace  Tom Wyatt , the division’s brand
president for more than three years.  “Stefan is a rising star within apparel retail, with
proven experience in the value sector,” Gap Chief Executive
Officer  Glenn Murphy  said in today’s statement. “He’s tackled
some of the most complex challenges in our industry and has a
deep appreciation for the need to balance great product and
operational excellence.”  Same-store sales at  Old Navy  rose 8 percent in March and 4
percent in February,  reversing  declines in the same periods last
year, according to the company’s website. Gap is set to report
comparable store sales for April on May 3.  Old Navy  generated  $5.7 billion of sales in fiscal 2011, a
4 percent decline from the previous year, according to the
company’s annual report.  Since Larsson’s joined Stockholm-based H&M in 1998, the
company’s operations grew from 12 countries to 44, and revenue
expanded to $17 billion from $3 billion.  Gap’s shares have soared 54 percent this year to $28.50 at
close in New York today. The stock ended at $28.53 on April 27,
the highest since July 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  