-- GCC Needs to Refinance $60 Billion of Debt in 2012, RBS Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-30T15:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/gcc-needs-to-refinance-60-billion-of-debt-in-2012-rbs-says-1-.html
The six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates , needs to refinance $60 billion of debt between now and
the end of the year,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  said.  “We don’t foresee any issues for refinancing” as these
loans have “either been dealt with” or are being restructured
or amortized, Jacco Keijzer, head of debt capital markets for
the Middle East and  Africa  at RBS, said at a conference in Dubai
today. The loans that need to be repaid this year include $7
billion by  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  that “nobody worries
about” and $3 billion from state-controlled  Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL) 
“which was more or less provided for last year,” he said.  Europe ’s debt crisis had sparked concerns about the ability
of GCC companies and banks to refinance debt this year on
expectations European lenders would trim lending. Some banks in
Europe have reduced lending although Gulf financial institutions
have “dramatically stepped up their play and in a much stronger
way than anybody expected them to,” Keijzer said.  There are still some concerns about Dubai’s DIFC
Investments LLC’s ability to repay a $1.25 billion Islamic bond
due in June and business park operator Jebel Ali Free Zone FZE’s
7.5 billion dirham ($2 billion) sukuk maturing in November,
although the market’s perception is that the refinancing of
these securities has been resolved, Keijzer said.  10 Mandates  RBS has about five to 10 mandates to manage bond and sukuk
sales in the GCC, about half of which are from the U.A.E., the
second-biggest Arab economy, Keijzer said. RBS was one of the
arrangers of a $1.3 billion bond from Abu Dhabi’s Dolphin Energy
Ltd. in February and the $500 million Islamic bond of Emirates
Islamic Bank PJSC, a unit of U.A.E.’s biggest bank, in January.  RBS will focus on debt financing, risk management as well
as its cash management and trade finance businesses in the
 Middle East  after announcing a decision earlier this year to
exit its cash equities and mergers and acquisitions business
globally, Simon Penney, RBS’ chief executive officer for the
Middle East and Africa, said at the conference today.  “We anticipate some very strong growth in trade finance,”
Penney said. Trade flows from and to the GCC are shifting away
from the West towards  Asia  and RBS expects to use its global
reach to provide cash and trade finance solutions to
multinational companies operating in the region, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  