-- German Retail Sales Rebounded in March on Job Creation
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/german-retail-sales-rebounded-in-march-on-job-creation.html
German retail sales rebounded in
March as declining unemployment, slowing inflation and higher
wages bolstered households’ purchasing power.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, rose 0.8
percent from February, when they fell a revised 0.9 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 1 percent, the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Sales increased 2.3 percent from a
year earlier.  With German  unemployment  at a two-decade low and the
economy outperforming most of its euro-region peers, workers are
winning some of the highest pay increases since the early 1990s.
 Business confidence  unexpectedly rose to a nine-month high in
April and inflation slowed to the lowest level in more than a
year, boosting consumers’ disposable income.  “Conditions for retail sales are good,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “People that
are less concerned about unemployment are more willing to spend
money. At the same time, we have higher wage growth this year,
which should also boost  consumer spending  sooner or later.”  IG Metall ,  Europe ’s biggest trade union representing 3.6
million workers, is demanding a 6.5 percent pay raise. German
unemployment probably fell in April, a Bloomberg survey shows.
The Federal Labor Agency will release the report on May 2.  Hugo Boss AG (BOS) , the German luxury-clothing maker controlled
by Permira Advisers, said last week that first-quarter operating
profit gained 13 percent and confirmed a forecast for sales to
gain 10 percent this year.  Praktiker AG (PRA) , Germany’s third-largest
home-improvement retailer on April 26 reported first-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  “If the labor market continues to develop as positively as
is currently being forecast, it can be assumed that the consumer
climate will be able to develop in an overall stable manner in
the coming months,” market research company GfK said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  