-- Gillard’s Labor Plunges to Near Record Low in Opinion Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-01T05:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/gillard-s-labor-party-sinks-to-near-record-low-in-opinion-poll.html
Support for Australian Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s  Labor party  fell to a near-record low in an
opinion poll today as lawmaker scandals overshadow government
plans to deliver the  federal budget  next week.  Public backing for Labor dropped two percentage points to
27 percent, while support for  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal National
coalition rose three points to an  11-year high  of 51 percent,
according to a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper.  After fending off a leadership challenge by predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  in February, Australia’s first female prime minister
is concentrating on delivering on her pledge to end four years
of deficits in the fiscal year that begins July 1. Gillard’s bid
to focus voters’ attention on her economic management has been
derailed by scandals that have eroded her minority government’s
hold on power in the  lower house of parliament .  “The government’s position looks irreparable,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Melbourne ’s  Monash University ,
in a phone interview. “Gillard just doesn’t seem to be able to
make a positive impression on voters. Labor will be starting to
ask questions on whether she should go.”  On a two-party preferred basis, which takes into account
the country’s preferential voting system, the opposition
increased its lead over Labor by six percentage points to an 18-
point margin, according to Newspoll.  Gillard trails Abbott as preferred prime minister by five
percentage points, compared with a two-point margin in the
previous survey conducted two weeks ago.  The Newspoll survey of 1,148 people, conducted April 27-29,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Support for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a Newspoll
taken on Sept. 16-18 last year.  Minority Government  Former union lawyer Gillard, 50, was forced to cobble
together a minority government with independents and Greens
after the closest election in seven decades in August 2010.  Her control of the 150-seat lower house of parliament
became more tenuous at the weekend when she told Labor lawmaker
 Craig Thomson  to quit her party. Thomson has denied claims he
used a labor union credit card to pay for prostitutes while
working for the Health Services Union before becoming a lawmaker
in 2007. Thomson says he will continue to vote with the
government.  Parliamentary Speaker Peter Slipper stepped aside a week
ago to deal with fraud and sexual harassment claims that he
denies.  Abbott’s Boost  Abbott, a 54-year-old Rhodes Scholar and former amateur
boxer, has called for new elections, saying that Thomson’s was
now a “tainted vote” and Gillard has “no integrity.”  Abbott’s improved performance in today’s poll shows
Australian voters now consider him to be an effective leader,
Monash University’s Ghazarian said.  The opposition leader was “seen as a loose cannon who
wasn’t really prime minister material,” he said. “Now he’s
starting to consolidate his position as a genuine alternative
leader.”  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has promised to return federal
finances to surplus over the year through June 2013 and the
government is looking to the May 8 budget announcement for a
boost.  Gillard, seeking a political dividend from lower borrowing
costs in a nation where almost 90 percent of mortgages are
variable rate loans, has said a return to surplus gives the
central bank flexibility to cut rates.  Cutting Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia today cut its benchmark rate
by half a percentage point to 3.75 percent, delivering a bigger-
than-forecast reduction that sent the local dollar and bond
yields tumbling. That followed reductions in borrowing costs in
November and December to buttress the housing market, support
jobs and boost confidence among consumers who are saving more.  “Today’s interest rate cut and the two before it have been
made possible by disciplined fiscal policy delivered by this
government,” Swan told reporters in Canberra after the central
bank’s announcement.  When parliament resumes May 8, Gillard will be looking to
add to her record of legislative success, which includes the
implementation of taxes on  carbon emissions  and resources
profits from July 1. Her challenge deepened in March when Labor
suffered its worst defeat at a state election in Queensland,
leaving the party out of power in all but the two smallest of
 Australia ’s six states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  