-- Gold May Decline on Concerns About Physical Purchases
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-04-30T18:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/gold-may-gain-for-fifth-day-set-for-longest-rally-since-january.html
Gold futures slid, capping a  third
straight monthly decline, on concern that demand in  India , the
world’s biggest buyer, is slowing and after a report showed
Spain’s economy entered its second recession since 2009.  The Akshaya Tritiya festival, considered an auspicious day
to buy precious metals, was celebrated in India last week, and
there was “disappointing demand,” UBS AG said today in a
report. The dollar gained against the euro after a government
report showed that Spain’s economy shrank last quarter, adding
to concerns that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  “Physical demand is India is a problem,” Lance Roberts,
the chief executive officer of Streettalk Advisors LLC in
Houston, said in a telephone interview. “Investors are leaning
towards cash today because of what is happening in  Europe .”  Gold futures for June delivery fell 60 cents to settle
$1,664.20 an ounce at 1:44 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Prices
dropped 0.5 percent in April. Three months of losses is the
longest string of declines since March 2001.  “In terms of physical demand, gold’s buying interest in
India has become anemic,” Shiyang Wang, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in New York, said in a report today. Elsewhere in  Asia ,
interest isn’t “likely to pick up next week as China and  Japan 
will take a few days off as a result of upcoming holidays,”
Wang said.  Holdings in bullion-backed  exchange-traded products , down
0.3 percent in April, are heading for the second straight
monthly loss for the first time since February 2011.  Silver futures for July delivery tumbled 1.3 percent to
$31.016 an ounce on the Comex. The metal retreated 4.5 percent
in April.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
June delivery climbed 0.1 percent to $682.35 an ounce, extending
the month’s gain to 4.3 percent. Platinum futures for July
delivery dropped 0.2 percent to $1,571.90 an ounce on the Nymex.
Platinum fell 4.4 percent this month, the second straight loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  