-- Groupon Bolsters Board With AmEx’s Henry, Deloitte’s Bass
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-05-01T22:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/groupon-adds-amex-s-henry-deloitte-s-bass-to-bolster-board-1-.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  said Daniel Henry, the
finance chief of  American Express Co. (AXP) , and Robert Bass, a vice
chairman of Deloitte LLP, will become directors, underscoring
efforts to shore up investors’ confidence in its accounting.  Henry was appointed on April 26 to replace  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz, who is departing. Bass
will stand for election at the June 19 shareholder meeting. He
will replace Kevin Efrusy, a partner at venture-capital firm
 Accel Partners , who won’t stand for re-election. The new
directors will serve on the  audit committee , Groupon said
yesterday.  Groupon, the largest daily coupon site, is taking steps to
improve financial governance after reporting a “material
weakness” in financial controls and lower fourth-quarter
revenue than previously stated. The stock has dropped 42 percent
since the March 30 announcement, and Groupon officers, directors
and underwriters were named in a lawsuit filed last month by
investor Fan Zhang in Chicago federal court.  “It’s a good thing to enhance the financial oversight,
given that we just had a very quick restatement,” said  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in Delray Beach, Florida, who
rates the stock a buy and doesn’t own it. “You bring in two
guys who appear to be experts in public-company financial
accounting; that, you would think, is an upgrade. So, I think
it’s a step in the right direction.”  Not ‘Broken’  The company had been seeking to hire at least two new
directors after the restatement of revenue, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  “The change in board members is not about something being
broken,” said Mellody Hobson, a Groupon board member and
president of Ariel Investments LLC, in an interview with Willow
Bay on Bloomberg Television. “The change in board members there
is about a shift in opportunity both for those who are there and
those who are coming in.”  Groupon, based in  Chicago , rose 1.5 percent to $10.87 at
the close in in  New York , after an 11 percent decline yesterday.
Part of the decrease came after Schultz’s plans were made
public. The February 2011 appointment of Schultz, who is
credited with reviving the Starbucks brand, was viewed as a
positive for a company that lacked a proven business model.
Groupon stock has lost 47 percent this year.  “Howard Schultz is obviously a big-name guy and well
respected,” said Herman Leung, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group in San Francisco.  Henry, Bass  Henry has been CFO of American Express since October 2007
and joined the company as comptroller in 1990. He previously was
a partner at Ernst & Young. Bass, who has been a partner with
Deloitte since 1982, has been a vice chairman of the firm since
2006. Bass is set to retire from Deloitte in June.  Schultz remains on the board of frozen-yogurt company
 Pinkberry  and Maveron LLC, a venture capital firm, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Efrusy’s Accel was an investor in
Groupon before it went public last year. He remains on the board
of BranchOut Inc., a social service for professionals.  In a regulatory filing, Groupon also revealed compensation
for company executives last year. Groupon said Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mason  had a compensation package of $7,943 in
2011, down from $184,599 in 2010. Mason is one of Groupon’s
largest shareholders, owning about 7 percent of the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mary Margaret Georgiadis, who left as president and chief
operating officer last year, had $27.3 million in compensation.
Jeffrey Holden, senior vice president of  product management ,
received $13.6 million in compensation in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  