-- ICICI Among Indian Banks That Face Moody’s Downgrade
-- B y   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i
-- 2012-04-30T14:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/icici-among-indian-banks-that-face-moody-s-downgrade.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , HDFC Bank Ltd. and
 Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  were placed under review for a downgrade of their
financial strength rating by Moody’s Investors Service as the
lenders are currently above India’s sovereign debt rating.  The review will take into account the banks’ cross-border
diversification of operations and their domestic sovereign debt
holdings, among other factors, Moody’s said in a statement
today. Most banks globally will be rated at the same grade as
the nation where they are based, the ratings company said. India
is rated at Baa3, the lowest investment-grade level.  India’s sovereign credit outlook was lowered this month to
negative by  Standard & Poor’s , taking the nation a step closer
to junk status and dealing a further blow to Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s economic agenda. S&P reaffirmed its BBB- long-
term India rating, while citing concerns that economic growth
has slowed and the current-account deficit has widened.  “Moody’s believes that the creditworthiness of financial
institutions with low cross-border operational diversification
and/or high balance-sheet exposures to the debt of their
domestic sovereign is closely linked to that sovereign’s credit
strength,” according to the statement today. Such lenders “are
unlikely to have standalone credit assessments above the
sovereign.”  Economy Falters  India’s  economic expansion  moderated to 6.1 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, the slowest pace in almost three years,
as costlier credit hurt  consumer spending  and dented investment.
The slowdown sapped tax receipts even as subsidies and a job-
guarantee program for rural workers fanned spending.  ICICI,  HDFC (HDFCB)  and Axis currently have standalone financial
strength ratings, or baseline credit assessments of C-/Baa2,
Moody’s said. The review of those ratings may take about three
months, the credit assessor. The debt and deposit ratings for
all three banks are unaffected, according to the statement.  ICICI, India’s second-largest lender by assets, rose 1.6
percent to 882.35 rupees at close in Mumbai. HDFC, the country’s
second-largest bank by market value, fell 0.2 percent to 542.5
rupees and Axis declined 1.3 percent to 1,106.95 rupees. The BSE
India  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , a gauge for 14 Indian lenders, rose by 0.6
percent.  “The rating action by Moody’s is not a change in the
sovereign rating of  India  and not affect ratings of any
instruments issued by ICICI Bank,” including bonds or deposits,
ICICI said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our ALM is well
matched with asset repayments in fiscal 2012-13 broadly covering
our bond and loan repayment obligations.” ALM refers to the
asset-liability mix.  “We do not need to access bond markets for refinancing,”
the Mumbai-based lender said in the statement. “We will look at
accessing the markets to raise funds for new lending depending
on the cost and the rates at which we can deploy the funds.”  HDFC spokesman Neeraj Jha and Axis spokesman Julius Samson
declined to comment immediately when contacted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  