-- Barnes & Noble’s Microsoft Deal to Drive Overseas Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-30T20:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/microsoft-to-invest-300-million-in-venture-with-barnes-noble.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s partnership
with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will accelerate its first expansion into
international markets by providing access to millions of
customers, Chief Executive Officer William Lynch said.  “We don’t aspire to be anything less than being a leader
in international markets when we launch,” Lynch said today in a
telephone interview. “We couldn’t have done a better deal and
had a better partner than Microsoft that allows us to compete
internationally.”  Microsoft is investing $300 million in a new subsidiary
that combines Barnes & Noble’s Nook e-reader and college
bookstore businesses, the New York-based retailer said today in
a statement. Microsoft will own about 18 percent of the unit, 
which has yet to be named, and Barnes & Noble will own the 
remainder. The investment values the unit at about $1.7 billion, 
more than Barnes & Noble’s total  market capitalization  of about 
$800 million on April 27.  Barnes & Noble has been working to expand sales of the Nook
and e-books outside the U.S., including distributing to retail
partners. The venture with Microsoft will develop a Nook
application for Windows 8, the newest version of Microsoft’s
operating system that will be released this year. That will
allow Barnes & Noble to offer its digital content to consumers
in Europe,  Asia  and  Latin America , Lynch said.  It’s a positive for Barnes & Noble because it gets “added
distribution and access to international markets,” said Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago . “There
are some pretty well-entrenched competitors overseas, so having
somebody like Microsoft would actually help them.”  Shares Surge  The largest U.S. bookstore chain’s shares  jumped  52 percent
to $20.75 at the close in New York for the largest gain since
the company’s initial public offering in 1993. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft rose 0.1 percent to $32.02.  Barnes & Noble, which generates all of its revenue inside
the U.S., released the first Nook in 2009. The company has
projected the unit would generate sales of devices, content and
accessories of about $1.5 billion, or about 20 percent of the
company’s total, in the fiscal year ending today. The college
unit operates 641 bookstores and generates about $1.8 billion in
annual revenue.  Barnes & Noble will trail  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  into overseas
markets. Amazon, which has about 60 percent of the U.S. e-book
market, sells its Kindle brand of devices at retailers in the
U.K.,  Germany ,  France ,  Canada  and  Australia . The Seattle-based
retailer also offers the device through its website in 175
countries and sells digital books in seven languages.  Overseas Competition  Amazon isn’t the only competition.  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ’s Kobo
brand agreed last year to sell its devices in bookstore chain  WH
Smith Plc (SMWH)  in the U.K. Kobo also offers e-books in 60 languages,
including Japanese, and sells its devices at brick-and-mortar
retailers in 10 countries.  Barnes & Noble’s other obstacle abroad may be selling the
Nook where it lacks the 691-store retail presence that it has in
the U.S. and which accounts for most sales of the devices. The
company’s largest stores have added what the company calls Nook
boutiques that offer testing stations and  customer service .  Barnes & Noble was working on a deal with Waterstones
Booksellers Ltd. to add sales in the U.K. in January, a person
familiar with the situation said at the time. Lynch said the
company is receiving interest from several potential
international retail partners and will begin selling Nook
devices overseas this year.  Overseas E-Book Market  While e-book sales in  Europe  have trailed the U.S., the
U.K. and the U.S. have had equal adoption rates, with digital
versions accounting for about 6 percent of all book sales,
according to O’Reilly Media. E-books account for less than 2
percent of the market in Germany and France, according to the
Sebastopol, California-based researcher.  While Amazon had a two-year lead in selling e-books in the
U.S., Barnes & Noble has gained about 30 percent of the market.
In the quarter that ended Jan. 28, revenue from the Nook unit
rose 38 percent to $542 million, while total sales rose 2
percent at the company’s retail stores.  “It’s the first inning in all those markets,” Lynch said.
Adoption of digital reading is more than two years behind the
U.S. in most international markets, and that gives Barnes &
Noble an opportunity to gain share, he said.  Since first offering the Nook, the company has introduced
four more devices as well as digital content and accessories.
The Nook Tablet, released in November and now starting at $199,
is a touchscreen device that offers web browsing, applications
such as the Angry Birds game and video watching in addition to
digital reading.  Bigger Tablet Business  Barnes & Noble and Microsoft declined to comment on whether
their partnership will include collaboration on creating new
devices. They don’t plan to sell Microsoft products in Barnes &
Noble stores at this time, Lynch said on a call with analysts.  The partnership with Microsoft may give the Nook the kind
of content and global expansion to make it a bigger force in the
tablet business, said Michael Glickstein, chief investment
officer with G Asset Management LLC, a Barnes & Noble investor
who has pushed the company to spin off units. That kind of
partnership makes the Nook business more valuable, Glickstein
said.  “With the new Windows rollout, there are so many things
you can do with the Nook beyond e-reading,” Glickstein, who is
based in  New York , said today in a telephone interview. “Now
that  Bill Gates  and Microsoft are in on the tech side, it’s
absolutely compelling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  