-- Tigers Outfielder Young Banned 7 Days After Harassment Arrest
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/tigers-outfielder-young-banned-7-days-after-harassment-arrest.html
Detroit  Tigers outfielder Delmon Young
was suspended seven days by Major League Baseball as a result of
his arrest last week for what the New York Police Department
said was a drunken altercation at a hotel.  Young’s suspension is retroactive to April 27, the day of
his arrest, the office of baseball commissioner  Bud Selig 
announced yesterday in an e-mail release. The 26-year-old
outfielder was charged last week with racial or religious
aggravated harassment after a midtown Manhattan fight prompted a
911 call, police said.  “An incident like this cannot and will not be tolerated,”
Selig said in a statement. “I understand that Mr. Young is
regretful, and it is my expectation that he will learn from this
unfortunate episode.”  Young, who was suspended without pay, missed all of the
Tigers’ three-game weekend series in  New York  and also will sit
out tonight and tomorrow at home against the  Kansas City Royals .
The Tigers’ game against the Royals was postponed yesterday, and
Detroit has a day off on May 3.  Young will be eligible to return for a May 4 home game
against the  Chicago White Sox . He will be required to
participate in a treatment program.  The incident began when Young yelled anti-Semitic
obscenities at a panhandler wearing a yarmulke, according to the
 New York Post . He was released on $5,000 bail, the newspaper
said.  Young apologized to the Tigers, his teammates, his family
and his fans in an e-mailed statement following his arrest.  “I sincerely regret what happened last night,” he said.
“I take this matter very seriously and assure everyone that I
will do everything I can to improve myself as a person and
player.”  It is the latest controversy for Young, the top pick in the
2003  Major League Baseball  draft, who in 2006 received a 50-game
minor-league suspension for throwing a bat at an umpire
following a called third strike.  Early-Morning Altercation  The charges came following a verbal dispute that turned
physical at the Hilton New York hotel in the early hours of
April 27, according to the NYPD. The altercation left an
unidentified 32-year-old man with a scratch on his arm.  The Tigers said in an e-mailed statement on April 27 that
the team wouldn’t comment on the incident, citing a club policy
on pending legal matters.  “As we understand it, this is an allegation and we need to
allow the legal process to take its course,” the team said.  Young made his MLB debut with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in
August 2006 and was traded to the  Minnesota Twins  the following
year. He set career highs with 21 home runs, 112 runs batted in
and 46 doubles in 2010 as a member of the Twins.  In 18 games this season, Young is hitting .242 with one
home run and five RBIs.  Young is not the first person that Selig’s office has
suspended for insensitive and inappropriate comments. In May
2010, Braves pitching coach Roger McDowell was banned two weeks
after he reportedly used a gay slur and inappropriate language
directed at fans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  