-- High Temperatures Expected for U.S. Midwest, Mid-Atlantic
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-30T13:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/high-temperatures-expected-for-u-s-midwest-mid-atlantic.html
Temperatures will top 80 degrees
Fahrenheit (27 Celsius) this week across the Midwest and Middle
Atlantic, meaning that more energy will be needed to cool homes
and businesses, forecasters said.  The areas using the most energy will stretch from  Iowa  and
northern Missouri through Illinois, including  Chicago  and into
Indiana and Ohio, according to  David Salmon , owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Average temperatures in the region are expected to reach 8
degrees above normal, though rainstorms may keep the heat from
building significantly higher, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “At times, areas of the Midwest and mid-Atlantic should
see temperatures surge into the 80s, a few 90-degree days in St.
Louis,” Rogers said in a note to clients today.  Commodities traders watch temperature outlooks and cooling-
degree-day forecasts to gauge energy use and demand. About 51
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, according to the
Energy Department, while demand from electricity generators
peaks in the summer months to meet air conditioning needs.  Cooling-degree days are calculated by subtracting a base of
65 degrees from the daily average temperature to show energy
demand. Higher values mean warmer weather and more energy being
used to heat homes and businesses.  The U.S. figure is expected to reach 31 for the week, or 18
more than the same period last year and 20 more than normal,
according to the U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs ,
Maryland.  Cooling Demand  This is the first week in 2012 that the climate center’s
forecast for cooling degree days was higher than its outlook for
heating degree days. The heating-degree-days value is a similar
scale designed to show how much energy is needed to warm homes.  The unsettled weather in the Midwest may lead to a slight
chance for severe thunderstorms and gusting winds across the
Ohio Valley today, according to the U.S. Storm Prediction Center
in Norman, Oklahoma.  There is a 5 percent chance tornadoes will form in northern
Texas and western Oklahoma today, the center said.  The warmth in the central U.S. is forecast to last from May
5 to May 9 before temperatures fall to cooler-than-normal levels
by mid-May, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland.  The normal average temperature for May 7 in  New York  is
about 60, according to MDA. It’s 55 in Boston, 57 in Chicago, 64
in  St. Louis , 68 in Atlanta, 73 in Dallas, 75 in Houston, 55 in
Seattle and 65 in Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  