-- Military Secrets Leak From U.S. Universities With Rules Flouted
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-04-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/military-secrets-leak-from-u-s-universities-with-rules-flouted.html
For 15 days in late 2009,  Internet
users  in 36 countries, including China,  Russia , Iran and
Pakistan, viewed sensitive information about U.S. weapons
technology that was supposed to be for American eyes only.  The disclosure, which prompted a rebuke from a U.S. State
Department official, came from a  Georgia Institute of Technology
course  for federal employees and contractors on infrared
technology used in weapons-aiming systems for aircraft, ships
and tanks. Asked by instructor David Schmieder to copy the
course onto a DVD, Georgia Tech’s media staff instead uploaded
it to servers.  “I completely forgot the course’s access was restricted,”
Media Quality Control Supervisor Edward Bailey told university
investigators, according to documents obtained from Georgia Tech
through a public-records request.  The lapse by Atlanta-based Georgia Tech illustrates how
colleges and federal arms-control regulators are often lax in
enforcing Americans-only limits intended to prevent theft of
military technology from U.S. campuses. Even as they enroll more
graduate students from countries such as China and  Iran ,
universities are conducting more research that is restricted to
American citizens and permanent residents because of its
national-security implications. Foreign governments are
targeting universities to “obtain restricted information or
products,” the FBI said in a 2011 report.  Culture of Openness  Eager to preserve their culture of openness and global
collaboration, campuses are skirting -- and even flouting --
export-control laws that require foreigners to hold government
licenses to work on sensitive projects.  Using unlicensed foreign students on export-controlled
projects “happens all the time,” said Michael Deal, an
international trade lawyer in Arlington,  Virginia , and a former
official at the U.S. Commerce Department, which regulates
technology that has both civilian and military applications.
“The academic world is completely undisciplined about it. Its
casual approach has undoubtedly led to the erosion of the U.S.
competitive advantage.”  Basic research is open to people of any nationality.
Classified work, such as electronic counter-measures that jam
enemy radar, requires all participants to have security
clearances. Export controls -- over, for example, developing
trucks with extra protection against mines and explosives --
occupy a middle ground. They exempt fundamental research that is
ordinarily publishable or already in the public domain, as well
as courses that are widely taught and in the academic catalog.  Cumbersome Controls  Universities, which blocked a 2004 proposal to expand
export controls, are now backing an Obama administration
initiative to streamline them. They say that outmoded,
cumbersome controls damage America’s economic competitiveness
and discriminate against foreign students.  Stanford University 
and the University of  California  don’t accept restricted
contracts.  “I don’t think people consider how many brilliant people
come to the U.S. as foreign students and stay here,” said
William Wulf, a professor at the University of Virginia, and
former chairman of the Computer Science and Telecommunications
Board of the National Research Council. “Roughly 30 percent of
the startup companies in Silicon Valley are started by somebody
who was a foreign student.”  While export-control violators are subject to imprisonment
or fines, the federal government rarely goes after universities.
Rather than investigate violations, the government depends on
universities to disclose them. Once they do, it usually lets
them off with a warning.  ‘Voluntary Compliance’  Enforcement “is grounded in voluntary compliance, in
essence an honor system, on the part of the academic
community,” according to a 2009 court filing by the U.S.
Justice Department. “Neither any government agency nor any
university has the ability, resources or manpower to audit and
supervise every government-funded export-controlled project
being conducted in an academic setting.”  The number of voluntary disclosures by industry and
academia is increasing 10 percent a year, said a State
Department official, who asked not to be named. The State
Department administers the  International Traffic in Arms
Regulations  (ITAR), which govern export of military items and
information.  “We respond to voluntary reports and other information,”
the official said. “We don’t go out and knock on doors. We’re
not out here to burn people. We say, ‘Go forth and sin no more.’
Would you prefer me to go after an inadvertent disclosure to a
U.K. student or arms shipping to a narco-trafficker?”  Must Have License  Before a foreign national can participate in export-
controlled research, the university must first obtain a license
from the government. If the student comes from any of about 20
countries, the  State Department  normally denies the license
application. That list includes countries subject to an arms
embargo, such as  China , as well as five nations that the U.S.
regards as sponsors of terrorism, such as Iran and  Syria .
Students from those five are generally ineligible for Commerce
licenses too.  Licenses are usually granted for students from most other
countries. Commerce approved 93 percent of applications in
fiscal 2010 for “deemed export” licenses, of which almost 60
percent came from companies or universities wanting to release
controlled technology to Chinese nationals.  Mistake Acknowledged  Georgia Tech didn’t tell the State Department for almost
six months about the Internet linking of the infrared-technology
course. The university then sought to minimize the breach by
citing an assurance from an Army official that much of the
information had been approved for public release. When the
official denied making this statement, Georgia Tech filed a
corrected report acknowledging the mistake. Still, the State
Department, which reproved Georgia Tech for “serious
violations,” didn’t seek penalties.  Tensions between  law enforcement  and academia over
balancing national security with the global pursuit of knowledge
came into focus in the case of University of  Tennessee  professor
J. Reece Roth, a 74-year-old plasma technology innovator and a
graduate of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , who began
serving a four-year prison sentence in January for conspiracy
and violating the Arms Export Control Act.  Working with Knoxville-based Atmospheric Glow Technologies
Inc., Roth used a Chinese and an Iranian graduate student --both
unlicensed -- on an export-controlled Air Force contract to
develop plasma actuators to guide the flight of unmanned
aircraft. Disregarding a warning by Robin Witherspoon, then the
university’s export-control officer, Roth took a laptop computer
containing export-restricted files to China, and had the Chinese
student e-mail him research information.  Tennessee Case  University officials contacted federal authorities.
Atmospheric Glow Technologies pleaded guilty to 10 counts of
export control violations and cooperated in the investigation.
The university wasn’t prosecuted because it didn’t know of or
condone Roth’s actions and disclosed them to the FBI once they
came to light, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Will Mackie.  When FBI investigators questioned Roth, he told them that
the university’s policy of non-discrimination against foreign
students “would essentially trump” export controls, an FBI
agent testified at Roth’s 2008 trial.  “His opinion stated to us was in essence that perhaps we
should not have export controls,” the agent said.  While he doesn’t “necessarily believe” that university
policy takes precedence over government regulation, he does
think that “academic freedom and research is going to be
severely impacted” by his prosecution, Roth testified. He
criticized FBI tactics such as having the Chinese student
secretly record a conversation with him, and said Congress
should re-examine export controls.  Doctoral Degrees  “This contention that any export-controlled information
must not go out of the country is going to make it virtually
impossible for scholars to take their laptops out of the  United
States ,” Roth said.  Roth testified that foreigners made up “probably about 60
percent to 70 percent” of graduate students in electrical
engineering and computer science at the University of Tennessee.
In 2010,  54 percent  of U.S. doctoral degrees in engineering were
awarded to non-resident aliens, according to the Washington-
based  American Society for Engineering Education . Foreigners on
temporary visas made up 46 percent of science and engineering
graduate students at Georgia Tech, according to a federal
survey.  China sent 76,830 graduate students to U.S. universities in
2010-2011, more than any other country and up almost 16 percent
from the prior year, according to the  Institute of International
Education  in  New York . Iran ranked sixth with 4,696 graduate
students, a 24 percent increase.  103 Iranians  Even as their laboratories depend on foreign graduate
students, universities are escalating U.S.-only research. The
University of  Illinois  at  Urbana-Champaign  has 103 graduate
students from Iran alone, including 21 in computer science.
Foreigners on temporary visas made up almost 60 percent of
Illinois graduate students in computer science in 2009,
according to a federal survey.  At the same time, Illinois ramped up to between 90 and 100
export-controlled research projects this year, generating $50
million in revenue, a fivefold increase in five years, said
Howard Guenther, associate vice chancellor for research. “We’ve
had an explosion in the number of programs” requiring
foreigners to be licensed, partly because the government is
funding more ITAR-controlled projects, he said.  Illinois  has beefed up export-control staff to review
contracts, negotiate with funders, and train researchers,
Guenther said. It hasn’t had any violations, he said.  ‘A Challenge’  Export-controlled work has “very clearly” increased at
Purdue University, said Peter Dunn, associate vice president for
research. “It can be a challenge to find an American
researcher.”  The  University of California  and Stanford don’t accept
U.S.-only contracts. Research that “would restrict access on
the part of certain students should not be conducted at
universities where our mission is to educate students and
disseminate knowledge,” Stanford spokeswoman Lisa Lapin said in
an e-mail.  Other schools profit from the University of California’s
principled stand, said Patrick Schlesinger, an assistant vice
chancellor at the flagship Berkeley campus. “More and more
schools are deciding, ‘We love hearing that Berkeley won’t take
on a research project,’” he said. “‘That means our school will
get a chance at it.’”  U.S. Talent Pool  Seeking export-controlled revenue is shortsighted, said
 Edward Lee , a Berkeley professor of electrical engineering and
computer sciences. “Organizations that do engage in these
projects are giving up opportunities to work with some of the
best and brightest students,” Lee said. “The unfortunate
reality in the U.S. is that the talent pool in technical fields
is pretty spare.”  If the government imposes conditions after the contract has
been awarded, researchers shouldn’t accept them, Berkeley
administrators said in a  2005 university publication . Among
their recommendations for “dodging the ‘deemed-export’
bullet”: “Publish early and often to ensure that your research
qualifies as ‘publicly available,’” and “do not attend
meetings from which foreign nationals are barred.”  Most universities that take on export-controlled research
construe the restrictions narrowly. Because rules can be
ambiguous, acting as if a project is fundamental research often
makes it so, said Ben Griffiths, senior legal counsel at the
University of Wisconsin.  University of Texas  The  University of Texas at Austin  has disclosed four
violations, said Susan Sedwick, associate vice president for
research. Three were minor, she said. The other, “an existing
situation that I discovered when I came here” six years ago,
involved taking controlled equipment and software abroad. “Not
that the university hadn’t looked at it, they just looked at it
in the wrong way,” she said. “They thought they had an
exemption that they didn’t.”  Sedwick’s office monitors grants and contracts, advises
faculty, and works closely with the university’s information
security staff and international office to ensure compliance,
she said.  Mississippi State University  is warier than most schools of
invoking exemptions, said Ray Vaughn, associate vice president
for research. It recently stopped a contract and sent it to the
State Department for review even though the faculty member
insisted it was fundamental research, he said.  “I would rather lose a contract than end up in that gray
area,” Vaughn said.  Revenue Before Security  Academia’s failure to police export controls shows that it
puts tuition revenue from foreign students ahead of national
security, said U.S. Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a
California Republican. “The universities are out to make money,
and they are going to do it even if it puts American security at
risk” by teaching students from hostile countries how to make
technology, he said.  Universities have been waging a political battle against
U.S.-only rules since 2004, when a series of reports by federal
inspectors general criticized academia. “At least one
university allowed foreign nationals access to export-controlled
technologies without obtaining an export license,” which
“could allow foreign nations to counter or reproduce the
technology,” the Department of Defense  inspector general  found.  When the Commerce Department’s inspector general called for
more controls, universities stymied the proposal.  Crippling Effect  “The higher education community really pushed back and
expressed very clearly our concern about the crippling effect on
the open research environment,” said Robert Hardy, director of
contracts and intellectual property management for the  Council
on Governmental Relations , a Washington-based association of
research universities.  In December 2007, an advisory committee of industry and
university leaders suggested pruning Commerce’s restricted list.
It “is too all-encompassing, covering a vast spectrum of
militarily less important items ranging from police handcuffs to
hunting rifles, and from conventional radios to mass-market
computers,” the committee said.  The  National Research Council , a nonprofit organization of
prominent scientists, joined the chorus in 2009, attacking
export controls as “unwieldy, slow” and “difficult to
administer rationally.”  Overhauling Controls  Responding to such criticisms, the Obama administration is
overhauling the controls, in the face of opposition from some
Republican members of Congress and hardliners within the State
and Defense departments. It’s working to move some items from
the State Department’s list of controlled military and satellite
technology to Commerce’s dual-use roster, which has fewer
prohibited countries and a lower bar.  At Georgia Tech, export controls affect classes as well as
research. As of November 2010, Georgia Tech Research Institute,
the university’s applied research arm, offered 69 professional-
education courses for federal employees and contractors, of
which eight were classified. Fifteen were restricted under State
Department rules.  Schmieder, 67, a principal research scientist at Georgia
Tech, is familiar with such distinctions. He testified as an
expert witness for the government in the 2010 conviction of
Noshir Gowadia in federal court in  Hawaii  for selling classified
missile technology to China. (Gowadia’s appeal is pending.)  Uploaded to Servers  Schmieder had his restricted September 2009 course,
“Infrared Technology and Applications,” videotaped because he
planned to retire and wanted to train his successor. He asked
the university’s media specialists to place the video on a DVD.  After encountering technical problems copying the tape to a
disc, Bailey, the media supervisor, suggested making it
available by a link. Under the impression the sessions would
only be available internally at Georgia Tech, Schmieder agreed.  The course, including 14 Power Point slides displaying
technical data from export-controlled sources, was uploaded to
Georgia Tech’s servers on Nov. 19, 2009. It remained accessible
until Dec. 4, when Schmieder noticed the mistake. He notified
university staff and the material was immediately removed from
servers.  Users in 36 countries viewed the slides 660 times, led by
the U.S. with 278, the Netherlands with 68, and  India  with 52.
There were 33 hits from China, 17 from  Saudi Arabia , nine from
 Pakistan , two from Russia and one from Iran.  Difficult to Locate  While Georgia Tech subsequently traced most of the hits to
IP addresses in the U.S., South America,  Australia  and Western
Europe, it didn’t identify users in the countries of greatest
concern, such as China and Iran. Instead of specific addresses,
such countries have a block of addresses all registered to their
governments, university spokesman Matt Nagel said.  There were 16 hits to the video of the course instruction,
all from the U.S., the university said. Because the slides and
video were placed on separate servers, “it would have been
difficult for someone to locate all the pieces and put them back
together into a coherent whole,” Schmieder said.  Following an internal investigation, Georgia Tech vice
provost  Steven McLaughlin  disclosed the violation on May 24,
2010, to the State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade
Controls. He wrote that the university had been assured by an
Army export control officer for night-vision technology that
many of the slides had since been approved for public release.  Georgia Tech retracted that statement three months later
after the Army’s Night Vision Lab contacted Schmieder to deny
that it had approved the information’s release.  ‘Serious Violations’  “It was my personal opinion that most of the images were
to be approved,” Schmieder said. “My comments were
misinterpreted” to have come from the Army.  The State Department “determined that serious violations
did occur,” Daniel J. Buzby, deputy director of its  Office of
Defense Trade Controls Compliance , notified McLaughlin on Sept.
23, 2010. “This compilation of information is so comprehensive
and so sensitive in its description of U.S. Government
technology directions that DTCC is concerned over how it was
allowed to be placed on a World Wide Web-accessible server.”  In response, Georgia Tech prohibited video recording of
restricted courses without prior written approval. It also
discussed the incident with everyone involved and provided
additional training for all research institute employees,
McLaughlin said.  “In hindsight, I would do more to remind my co-workers of
the sensitive nature of the material and the need for special
handling,” Schmieder said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  