-- Illinois Faces 25% Cost Increase to Borrow $1.8 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-04-30T16:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/illinois-faces-25-cost-increase-to-borrow-1-8-billion.html
Illinois plans to sell $1.8 billion
of general-obligation debt tomorrow as its relative borrowing
costs may increase by almost a quarter.  The tax-exempt deal for the state, rated lowest by Moody’s
Investors Service, includes a 10-year segment that underwriter
Jefferies & Co. plans to offer to investors at 1.85 percentage
points above benchmark AAA securities, according to a person
familiar with the sale.  Illinois’s last general-obligation sale was on March 13 for
$575 million, with 10-year securities priced to yield 1.51
percentage points above benchmark tax-exempts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 0.34 percentage points below
tomorrow’s tentative pricing plan, or a difference of 22.5
percent.  The state has the lowest-funded pension in the U.S., with
assets equal to 45.5 percent of projected obligations, Bloomberg
data show. Its backlog of unpaid bills to vendors and Medicaid
obligations is more than $9 billion.  Investors should get more yield than 1.85 percentage points
given those fiscal challenges, John Mousseau, a portfolio
manager at Vineland, New Jersey-based Cumberland Advisors, which
has $1.2 billion of municipal debt. It doesn’t own Illinois
general-obligation bonds.  “The state’s debt should be trading even cheaper,”
Mousseau wrote in a report released today. “At some point it is
a buy. Not yet.”  Still, the state’s general-obligation debt has first claim
on its taxes and revenue to repay bondholders. Investors are
ready to buy, said Tom Spalding of Nuveen Investments Inc. in
 Chicago , whose firm manages $10 billion of municipals, including
Illinois general-obligations.  “With a lot of cash out there, I just don’t see it having
a problem getting done at these levels, and can probably get
done a little bit better,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  