-- IMF Pressured to Suspend Iran, Close Central Bank Account
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/imf-pressured-to-suspend-iran-close-central-bank-account.html
A New York-based advocacy group that
has pressured companies and organizations to halt business with
 Iran  because of its disputed nuclear program is urging the
 International Monetary Fund  to close its account at Iran’s
central bank and suspend Iran as a member.  Mark Wallace, president of United Against Nuclear Iran, a
group whose founders include current and former administration
officials, has sent a letter to IMF managing director  Christine Lagarde  criticizing the IMF’s relationship with Iran, according
to a copy provided to Bloomberg. Iran’s central bank, also known
as Bank Markazi, has been sanctioned by the U.S. and the
European Union.  Wallace’s group is attempting to open a new front in
efforts to isolate Iran and pressure it to give up its uranium
enrichment activities and to cooperate more fully with the
 International Atomic Energy Agency . The IMF’s chief spokesman,
 William Murray , said the Fund isn’t violating any laws and is
following its normal rules toward member nations.  “We call on the IMF to suspend Iran from its membership in
the IMF, and, if it refuses to comply with its international
treaty obligations, then it should expel Iran from membership,”
Wallace, a former U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations  under
President  George W. Bush , said in an interview.  Wallace’s letter links Iran’s central bank to financing for
“Iran’s illicit nuclear program, its sponsorship of global
terror and its brutal repression of the Iranian people.” The
letter quotes President Barack Obama, who on Feb. 6 cited
“deceptive practices” by Iran’s central bank in hiding
transactions and failing to prevent  money laundering , and notes
the European Union Council on Jan. 23 froze Iran’s central bank
assets under European control.  Squeezing Iran  The U.S. and EU have adopted dozens of new financial,
trade, insurance and energy-related sanctions since November to
squeeze Iran’s economy and force its leaders to abandon any
illicit aspects of their nuclear program. The U.S., EU and
 Israel  say Iran is seeking the capability to produce a nuclear
weapon. Iran says its program is for civilian energy and medical
purposes.  Wallace’s April 26 letter asserts the IMF holds more than
$1 billion in cash and securities at Iran’s central bank, and
calls upon the institution to close any accounts, return any
U.S. money that might be involved and “comply with relevant
U.S. and EU law.”  IMF Quota  IMF officials insist the fund isn’t violating any laws, and
say they are obligated by IMF rules to hold every member’s
contribution to the IMF in that nation’s central bank. A
country’s IMF quota is an amount based on a member state’s
relative position in the world economy and determines its
maximum financial commitment to the IMF.  The IMF says Iran’s quota is the equivalent of $2.25
billion in Iranian currency, the rial, and officials say the
account hasn’t been touched for decades.  “The IMF’s holdings of each member’s currency are
maintained with the central bank of the relevant member,
including Iran. There is nothing in the EU or U.S. sanctions
regimes that is inconsistent with these arrangements,” said
Murray.  IMF officials disputed the accuracy of Wallace’s letter.
Murray said there are no securities or dollars in the IMF quota
held at Iran’s central bank, and said the IMF makes no deposits
or withdrawal involving that quota. The IMF has no projects in
Iran and no U.S. government money has been used there by the
fund, he said.  Fund Exempt  According to IMF records, Iran has had no transactions with
the IMF since Jan. 1, 1984.  Murray indicated that any decision to suspend or expel any
member would be determined by member countries, not by the IMF’s
managing director.  Contacted yesterday for comment, the U.S. Treasury
Department and the EU said the IMF, as an international
organization, is exempt from U.S. and EU sanctions on Iran’s
central bank.  John Sullivan , a U.S. Treasury Department spokesman, said a
law enacted on Dec. 31 that sanctions foreign financial
institutions that conduct transactions with Iran’s central bank
doesn’t include international financial institutions such as the
 World Bank  and the IMF.  Moreover, Sullivan said, “Simply holding central bank of
Iran reserves -- but not transacting with the CBI -- would not
likely be seen as conducting any ‘significant financial
transaction,’” as prohibited by the new law.  EU Comments  Michael Mann , chief spokesman for  Catherine Ashton , the
EU’s foreign policy chief, said EU sanctions apply only within
the territory of the EU or to EU nationals and legal persons.
“The IMF does not fall under any of these categories and, as
such, is not subject to EU sanctions which are not extra-
territorial,” Mann said.  The U.S. Treasury and EU spokesmen declined to comment on
the call for Iran to be suspended from the IMF.  Wallace dismissed the IMF’s defense, saying that holding
money in an account in Iran’s central bank is in itself “a
transaction of business.” It’s wrong, he said, for an
international organization to “operate as business as usual,
pretending that holding an account at a sanctioned entity”
isn’t a problem.  “The IMF faces a legal conundrum that can have only one
resolution,” he said. If the fund can’t withdraw Iran’s quota
and place it in another financial institution, “it should
suspend its membership,” at least until Iran abandons any
illicit aspects of its nuclear program.  United Against Nuclear Ira n is a non-partisan group whose
founders include  Dennis Ross , President  Barack Obama ’s chief
adviser on Iran till late last year, and Gary Samore, who works
at the White House on nuclear non-proliferation. When they
joined the administration, Ross and Samore left the advisory
board, whose members include former CIA Director James Woolsey
and former Israeli intelligence chief  Meir Dagan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  