-- Immigration Stalls as Opportunities Wane on U.S.-Mexican Border
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-05-17T00:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/immigration-stalls-as-opportunities-wane-on-u-s-mexican-border.html
(Corrects  Arizona  law description in third paragraph of
story originally published on April 30.)  As the economy boomed in the mid-
2000s, many immigrants in southern California’s border country
spurned field work in favor of construction and food-service
jobs. Then they stopped coming to U.S. farms altogether.  So Larry Cox, who farms lettuce, cantaloupes and onions on
3,500 acres in Imperial County, California, shifted more
production south of the border, where the Mexicali Valley offers
a plentiful agricultural workforce, Cox, 53, said in an
interview.  States in the southern and southwestern U.S. have passed
immigration crackdowns, and the  Supreme Court  signaled last week
it might be prepared to support an Arizona law that requires
police to check the immigration status of anyone they suspect is
in the country illegally during stops, arrests or detentions.
Yet rather than an invasion, Cox’s experience reflects an April
24  report  by the Pew Hispanic Center, which concluded that the
flow of migrants came to a “standstill” between 2005 and 2010,
and may even have reversed.  “There’s been a huge migration of skilled agricultural
labor into  Mexico ,” Cox said. “There is a creeping up of the
average age of our workforce. We’re not getting replacements.”  Without new immigrants, agricultural operations from the
desert region straddling the border to the slaughterhouses of
High Plains states such as Nebraska and Iowa face labor
shortages. Farmers got some relief when the real-estate crash
drove out-of-work roofers, builders and contractors back to
lower-paying jobs as field hands, Cox and others say. An uptick
in construction could again leave them shorthanded.  ‘More Challenging’  “Harvesting Vidalia onions in  Georgia  becomes more
challenging when you don’t have labor,” U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican, said at a Senate Agriculture
Committee hearing April 26. “Many of these are jobs that
frankly, Americans don’t want to do.”  Weakened U.S. job and housing construction markets,
heightened border enforcement, a rise in deportations and the
dangers associated with illegal crossings contributed to the
decline in immigration, according to the Pew report.  President  Barack Obama ’s deployment of 1,200 National Guard
troops in 2010 to help monitor the border with Mexico, in
addition to a separate contingent that works on drug
interdiction, clamped down on the flow of immigrants. So did
upgrades by the U.S. Border Patrol within the Homeland Security
Department, more than doubling the number of agents on the
southwestern frontier in the past 10 years, the Pew report said.  Bracing for Shortages  Growers from the south to Washington state are bracing for
labor shortages, said Paul Schlegel, director of energy and
environment for the Washington-based  American Farm Bureau
Federation , the largest U.S. grower group.  “Before the last year or so, we saw people who had worked
in construction who were going back to ag,” he said. “There
was not the labor shortage that people might have assumed.”  The reversal in immigration has had other consequences for
Imperial County, a desert region of 175,000 residents about 115
miles (185 kilometers) east of  San Diego . It has the highest
 unemployment rate  for a U.S. county with a population of 100,000
or more, almost 27 percent in February,  according  to the Labor
Statistics Bureau.  The border crossings between Calexico, California, with
39,000 residents, and Mexicali,  Baja California , population
690,000, are the third-busiest between the U.S. and Mexico in
terms of both pedestrian and personal vehicle crossings,
 according  to the Transportation Statistics Bureau.  Day Laborers  While the gateway still teems with day laborers and people
visiting family on both sides of the border, it no longer draws
thousands seeking long-term economic security in the U.S., said
Hildy Carrillo, executive director of the Calexico Chamber of
Commerce and a native of the border city.  “When they come over here, they can’t find jobs,” she said
in an interview at  City Hall . “They’re either filled by the
local people who are willing to take anything or the jobs aren’t
there anymore. The American Dream is no longer, at least for
now.”  Five years ago, about 90 percent of employees at Family
Style Buffet were from Mexico, said Carlton Hargrave, the owner
of the restaurant on the outskirts of Calexico. Now, it’s about
50 percent, he said. Hargrave said he has found a glut of
overqualified job applicants.  “The downturn in the economy has affected all of our
workforces,” he said.  Cotton, Alfalfa  In the Imperial Valley, much of which is below  sea level ,
migrant workers tend to cotton, alfalfa and vegetable fields
irrigated by channels from the All-American Canal, which runs
along the frontier.  Cox has farmed there for three decades, weathering a labor
market that tightened after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, led
to stepped-up security and longer wait times to cross the
border.  Cox said his business employs as many as 1,200 seasonal
workers in the U.S. and moved its celery, asparagus, cilantro
and kale production into the Mexicali Valley, where it employs
as many as 2,000 in season.  Southwest of Cox’s U.S. spread, Mount Signal looks out over
irrigated green fields and rocky desert. Known as El Centinela
in Mexico, the mountain marks a section of the border that until
2008 was a gateway for immigrant smugglers, said Armando Garcia,
a supervising public-affairs agent for the  U.S. Customs and
Border Protection division  in Imperial County.  Border Enhancements  Driving a sport-utility vehicle along the border, Garcia
pointed to a number of enhancements since 2008 that, he said,
transformed some 50 miles of unfenced frontier into a nearly
impregnable line. At Mount Signal, lines of railroad ties
fashioned into X shapes are used to thwart vehicles attempting
to drive into the country. Security cameras peer out over the
landscape. The desert floor is wired with devices that detect
footfalls, Garcia said.  Further east, in an area where blowing sand could overwhelm
conventional barriers, the government constructed “floating
fences” that adapt to the changing terrain. That area had been
the site of frequent illegal crossings before it was contained
in 2008 and 2009, Garcia said.  Homeland Security statistics show that along the Southwest
border, the number of apprehensions of illegal entrants dropped
to 327,600 in 2011 from a peak of 1.17 million in 2005.  Garcia said the border fortifications and the weaker  U.S.
economy  caused many would-be migrants to rethink their plans. He
stood at a section where crossers would have to scale a 20-foot
(6-meter) fence, navigate the canal and evade the cameras and
motion detectors, not to mention agents stationed along the
line.  “Why put yourself through all of this when there may not
be a job waiting for you on the other side?” he asked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Calexico,  California , at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 