-- Infants Born Addicted to Opiates Tripled in Past Decade
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-30T20:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/infants-born-addicted-to-opiates-tripled-in-past-decade.html
The number of babies born dependent
on prescription painkillers like Oxycontin tripled in the last
decade along with higher costs to treat their withdrawal
symptoms, research showed.  The surge in newborns with withdrawal symptoms from 2000 to
2009 was accompanied by a five-fold increase in the number of
mothers using the opiate drugs during pregnancy, according to a
study today in the  Journal of the American Medical Association .
The average hospital bill to treat the babies jumped 35 percent
to $53,400 in the same period, the research found.  Sales of opiate painkillers such as Oxycontin and Vicodin
increased four-fold during the decade, according to the study.
The findings are a call for greater effort to limit the drugs’
abuse, said  Stephen Patrick , the study’s lead author. One baby
born every hour in the U.S. is addicted to the drugs, according
to the study, the first to look at the number of infants born
with  opiate withdrawal .  “There’s a rapid rise in newborns with signs of withdrawal
that demands attention from a public health perspective,” said
Patrick, a fellow at the University of Michigan’s Division of
Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine in  Ann Arbor , in an April 27
telephone interview. “We really need to think of, as a country,
the way we use opiate pain medicines and limit their abuse when
possible.”  The study is also being presented today at the  Pediatric
Academic Societies Annual Meeting  in  Boston .  Kids Inpatient Database  The researchers looked at data from the  Kids’ Inpatient
Database , put together by the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality. The database includes a nationally represented sample
of pediatric hospital discharges.  The number of newborns diagnosed with opiate withdrawal, or
 neonatal abstinence syndrome , rose to 3.39 for every 1,000
hospital births in 2009 from 1.2 per 1,000 in 2000. The number
of mothers using or dependent on opiates rose to 5.63 for every
1,000 hospital births in 2009 from 1.19 in 2000.  More studies are needed to better understand how to treat
these babies to limit their withdrawal symptoms and shorten
their hospital stay, as well as the long-term consequences of
being dependent on opiates at birth, they said.  “We don’t have good research on long-term outcomes,”
Patrick said. “What we really need are big, well-done studies
that follow these babies more than just a couple of years into
school time and further.”  Addiction Treatment  Pregnant mothers addicted to the prescription painkillers,
if they enter treatment, usually continue to receive opiates,
such as methadone, since stopping the drugs could harm the
unborn child and result in a miscarriage, said  Marie Hayes , who
wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal. After they’re
born, the babies are often treated with methadone to ease their
withdrawal.  The average stay in the hospital for these babies is about
16 days compared with three days for babies born without
dependence on the drugs, Patrick said. Total hospital charges
nationwide for treating the withdrawal syndrome rose to $720
million in 2009, adjusted for inflation, from $190 million in
2000, the study showed.  Newborns dependent on opiates were more likely to have
increased irritability, tremors, respiratory problems, feeding
issues and seizures and be born at low birth weight, the study
showed. Almost 78 percent of the cost for caring for the babies
with the withdrawal syndrome by 2009 was charged to Medicaid,
the U.S. government health program for low-income people.  More Research Needed  Hayes, who wrote the accompanying editorial, said more
research is needed on how to better treat these babies, and
identify those most at risk of withdrawal because of genetics,
as the use of opiates rises. From 60 percent to 80 percent of
the babies born to mothers abusing these drugs have the
withdrawal syndrome, she said.  “We try to detoxify as rapidly as possible but sometimes
that leads to a long stay because we’ve been tapering off maybe
for some infants too rapidly,” Hayes, a professor of psychology
and neuroscience at the  University of Maine  in Orono, said in an
April 27 telephone interview. “We need individualized medicine.
We need clinical trials to find out which drugs to use. We need
prenatal management, how we treat the mothers.  ‘‘The withdrawal of the dependent child is actually an area
of care which we don’t know as much as we need to know. It’s a
potpourri of risk for these infants at the time they’re born,”
she said.  The research was funded by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation Clinical Scholars Program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  