-- ING Says It’s Still Worth Making Ship Loans as Europe Banks Exit
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-04-30T10:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ing-says-it-s-still-worth-making-ship-loans-as-europe-banks-exit.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch
financial-services company, will keep lending to the shipping
industry as some European banks cut their portfolios or refrain
from new lending amid the maritime industry’s crisis.  ING plans to keep its 6 billion-euro ($7.9 billion)
shipping portfolio “relatively flat” this year, making new
loans “equivalent in size to debt run-off with some allowances
for new building commitments,” Rory Hussey, managing director
at ING’s shipping finance division, said in a phone interview
from  London  on April 27.  ING is one of a dwindling number of European lenders making
loans to an industry hurt by an overcapacity of vessels,
slumping freight rates and soaring fuel costs. Banks are also
scaling back or exiting ship finance because of stricter capital
rules for lenders or as a condition for approval of government
bailouts they got during the global financial crisis. That has
pushed up the margins on maritime industry loans.  “We have room for more lending and are open for new
business, though not as wide open as we were at the beginning of
last year,” Hussey said. “The net margins are at this point
slightly higher than they were in 2006 and 2007 and the net
returns are better. It is still worth making shipping loans.”  The crisis in the shipping industry led to the bankruptcy
filings last year of General Maritime Corp., the second-largest
U.S. owner of  oil tankers , and  Korea  Line Corp., Korea’s second-
biggest operator of dry-bulk ships. Many smaller and middle-
sized shipping companies in  Germany , home to the world’s third-
largest water-transport fleet, are struggling to service their
debt and may face insolvency, according to the VDR shipping
association, a Hamburg-based industry group that represents more
than 200 shipping lines.  ‘In the Doldrums’  Container lines  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ,  France ’s CMA CGM
SA and Hapag-Lloyd AG posted losses last year because of higher
fuel costs and falling freight rates, caused by an oversupply of
vessels and a price war on routes between  Asia  and  Europe .
Companies such as Maersk and Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd have
since raised rates to try to restore profit.  “It’s difficult to be optimistic about any particular
segment, as tankers, dry bulk and containers all look weak at
the moment,” Hussey said. “Dry bulk will stay in the doldrums
though 2013 and while the container industry is out of the lull
already as rates have been increased, it all depends on if they
will stick. There are still also a lot of big vessels that will
be delivered, and those have to get employed somehow.”  ING is the world’s 24th-largest shipping bank, according to
Athens-based Petrofin SA, a vessel finance consultant.  Loan Losses  As a result of the crisis, banks’ credit losses have
increased. Net shipping loan losses at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the
world’s No. 4 shipping lender, tripled to 135 million euros
($179 million) last year because of “weak market conditions”
and “a general decline in vessel values,” it said Jan. 24.
Loan losses more than quadrupled to 60 million euros in the
three months through March, from 14 million euros in the first
quarter of 2011.  Shipping loan losses and provisions among banks will
probably rise this year, Christian K. Murach, head of
transportation finance at KfW IPEX-Bank, the No. 7 lender to the
industry, said on April 16.  Thirteen of the world’s 19 largest shipping banks stopped
new loans to the industry amid an “extreme” vessel surplus
that cut cash flows and led to vessel seizures, Dagfinn Lunde, a
member of DVB Bank SE’s managing board, said on March 9.  While HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s No. 1 shipping
financier, sees potential for making new loans using cash from
repaid credit, it and lenders such as  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  are cutting
the total size of their ship-lending portfolios. Still, there
are banks that see opportunities, said Hussey.  Bigger Role  “While I don’t think that banks who haven’t been involved
will say, ‘Goodie, goodie, let’s get into ship finance,’ you
have seen examples of banks who have not been so involved before
increasing their lending” to the industry, Hussey said.  U.S. banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
have become “a lot more active,” Hussey said, adding they are
not as constrained by the “bloody expensive” cost of funding
in U.S. dollars as European lenders.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  and Chinese banks also increased their focus on the
shipping industry, said Hussey. Chinese lenders mainly assist
Chinese firms and won’t be a replacement for European banks
exiting or scaling back ship finance, he said.  The European banks that still lend to the shipping industry
are “not going to be as open as they were,” meaning they won’t
“be doing any tremendous amounts of new lending this year,”
Hussey said. The declining amount of ship finance available is
creating difficulties for some shipping companies, he said.  “We have a two-tier market now,” said Hussey. “Shipping
banks that are open for business are all looking at the same
names. There is a hierarchy of names that all go after, and then
there is the rest, which have no access to the  bond market  and
to which banks are not interested in lending,” Hussey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  