-- Investors Can’t Get Enough Long Bonds Chasing Yield: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-04-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/investors-can-t-get-enough-long-bonds-chasing-yield-muni-credit.html
Investors are pouring the most
money in almost two months into the longest-maturity U.S.
municipal bonds, signaling the securities may extend this year’s
market-leading rally.  Investors added $329 million to long-term muni mutual funds
in the week ended April 25, the most since the start of March,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  With signs of a slowing  U.S. economy  helping keep local-
government  interest rates  near  four-decade lows , investors have
an incentive to look to longer maturities. Thirty-year municipal
yields were as much as 1.49 percentage points above those on 10-
year debt last week, the biggest difference since February,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mutual funds are really starving for yield” at a time
when longer-term debt sales have been limited, said James DiChiaro, a portfolio manager in Armonk,  New York , at Cutwater
Asset Management Corp. The firm oversees about $3 billion in
munis.  State and local bonds due in 22 years or more have earned 5
percent in 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes tracking prices and interest income. That beats other
maturities by at least a percentage point. The $3.7 trillion
municipal market’s 3.2 percent gain since Dec. 31 is its best
start in three years.  Borrowers Benefit  The added demand for longer-dated debt may help issuers,
including the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Hospital Authority in  North
Carolina , which plan borrowings of 30 or more years this week.  Interest rates  on top-rated 30-year munis ended last week
at 3.3 percent, and 10-years at  1.9 percent , close to two-month
lows for both, according to Bloomberg Valuation data. The gap
between the two has averaged 1.47 percentage points this year,
after rising from as little as 1.13 points in March. For
Treasuries, the  difference  between yields on these maturities is
1.19 percentage points.  Treasury debt led the fixed-income advance amid concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis is widening. Separately, U.S. jobless
claims tallied 388,000 last week, close to the highest since
January, Labor Department figures showed. As the U.S. economy
shows signs of losing momentum, helping tamp down inflation
expectations, the longest-dated part of the market benefits.  Yield Lures  “If you look at it in terms of yield, it’s attractive, and
if you look at it in terms of expected return, it’s
attractive,” Daniel Solender, who manages $16 billion of munis
at Lord Abbett & Co. in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “As things
have slowed down recently, that’s benefited the longer end.”  Buyers are seeking the pickup in yield as municipal
interest rates remain close to four-decade  lows . A Bond Buyer
index of 20-year general-obligation bonds yielded 3.86 percent
last week after reaching 3.6 percent in January, the lowest
since the 1960s. The benchmark’s record low was 1.29 percent in
1946.  Dropping interest costs have spurred issuers to refinance
debt, including  Illinois , which is set to offer $1.8 billion of
refunding bonds tomorrow, maturing in as long as 14 years.
Refunding securities tend to be shorter maturities, leaving
fewer longer-term bonds for investors to buy, said DiChiaro.  About 60 percent of the $108 billion of bonds sold this
year has been for refunding, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ratio was about 40 percent in the first four months of 2011.  “There’s really a dearth of supply in the long end,” said
DiChiaro.  Following are pending deals:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA plans to sell $329 million in revenue
bonds as soon as this week, according to an offering statement.
The debt, backed by the district’s income taxes, will be used
for refunding.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the bonds AAA, its top
grade. (Added April 30)  LOS ANGELES plans to issue $300 million in wastewater
revenue bonds as soon as this week, according to an offering
document. The debt will be used for refunding and divided
between senior lien bonds and subordinate bonds. (Added April
30)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  