-- Lion Capital Enters Exclusive Talks With France’s Alain Afflelou
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-04-30T17:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/lion-capital-enters-exclusive-talks-with-france-s-alain-afflelou.html
Lion Capital  LLP has entered
exclusive talks to buy the French eyeglass retailer Alain
Afflelou SA from its private equity owners Bridgepoint Advisers
Ltd. and Apax Partners LLP, the firms said in a joint statement.  Lion Capital last week offered about 800 million euros
($1.1 billion) as it vied with Bain Capital for the asset, said
a person with knowledge of the matter. The buyout is set to be
France’s largest private equity deal so far this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bridgepoint, a buyout fund manager based in London, bought
a majority stake in Alain Afflelou in 2006, when its eponymous
founder sought to plan his succession. The deal valued the
company at about 500 million euros.  Altamir Amboise (LTA) , a French
holding company that also holds a stake in Alain Afflelou, is
one of the firms in exclusive talks to sell.  Alain Afflelou operates a network of 1,100 optical retail
stores in countries including France, Spain, Switzerland and
Portugal, according to the company’s website. The company had
about 800 million euros in sales last year, according to the
statement today.  Bridgepoint was advised by Rothschild and used Latham &
Watkins LLP for legal advice. Lion Capital was advised by  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ) , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and SJ Berwin LLP.
Citigroup,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Alcentra Ltd. provided financing
for the deal. The deal is set to be completed by June, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in  London  at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  