-- Italy Inflation Rate Remained at Six-Month High in April
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-04-30T09:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/italy-inflation-rate-remained-at-six-month-high-in-april.html
Italy’s inflation rate unexpectedly
remained at a six-month high in April amid higher energy costs
and tax increases passed as part of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
austerity program.  The  inflation  rate based on European Union measurements was
unchanged at 3.8 percent, Rome-based national statistics office
Istat said in a preliminary report today. That was more than the
median forecast of 3.6 percent by 12 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Prices rose 0.9 percent from March, Istat said.  Italy’s consumer confidence plunged this month to the
lowest since 1996 as Monti’s austerity measures deepened the
recession that began in the fourth quarter. Rising crude prices
and the government’s increase of value-added taxes led to a jump
in gasoline costs that neared 2 euros ($2.65) a liter last week,
crimping domestic demand.  Business confidence  also declined to a
two-year low amid concerns the recession may deepen.  Gasoline prices rose 3.1 percent in April from the previous
month and 20.8 percent from a year earlier, the fastest pace
since the data series began in 1996, Istat said today. European
inflation slowed in April as energy costs increased at a weaker
pace than a year ago.  Euro Region  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation euro region fell to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in March, the European Union’s
 statistics office  in Luxembourg said in an initial estimate
today. Economists forecast consumer prices to rise 2.5 percent
from a year ago, the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last week
that inflation risks in the euro area are broadly balanced.
“Upside risks could stem from higher than expected oil prices
and further indirect tax increases,” Draghi said in Brussels on
April 25. “Downside risks could arise from weaker than expected
economic activity.”  The Rome-based Treasury said in an April 19 report that the
planned inflation rate will fall to 1.5 percent this year from 2
percent in 2011.  Based on  Italian methodology , prices gained 0.5 percent in
April from the previous month and advanced 3.3 percent  from a
year earlier , Istat said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  