-- German Bunds Rise on ECB Rates Bets as Spanish Debt Gains
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-30T15:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/italian-10-year-bonds-advance-after-german-retail-sales-rebound.html
German bonds advanced and implied
yields on interest-rate futures fell to records on speculation
that the  European Central Bank  will signal this week it may cut
borrowing costs.  Spain ’s 10-year bonds rose for the first time in three days
as a report showed the nation’s economy shrank less than
previously forecast in the first quarter. Italian debt gained
after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said European Union
leaders will discuss plans to bolster economic growth at their
June summit. ECB President  Mario Draghi , who chairs a policy
meeting this week, called for a “growth compact” on April 25
as the sovereign debt crisis weighed on the euro-area economy.  “People have noticed that the ECB appeared to have shifted
its tone a bit recently about inflation and growth,” said
 Steven Barrow , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in  London . “Some
of the data are starting to look nasty again, and perhaps the
 bond market  is speculating the ECB may use the meeting this week
to signal that there’s room for easier monetary policy.”  German 10-year bond yields fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.66 percent at 3:59 p.m. London time,
after reaching a record-low 1.63 percent on April 23. The price
of the 1.75 percent bond due July 2022 rose 0.37, or 3.70 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,324) face amount, to 100.84. Five-year yields
slid four basis points to 0.60 percent. The rate reached an all-
time low of 0.595 percent on April 27.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index of shares fell 0.7 percent and
the euro slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3236.  Lower Borrowing Costs  Euribor futures rose, a sign investors were adding to bets
for lower borrowing costs. The yield on the contract expiring in
December declined five basis points to 0.56 percent. A close at
that rate would be a record.  “The recent sharp rally in the front end of Euribor
appears to be on the back of the market interpreting recent
Draghi comments as opening the door for monetary easing,” said
Mohit Kumar, head of European interest-rate strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “This is overdone.”  The EU may consider strengthening the  European Investment
Bank  as part of a plan to encourage growth, Merkel was cited as
saying in an interview with the Leipziger Volkszeitung newspaper
published on April 28.  Growth ‘Rhetoric’  Spain’s gross domestic product slid 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the same as in the previous three months, the
Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said today. That
compares with the Bank of Spain’s estimate on April 23 of a 0.4
percent decline.  “Spanish bond yields will stabilize from here, and the
recent sell-off was just a consolidation of a rapid move,”
Kumar said. “Politicians seem to have shifted their rhetoric to
growth from austerity. That may help peripheral bonds.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields  fell nine basis points to 5.79
percent, paring this month’s increase to 44 basis points.
Italy’s two-year note yield dropped 12 basis points to 3.13
percent and the rate on 10-year bonds slipped nine basis points
to 5.55 percent.  Volatility in German  government bonds  was the highest in
euro-area markets, according to measures of 10-year bonds, two-
and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default swaps compiled by
Bloomberg. Norwegian debt was the most volatile of 24 developed-
nation markets tracked by the gauges.  Bunds Advance  The inflation rate in the 17-nation euro area slowed to 2.6
percent from 2.7 percent in March, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today, helping to preserve
the value of fixed payments on bonds.  German debt returned 0.9 percent in April, beating all
their AAA rated peers in the region, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Spanish securities are the worst performers
this month, handing investors a 2.3 percent loss.  Italian bonds have returned 8.8 percent this year,
according to the indexes, as the ECB provided more than 1
trillion euros of three-year loans to the region’s banks, some
of which was used to buy government debt.  Central bank policy makers will announce their decision on
 interest rates  on May 3, with all 58 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News forecasting that the benchmark rate will remain
at 1 percent.  Greek Bonds  Greek 10-year bonds rose a third day after Evangelos Venizelos, the nation’s former finance minister, said the
socialist Pasok party he now leads plans to end  Greece ’s
reliance on international assistance by the end of 2015.  “Our aim is to shape a clear and stable framework that
will gradually reduce Greece’s dependence on financial aid,”
Venizelos said in a speech in  Athens  on April 28, shown live on
state-run NET TV. “Our aim is for Greece to be a fiscally self-
sustaining and equal member of  Europe ” and “to gradually exit
the loan agreement, with dependency ending in three years.”  The last opinion polls on the May 6 elections, released
before a two-week ban on their publication, showed no one party
would win enough votes to govern on its own.  The yield on Greek bonds maturing in February 2023 fell 19
basis points to 20.36 percent and touched 20.18 percent, the
lowest since March 29.  The European bond market will be closed tomorrow for a
public holiday, re-opening on May 2.  -- With assistance from Tj Marta in  New York  and Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris. Editors:  Paul Dobson , Nicholas
Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  