-- Mitsui, Mitsubishi Buy $2 Billion Stake in Woodside Venture
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-05-01T07:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/mitsui-mitsubishi-buy-2-billion-stake-in-woodside-lng-venture.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s biggest
trading company, and Mitsui & Co. agreed to buy a 14.7 percent
stake in  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s proposed Browse liquefied
natural gas project in Australia for $2 billion.  The Mitsui and Mitsubishi venture, Japan Australia LNG Pty,
also agreed to acquire about 1.5 million metric tons of LNG
annually from Browse, Perth-based Woodside, Australia’s second-
biggest oil producer, said today in a statement. The shares rose
the most in almost seven months in Sydney.  Chief Executive Officer Peter Coleman said in August that
Woodside may sell stakes in the Browse and Pluto LNG ventures to
help fund more than $70 billion of planned projects to meet
rising Asian demand. The company was expected to get about $1.5
billion for a 15 percent stake in Browse, Bell Potter Securities
Ltd. estimated before the announcement today.  “It’s a confidence boost for the project,” Johan Hedstrom, a Bell Potter analyst in Sydney, said today by phone.
“The chances of it going ahead now are much higher. That’s a
serious amount of money. You wouldn’t pay that sort of money if
you thought there was a genuine risk of it not going ahead.”  Woodside rose 3.7 percent to A$36.20 in Sydney, the most
since Oct. 6. It has gained 18 percent this year.  Fukushima Boost  Japan , already the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, is
increasing imports after the Fukushima nuclear disaster forced
the shutdown of atomic  power plants .  “It’s not just a short-term measure after the country’s
nuclear capacity was significantly reduced,” Hedstrom said.
“It’s a long-term strategy for Japanese companies. They don’t
have a lot of choice.”  Mitsubishi and Mitsui have scrambled to boost their LNG
portfolio as the public in Japan has turned against nuclear
energy. In addition to partnering on the Shell and OAO Gazprom-
operated Sakhalin-2 project in Russia’s Far East, Mitsui and
Mitsubishi signed an accord with  Sempra Energy (SRE)  to develop a $6
billion gas export facility in Louisiana. Mitsubishi has
committed the same amount for  Encana Corp. (ECA) ’s Cutbank Ridge gas
development on Canada’s west coast.  Browse, in Western Australia, may cost about $36 billion to
build, compared with an earlier estimate of $30 billion, Credit
Suisse Group AG said in November. The terms of the LNG supply
accord with the companies weren’t disclosed, though Woodside
said they are in line with traditional Asian pricing.  ‘Good Value’  “$2 billion for the stake is a very good value” for
Woodside, said Philipp Kin, an energy analyst at the Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc. “My question would be what is the price for
the LNG contract, what are the potential trade-offs, if any.”  Woodside’s interest in Browse would drop to 31.3 percent
from 46 percent, the company said. Woodside’s partners,  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
have the right to preempt the sale.  Mitsui and Mitsubishi also signed an initial agreement to
consider potential partnership on other opportunities globally,
Woodside said. The venture has also offered help in obtaining
financing for the Browse development, “with Japanese banks
indicating their support,” the Australian oil and gas producer
said. The Japanese companies are already partners in the
Woodside-led North West Shelf LNG project in Australia.  Development Alternative  An alternative to building a new Browse plant at the James
Price Point site in Australia’s Kimberley region is to send the
gas about 1,000 kilometers (622 miles) south to the existing
North West Shelf plant complex, RBC Capital Markets said today.  The Australian government in April allowed Woodside to
delay an  investment decision  on Browse until the first half of
2013, providing more time for engineering work.  The Mitsui and Mitsubishi deal “would more closely align
the Browse partners to that of North West Shelf, suggesting, we
think, that the James Price Point development is less likely
than North West Shelf processing,”  Andrew Williams , an RBC
analyst based in Melbourne, said in a research note.  Woodside earlier this week began producing LNG at its
A$14.9 billion Pluto project.  Australia  has seven more LNG
ventures under development. Australian Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in March he doesn’t expect any new LNG projects to
be approved in Australia in the next 12 months to 18 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  