-- JPMorgan to Study JBS $142 Million Bid for Independencia
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-04-30T17:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/jbs-sees-independencia-asset-purchase-done-in-1-2-months-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other
creditors of bankrupt Brazilian meatpacker Independencia SA
suspended a meeting today as they assess a 268 million-real
($142 million) bid from  JBS SA. (JBSS3)   The offer from the world’s largest beef producer represents
an average discount of about 82 percent over Independencia’s
nominal debt, said Francisco de Assis e Silva, an institutional
relations director at JBS. A new meeting was slated for May 15.  Independencia filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2009 as
demand for beef waned after it invested in capacity expansion
and reported about 1.5 billion reais of debt. JBS offered to pay
133 million reais in cash to banks and cattle suppliers and 135
million reais in stock to holders of 2015 bonds in exchange for
some assets or a controlling stake, Assis said.  “We are offering a solution for Independencia and we
believe this is a fair proposal,” Assis told reporters today in
Sao Paulo after the vote to suspend the creditors meeting. “I
hope creditors will accept it.”  JBS first announced the overall value of the bid on April
23 and detailed it to creditors today. Paulo Campana Filho, a
lawyer representing JPMorgan, called for the suspension of the
meeting to assess the bid.  JPMorgan is Cajamar, Brazil-based Independencia’s largest
creditor and held about 240 million reais of its debt when the
meatpacker asked for bankruptcy protection, according to court
records.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is also among the creditors that
currently own the company’s assets.  Independencia’s 2015 senior notes have a face value of $165
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rejected Bids  Creditors have rejected two offers for Independencia since
the beginning of last year.  In October they turned down an offer from investors Alfredo
Kaefer & Cia. Ltda. and Unibrax Investimentos & Participacoes SA
to pay 706.9 million reais for the assets with future cash
generation. A group of investors had previously offered to
convert Independencia debt into stock of a new company.  JBS expects its bid to be approved and the deal to be
completed in one or two month, Eduardo Munhoz, a lawyer
representing JBS, said in the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  