-- Job Sharing Would Ease the Pain of Recessions
-- B y   B e t s e y   S t e v e n s o n   a n d   J u s t i n   W o l f e r s
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/job-sharing-would-ease-the-pain-of-recessions.html
No one likes to fire people, and no
one likes to be fired. So it’s odd and unfortunate that U.S.
employers do it much more than they need to.  Even when business is slack, there’s an alternative to
cutting jobs: Companies could reduce hours, spreading the pain
across all their employees. Too often they don’t, because an
anomaly in the country’s arcane  unemployment-insurance  system
supports firing people.  Here’s the problem: If you cut 10 percent of your workers,
they qualify for unemployment insurance, but if you keep all
your workers and cut their hours by 10 percent, there’s no
parallel insurance. By treating the two actions differently, the
government tilts the playing field toward cutting people rather
than hours.  A little-noticed  provision  in the Middle Class Tax Relief
and Job Creation Act, which President  Barack Obama  signed into
law in February, aims to change the situation. The idea, known
as work sharing, is that you can get partial benefits when your
company cuts part of your job. Because the prorated compensation
will make workers less reluctant to accept shorter hours,
economists reason that it is likely to shift the incentive from
firing people to cutting hours.  It’s one of those rare win-win reforms. For workers, it
means avoiding the despair of joblessness. For employers, it
means that when weak demand next hits, it will be easier to hang
on to the investments they have made in finding, hiring and
training the right people.  Permanent Impairment  Research has  shown  that job losses during a recession can
 permanently impair  people’s prospects as skills atrophy and
motivation wanes, hurting them and also causing losses for
businesses and the broader economy. Some studies show that the
future annual earnings of the unemployed fall by  thousands of
dollars , and that the effect persists for decades. Staying in
the workforce, even with reduced hours,  mitigates  these long-
term losses.  We don’t have to wait for the next recession to reap the
benefits. Right now, businesses are trying to figure out if
demand is likely to stay strong enough for long enough to
justify paying the upfront costs of hiring. Because this new
policy makes it more likely that they can keep these workers
around even if the economy falters, the initial investment is
more likely to meet a cost-benefit test.  The policy can boost recoveries, too. If employers reduce
hours instead of headcount during recessions, they can easily
increase hours again when demand returns, avoiding the upfront
costs and complications of hiring new workers.  The  experience  of  Germany  offers good evidence that work
sharing yields a more resilient workforce. During the Great
Recession, the country experienced a similar decline in output
as the U.S. Yet  unemployment  rose by only about half a
percentage point, and quickly snapped back, thanks in large part
to work-sharing programs. In the U.S., the  jobless rate 
increased by more than five percentage points and has yet to
recover.  The full benefits of the German program may not transfer
easily to the U.S., where unions and collective bargaining are
less dominant. A more relevant example might be  Canada , where a
work-sharing program helped limit the recessionary increase in
 unemployment  to about 2.5 percentage points. The country has
since reversed about half of that loss.  Sadly, the U.S.’s federal-state hybrid system has struggled
to get work sharing off the ground. Each state needs to enact
legislation authorizing the reform. Perhaps more importantly,
they must spend money to administer the program and teach
businesses that cutting hours is now a better option. So far,
few have succeeded.  The legislation passed in February attempts to kick-start
the process by authorizing a temporary federal program and
providing states with seed money. In the longer run, though,
work sharing can succeed only if state governments are committed
to it.  The example of  Rhode Island  demonstrates that it can be
done. The state administers a work-sharing program that, during
the depths of the recession, meant that more than 15 percent of
people receiving unemployment compensation had kept a foot in
the workforce. Although the state’s  jobless rate  remains high,
it almost certainly would have been worse without the program.  The Great Recession has reminded us how painful
unemployment can be. It doesn’t have to be quite so bad. Shared
sacrifice would mean less sacrifice.  (Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers , both professors at
the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, are Bloomberg
View columnists. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Osama bin Laden
anniversary  and  Spain ’s  labor reforms ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the
 death of Benzion Netanyahu ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  fertility rates
and foreign policy ; and Peter Viktor Kunz on the  benefits of
Swiss banks .  To contact the writers of this article:
Justin Wolfers at  jwolfers@wharton.upenn.edu 
Betsey Stevenson at  betseys@wharton.upenn.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  