-- JPMorgan’s Zubrow Says Fed Risk Rule May Hurt Markets
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-01T00:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/jpmorgan-s-zubrow-says-fed-risk-rule-may-hurt-markets.html
--  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said a Federal
Reserve proposal to cut risk by capping a bank’s dealings with
any one lender, corporation or foreign government fails to
strike the “correct balance” and may harm financial markets.  The plan “could destabilize markets,” Barry Zubrow,
executive vice president of corporate and regulatory affairs for
JPMorgan, said yesterday in a comment letter to the central
bank. The Fed is reaching “well beyond” the Dodd-Frank reform
legislation with “disruptive” standards that duplicate or
conflict with other rules and directives, he wrote.  Lenders including New York-based JPMorgan, the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank, are resisting Fed efforts to impose
tougher standards on too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse could
hurt the broader economy. Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  will meet
tomorrow with chief executive officers of the biggest banks
including JPMorgan’s  Jamie Dimon  to discuss the limits and
complaints about this year’s stress tests.  The proposal to limit credit exposure is designed to
contain the damage if a large company, foreign government or
bank should fail and threaten to take down other institutions
with it. Under the rule, a firm deemed systemically important
couldn’t have more than 10 percent of its counterparty risk tied
to one entity. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act proposed a 25 percent cap
while giving the Fed authority to tighten the standard to ensure
stability in financial markets.  Who’s Included  The limit would apply to banks considered systemically
important and counterparties when each has more than $500
billion in total assets, and would count loans, derivatives and
other forms of credit. Bankers including Zubrow say the Fed’s
model for counterparty exposure inflates rather than decreases
their  risk .  The rule also would restrict the ability to execute certain
risk-management or hedging transactions, he said. Zubrow
foresees “additional pressure to unwind largely offsetting
trades in a potentially disruptive manner -- trades that an
accurate measurement methodology would not show as producing
meaningful risk,” he wrote. “These methodologies produce very
large misstatements -- and, in most cases, overstatements -- of
the true counterparty exposure.”  JPMorgan has said the company’s chief investment office,
with a $360 billion portfolio, is responsible for managing some
of the firm’s risks. The unit has made bets so large that the
bank probably can’t unwind them without losing money or roiling
financial markets, five former executives said last month.  Financial Crisis  The Fed, in proposing the rule, said the financial crisis
revealed a failure of regulators to spot concentrations in
credit risk and the interconnectedness of financial firms “that
contributed to a rapid escalation of the crisis.”  Concentration of risk in over-the-counter derivatives was
blamed in part for the banking system’s near-collapse in 2008 by
the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission ’s January 2011 report.  The panel, formed to examine the causes of the meltdown,
pointed to American International Group Inc., the insurer that
need a U.S. bailout to avoid bankruptcy after wrong-way bets on
derivatives, and the possible failure of institutions that
relied on AIG for their own solvency.  “The U.S. financial sector is now more concentrated than
ever in the hands of a few very large, systemically significant
institutions,” the commission concluded. “This concentration
places greater responsibility on regulators for effective
oversight.”  Stress Tests  As for the stress tests, Zubrow said the Fed gave bankers
too little information to adequately run them and disclosed too
much to the public about the results.  The central bank, which released the tests on March 13,
required the nation’s largest lenders to show that they have
credible plans for maintaining capital and continuing lending if
there’s another severe economic slump.  Zubrow, 59, asked the Fed to share the economic models that
examiners used for the tests, saying this would allow financial
firms to plan capital actions more effectively.  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
CEO Vikram Pandit had primed shareholders for higher  dividends ,
only to be rejected by the Fed after it reviewed the company’s
capital plan.  Banks were rushed to produce their capital plans and asked
the Fed for more time as the regulator’s demands overlapped with
year-end financial reporting requirements and federal holidays,
Zubrow said. The firms had about six weeks to test their
portfolios against various hypothetical scenarios and submit
capital proposals with supporting documentation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  