-- JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley Pay Plans Win ISS Endorsement
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-04-30T21:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/jpmorgan-morgan-stanley-pay-plans-win-iss-endorsement.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan
Stanley’s executive compensation packages received endorsements
from ISS Proxy Services USA, the firm whose negative
recommendation helped sink a similar plan at Citigroup Inc.  JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley displayed “reasonable
alignment” between shareholder returns and pay for  Jamie Dimon 
and  James Gorman , the firms’ respective chief executive
officers, ISS analysts wrote in separate reports dated April 27.
 Glass Lewis  & Co., another shareholder advisory firm, also
endorsed the pay plans for the New York-based banks, which will
hold their meetings on May 15.  Citigroup Inc. shareholders rejected an executive pay plan
earlier this month, a first among the six largest U.S. banks,
amid criticism it lets CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of
dollars in rewards too easily from the  No. 3-ranked (C)  U.S. lender.
ISS had urged investors to reject Citigroup’s plan.  ISS said that while JPMorgan “continues to resist adopting
incentive plans with pre-established goals and long-term
objectives,” it added a feature “that provides both an
incentive for  sustained performance  and some mitigation against
excessive risk-taking.”  Glass Lewis and ISS also endorsed a shareholder proposal to
require an independent board chairman, which the bank opposes.
Dimon holds the titles of chairman and CEO.  ‘Inability’ to Monitor  Dimon, 56, was awarded $23 million in salary and bonuses
for his 2011 performance, the same as he received for 2010,
JPMorgan said in a regulatory filing this month. Gorman, 53, had
his package cut 25 percent to $10.5 million,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said
in a filing.  Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, declined to comment,
as did JPMorgan’s  Joe Evangelisti .  Glass Lewis told shareholders to vote against the election
of director Ellen Futter to JPMorgan’s board. Futter, president
of the Museum of Natural History, previously served on the board
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government in a bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion.  Futter, who has served on JPMorgan’s board since 1997,
showed an “inability to effectively monitor credit risk during
her tenure at AIG,” and JPMorgan’s “investment activities do
not appear to be any less complex than those of AIG,” Glass-
Lewis said in its report. JPMorgan has donated an undisclosed
sum to the New York museum Futter runs, the proxy firm said. ISS
recommended shareholders elect Futter.  Futter didn’t immediately respond to e-mails sent through
the museum seeking comment on Glass Lewis’s recommendation.  Easing Concerns  JPMorgan’s stock dropped 22 percent last year and Morgan
Stanley fell 44 percent, compared with 18 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  While Morgan Stanley investors “remain concerned about the
company’s continued  lagging returns , concerns may be mitigated
by the fact that 2012 incentive awards for the CEO, based on
2011 performance, decreased by 45 percent due to the absence of
a cash bonus payment and  stock options ,” ISS wrote.  ISS opposed Morgan Stanley’s proposal to set aside 50
million shares to cover future equity-compensation awards. ISS
said the shares would bring the total available, along with
outstanding options and unvested previous awards, above the
proxy firm’s allowable cap. Glass Lewis recommended shareholders
vote for the proposal.  Morgan Stanley responded to ISS’s opposition in a
regulatory filing today, saying the proxy adviser compared the
firm with a broader range of companies than its direct
competitors. It said a rejection of the proposal would hinder
the bank’s ability to both align shareholder and employee
interests and to comply with guidance from regulators on pay.  ‘Poor Disclosure’  Glass Lewis recommend shareholders vote against Laura D. Tyson, a professor at  University of California , Berkeley’s Haas
School of Business, who has been an adviser to the Obama
administration and has served on Morgan Stanley’s board since
1997. Tyson, as head of the bank’s governance committee, should
be held responsible for its “poor disclosure” regarding
transactions with entities affiliated with directors, the proxy
firm said. ISS didn’t oppose any directors.  Morgan Stanley doesn’t have any shareholder proposals up
for vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  