-- Knicks TV-Watching Fans Flee to Rangers With Heat Blowout
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-04-30T18:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/knicks-tv-watching-fans-flee-to-nhl-rangers-with-blowout-to-heat.html
Jeff Gliner wields what might be
the most powerful TV remote control in  New York .  With the  National Basketball Association ’s  New York Knicks 
and  National Hockey League ’s Rangers each playing the second
games of their playoff series tonight -- after they both had
their Game 1s at the same time two days ago -- the assistant
general manager of Bowlmor Lanes near Times Square decides which
of the 50 televisions are tuned to what game.  “It’s rare to have the biggest Knicks game of the last
couple of years alongside a monster Rangers game,” Gliner, 27,
said in a telephone interview.  Two days ago, he was besieged by fans to switch sets to
hockey from basketball when the Knicks were getting clobbered by
the  Miami Heat , while the Rangers were defeating the  Washington
Capitals . The last time both teams had a playoff game in the
same time slot was Sunday, May 18, 1997, when the Rangers beat
the  Philadelphia Flyers  in the second game of the NHL’s Eastern
Conference finals, and the Knicks lost to the Heat in the
seventh game of the Eastern Conference semifinals.  “The Knicks were definitely a priority coming in, but it
changed over real quick in the third period,” Gliner said.
“The momentum of people moving along the bar went to the
Rangers screens. There were requests for the Knicks game to be
turned off.”  Miami’s  LeBron James  scored the final nine points of the
second quarter to give the Heat a 23-point halftime lead, and
the Knicks never got much closer in a 100-67 loss, tying a
franchise playoff record for fewest points.  At almost exactly the same time as James’s 9-0 streak, the
Rangers were ending the second period tied 1-1 in a game they
won 3-1 against the Capitals.  While Gliner kept the Knicks on two of the Stadium Grill’s
three jumbo screens, he switched some of the smaller TVs in the
bowling area to the Rangers and changed the main sound feed over
to hockey from basketball.  Television Ratings  The Rangers-Capitals game, which was the opening contest of
their second-round NHL series, got a 3.5 household rating in  New
York City  on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, said Adam Freifeld, vice
president for communications at NBC Sports Group. That means 3.5
percent of all TVs in the city were tuned to that game.  That was 17 percent higher in the New York market than the
second game of the Rangers most recent second-round playoff
series, also shown on NBC. New York and the  Pittsburgh Penguins 
drew a 3.0 household rating on April 27, 2008, Freifeld said in
an e-mail.  The Knicks-Heat game on  Walt Disney (DIS)  Co.’s ABC network drew
a 7.2 rating in New York, according to ESPN spokesman Ben
Cafardo.  Rangers Benefit  Neal Pilson , a former president of  CBS Sports , said while
the simultaneous games may present an inconvenience for New York
fans, the head-to-head contests and the Knicks’ blowout loss
might have helped build ratings for the Rangers.  “The Rangers game got the Rangers fans, and I don’t think
the Knicks broadcast diluted the Rangers’ audience,” he said in
a telephone interview. “I could actually make the argument that
the Rangers’ rating benefited from the conflict because so many
people were watching TV, and some Knicks fans switched over.”  Though the Rangers are the top seed in the NHL’s Eastern
Conference and the Knicks are seventh in the NBA’s East, Knicks
fans far outnumbered Rangers supporters at Bowlmor during the
dueling Game 1s. Gliner said the ratio was about 70-30 in favor
of Knicks fans, based on what jerseys they wore and which TVs
they congregated around when the games started.  ‘Knicks Town’  Wayne McDonnell, an associate professor of sports
management at  New York University , said in a telephone interview
that New York “is really a Knicks town.” He added, however,
that the Rangers’ win and the Knicks’ 33-point loss could help
change that, at least this postseason.  “What happened yesterday is exactly what the Rangers
needed,” McDonnell said a day ago. “In this market, if the
Rangers can make a significant postseason run, those devout
Knicks fans are going to turn into Rangers fans.”  Pilson said the networks focus on the best NBA and NHL
games when they put together their schedules, and in this case
the Knicks’ and Rangers’ contests happened to be the most
appealing matchups. In the Knicks’ case, that was driven more by
the opponent -- James and the Heat.  “They don’t start out to inconvenience New York fans,” he
said of the networks and the leagues. “These scheduling issues
really have to do with the national audiences.”  It’s surprising such Knicks-Rangers conflicts don’t happen
more often, said  Rick Burton , a professor of sports management
at  Syracuse University ’s Falk College of Sport.  Knicks Playoffs  The reason they haven’t is because the Knicks have only
reached the postseason three times in the past 11 years. The
Game 1 loss at Miami was the Knicks’ 11th straight playoff
defeat, one short of the NBA record.  “It’s the largest media market in the  United States ,”
Burton said in a telephone interview. “If you believe economies
of scale will generally lead New York teams to be better, you
would expect this conflict to happen on an annual basis.”  Back at Bowlmor, the man with the remote says he just tries
to read the crowd before pressing any buttons.  “We base it on what people want,” Gliner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  