-- Krugman Says Fed ‘Reckless’ to Allow High Jobless Rate
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-05-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/krugman-says-fed-should-allow-inflation-to-rise-above-2-goal.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  suggested Federal Reserve policy makers led by  Ben S. Bernanke  are “reckless” for refusing to pursue higher
inflation, which he said could lower U.S. unemployment.  “The reckless thing is to allow mass unemployment to
continue,” Krugman, a Princeton University professor, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” yesterday. “We have had
a massive failure of our political system that has come to
accept that 8 percent  unemployment  is the new normal and there
is nothing that can be done,” Krugman said. “We’re in a low-
key version of the Great Depression.”  Krugman, whom Bernanke hired at Princeton in 2000 when he
was chairman of the economics department, has said the Fed
should tolerate inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent to boost the
economy and put Americans back to work. He was responding
yesterday to Bernanke’s comments last week that pursuing such a
policy would be “reckless.”  Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , appearing on the same
show, rejected Krugman’s argument for higher inflation. Paul,
who has written a book titled “End the Fed,” blamed
governments for “debasing” their currencies.  “Inflation is theft,” said Paul, a Republican
presidential candidate who said he will stay in the race until
his party’s convention in August. “You’re stealing value from
people who save money. It really destroys an important feature
of the economy -- and that is saving.”  ‘Earth to Bernanke’  The Bernanke-Krugman debate started with Krugman’s April 24
article in the New York Times Magazine, titled “Earth to
Bernanke.” In it, Krugman argued that allowing a more rapid
increase in consumer prices would align with Bernanke’s comment
in 2000 that the  Bank of Japan  should pursue faster inflation to
escape deflation.  “What we really want from the Fed now is that kind of
resolve to do whatever it takes, which is what  Ben Bernanke 
thought Japan should have been doing in the year 2000,” Krugman
said yesterday. “This notion that wages are fixed and any
inflation comes at the expense of workers is wrong. Wages tend
to rise in an economy that’s doing well.”  Bernanke responded to Krugman’s criticism in a press
conference last week following a meeting of the  Federal Open
Market Committee , which repeated that interest rates are likely
to stay “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  “So there’s this view circulating that the views I
expressed about 15 years ago on the Bank of  Japan  are somehow
inconsistent with our current policies,” Bernanke said in
response to a reporter’s question. “That is absolutely
incorrect. My views and our policies today are completely
consistent with the views that I held at that time.”  Recommendation Rejected  Bernanke rejected Krugman’s policy recommendations.  “The question is, does it make sense to actively seek a
higher inflation rate in order to achieve” a slightly faster
reduction in the  unemployment rate , Bernanke said last week.
“The view of the committee is that that would be very
reckless.”  Krugman said yesterday that the Fed should keep its
benchmark  interest rate  low until “well past” late 2014. “We
could be better off at 4” percent inflation, he said.  The jobless rate has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009
and is projected to hold at 8.2 percent in April, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of a May 4 report from the Labor Department.  Krugman also said the U.S. can withstand more fiscal
stimulus.  “There’s no reason to panic over our debt now,” Krugman
said. “If you cut spending now, what it does is depress the
economy. It’s a self-defeating policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in  New York  at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  