-- N.Y., JPMorgan Sued by Council Members in Occupy Lawsuit
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-30T23:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/n-y-jpmorgan-sued-by-council-members-in-occupy-lawsuit.html
Four New York City Council members
sued the city over the handling of Occupy  Wall Street 
protesters, claiming the police used excessive force and should
be subject to an outside monitor.  The Police Department made false arrests and violated free-
speech rights of protesters and journalists last year, according
to a complaint filed today in  Manhattan  federal court by the
council members and 11 others.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Brookfield
Office Properties and Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  are among the
defendants.  The Occupy movement in New York has held demonstrations and
marches since Nov. 15, when police ousted hundreds of protesters
from Zuccotti Park near Wall Street, where they had camped since
Sept. 17. Protesters spread an anti-greed message, calling
attention to what they say are abuses of power and wealth.  “Through unlawful exercises of public power and
misapplication of law, the NYPD has sought to prevent and has
prevented plaintiffs and other citizens from exercising certain
constitutional rights, including the right to public assembly
and expressive speech,” according to the complaint.  The City Council members are Jumaane Williams, Letitia James, Ydanis Rodriguez and Melissa Mark-Viverito. The council
has 51 members. Bloomberg, the mayor, is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Kate Ahlers, a spokeswoman for  New York ’s Law Department,
said the city hasn’t been served with the complaint and will
review it thoroughly.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for
JPMorgan Chase, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Zuccotti Park  Brookfield owns Zuccotti Park, which is considered a public
space.  Melissa Coley , a spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Occupy Wall Street demonstrators were denied access to One
Chase Manhattan Plaza, which “has traditionally been used as a
public space for public speech,” according to the complaint.  On Oct. 12, demonstrators sought to give a large symbolic
check to JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
representing tax breaks he would get in New York state,
according to the complaint. Police barricades and officers
denied them access to the plaza, according to the complaint.  Occupy Wall Street demonstrators plan marches around the
globe tomorrow, saying they hope the coordinated events will
mark a spring resurgence of the movement after a quiet winter.  Second Case  In a separate federal court lawsuit, five demonstrators
today sued city Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly and various
officers for detaining them in an interlocking metal barricade
during a protest on Nov. 30. About 100 people demonstrated in
front of a Sheraton Hotel where President  Barack Obama  attended
a fundraiser, according to the complaint.  The plaintiffs, who asked that the case be certified as
class-action suit, claim protesters couldn’t leave for almost
two hours and were “never charged with any violation,
misdemeanor or crime,” Phoebe Berg and others claimed.  The police violated their rights to freedom of speech,
association and assembly, and freedom from unreasonable seizure,
according to the complaint. The group asked for an order barring
the NYPD from the unlawful use of barricades.  The cases are Rodriguez v. Winski, 12-cv-3389, and Berg v.
Kelly, 12-cv-3391, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 