-- Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship Program May Get New Scrutiny
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-30T22:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/navy-s-littoral-combat-ship-program-may-get-new-scrutiny.html
Leaders of the U.S. Senate Armed
Services Committee today asked the Government Accountability
Office to expand its probe of the Navy’s $37 billion Littoral
Combat Ship program, citing “instability” in the development
of the ship’s combat equipment modules.  “With $8 billion already sunk into this program to date
without it having delivered a single fully combat-ready ship to
support worldwide maritime operations as intended, I remain
skeptical about this program and will continue to subject its
overall cost, schedule and performance to the vigorous
congressional oversight it warrants,” Arizona SenatorJohn McCain, the committee’s senior Republican, said in a written
statement.  McCain and Michigan Democratic SenatorCarl Levin, the
committee chairman, sent a letter to Gene Dodaro, the U.S.
comptroller general, seeking a study that would focus on the
ship’s “mission modules,” sets of equipment for specific tasks
that are to be integrated into the ship’s seaframe.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,  Maryland , is
leading the construction of one of two ship models in Marinette
Marine Corp.’s shipyard in Marinette,  Wisconsin . The other
version is being built in Mobile,  Alabama , by a team led by
 Austal Ltd. (ASB)  of  Australia  and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , based in
 Falls Church , Virginia. The review would involve both models.  Multiple Missions  The Littoral Combat Ship is intended to clear mines, hunt
for submarines and provide humanitarian relief in shallow
coastal waters. The Navy plans to have 55 of the ships, which
would ultimately make up about 17 percent of the Navy’s total
fleet.  The Navy is seeking $2.24 billion in the next fiscal year
for four ships, including $429.4 million in development funds.  McCain said a lack of progress in developing the ship’s
“mission modules” may “throw the program out of sync and
threaten its success.”  Still, McCain said cracks, flooding and corrosion problems
on the lead ships have been corrected, and construction costs
have declined from a peak of more than $700 million to less than
$360 million.  “Over the last year, nearly all of the reported
deficiencies have been fixed on the lead ships and design
changes have been integrated into the follow-ships with minor
cost impact,” McCain said.  The Project on Government Oversight, a nonpartisan
government watchdog group that has been critical of the program,
issued a report last week based on year-old Navy documents to
highlight construction problems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  