-- NYC Council Approves ‘Living Wage’ Bill Bloomberg Vowed to Veto
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-30T20:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/nyc-council-approves-living-wage-bill-bloomberg-vowed-to-veto.html
New York ’s City Council approved a
law requiring employers to pay workers at least $10 an hour on
economic-development projects that receive $1 million in tax
abatements or low-cost financing.  The so-called living-wage bill, written after months of
negotiating among council members, union leaders and developers,
would affect at least 600 workers a year, said Council Speaker
 Christine Quinn , a Manhattan Democrat. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
an independent, has pledged to veto the measure.  “When we invest in economic development, we should expect
that the jobs created are good jobs,” Quinn said today before
entering the council’s chambers, where members passed the bill
44 to 5. More than 34 votes exist to override a veto, she said.
The mayor has said he’ll sue to block the law if that happens.  The law would require business owners in future city-aided
projects to pay $11.50 an hour, or $10 with health benefits, in
projects that get at least $1 million from the city Economic
Development Corp. It would exempt workers in manufacturing,
affordable housing, nonprofit organizations and small
businesses.  “If you take city subsidies, which you’re not required to
take, then you have to meet a standard of pay,” Quinn said.
“If you don’t want to meet that standard of pay, then you don’t
have to take the city’s money.”  Quinn Walks Out  Quinn, 45, who has expressed interest in a 2013 campaign
for mayor, walked out of a pre-vote rally at  City Hall  after
lecturing a bill supporter who derisively referred to the mayor
as “Pharaoh Bloomberg.”  “In a democracy, people have the right to have different
views, and we do not have the right to then call them names,”
Quinn said before walking away from the podium. “I’m just not
going to participate in name-calling.”  During a news conference, Quinn said the mayor signed a
2002 law that set an $8.10-an-hour minimum wage and provided
medical benefits for more than 50,000 health-care workers in
companies that have contracts with the city. At that time, the
minimum wage was $5.15.  “So I don’t understand the mayor’s philosophical
perspective as it relates to this voluntary economic-development
program,” Quinn said.  Plans to Veto  Bloomberg last week announced his intention to veto the
bill, saying private employers, not government, should decide
wages based upon what the market for labor may bear. At that
time, he vetoed a previously passed “prevailing-wage” bill
covering janitors and other service workers in city-leased
buildings and those receiving aid.  Such laws, Bloomberg said, are “a throwback to the era
when government viewed the private sector as a cash cow to be
milked, rather than a garden to be cultivated.”  Bloomberg has said he supports efforts in the state
Legislature to raise the minimum wage to $8.50 an hour from its
current $7.25.  Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and
Department Store Union, said the law would strengthen the city’s
economy by protecting workers’ purchasing power.  In the past, Appelbaum said, “city government would enable
a select group of companies and developers to get richer from
taxpayer subsidies while allowing greater  income inequality  and
poverty to take hold as a result.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 