-- NYSE Profit Falls 44% on Merger Charges, Trading Decline
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-30T20:09:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/nyse-profit-falls-44-on-merger-charges-trading-decline.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the biggest U.S.
exchange operator, fell the most in six months after reporting a
44 percent decline in first-quarter profit, as expenses related
to its failed merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  combined with a
slowdown in trading.  Net income fell to $87 million from $155 million a year
earlier, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Excluding some items, earnings were 47 cents a share, compared
with the 48-cent average  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The shares sank 4.9 percent to $25.75, the most since
Nov. 1.  European regulators blocked NYSE Euronext from merging with
Deutsche Boerse in February, frustrating plans to mitigate a
 slowdown  in  stock trading  and boost earnings and sales through
cooperation on derivatives. Today’s report highlights the
challenges that spurred the takeover proposal, exacerbated by a
decline in equity volume across American exchanges to some of
the worst levels in a decade.  “The lack of diversification in NYSE Euronext’s business
model leaves the company’s ability to grow revenue vulnerable to
further headwinds and leaves it exposed to ongoing poor
volumes,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London, wrote in a report today. “We forecast that around 64
percent of NYSE Euronext’s 2012 revenue will derive from
activity related to its cash markets.”  Volume Decline  NYSE said total U.S. cash trading averaged 1.8 billion
shares a day, down 23 percent from the year-ago period and 16
percent from the previous quarter. Trading in equities fell as
the European debt crisis and concern the  U.S. economy  was headed
for its second recession in three years pushed daily moves in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to twice the five-decade average
in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volume fell around the world and across its venues. Average
daily transactions in European cash trading slid to 1.6 million
from 1.8 million a year ago. Revenue from derivatives was $176
million, down 25 percent from a year ago. The decline was driven
by lower trading volume and reduced pricing for individual
equity options and index futures, the company said.  European derivatives had average daily volume of 3.3
million contracts in the first quarter, down 28 percent from a
year ago.  Challenging Environment  “The macro environment remains challenging,” according to
a presentation for analysts from Duncan Niederauer, chief
executive officer of NYSE Euronext and Chief Financial Officer
Michael Geltzeiler. Still, there are “silver linings,” they
said, pointing to new opportunities in derivatives and for the
NYSE Technologies unit.  The first quarters of 2012 and 2011 included pretax merger
costs of $31 million and $21 million, respectively, NYSE said.
Charges specific to the  Deutsche Boerse  merger were $16 million
in the first three months of this year.  “Our first-quarter results reflect the challenging
operating environment which carried over into 2012 and will
continue to result in near-term headwinds,” Niederauer said in
the statement today. “Looking ahead into 2013 and 2014, we are
focused on creating value by enhancing the underlying earnings
power of the company and solidly executing on the three core
pillars of our earnings growth strategy outlined at our investor
day.”  Project 14  NYSE executives, meeting with shareholders on April 2,
pledged $250 million in annual savings by the end of 2014 and
said a stock buyback will be completed this year. NYSE also said
“Project 14,” a program aimed at generating more savings, will
generate about $90 million from technology and “organizational
efficiency.” The firm is buying back $550 million in shares.  “There are no catalysts on the horizon that will
precipitate an increase in volumes,” said Simmy Grewal, a
London-based market structure analyst for Aite Group LLC. “It’s
very difficult to go back to pre-2007 volumes as firms are no
longer leveraged like that. And I don’t know if they ever will
be again with all the  capital requirements . As an exchange, you
can cut costs and you can diversify.”  Global regulators have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The measures, known as Basel III, will
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to at
least 7 percent of their assets, weighted for risk. They are
scheduled to be phased in by 2019.  Standalone Strategy  NYSE Euronext, operator of the New York Stock Exchange,
bourses in Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam and London-
based Liffe,  Europe ’s second-largest derivatives market, is
focusing on its standalone strategy with shareholders after a
year’s work on the merger with Deutsche Boerse.  The exchange has said it plans to spend $85 million moving
clearing for  London  derivatives trades to its own clearinghouse,
while retaining the services of LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. for cash
equities transactions. NYSE Liffe Clearing, a central
counterparty to all trades on the London-based Liffe futures
market, will be operational by the summer of 2013. It will shift
clearing for derivatives traded in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon
and Paris to the U.K. capital in the first quarter of 2014. The
company previously said it would build two clearinghouses: one
in London and one in Paris.  ‘Big’ Mergers  Last week, Deutsche Boerse pledged to keep costs under
control as it takes a break from entering into “big” mergers.
Deutsche Boerse said first-quarter  net income  dropped 31 percent
to 146.2 million euros ($194 million) as trading volumes
faltered.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange operator, posted first-quarter earnings that missed
analyst estimates amid lower trading revenue. CME Group Inc.,
the world’s biggest futures market, reported a 42 percent drop
in profit from a year earlier. Daily futures and options volume
in the quarter declined 11 percent to average 12.3 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  