-- Obama Draws on Professional Help to Keep the Jokes Rolling
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-04-30T21:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/obama-draws-on-professional-help-to-keep-the-jokes-rolling.html
President  Barack Obama  receives
more than financial support from the entertainment industry. It
also helps him to be funny.  A team of Obama’s past and present speechwriters worked
with two professional joke writers to sharpen the president’s
annual stand-up routine at the White House Correspondents
Association dinner, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The speechwriters collaborated with Nell Scovell, who
has written episodes for “The Simpsons” on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Network, and Kevin Bleyer, a writer for  Comedy Central ’s “ Daily
Show .”  Drafting a serious policy speech is a challenge. Writing
jokes for the leader of the free world may be harder.  “It’s one thing to be funny in person,” said Reid Cherlin, a former Obama administration spokesman who is friends
with many of the president’s speechwriters. “It’s another thing
altogether to be funny, and appropriate, when you’re writing out
jokes.”  “Watching them prepare for the White House Correspondents
Dinner opened my eyes to just how hard it is to write jokes for
someone else,” Cherlin said.  After an initial survey of potential jokes three weeks ago,
the team began to cull potential one-liners for the April 28
dinner. They worked to stay current with the news cycle and on
the right side of taste. The president weighed in a few times
before signing off, while reserving the right to ad-lib,
according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the internal deliberations.  Varied Audience  The president’s audience included journalists, past and
present elected officials, and Cabinet members, as well as movie
stars. The jokes touched on subjects from his political
opponents to the scandal over misconduct by the U.S. Secret
Service, with a dose of self-deprecating humor thrown in.  The president’s staff involved with preparing for the
dinner included speechwriters Jonathan Favreau, Cody Keenan and
David Litt, the youngest of Obama’s scribes.  David Axelrod , who served in the White House and still
consults for Obama’s campaign also offered advice, as did Jon Lovett, who wrote many of Obama’s science and technology
speeches before leaving the West Wing to pitch sitcoms to
Hollywood studios.  “Part of being able to write a good policy speech for the
president, I think, is being able to channel his voice,”
Cherlin said. “And it turns out that writing jokes for the
president requires the same skill. You have to step out of your
own sense of humor and into someone else’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  