-- U.S. Drone Strikes Are Ethical, Obama Adviser Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-30T20:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/obama-counter-terror-adviser-defends-ethics-of-drone-strikes.html
White House counter terrorism
adviser John Brennan said drone strikes are legal and ethical
against al-Qaeda forces, which he described as “legitimate
military targets” in armed conflict against the U.S.  Marking the anniversary of the killing of al-Qaeda founder
Osama  bin Laden  by U.S. forces in Pakistan, Brennan said the
strikes are used only in cases of a “significant threat.”  “There is nothing in international law that bans the use
of remotely piloted aircraft for this purpose or that prohibits
us from using lethal force against our enemies outside of an
active battlefield,” Brennan said at the Woodrow Wilson Center
for International Scholars in Washington.  In the aftermath of bin Laden’s death a year ago this week,
Brennan said al-Qaeda has been weakened, describing the core
leadership as “a shadow of its former self.” Bin Laden
organized the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and Washington in
which almost 3,000 people were killed.  “Morale is low, with intelligence indicating that some
members are giving up and returning home, no doubt aware that
this is a fight they will never win,” Brennan said. “In short,
al-Qaeda is losing, badly. And bin Laden knew it.”  Bin Laden’s Documents  Some of the documents seized Navy SEALs at the bin Laden
compound will be made public online this week by the Combating
Terrorism Center at the U.S. Military Academy at  West Point ,  New
York , he said. In one, Brennan said, bin Laden expressed concern
about “the rise of lower leaders who are not as experienced and
this would lead to the repeat of mistakes.”  Brennan made the rounds of yesterday’s news talk shows,
saying al Qaeda’s terrorism capabilities have been degraded
while acknowledging the persistence of affiliates such as al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen and  Saudi Arabia .
Brennan also said the U.S. doesn’t see any active plot by al-
Qaeda timed for the anniversary of bin Laden’s death.  President Barack Obama today denied that his administration
is seeking political advantage from the anniversary of bin
Laden’s death, saying Americans “rightly remember” what the
nation accomplished with the raid on the al-Qaeda leader’s
 Pakistan  compound.  “I hardly think that you’ve seen any excessive celebration
taking place,” Obama said in response to a question at a White
House news conference.  Campaign Video  Obama is campaigning on the killing of bin Laden as a chief
foreign policy accomplishment as he seeks re-election this year.
His campaign released a video on April 27 that used Republican
Mitt Romney’s past statements to question whether Romney would
have ordered the bin Laden operation if he had been president.  A seven-minute video released today by the Obama campaign
includes a section that replays Obama’s announcement of bin
Laden’s death, with a narrator describing “the victory no one
saw coming.”  Romney today said he “of course” would have given the go-
ahead for the raid.  U.S. officials say that threats persist from al-Qaeda
offshoots, as well as from individuals motivated by extremist
ideology. The regional affiliates, such as  Yemen ’s al-Qaeda in
the Arabian Peninsula, “will remain committed to the group’s
ideology and, in terms of threats to U.S. interests, will
surpass the remnants” of core al-Qaeda in Pakistan,  James Clapper , the director of national intelligence, told the Senate
Intelligence Committee in January.  Drone Strikes  The U.S. has been using drone strikes to go after terrorism
targets, including the killing last year of U.S.-born al-Qaeda
recruiter Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen. The U.S. is still seeking
other al-Qaeda officials including Egyptian cleric Ayman al- Zawahiri, the leader after bin Laden’s death, who may be hiding
in Pakistan. Drone strikes have continued despite protests from
Pakistan’s government.  Behind the scenes, the operation was a long time in
planning, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told midshipmen at
the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis,  Maryland , in unscripted
remarks during an April 10 address. A small group of Obama’s
military and civilian advisers tried to game out every possible
scenario. “What if, what if, what if?” Clinton recalled.  On the moonless night of the raid, the president and his
advisers crammed into the small room in a “secret area in the
basement” of the White House, where they had real-time
communications with the Navy SEAL team.  Nobody Breathed  “I’m not sure anyone breathed for 35, 37 minutes, and for
me the worst part was when one of the helicopters” struck a
wall, Clinton said.  None of the officials had slept “for a long time,” said
Clinton, who wasn’t even aware photographs were being taken of
the assembled policy makers. “You were just so concentrating on
what you could see and you could hear,” she said.  When the SEALs entered the house and the real-time
communications link cut off, “everybody was particularly
focused on trying to keep calm, be prepared as to what would
happen,” Clinton said.  Then, word came that ‘Geronimo’ -- bin Laden’s code name --
had been killed. After visual identification and two DNA tests,
she said, “finally everybody was comfortable with concluding
that yes, you know, he was there, we did get him, they were sure
of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  