-- Obama Hosts Japan’s Noda for Talks on Military, Trade Relations
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-04-30T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/obama-hosts-japan-s-noda-for-talks-on-military-trade-relations.html
President  Barack Obama  and  Japan ’s
Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda hold talks today at the White
House seeking to build on progress in easing strains in the
U.S.-Japan relationship.  Their meeting will be the first since the U.S. and Japan
last week announced an agreement to relocate about 9,000 Marines
from Okinawa, addressing a source of friction between the two
allies as Obama moves to broaden and realign the U.S. military
and economic presence in the Pacific.  The U.S. and Japan are also discussing possible joint
military training on ranges in Guam and the Northern Mariana
Islands, which would tighten coordination between their forces.  The U.S. is seeking to improve its relationship with Japan
which became strained in 2009, Obama’s first year in office,
when the  Democratic Party  of Japan took power under Yukio Hatoyama, according to Nick Szechenyi, deputy director of the
Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a policy center, in Washington.  Hatoyama’s rhetoric during his tenure, which lasted less
than a year, “created the perception of distance between the
U.S. and Japan,” Szechenyi said.  Obama has made a point of focusing U.S. policy on the
Pacific region. Part of that effort has been to press for a
nine-nation trade accord, known as the Trans-Pacific
Partnership. Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, has
expressed interest in joining, as have Canada and  Mexico .  Trade Talks  Obama, 50, and Noda, 54, who became prime minister last
September, won’t be ready to announce a breakthrough on Japan
joining, said an administration official who briefed reporters
April 27 on condition of anonymity.  The proposed agreement with  Australia , Chile, Peru,
 Singapore ,  Malaysia ,  New Zealand , Vietnam and Brunei would be
the biggest U.S. trade deal since the 1994 North American Free
Trade Agreement. The Obama administration is seeking to complete
negotiations this year.  The U.S. and Japan both have concerns about Japan joining
the trade agreement, including insurance market access, and U.S.
beef and Japan’s agricultural interests. There’s “no consensus
in Japan on whether it’s in Japan’s interest to enter,”
Szechenyi said.  U.S. assistance following Japan’s earthquake and tsunami
last year “paved the way for a more constructive dialogue
between the two countries,” Szechenyi said.  ‘Vibrant’ Relationship  The Obama-Noda meeting is a “really an opportunity for the
two leaders to show how vibrant” they want the relationship
between the countries to be, he said.  Noda and Obama will hold a news conference after they meet
privately. While Noda will not have a state dinner at the White
House, he will be honored with a dinner by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton .  Three members of the Senate Armed Services Committee,
Chairman Carl Levin of  Michigan , a Democrat, and Republican John McCain of Arizona and Jim Webb of Virginia, said in a joint
statement on April 26 that Noda’s visit is “an important
opportunity to make additional progress toward our shared
strategic goals for the alliance” and a chance to “reaffirm
and deepen” the alliance.  At the same time, the senators have said Congress may
reject any plan to move Marines from Japan until the Defense
Department submits an independent assessment of its strategic
posture in the region.  Under the agreement announced last week, troops will be
transfered to Hawaii,  Guam  and Australia, creating a wider
geographic footprint to deal with regional challenges, according
a joint statement from Clinton, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta, Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  and Defense Minister
Naoki Tanaka. About 10,000 U.S. Marines will remain on Okinawa.  Japan’s bill for the relocation of the U.S. Marines to Guam
will be $3.1 billion in 2012 dollars, the defense official said.
The U.S. is projecting the total cost of the military buildup in
Guam at about $8.6 billion, including the portion paid by the
Japanese government. The U.S. defense official said the amount
is a preliminary estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  