-- Obesity-Linked Diabetes Tougher to Treat in Children
-- B y   R e g   G a l e   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-04-30T11:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/obesity-linked-diabetes-tougher-to-treat-in-chindren.html
Type 2 diabetes is harder to treat
in children ages 10 to 17 than it is in adults, according to one
of the first large studies of the disease in younger people.  The research also found that diabetes develops more rapidly
in this age group. About 700 overweight and obese U.S. children
and teens were given three therapies in the study: The oral drug
metformin alone; that medicine combined with  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) ’s Avandia; and metformin used alone with diet and exercise.  All three had high failure rates, according to the results
published in the  New England Journal of Medicine . The data is
key as the number of overweight children in the U.S. has tripled
since 1980, spurring a concurrent rise in Type 2 diabetes,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
in Atlanta. About 3,600 new cases are diagnosed in children
yearly, the researchers reported.  “With diabetes developing younger in life, it means people
now have the disease for a longer period and will move onto more
intensive and expensive therapy earlier, and require it
longer,” said Timothy Gill of the  University of Sydney , in an
e-mail. “These implications may be magnified by the more severe
form of diabetes that appears to develop in adolescents and
young adults. There are enormous  public health  consequences.”  Gill, who is principal research fellow at the Boden
Institute of Obesity, Nutrition, Exercise and Eating Disorders,
wasn’t involved in the latest research.  Four-Year Study  The study, which ran for four years, found that 52 percent
of those using metformin alone had treatment failure, forcing
them to undergo daily shots of insulin to control their blood
sugar. Metformin combined with lifestyle changes didn’t
significantly improve blood-sugar rates and only about a third
of the patients gained the targeted  weight loss .  Use of Avandia with metformin was the most effective
therapy, though that too failed in 39 percent of the children
and teenagers, according to the data.  The results “imply that most youth with  type 2 diabetes 
will require multiple oral agents or insulin therapy within a
few years after diagnosis,” wrote  David B. Allan , at the
 University of Wisconsin  School of Medicine and Public Health in
Madison, in an accompanying editorial.  The failure rate with metformin alone appeared higher among
children than it is in some adult patients, Allan wrote. The
report didn’t say why Type 2 diabetes is harder to treat in
children, though the researchers suggested the normal growth
cycle may be at least partly at fault.  U.S.-Funded Research  The research was led by Phil Zeitler, at the University of
Colorado Denver, and Kathryn Hirst and Laura Pyle at George
 Washington  University in Washington. It was funded by the U.S.
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
in Bethesda,  Maryland , among other groups.  “This study highlights some of the real challenges posed
in managing young people affected by type 2 diabetes,” said
 Louise Baur , a professor of pediatrics at the University of
Sydney, in an e-mail. “Lifestyle change is difficult, and
families and young people need a great deal of support to do so.
And the study also shows that medications aren’t a panacea.”  Baur, who is on the editorial board of the International
Journal of Pediatric Obesity, wasn’t involved in the research.  Diabetes can lead to  heart disease  and other medical
ailments later in life. With Type 2 diabetes, fat, liver, and
muscle cells become resistant to insulin. As a result, blood
sugar doesn’t get into these cells to be stored for energy,
building up instead in the blood.  Prevention the Solution  People who develop Type 2 diabetes as children are more
susceptible to increased blood-cholesterol and triglycerides,
which are risk factors for cardiovascular disease, said Paul Zimmet, honorary president of the Brussels-based International
Diabetes Federation, who has studied the disease for 40 years.  “We don’t have a solution to this except to do better things
about prevention,” said Zimmet, who wasn’t involved in the
research. The data supports what physicians have seen in their
offices, he said, adding “it’s typically more difficult to
achieve desirable blood-sugar control in children and
adolescents than it is adults.”  One key issue is treatment compliance, he said,  “Adults may understand better that this is a life-long
disease,” Zimmet said in a telephone interview. “It’s very
hard to tell a 12-year-old that they’re going to be on
medication for the rest of their life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  