-- Mobile Spam Texts Hit 4.5 Billion Raising Consumer Ire
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-04-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/mobile-spam-texts-hit-4-5-billion-raising-consumer-ire.html
Gillian Brockell got so fed up with
unsolicited text messages from a single spammer on her mobile
phone that in a fit of frustration she called the sender back --
20 times.  Turning the tables on the spammer in early April felt
“satisfying,” she said. Still, it hasn’t stanched the flood.  “I don’t even get that much junk mail in my Gmail
account,” said Brockell, a 31-year-old journalist who lives in
 Washington , D.C. “This is my phone. It seems more personal.”  The unwelcome messages that have been clogging e-mail
inboxes for two decades have made the jump to handsets, as more
people use smartphones in place of personal computers and
texting becomes more popular. The number of U.S. spam text
messages rose 45 percent last year to 4.5 billion messages, said
Richi Jennings, an industry analyst. Spam phone calls also are
proliferating. The surge is costing carriers money and
frustrating users, who must pay for the messages and deal with
potentially fraudulent texts.  Spammers can get phone numbers from the Internet, or use
software or websites to randomly generate thousands or even
millions of numbers in a particular area code. Often using
prepaid phones that can’t be traced back to the sender, they can
then use auto-dialing technology to reach recipients.  Costs for spammers are extremely low. Unlimited texting for
a prepaid phone costs about $20 per month and can be used to
spam millions of people. Yet for wireless customers without a
texting plan, the cost of receiving constant spams can add up
quickly. The typical fee is 20 cents per received text.  ‘Volume of Abuse’  “Bad actors will go to the biggest installed base
worldwide,”  Greg Goldfarb , a managing director at Summit
Partners, which manages more than $10 billion in assets, said in
an interview. “The volume of abuse that comes to people around
me has increased 50 times in the last 18 months.”  The spam messages can promise free Apple Inc. iPads, or
claim the consumer won a $1,000 gift card at  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  or  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , according to  SMSWatchDog.com , which lists
spam reports. Clicking on links can install malware that
collects information from the phone. Responding can also
authorize charges to the subscriber’s mobile bill.  For wireless-service providers such as  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon
Wireless  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , texting is an important source
of profits. Still, they are concerned about the escalation of
spam texts. As users contact customer-service lines to fight
fraudulent text-related charges to their phone bills, carriers
may be spending $5 to $50 per spam text complaint,  Goldfarb 
said.  Federal Cases  In response, carriers and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission
have brought suits against at least three large-scale spammers,
including an FTC suit that was settled last year. The FTC
charged the spammer with transmitting at least 5 million
unsolicited  text messages  to promote products such as loan-
modification programs and debt-relief services. According to the
suit, the spammer sent out text messages at a rate of 85 per
minute, 24 hours a day.  Last year, the Federal Trade Commission received 2,600
complaints about mobile texts, about the same number as in 2010,
said Christine Todaro, an attorney with the agency. Recently,
the FTC Bureau of Consumer Protection created a special team to
conduct investigations related to mobile issues, she said. In a
lawsuit filed in March, AT&T claimed that spammers using 14
phone numbers made more than 20 million illegal phone calls to
its and other carriers’ subscribers.  Anti-Spam Software  The carriers also are collaborating on a new anti-spam
effort that will be unveiled this year, said  David Diggs , a vice
president at wireless-industry group CTIA. They’re also likely
to sink billions into anti-spam and mobile-security software,
said Goldfarb, whose company is ramping up investments in
mobile-security companies.  “I think the market is going to be much larger than
traditional e-mail security or PC security,” Goldfarb said in
an interview. “The mobile-security threat is far more severe,”
because of the greater number of devices involved, he said.  Hackers in the past had more often sought out financial
transaction information, account and credit-card numbers on
personal computers. Now they’re searching for the same
information on smartphones, whose sales  exceed  those of PCs.  One in five Americans used a mobile phone for banking in
the 12 months ended in January, according to a Federal Reserve
Board  survey  of almost 2,000 consumers.  “You have to follow the money, where the most sensitive
data is being used,” said Melissa Siems, senior director of
mobile marketing at  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s McAfee unit. McAfee Mobile
Security software scans applications consumers download on their
smartphones to flag fraudulent ones, which might access your
contacts and send them spam text messages. Last year, Google
Inc.  removed  a number of malicious programs from its mobile app
store.  Acquisition Candidates  As carriers build their arsenals of anti-spam tools, it may
offer a revenue opportunity for equipment suppliers including
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  The equipment
makers may seek to acquire or invest in startups with mobile
anti-spam technologies in the next few years, said  Jeff Wilson ,
principal security analyst at consulting firm Infonetics
Research.  One possible acquisition target is  Cloudmark Inc. , a San
Francisco-based startup and an investment of Summit’s, which
already sells mobile anti-spam software to the top four U.S.
wireless carriers.  “There’s an opportunity for consolidation,” Wilson said.
“Many companies want to have the expertise in-house. Everyone
is trying to get the mobile carrier money.”  (This is the first of two stories on new types of spam.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  