-- Hodgson ‘Better Fit’ Than Redknapp to Coach England: Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-30T09:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hodgson-better-fit-than-redknapp-to-coach-england-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the
Web.  ‘Better Fit’  The Football Association sees West Bromwich Albion manager
 Roy Hodgson  as a “better fit” as England coach than Tottenham
Hotspur’s  Harry Redknapp , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Premier League team yesterday gave permission to the
English soccer ruling body to speak to Hodgson.  The F.A. hopes to wrap up Hodgson’s appointment within
three days in what will be an “amazing snub” to Redknapp, the
bookmakers’ favorite, according to the Mirror.  Liverpool Signing  Liverpool will sign AZ Alkmaar’s Rasmus Elm for 8 million
pounds ($13 million) even after Reds coach  Kenny Dalglish  wasted
a trip to see him play,  the Sun  reported.  The 24-year-old midfielder didn’t take part in the game
Dalglish travelled to see because his wife had just gone into
labor, the Sun said. Elm, who has played 22 times for  Sweden ,
agreed to a five-year contract worth 40,000 pounds a week, the
Sun added.  Dalglish in France  Liverpool is interested in hiring Montpellier striker
Olivier Giroud, who may be available to sign for 13.5 million
pounds, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Dalglish and assistant Steve Clarke watched Montpellier’s
1-0 victory at Toulouse on April 27, the Mail said. Giroud, who
missed a penalty in the game, could snub the Reds because he is
likely to play in the  Champions League  with his French club,
while the Reds will be in the Europa League, the Mail said.  Manchester Derby  Manchester United coach  Alex Ferguson  could recall Ji-Sung
Park, who hasn’t played for seven games, to replace  Danny Welbeck  as he considers a five-man midfield against Manchester
City,  the Sun  reported.  Ferguson wants to employ Park’s “destructive powers” and
may employ just Wayne Rooney in attack, according to the Sun.
City will overtake United on goal difference to lead the Premier
League, with two of 38 games remaining, if it wins at the Etihad
Stadium tonight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  