-- Oerlikon Sees Profit Rising Above Guidance as Textiles Stabilize
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-04-30T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/oerlikon-sees-profit-rising-above-guidance-as-textiles-stabilize.html
OC Oerlikon Corp AG (OERL) , the Swiss
maker of textile machinery that announced the sale of a solar
unit to Tokyo Electron in March, said profits may rise further
than earlier guidance as a slumping textile market stabilizes.  “The bottom line and the top line can improve on our
guidance,” Michael Buscher, chief executive officer of
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based Oerlikon, said in a phone
interview. “We are confident we can increase profitability
further compared to 2011,” he said. Buscher didn’t give more
detail on how much profitability could improve.  Earnings before interest and taxes in the first quarter
rose 7 percent from a year earlier, excluding the one-time sale
of property from the textiles unit, to 113 million Swiss francs
($125 million), Oerlikon said today in an e-mailed statement.
Sales rose 6 percent from a year earlier to 961 million francs.
The Ebit margin, or Ebit as a percentage of sales, was 12
percent.  Oerlikon set a 2012 Ebit margin target of about 11 percent
and forecast sales and order intake to decline by as much as 5
percent when it reported full-year earnings on March 5.  Job Cuts  Oerlikon has climbed 8.5 percent since the 2011 results
were reported, trading at 8.53 francs on April 27. That gives
the company a market value of about 2.7 billion francs.  Order intake in the first quarter dropped 12 percent from a
year earlier, led by a 19 percent decline at the textile unit.
Buscher said the fall was due to an “exceptionally high” first
quarter last year. He said he’s confident about orders for the
unit, “based on the strong start to the year and in the context
of our discussions with customers.”  Buscher said demand from  China , which generates 53 percent
of Oerlikon’s textile sales, is stable, with “smaller markets
like Indonesia and  Turkey  helping to push growth.”  Demand for machinery to spin natural fibers like cotton has
stabilized and should rise this year, after falling through most
of 2011, Buscher said. The peak of the textiles industry was at
the end of 2010 and beginning of 2011, as companies re-stocked
after the financial crisis, Buscher said.  Demand for man-made fiber machinery to spin nylon and
polyester held up better last year and continues strongly,
according to the CEO. “We can see good orders for man-made
fibers through to 2014,” he said.  Textile Division  Artificial fibers make up about 45 percent of revenue for
the textile division, with 40 percent coming from natural
materials, Buscher said. The remaining unit revenue comes from
components for textile machinery. Oerlikon competes with  Rieter
Holding AG (RIEN) ,  China Textile Machinery (600610)  Co. and  Lakshmi Machine
Works Ltd. (LMW)  in textiles.  Oerlikon agreed to sell its solar business to  Tokyo
Electron Ltd. (8035)  of  Japan  for 250 million francs, the company said
in March. The transaction is expected to close this summer, the
company said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  