-- Oil Falls as Spain Slides Into Second Recession Since 200
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-30T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/oil-falls-as-spain-slides-into-second-recession-since-200.html
Oil fell as  Spain ’s economy
contracted in the first quarter, putting the country into its
second recession since 2009 and bolstering concern that fuel
demand in the euro region will contract.  Front-month futures dropped for the first time in seven
days after the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said
today that  gross domestic product  shrank 0.3 percent in the
first three months of this year, the same as in the previous
quarter. The decline in crude prices accelerated as the dollar
rose against the euro on an increase in U.S. consumer spending.  “Concerns about  Europe  have been weighing on the market
for a long time,” said  Phil Flynn , an analyst at futures
brokerage PFGBest in Chicago. “Today’s Spanish headlines are
worrisome. The personal spending numbers here are a positive
economic signal which pushed the dollar higher and as a result
hit commodities.”  Crude oil for June delivery declined 6 cents to settle at
$104.87 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
climbed 1.8 percent this month and are up 6.1 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 36 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $119.47 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent posted its first
monthly drop since December.  The European benchmark contract settled at a premium of
$14.60 to New York futures, the lowest level since April 17. It
was $14.90 on April 27. The spread between the contracts surged
to a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in  Greece  and
then moved to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain has reduced
economic growth in the euro region.  The dollar rose 0.1 percent versus the euro. A stronger
U.S. currency decreases the appeal of raw materials as an
investment.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  in the U.S. climbed in March after the
biggest gain since August 2009, indicating the largest part of
the economy will help sustain the expansion. Incomes picked up.  Household purchases rose 0.3 percent after a revised 0.9
percent gain in February that was stronger than first reported,
the Commerce Department said today in  Washington .  Economic reports from the U.S. and Asia bolstered concern
that global growth and fuel consumption will slow.  Business activity in the U.S. grew in April at the slowest
pace since November 2009. The Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. said its business barometer dropped to 56.2 in this
month from 62.2 in March. Economists projected the gauge would
fall to 60, according to the median of 55 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Readings greater than 50 signal growth.  Asian Economies  Taiwan’s economy expanded at the weakest pace since 2009 in
the first quarter, and Singapore’s jobless rate unexpectedly
rose in that period. Growth in South Korean industrial output
eased in March, reports showed today.  Crude will range between $100 and $120 a barrel “for the
time being,”  Tony Hayward , chief executive of  Genel Energy Plc (GENL) 
and former  BP Plc (BP/)  CEO, said in Istanbul while attending a Black
Sea environmental conference.  “I don’t think prices will go beneath $100 because we see
demand is growing in the world,” Hayward said. “I think  oil
prices  will be range bound for the time being.”  Oil in New York reached $110.55 on March 1, the highest
intraday level since May 4, amid speculation that Western
sanctions aimed at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  would disrupt
Middle East shipments. Prices have fallen 5.1 percent from that
peak since tension has eased.  “The noises from Iran have been a bit friendlier, so we’ve
seen the geopolitical premium ease,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in  New York .  Trading Range  New York oil’s April trading range was the tightest for any
month in 17 years as concern eased that supplies would be
disrupted and reports showed slower U.S. economic growth.  Electronic trading volume of crude oil on the Nymex was
361,542 contracts as of 4:15 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled
335,862 contracts April 27, 46 percent below the three-month
average and the lowest level since March 26. Open interest was
1.57 million.  “There’s not a lot of repositioning going on in the
market,” Evans said. “The price movement has narrowed and
trading volume is down.”  Money managers, including  hedge funds , commodity pools and
commodity trading advisers, cut bullish oil wagers by 2,878, or
1.4 percent, to 196,426 futures and options combined in the
seven days ended April 24, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  