-- Oil Near Two-Day Low After China PMI Expands Less Than Forecast
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-01T12:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/oil-near-two-day-low-on-forecast-u-s-supplies-at-21-year-high.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
two days after Chinese manufacturing expanded less than
forecast, signaling a possible decline in the country’s crude
consumption.  Front-month futures were little changed after dropping for
the first time in seven days.  China  reported April manufacturing
output that climbed less than forecast. U.S. crude stockpiles
rose  2.5 million barrels  last week to 375.5 million, according
to a Bloomberg News survey before data from the Energy
Department tomorrow. That would bring supplies to the highest
level since September 1990. Prices slid yesterday as  Spain 
entered its second recession since 2009.  “Chinese demand for crude was very strong in early months
of the year, around 9.75 million barrels a day, and we would
expect that to come off a little bit in the coming months,” Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis Commodity Markets
Ltd., said in an interview with Linzie Janis and  Owen Thomas  on
Bloomberg Television’s Countdown program. Brown said $110 is
about fair value for  Brent crude .  Crude for June delivery was at $104.76 a barrel, down 11
cents, on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:26 p.m. London
time. The contract yesterday fell 6 cents to $104.87, the lowest
close since April 26. Prices gained 1.8 percent last month and
are 5.9 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $119.08, 39 cents
lower, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s front-month  premium  to WTI was at
$14.33, compared with $14.60 yesterday.  Ample Stockpiles  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for manufacturing
climbed to 53.3 in April, the country’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said in a statement today. That’s below the
median 53.6 estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 27
economists. A reading above 50 points indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding.  “The Chinese economy is not growing as fast as people had
expected, so some of the stocks that would have been accumulated
in the start of the year will probably be weighing on the
market,” Brown said. “If you get something of a weakening in
Chinese demand, which I think is entirely reasonable in the
months ahead, that would take some of the pressure off the oil
market.”  U.S.  gasoline supplies  probably slipped 1 million barrels
to 210.7 million last week, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. It would be the 11th
straight drop, capping the longest stretch of declines in a
year. Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, increased 500,000 barrels to 126.4
million barrels last week, the survey shows.  Summer Demand  “We often see a build at this time, particularly in the
refined products as refineries and supplies prepare for the
summer demand season,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “The oil
market is on hold ahead of the manufacturing readings that we’re
going to see around the globe, starting today.”  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . The industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  will report its own data today.  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent, the same
as in the previous three months, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said yesterday. The European sovereign debt
crisis that began in  Greece  and then moved to Ireland,  Portugal ,
 Italy  and Spain has reduced economic growth in the euro region.  Delta Airlines  The countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent
of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. was the biggest crude user,
responsible for 21 percent of world consumption.  Delta Air Lines Inc. yesterday agreed to buy a refinery
from  ConocoPhillips (COP) , breaking with U.S. carriers’ tradition of
not owning their own fuel assets.  After $30 million in state government assistance, Delta is
paying $150 million for the complex in the Philadelphia suburb
called Trainer, the world’s second-largest carrier said
yesterday in a statement. Production at the refinery combined
with multiyear agreements to exchange other products for jet
fuel will provide 80 percent of Delta’s needs in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  