-- Hollande Seen Bowing to Crisis in Socialists’ Balancing Act
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-05-01T10:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hollande-seen-bowing-to-debt-crisis-in-socialists-balancing-act.html
Francois Hollande helped President
Francois Mitterrand nationalize companies in the 1980s. A decade
later, he helped Prime Minister Lionel Jospin sell them.  Faced with leading the second-biggest euro economy amid the
debt-crisis crossfire, the Socialist presidential candidate may
have to govern as the 1990s model, says  Steven Major , head of
fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.  “The pressure to clarify the position after a change in
government will be high and it will be immediate,” said London-
based Major. Investors are “looking through the election and
reasoning that the government will fall into line.”  The prospect of Socialists dominating policy making for the
first time since 1993 -- holding both the presidency and the
prime minister’s post -- has driven up French borrowing costs
compared to  Germany . The difference has risen to 131 basis
points from 90 basis points on March 1.  The challenges for the next president include creating jobs
and increasing competitiveness while keeping the region’s
financial woes at bay.  France ’s debt is approaching 90 percent
of gross domestic product and jobless claims are at a 12-year
high. Hollande is already squabbling with Germany and clashing
with European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  The challenger led President  Nicolas Sarkozy  54 percent to
46 percent on the eve of their only debate before the May 6
vote, an Ifop poll showed today. Ifop interviewed 1,876
registered voters between April 26 and 29 and provided no margin
of error.  On the campaign trail, Hollande is aiming to spur turnout
and avoid divisions among partisans. In Limoges, known as the
birthplace of French socialism, on April 27, he praised the
region’s “Communist culture” and the contribution of anti-
capitalist Jean-Luc Melenchon, who scored 11 percent in the
first round.  Tension  “There is a tension between a political stance in a
campaign and what policy gets done when in power,”  Gilles Moec ,
co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said
in an April 16 interview. The Socialists “are maintaining an
ideological stance, but in practice they are getting much more
moderate.”  Hollande’s balancing act was illustrated April 25. He began
the day with a radio interview promising to boost the minimum
wage and to block “a parade of firings.” At an afternoon press
conference he said the labor market needs to be more “fluid”
to spur hiring and the deficit must be cut.  The internal debate is represented by a pair of think tanks
who support him:  Les Gracques , who seek to appeal to the center,
and the more traditionally socialist  Terra Nova , run by Olivier Ferrand, who has worked for politicians including  Pierre Moscovici , Hollande’s campaign chief and one of the aides cited
as a possible finance or prime minister.  Minister Picks  Hollande said April 26 that he’ll chose as prime minister a
“uniter, who knows lawmakers well, knows the Socialist Party
well and knows me well.” That’s a description that fits Jean- Marc Ayrault, the German-speaking deputy head of the Socialist
group at the National Assembly and his point man for negotiating
with Germany’s Social Democrats.  Other possibilities include  Martine Aubry , author of the
35-hour work week law, and  Manuel Valls , a one-time supporter of
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  Among Hollande’s economic advisers and candidates for
cabinet posts are former Finance Minister Michel Sapin, and
Jerome Cahuzac, the head of the National Assembly finance
committee.  Economic Aides  Hollande’s campaign also includes Laurent Fabius, a former
prime minister; Grenoble Mayor Michel Destot and Andre Martinez,
a former  Accor SA (AC)  executive, who both advise him on small and
big companies, and Karine Berger, formerly chief economist at
insurer  Euler Hermes SA. (ELE)   His informal advisers comprise Emmanuel Macron, a banker at
Rothschild & Cie.; Harvard University economics professor
Philippe Aghion; World Trade Organization chief Pascal Lamy, and
 Jean-Pierre Jouyet , head of France’s market regulator.  While some advisers have pushed for looser labor rules,
others have advocated an expansion of the government payroll as
a way of cutting the highest level of joblessness in 12 years.
Hollande’s platform doesn’t identify competitiveness as a goal.  In a France 2 television interview on April 26, Hollande
declined to say how he would cut labor costs to increase
competitiveness against Germany. He has pledged to raise the
minimum wage. Economists note that the Socialist platform does
include promises to bolster output, rather than simply ones that
would bolster demand.  “The economic diagnosis is totally different from the one
the Socialists made in 1981 and even from 1997,” said Jean Pisani-Ferry, head of the Brussels-based Bruegel Institute.
They’re not planning to drive “growth with demand-side
policies. It’s a definite change of era.”  State Stakes  In the 1980s under Mitterrand, for whom Hollande worked,
France nationalized the biggest banks and companies including
Pechiney and Suez. By the 1990s, needing to shore up finances to
enter the euro, Jospin sold stakes in such operations as Air
France and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  He also introduced the 35-hour
work week. By then, Hollande was Socialist Party chief.  In Hollande’s 2012 platform, state spending would rise by
20 billion euros ($26.3 billion) over the five-year term and the
 retirement age  for some would be pushed back to 60 from 62.  Tax increases and eliminating loopholes would seek to raise
29 billion euros. The budget plan aims to eliminate the deficit
in 2017, one year later than under Sarkozy’s plan, with a 3
percent of gross domestic product deficit target for 2013.  Spending Limits  “We can no longer do a Keynesian policy to resume to
growth, the states don’t have the budget for that,” Sapin said
in an interview. “It’s not by doing economic stimulus or
banking on demand. It’s about investing in projects that will
bring mid and long-term growth.”  Sarkozy says a Hollande presidency would risk embroiling
France deeper in the euro debt crisis. “I don’t want France to
suffer the fate of Greece and Spain, and that’s why I’m
running,” Sarkozy said on April 12.  To Marine Le Pen, leader of the anti-euro National Front,
the two candidates are flip sides of the same coin. “The only
question is who will better impose the diktats of the troika of
the European Commission, the ECB and IMF,” she told a rally
today in Paris. The French are being asked to choose a “finance
sub-governor from Brussels, obliged to give regular reports to
the Germany of  Angela Merkel .”  The French parliament would vote on Hollande’s fiscal
proposals that would include higher taxes for big companies and
cuts for small and medium-sized businesses. It would also vote
on a 75 percent levy on incomes above 1 million euros a year and
special taxes on banks and  oil companies , according to his plan,
which didn’t provide further details.  “I don’t believe for one second there will be a market
attack on France May 7,” Matthieu Pigasse, vice chairman of
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and a Hollande supporter, told reporters April 30.
“The left is always better in power than in opposition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  