-- Hologic Agrees to Acquire Gen-Probe for $3.7 Billion
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-30T20:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hologic-agrees-to-buy-gen-probe-for-about-3-7-billion.html
Hologic Inc. (HOLX) , a maker of
diagnostic, medical and surgical devices, said the $3.7 billion
acquisition of  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  will bring “double-digit”
returns as the company sells new products to overseas markets.  “We’re very confident that this investment will yield a
low double-digit return, and that’s significantly greater than
our cost of capital,” Hologic Chief Executive Officer Rob Cascella said in an interview.  The deal will bring Gen-Probe’s testing products for blood
screening and sexually transmitted diseases to markets in  China 
and  Europe  where the company currently has little reach,
Cascella said. “We look at it as taking world-beating product
and putting it through an engine for growth,” Cascella said.  Gen-Probe investors will receive $82.75 a share in the
acquisition, the two companies said today in a statement. That’s
about 20 percent above San Diego-based Gen-Probe’s closing price
on April 27. The deal’s $3.7 billion value includes net debt.  Gen-Probe dominates testing for sexually transmitted
diseases with about a 60 percent share of the U.S. market,
including tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea, and human
papillomavirus, Bloomberg reported last year. It also does about
80 percent of blood-bank screenings in the U.S.  Junaid Husain, an analyst with Dougherty & Co. in
 Minneapolis , said he was “very, very cautious” about the deal.  “The Gen-Probe business is very mature,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They have infectious-disease products and
blood-system products at the top end of the product life cycle,
so I am just not sure where they are going to get the
accelerated growth.”  Shares Fall  Hologic, based in Bedford,  Massachusetts ,  fell  10 percent
to $19.12 at the close in  New York , its biggest one-day decline
since May 2010. Gen-Probe gained 19 percent to $81.55.  The deal will add about 20 cents a share to profit in the
first year after closing, Hologic said in the statement. “This
transaction establishes Hologic as a premier company in STD
diagnostics,” Cascella said in the statement.  The agreement would be the largest purchase of a diagnostic
equipment or test kit maker in the last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The next largest was  Thermo Fisher
Scientific Inc. (TMO) ’s purchase of Phadia for $3.5 billion last May.  Hologic is  paying  about 19 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization. That compares with the
median of 17 across 15 similar deals over the past decade, the
data show.  Strategic Fit  “Strategically this makes all the sense in the world,”
said Bill Quirk, an analyst with Piper Jaffray Cos. in
Minneapolis. “The two companies have a strong presence in
women’s health, but have little overlap and pretty complementary
products,” he said in an interview.  Hologic has 500 people in China, where Gen-Probe only has
two, Cascella said on a conference call with investors today.  “What we intend to do is leverage the products of Gen-
Probe with the existing infrastructure we have,” Cascella said.
“What this does is accelerate market penetration of their
products with a ready-made distribution channel.”  Gen-Probe Chief Executive Officer Carl Hull was selected in
November to replace Hank Nordhoff as chairman. Nordhoff served
as president and CEO from 1994 to 2009, then as chairman until
he retired.  Hologic also reported today a  net loss  for the three months
ended March 24. The loss of $40.3 million, or 15 cents a share,
compared with a net income of $82.4 million, or 31 cents, a year
earlier.  Deal Financing  Hologic plans to fund the transaction through available
cash, with additional financing from term loans and high-yield
securities. The company has obtained committed financing from
units of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which also served as a
financial adviser alongside Perella Weinberg Partners. Brown
Rudnick LLP and  Jones Day  provided legal counsel to Hologic.
Morgan Stanley acted as financial adviser to Gen-Probe, while
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Cooley LLP gave
legal advice.  Bloomberg News reported last year that Gen-Probe had hired
Morgan Stanley to seek a buyer for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  