-- Homeownership Rate in U.S. Falls to Lowest Since 1997
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-30T18:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/homeownership-rate-in-u-s-falls-to-lowest-since-1997.html
The U.S. homeownership  rate  fell to
the lowest level in 15 years in the first quarter as borrowers
lost homes to foreclosure and tighter inventory and credit kept
buyers off the market.  The rate dropped to 65.4 percent from 66 percent in the
fourth quarter and fell a full percentage point from a year
earlier, the Census Bureau said in a report today. That is the
lowest level since the first quarter of 1997, and down from a
record 69.2 percent in June 2004.  Mounting foreclosures are displacing borrowers, while a
lack of inventory has kept home sales from accelerating amid
record  affordability , the National Association of Realtors
reported April 19. Stricter mortgage standards are also limiting
purchases as rental demand surges, said  Paul Diggle , property
economist with Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  “Although  house prices  and  mortgage rates  have fallen to a
level that makes buying preferable to renting, ongoing problems
accessing mortgage credit are preventing many households from
taking advantage,” he wrote in a note today.  The U.S. apartment vacancy rate fell to 4.9 percent in the
first quarter, an 11-year low, according to New York-based  Reis
Inc. (REIS)  The vacancy rate for rental homes was 8.8 percent in the
first quarter, compared with 9.7 percent a year earlier, the
Census Bureau said in today’s report.  Home Vacancies  Of the estimated 132.6 million U.S. homes, 18.5 million, or
13.9 percent, were vacant in the first quarter. A year earlier,
about 19 million homes were vacant, according to the report.
That includes homes for sale or rent or held off the market, and
vacation properties used seasonally.  “Both homeowner and rental vacancy rates dropped during
the first quarter, which obviously bodes well for housing,”
because shrinking inventory will boost rents and spur demand for
new homes, Stephen East, an analyst with International Strategy
& Investment Group LLC, wrote in a note to clients.  Homeownership may fall further and repossessions may
increase this year as lenders step up foreclosures after a $25
billion agreement by the nation’s largest loan servicers in
February to settle allegations of improper practices.
Foreclosure  filings  fell to the lowest since 2007 in the first
quarter as banks slowed actions before the settlement, according
to RealtyTrac Inc.  The ownership rate may drop below 64 percent by the end of
2015 and stay there for years,  Scott Simon , the mortgage bond
head of Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,
 California , said in an e-mail today.  “It will be lower by 2017,” he said. “It will be lower
in 2020.”  New Rental Households  About 6 million borrowers will lose their properties in the
next five years because of inability to pay, creating 4 million
new rental households, Simon said in an April 24 interview on
Bloomberg Television.  The homeownership rate fell 3 percentage points from a year
earlier to 61.4 percent in the first quarter for people aged 35
to 44, the biggest drop of any age group. The Northeast had the
biggest regional decline, with the ownership rate falling 1.4
percentage points to 62.5 percent. The West had the lowest
ownership rate at 59.9 percent, down 1 percentage point from a
year earlier.  Ownership Society  The U.S. homeownership rate rose to a record in 2004 when
President  George W. Bush , running for re-election, called for
expanding home-loan availability to create an  “ownership
society.”  The current rate of 65.4 percent matches the average
since 1965, when the Census Bureau began reporting the figures,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Home prices  fell 3.5 percent in February from a year
earlier and are 35 percent below their July 2006 peak, according
to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of 20 U.S. cities. The average
rate for a 30-year fixed loan was 3.88 percent last week and
reached 3.87 percent in February, the lowest level in at least
four decades, according to  Freddie Mac .  About 2.37 million homes were listed for sale in March, a
and 6.3 month  supply  and down 22 percent from a year earlier,
the Realtors association said on April 19. A six-month supply is
considered a healthy market, according to the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  