-- Hon Hai Drops by Limit After Missing Estimates: Taipei
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-30T05:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hon-hai-drops-by-limit-after-net-misses-estimates-taipei-mover.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, dropped by the daily
limit in Taipei trading after posting first-quarter profit that
 missed  analysts’ estimates.  The  stock  fell 7 percent, the biggest decline since
November 2008, to close at NT$92.40. The Taipei-based company on
April 28 posted  net income  of NT$14.9 billion ($510 million),
about 31 percent less than the NT$21.5 billion average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hon Hai, flagship of the Foxconn Technology Group, was
downgraded at UBS AG and Fubon Financial Holding Co. which cited
worse-than-expected profit margins amid wage increases and
losses at its Hong Kong-listed unit. Hon Hai’s profitability
usually moves in the opposite direction to that of Apple, which
posted its highest operating margin in over a decade.  “Hon Hai’s  margins  from making Apple products weren’t as
high as in previous quarters, due in part to lower yields for
the New iPad,” said Arthur Liao, who downgraded the stock to
add from buy at Fubon Financial in Taipei. Losses at unit
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  may also have hurt earnings,
said Liao, who reduced his share price forecast to NT$120 from
NT$150.  Shares opened at its lower limit and stayed there
throughout trading, while the benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  index added 0.3
percent. The stock has added 11 percent this year, beating a 6
percent advance in the benchmark.  Foxconn International, the Hong Kong-listed phone
manufacturing affiliate 72 percent owned by Hon Hai, last week
said its first-half loss will widen “significantly” because of
weaker demand from customers and higher costs. Foxconn
International makes phones on contract for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and isn’t
an Apple supplier.  Apple Margins  Hon Hai, which gets 37 percent of its revenue from Apple
according to  data compiled by Bloomberg , usually posts smaller
earnings margins when the maker of iPods lifts profitability.  Apple’s gross margin widened to 47 percent, its highest on
record, while operating margin climbed to 39 percent during the
March quarter.  Customers have agreed to cover the cost of higher salaries,
Chairman Terry Gou told Bloomberg News April 28 before the
earnings announcement without naming the clients. Foxconn’s
planned migration of production capacity from Eastern  China  to
the interior of the country is about 60 percent complete, he
said.  Arthur Hsieh, an analyst at UBS, cut Hon Hai to sell from
buy and reduced his share price forecast by 25 percent, citing
“slower than expected margin recovery.”  Gross margins, which measure revenue less the cost of goods
sold, will gradually rebound throughout this year, Chief
Financial Officer Huang Chiu-lian said April 28 before the
earnings announcement, without providing a target for the
metric.  Hon Hai also reported plans to offer  stock options  to
employees which it estimated will equal NT$2.99 billion annually
in amortized expenses, or a dilution NT$0.28 in earnings per
share. The company reported basic EPS of NT$7.65 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  