-- Hong Kong Bourse Studies Making Bid for London Metal Exchange
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-04-30T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hong-kong-bourse-studies-bidding-for-london-metal-exchange-1-.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
 Asia ’s largest bourse operator, said it’s studying a bid for the
London Metal Exchange as growth slows and it seeks to build up a
commodities business.  The exchange said yesterday that it was “one of a number
of interested parties” studying the opportunity to buy LME, the
world’s largest metals trading platform. The bourse will
consider additional financing if needed, it said.  An acquisition of the 135-year-old metal bourse could help
jump start  Hong Kong  Exchanges’ overseas expansion after it was
topped this year as the world’s largest market company by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  as large initial public offerings from China slow.
Hong Kong Exchanges is seeking an acquisition loan of as much as
$3 billion to back a possible bid for the London Metal Exchange,
or LME as it is known, two people familiar with the matter said
April 12.  “This opportunity isn’t going to wait for them,” said  Sam Hilton , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Asia
whose coverage includes Asian exchange companies. “Hong Kong
Exchanges’ cash equities business is a mature business and
that’s the reason why they’re moving into new asset classes.”  Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges are unchanged this year,
compared with a 9.3 percent gain in  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) 
Chicago-based CME has advanced 8.9 percent this year.  Scott Sapp, a Hong Kong exchange spokesman, declined to
comment further. Miriam Heywood, a spokeswoman for the LME,
declined to comment.  Bidding Deadline  The London Metal Exchange handles more than 80 percent of
global trade in metal futures and reported record volume of
$15.4 trillion last year. It’s being advised by Moelis & Co. on
the sale process. LME may be valued at about $1.3 billion,
according to Equity Research Desk, a hedge-fund adviser in
Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The LME said on March 29 it is in the process of answering
questions from bidders, which must submit offers by May 7. The
LME received preliminary bids from CME, NYSE Euronext and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc., three people with direct
knowledge of the matter said in February.  “On 19 December 2011, the LME announced it was considering
its future strategy as an independent entity or as part of a
larger group,” Hong Kong Exchanges said in the statement.
“HKEx continues to participate in that process and understands
it is one of a number of interested parties studying this
opportunity.”  ‘Urgent Action’  An “urgent action” is required to build its businesses in
financial derivatives and commodities to meet its goal of being
a comprehensive financial center for  China , the bourse said in
its earnings statement on Feb. 29. Growth slowed at the company
as it reported a 1 percent increase for its 2011 net income,
down from a 7 percent gain in 2010.  At $17.3 billion, Hong Kong Exchanges’ market value is
second in the Bloomberg World Exchanges index behind CME Group,
which is valued at $17.8 billion. The derivatives venue became
the biggest exchange company on March 19, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Chow Chung-Kong, former chief executive officer of subway
operator MTR Corp., was named chairman of the Hong Kong bourse
on April 24 and confirmed to the role by the government three
days later.  “The future of Hong Kong, and the exchange, lies in the
combination of China’s high growth and rising economic power and
Hong Kong’s long history of international connection,” Chow
said April 12. “That’s the combination that will propel the
city forward.”  New Chairman  During Chow’s tenure at the MTR, the company merged with
another Hong Kong railway operator and started work on a HK$66.9
billion ($8.62 billion) connection to China’s high-speed-rail
network. MTR also expanded operations to London, Stockholm and
 Melbourne , and reported a 21 percent increase in underlying
profit for 2011 from a year earlier.  LME strengthened its ties to China last week when a Bank of
China Ltd. unit became the first Chinese company member of the
bourse. BOCI Global Commodities (U.K.) Ltd. was approved as a
category 2 member, giving it the right to trade by phone and
electronically, the LME wrote in a notice after an April 24
board meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  