-- Monster Rises After WSJ Reports Coca-Cola Takeover Talks
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-04-30T19:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/monster-rises-after-wsj-reports-coca-cola-takeover-talks.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST)  surged the
most in almost eight years after the Wall Street Journal
reported  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  is in talks to buy the maker of energy
drinks.  The shares rose 17 percent to $76.60 at 2:31 p.m. in  New
York  after climbing as much as 28 percent, the biggest intraday
gain for Corona, California-based Monster since May 7, 2004.
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola fell 0.5 percent to $76.24.  Coca-Cola may sell some of its bottling assets to help pay
for the takeover, the Journal said, citing unidentified people
familiar with the situation. A tie-up with Coca-Cola would give
Monster better access to international markets, where it is
second to leader  Red Bull  with a little more than half its
volume share, according to Euromonitor Plc.  “Coke would be able to grow Monster internationally at a
far more rapid pace,” Thomas Mullarkey, an analyst for
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said today in a telephone
interview. “If Coke wants to compete in energy drinks,
acquiring is a faster way to achieve it.” Mullarkey had said
Monster was worth $73 a share in a buyout, before today.  Monster trades at more than 30 times estimated 2012
earnings, and Coca-Cola may not want to pay a large premium for
the beverage-maker because the two companies already have a
distribution deal, the Journal reported.  Judy Lin Sfetcu, a spokeswomen for Monster, declined to
comment. Ben Deutsch, a Coca-Cola spokesman, couldn’t
immediately comment.  Industry’s Highest Margin  As of the April 27 close, Monster had a market
capitalization of about $11 billion. At that price it would be
Coca-Cola’s second-biggest deal after its $12.2 billion
acquisition of the North American operations of bottler Coca-
Cola Enterprises Inc. in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Monster, which got its start selling juices in the 1930s,
had the highest  operating margins  in the industry as of March
and was projected to boost earnings 70 percent in the next three
years, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed. U.S.
alternative beverage sales reached almost $32 billion last year,
according to estimates the Beverage Marketing Corp.  Monster Beverage, formerly known as Hansen Natural Corp.,
sold juices and sodas under the Hansen name before introducing
the first Monster Energy products in 2002 to capture growing
demand for drinks made with added caffeine or supplements to
deliver an energy boost. Monster brands, ranging from coffee-
based Java Monster to its Nitrous drink injected with nitrous
oxide, now account for about 91 percent of sales, according to
the company’s most recent annual statement.  Monster Beverage’s revenue climbed an average of 24 percent
in each of the past five years, compared with average annual
sales growth of 15 percent for Coca-Cola and 14 percent for
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Monster’s operating margin of 27 percent in 2011 was
the highest among publicly traded North American soft-drink
companies with a market value greater than $500 million, the
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  