-- Loonie 6-Month Lead at Risk as First G-7 Rate Gain Looms
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-30T16:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/loonie-6-month-lead-at-risk-as-first-g-7-rate-gain-looms.html
The Canadian dollar’s reign as the
best-performing major currency over the past six months is in
jeopardy as rising consumer debt loads collide with plans by
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney  to increase  interest rates .  While international investors typically favor currencies
with high rates for the potential for greater returns, traders
are signaling that in Canada it would do little more than damage
an economy underpinned by debt. Household borrowing was 152.9
percent of disposable income at the end of last year, climbing
from about 135 percent in 2007 and exceeding the U.S.’s 145
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “So much of Canadian growth is led by domestic demand and
that domestic demand is led by  consumer spending  and consumer
spending is linked to expanded leverage,” Shahab Jalinoos, a
senior currency strategist in Stamford Connecticut at UBS AG,
said in an interview April 24.  Strategists predict the currency will depreciate to parity
with the  U.S. dollar  by March even as Carney reiterated last
week that increasing rates may be “appropriate” as the economy
moves closer to full recovery. Options traders are paying the
highest premiums since January for protection against the so-
called loonie weakening amid forecasts for higher volatility,
which tends to dim the appeal of currencies. UBS sees it falling
to C$1.05 per U.S. dollar by year-end from 98.01 cents.  Rate Reaction  The last time the Bank of Canada lifted borrowing costs was
in 2010, when it raised its target overnight lending  rate  to the
current 1 percent from 0.25 percent in three steps between June
and September. The nation’s currency depreciated 7.46 percent in
that period against nine-developed nation counterparts as
measured by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  At its last monetary policy meeting on April 17 the  Bank of
Canada  said growth and inflation will be faster than earlier
forecast. Inflation, which was 2.6 percent in February, has
exceeded its 2 percent goal for 15 straight months before
dropping to 1.9 percent last month.  Traders are pricing in a 66 percent chance that rates will
rise by the bank’s Sept. 5 meeting, making it the first Group of
Seven nation to tighten monetary policy this year, based on
overnight index swaps. Odds fell from 75 percent on April 27
after Statistics Canada reported today that Canada’s gross
domestic product unexpectedly contracted 0.2 percent in
February. Derivatives showed traders are still expecting about
0.33 percentage point of increases by year-end.  Relative Growth  Carney’s announcement triggered a rally in the loonie,
named for the aquatic bird depicted on the one-dollar coin, on
speculation yield-starved international investors will continue
to seek out the nation’s assets. It was at 98.84 cents per U.S.
dollar at 12:10 p.m.  New York  time, after strengthening to 98.04
cents last week, from 99.24 cents on April 20 and 99.97 cents on
April 13.  “The key risks” to Carney’s “sunnier stance lie in
domestic private spending, particularly by households,”  Avery Shenfeld , the chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in Toronto,
said in an April 17 note.  Consumers, propelled by a booming housing market, account
for about two-thirds of an economy that the central bank
forecasts will expand 2.4 percent this year. That’s better than
the 1.27 percent estimated growth for the Group-of-10 nations,
according to the median estimate of economists in separate
surveys by Bloomberg News.  Rising home prices led to a 35 percent increase in
residential mortgage credit in the past five years through
October 2011, or an average rate of 7 percent a year, according
to Bank of Canada data. The amount of outstanding mortgages rose
to C$1.08 trillion as of August, the latest figures from the
Canadian Association of Accredited Mortgage Professionals show.  ‘Vulnerabilities Exposed’  The average home price is about 4.75 times income, compared
with a historical average of 3.5 times, Carney told the House of
Commons Finance Committee April 24 in Ottawa.  “As soon as something happens to challenge the ability of
that country to keep building up leverage, like a rate hike, you
find the vulnerabilities are exposed and then the currencies
sell off quite dramatically,” Jalinoos said.  A week after the Bank of Canada’s April 17 meeting,
government data showed  retail sales  unexpectedly declined for
the first time in seven months in February, led by a drop in
purchases of new cars.  Sales fell 0.2 percent to C$38.9 billion ($39.7 billion),
according to Ottawa-based  Statistics Canada , which cut its
estimates of the increase in January to 0.2 percent from 0.5
percent. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast a 0.1
percent gain in February, based on the median of 23 projections.  Exceeding Parity  Canada’s currency rose beyond parity with the U.S. in 2007
for the first time in three decades, touching a record 90.58
cents in November 2007 after rallying from C$1.62 in 2002 on
demand for commodities.  Raw materials  such as lumber, wheat,
oil, gold, nickel and zinc account for about half of Canada’s
export revenue.  Crude, the largest export, will rise to $107 a barrel in
the second half of the year, from $104.93 last week and 2011’s
low of $74.95 in October, according to the median forecast of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The loonie gained 4.2 percent in the past six months, the
most of any major currency based on Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators
increased bets the currency will gain to the most since May 2011
following the Bank of Canada meeting.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance compared with those on a
drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was 44,224 on April 24, up from
38,028 a week earlier, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Relative Yields  High relative yields are drawing foreign investors, who
purchased a net C$13.7 billion of Canadian bonds in February,
the most since May 2010, Statistics Canada said April 16.  Government notes due in one to three years yield about 1.4
percent on average, more than the 0.94 percent for similar-
maturity sovereign debt globally, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. At the end of December, they yielded 0.98
percent, 0.075 percentage point less than the global index.  “Canadian dollar strength comes from strong capital
inflows,” David Grad, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York, said in a telephone interview April
24. That almost makes the currency more vulnerable in the event
of capital flight, he said.  The odds of that happening are rising with expected price
swings in currencies the lowest since 2007, according to Shaun Osborne, the chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) 
in Toronto. The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index tumbled to
8.88 last week from more than 16 in September.  ‘Fragile Place’  “There’s a bit of complacency creeping into the markets
and one bit of bad news we could see risk sentiment trip up,”
Osborne said April 26. “The global economy is still in a very
fragile place. There is potential for another cent but 97 to 98
cents looks really quite rich.”  The median estimate of about 40 economists and strategists
is for Canada’s dollar to trade at 98 cents by year-end and at
$1 by March 31. Option traders are paying more for protection
against a decline in the Canadian dollar. The premium for the
right to buy the U.S. currency against the loonie in three
months, compared to the right to sell it, reached 2 percentage
points this month, up from this year’s low of 1.35 percentage
points in January.  “The importance of Bank of Canada monetary policy on the
currency gets overstated,”  Greg Anderson , the North American
head of G-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
said in an interview April 26. The firm sees the loonie
unchanged at 98 cents by year-end.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  