-- Electronic-Records Goals Aren’t Met by 80% of U.S. Hospitals
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-01T13:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/hospitals-say-u-s-electronic-records-rules-may-be-too-ambitious.html
More than 80 percent of hospitals have
yet to achieve the requirements for the first stage of a $14.6
billion U.S. program to encourage doctors to adopt electronic
medical records, the industry’s largest trade group said.  The program is too ambitious and goals may not be met, Rick Pollack, executive vice president of the American Hospital
Association, said yesterday in a 68-page letter to the Health
and Human Services Department. He cited “the high bar set and
market factors, such as accelerating costs and limited vendor
capacity.”  The records program, enacted as part of the economic
stimulus law in 2009, makes hospitals eligible for payments of
as much as $11.5 million if they can demonstrate “meaningful
use” of computer systems, according to the Washington-based
group. Hospitals and doctors who don’t adopt electronic records
by 2015 will be penalized with lower Medicare payments.  Incentives will be paid out in three stages; the Obama
administration issued proposed rules for the second stage in
February.  Meeting goals for the program is also being complicated by
a widening “digital divide” between large urban hospitals and
small rural ones, with big hospitals adopting the technology
faster than small ones, according to Pollack’s letter.  Hospitals are “particularly concerned,” he said, about a
requirement in the new rules that they let patients view and
download their medical records from websites. The requirement
“is not feasible as proposed, raises significant security
issues and goes well beyond current technical capacity,”
Pollack wrote.  Google Health  Patients’ inability to easily download records from doctors
and hospitals has hampered development of personal medical
records systems such as a  Google Inc. (GOOG)  program that was shut down
last year after it failed to gain enough users, said Farzad Mostashari, who leads the electronic records program at the
 Department of Health  and Human Services.  Representative Renee Ellmers, a North Carolina Republican,
plans to send a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services this week opposing the rules for the second stage of
the program, on behalf of small doctors’ practices, said her
spokesman, Darrell Jordan, in an e-mail.  Ellmers is chairman of the House Small Business Committee’s
health-care subcommittee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  