-- Switzerland Stocks Decline; SMI Loses 2.2% in April
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-30T16:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/most-stocks-in-switzerland-climb-actelion-shares-advance.html
Swiss stocks  declined, led by
losses in banks and insurance companies, as a report showed
business activity in the U.S. expanded slower than forecast.  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group AG and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  at least
1.5 percent.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the country’s largest biotechnology
company, soared 14 percent as its experimental lung drug
macitentan met the main goal of a late-stage clinical trial. OC
Oerlikon Corp., a maker of textile machinery, climbed 5.2
percent after it said profits may rise more than projected.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped 0.3 percent to 6,096.34 in
Zurich. The measure fell 2.2 percent this month, the largest
decline since August, amid disappointing economic reports and
renewed concerns the euro area’s debt crisis may deepen. The
gauge has still rallied 2.7 percent in 2012. The Swiss
Performance Index lost 0.1 percent today.  “The stock markets are in a kind of conflict between good
quarterly results of companies and economic data that tend to be
worse than expected, especially in  Europe ,” said Peter Buergler, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,
 Switzerland . “Investors are still reluctant to act and want
more clarity amid continuing uncertainty.”  Voters are due to head to the polls on May 6 in Greece and
 France .  U.S. Business Activity  Data from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.
showed its U.S.  business barometer  fell to 56.2 in April, from
62.2 the prior month. Economists had called for a drop to 60,
according to the survey median.  A Commerce Department report showed that household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
rose 0.3 percent in March after a revised 0.9 percent gain the
prior month that was stronger than first reported. The median
forecast of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had called
for a 0.4 percent increase.  In Europe, data today showed  Spain ’s economy, the fourth-
biggest in the euro region, shrank less than forecast in the
first quarter. Spanish gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent,
the same as in the previous three months. That compares with the
Bank of Spain’s estimate on April 23 of a 0.4 percent decline.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse dropped 1.8 percent to 11.33
francs and 2 percent to 21.71 francs, respectively. Swiss Life,
the nation’s largest life insurer, lost 1.5 percent to 92.85
francs, while  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  slipped 1.3 percent to 70.25
francs.  Bucher Declines  Bucher Industries AG (BUCN) , the agricultural machinery maker,
dropped as much as 2.8 percent to 175 francs before paring the
losses in late afternoon trading. Fabian Haecki, an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, cut the stock to hold from buy.  “We continue to regard Bucher as an attractive and well
managed structural growth story, but earnings will probably
reach a cyclical high this year,” Haecki wrote in a note to
clients today.  Actelion surged 14 percent to 38.40 francs, the largest
gain on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its
experimental lung drug macitentan met the main goal of a late-
stage clinical trial, providing the company with a possible
successor to a treatment that accounts for 89 percent of sales.  Bryan Garnier & Cie. raised the stock to buy from sell.  A gauge of health-care companies was the only industry
among 19  groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to rise today.
 Lonza Group AG (LONN) , the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients,
climbed 1.1 percent to 40.93 francs.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  climbed
0.5 percent to 165.80 francs.  Oerlikon Profitability  Oerlikon rallied 5.2 percent to 8.97 francs, its highest
since November 2009, after Chief Executive Officer Michael Buscher said he’s confident the company can further increase
profitability compared to 2011.  “The bottom line and the top line can improve on our
guidance,” Buscher said in an interview.  Earnings before interest and taxes in the first quarter
rose 7 percent from a year earlier, excluding the one-time sale
of property from the textiles unit, to 113 million francs ($124
million). Sales increased 6 percent from a year earlier to 961
million francs.  “The positive news from Actelion and  Oerlikon (OERL)  are
supporting the market today,” said Luzerner Kantonalbank’s
Buergler.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s biggest maker of
computer mice, climbed 4.4 percent to 9.27 francs for its fourth
day of gains and highest price since Oct. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  