-- Owner of Costa Rican Firm Convicted of $485 Million Fraud
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-30T23:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/owner-of-costa-rican-firm-convicted-of-485-million-fraud-1-.html
The president and majority owner of
Provident Capital Indemnity Ltd. was convicted by a federal jury
in  Virginia  of a $485 million fraud conspiracy in the life
settlement bonding market, U.S. prosecutors said.  Minor Vargas Calvo, a citizen and resident of Costa Rica,
was found guilty today in U.S. District Court in Richmond of
conspiracy, mail fraud,  wire fraud  and money laundering. Vargas,
60, faces as long as 20 years in prison on each fraud count when
he is sentenced on Oct. 23.  From 2004 to 2010, the Costa Rica-based company known as
PCI sold at least $485 million of bonds to life settlement
investment companies in several countries, including the U.S.,
 Canada ,  Germany  and the Netherlands, prosecutors said. Vargas
misrepresented PCI’s ability to satisfy obligations under its
bonds, they said.  “Mr. Vargas lied to investors across the globe to sell
almost half a billion dollars worth of ‘guaranteed’ bonds, which
turned out to be worthless,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said
in a statement. “His fraud affected thousands of victims around
the world, many of whom invested their life savings with life
settlement companies because of the worthless guarantees PCI
made.”  The insurance and reinsurance company registered in the
Commonwealth of Dominica and doing business in  Costa Rica  sold
financial guarantee bonds to companies selling life settlements
or securities to investors, prosecutors said.  Mail Fraud  Jorge Castillo, of Hackettstown,  New Jersey , pleaded guilty
in November to one count of conspiracy to commit mail and wire
fraud related to the scheme, which prosecutors initially said
involved $670 million.  Castillo admitted to conspiring with Vargas to prepare
financial statements that falsely claimed PCI had contracts with
other reinsurance companies. Castillo admitted he never audited
PCI’s financial statements and that he knew the company never
entered into any contracts with other reinsurance companies,
prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Provident Capital Indemnity Ltd.,
11-00014, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  