-- Pacific Equity to Buy Spotless After Twice Raising Bid
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-04-30T07:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/pacific-equity-agrees-to-buy-spotless-for-a-720-million.html
Pacific Equity Partners Ltd., an
Australian buyout firm, agreed to buy cleaning and catering
contractor  Spotless Group Ltd. (SPT)  after raising its bid a second
time to A$720 million ($753 million).  Stockholders will receive A$2.62 a share in cash plus a
special dividend of 4 Australian cents, and get to keep a 5 cent
interim dividend, Spotless said today in a statement. Pacific
Equity’s A$2.71-a-share offer is three cents more than its most
recent bid and gained unanimous support from the Spotless board.  The agreement ends a five-month battle for the Melbourne-
based contractor, which faced a shareholder revolt after
refusing to negotiate on a bid unless the offer was raised to at
least A$2.80. Spotless entered talks with Pacific Equity and
opened up the company’s books in February after investors
including Allan Gray Ltd. considered ousting the board.  “We think the board has done the right thing and followed
the wishes of its shareholders,” Simon Mawhinney, a  fund
manager  and Spotless shareholder at Allan Gray in Sydney, said
today by telephone. “We always felt it was a reasonable price
and the board has extracted an extra 3 cents a share.”  Shares Rise  Spotless rose 4.1 percent to A$2.56 at the close of Sydney
trading, the biggest daily gain since Dec. 1. The takeover is
subject to approval by investors and regulators.  Buying Spotless, which expanded from one dry-cleaning store
in 1946, gives the private-equity firm access to a business that
offers corporate services including facilities management, food
and cleaning services, in more than 30 countries. Pacific
Equity, formed in 1998, owns other Australian assets including
the Hoyts cinema group and share-registry company Link Market
Services, according to its  website .  The bid provides “certainty of cash at a compelling
price,” Rob Koczkar, a partner at Pacific Equity, said in a
separate statement.  Shareholders including  Allan Gray , formerly Orbis Group,
Investors Mutual Ltd. and Lazard Asset Management LLC agreed in
November to support Pacific Equity’s original bid of A$2.63 a
share. The buyout firm raised that bid to A$2.68 a share on Dec.
1 after Spotless rejected its initial approach on Nov. 17.  Pacific Equity is paying 5.5 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, for
Spotless. That compares with a median of 8.2 times Ebitda for
eight comparable transactions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Disruption’  Since Pacific Equity’s initial offer, Spotless had
experienced “significant disruption, uncertainty and material
costs,” the company said today. The board didn’t receive a
proposal from any other party since November, it said.  The uncertainty went back to May 2011, when the company
rejected an approach of A$2.50 a share from another buyout firm,
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Spotless Chairman Peter Smedley said today
on a conference call.  “It has been very time-consuming and distracting for
management, customers and staff,” Smedley told reporters on the
call. “The due diligence process was like having 400 of your
in-laws in the living room with you when you’re trying to put
the baby to bed.”  Spotless in February reported a drop in  first-half profit 
as the Braiform coat-hanger division recorded a loss.  Pacific Equity further revised its bid April 24 when it
offered to share the proceeds from a future sale of the Braiform
unit with Spotless shareholders, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. That option, and a separate suggestion
to pay in part with a subordinated note, were dropped in talks
at the weekend, the people said.  Pacific Equity was advised by Citigroup Inc. and Spotless
was counseled by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  