-- Pesticide Exposure in Utero Linked to Brain Concerns
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-04-30T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/pesticide-exposure-in-utero-linked-to-brain-concerns.html
Babies exposed in the womb to a
commonly used insecticide have brain abnormalities after birth,
according to a study that looked at children born before the
U.S. limited the chemical’s use.  Magnetic resonance imaging of elementary school-aged
children with the highest exposure to  chlorpyrifos , used mostly
in agricultural settings now, showed structural changes in the
brain compared with those who had the lowest exposure, research
online today in  Proceedings of the  National Academy of Sciences 
found. Some parts of the brain were overgrown, while other
regions were smaller, the scientists found.  The study is the first to use imaging scans to show that
prenatal exposure to the chemical, included in  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW) ’s pesticide Dursban, is linked to structural changes in the
brain five to 10 years after exposure, said Virginia Rauh, the
lead author. While the chemical’s use was banned in residential
areas 12 years ago, many women are exposed to moderate levels in
agricultural settings and through food residue, Rauh said.  “Prenatal exposure to chlorpyrifos is risky for pregnant
women and should be avoided,” said Rauh, a professor of
clinical population and family health at  Columbia University  in
New York, in an April 27 e-mail. “Mother breathes or ingests
the chlorpyrifos, which then enters her blood stream. The
chemical crosses the placenta and enters the infants’ blood
stream.”  Minimize Exposure  Pregnant women should minimize proximity to agricultural
and commercial areas where pesticide applications are taking
place, wash fruits and vegetables before eating and try to find
organic sources of food, Rauh said.  The children considered to have a high exposure to the
chemical have levels that are much lower than doses shown to
cause no effect in laboratory animals, Garry Hamlin, a spokesman
for Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical’s Dow AgroSciences
unit, said today in an e-mail. Another mechanism may be at work,
he said.  “Chlorpyrifos binds to lipids and high levels of blood
lipids are linked with adverse health outcomes. So it is
possible that the effects reported here for chlorpyrifos are
actually masking the effects of high blood lipids or some other,
underlying cause,” he said. “This study plows new ground, but
its results are hard to interpret.”  New York Children  The researchers in the study looked at the brain scans of
20  New York  City children with the highest exposure to
chlorpyrifos at birth and 20 children with the lowest exposure
to the chemical at birth. The children, ages 6 to 11, were part
of a larger trial that tested infants at birth to look at the
role air pollution had on respiratory health and
neurodevelopment.  Areas of the brain related to attention, language, reward
systems, emotions and control may be affected by the chemical,
the researchers found. The study also showed that high-exposure
children didn’t have expected sex differences in their brains,
which may affect their hormones and behavior as they get older,
 Rauh  said. Studies are needed to look at what effect that has on
the children as they grow.  “I am hopeful that some targeted interventions might
improve a child’s performance in some of the affected areas,
however, I do not know if we can alter the structural changes in
the brain,” she said. “Brains, however, are surprisingly
plastic, and some areas of the brain can develop to compensate
for deficits in other parts of the brain, as after an acute
injury.”  The researchers are conducting a study of children who are
9 to 12 years old, and testing to better understand the damage
associated with early exposure to chlorpyrifos, she said.  The research was funded by the National Institutes of
Environmental Health Sciences, the Environmental Protection
Agency, the National Institute of Health and the John and Wendy
Neu Family Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  