-- Philippine Peso Rises on Fed Easing Speculation; Bonds Unchanged
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-30T08:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/philippine-peso-touches-11-week-high-on-fed-easing-speculation.html
The Philippine peso rose to an 11-
week high on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will loosen
monetary policy, increasing the amount of dollars available to
be invested in emerging-market assets. Bonds were steady.  Overseas investors bought $140 million more Philippine
stocks than they sold this month through April 27, exchange data
show. The  U.S. economy  expanded less than analysts forecast in
the first quarter, the Commerce Department reported on April 27.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week he was
prepared to add more stimulus to spur growth if needed.  “Asian currencies are going to be strong today,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Singapore . “The markets are thinking the Fed will engage in
more quantitative easing” after the softer-than expected gross
domestic product data, he said.  The peso appreciated 0.4 percent to close at 42.215 per
dollar in  Manila , capping a 1.7 percent gain for April,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched 42.210
earlier, the highest level since Feb. 10.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased 20 basis points today to
4.5 percent. It dropped 140 basis points this month.  U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after a 3 percent pace in the
preceding three months. The median projection of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.5 percent gain.  Carry Trades  The Philippines’ benchmark overnight borrowing rate at 4
percent makes the peso attractive to investors looking for
higher yields compared with near-zero rates in the U.S.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is closely watching deposits to
its short-term accounts that pay more than longer-dated
government debt and is prepared to take measures to prevent
speculative activity, including carry trades, Governor Amando
Tetangco said on April 28. The central bank’s one-month SDA pays
a rate of 4.1875 percent while the nation’s three-month Treasury
bill yield averaged 2.494 percent earlier this month.  The yield on the  Philippines ’ 5 percent bonds due August
2018 was steady at 5 percent, according to prices from Tradition
Financial Services. The rate increased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 