-- Planned Parenthood Texas Ruling Lifts State Funding Bar
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-30T23:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/planned-parenthood-groups-win-ruling-over-texas-health-programs.html
Texas  was blocked from enforcing a
rule that would have kept Planned Parenthood-affiliated groups
from participating in a state-funded women’s health program
because they’re connected to an abortion provider.  The organizations sued Texas April 11 to block the rule,
which bars the state from contracting with entities affiliated
with abortion providers. The rule was designed to exclude the
operators of 49 health centers from the program after April 30.
 Planned Parenthood  argued the rule is unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Lee Yeakel in Austin wrote today in
granting a preliminary injunction that the court is
“particularly influenced by the potential for immediate loss of
access to necessary medical services by several thousand Texas
women.”  “Federal funds available to the Women’s Health Program are
being phased out,” Yeakel wrote. “Although the governor has
instructed that the program is to continue fully funded by
Texas, the current record gives the court no comfort that funds
are or will be available to continue the program after the
phaseout of federal funds.”  The preliminary injunction doesn’t determine the outcome of
the lawsuit, which must be decided by a trial, Yeakel said.  The case pits Texas Governor  Rick Perry , a Republican,
against President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, over a state ban on
aid to abortion providers or their affiliates. Texas filed an
appeal of Yeakel’s ruling.  Scope of Service  The nonprofit Planned Parenthood organizations care for
almost half of the state program’s 130,000 participants.  Perry pledged last month to replace almost $30 million in
federal funds for the women’s health program that the Obama
administration cut off because of the state ban. Obama has said
Texas can’t block federally approved organizations such as
Planned Parenthood from participating in programs underwritten
by Medicaid, which pays for  health services  for the poor.  Catherine Frazier, a spokeswoman for Perry, said in an e-
mailed statement that Texas has a “long history of protecting
life, and we are confident” in state Attorney General  Greg Abbott ’s appeal to “defend the will of Texans and our state
law, which prohibits taxpayer funds from supporting abortion
providers and affiliates in the Women’s Health Program.”  In their complaint, the organizations argued that women in
Texas are finding it difficult to get care at Planned Parenthood
health centers and alternative providers, and that without
today’s order patients would be forced to go without
preventative care, resulting in increased risks of undiagnosed
cancer, sexually transmitted illnesses and unplanned
pregnancies.  Federation President  Cecile Richards , president of Planned Parenthood Federation
of America, said in an e-mailed statement that tens of thousands
of Texan women enrolled in the state’s Women’s Health Program
rely on Planned Parenthood for cancer screenings, annual exams,
and access to  birth control .  “For many women, we are the only doctor’s visit they will
have this year,” Richards said. “This ruling affirms what
women have known all along: politics simply doesn’t have a place
in women’s health.”  The case is Planned Parenthood of Hidalgo County Texas v.
Suehs, 12-00322, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 