-- Polyus Gains on Share Sale Before Full Listing: Russia Ov
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-30T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/polyus-gains-on-share-sale-before-full-listing-russia-overnight.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY)  jumped
the most in a month in New York after  Russia ’s biggest gold
producer agreed to sell shares to a Chinese sovereign wealth
fund and VTB Group before seeking a full  London  stock listing.  American depositary receipts of Polyus climbed 4.1 percent
in U.S. trading yesterday, the biggest gainer on the  Bloomberg
Russia-US Equity Index. (RUS14BN)  The gauge, which tracks the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S., added 0.5 percent to 103.31.
Search engine Yandex NV slipped, bringing its decline last month
to the most since November, after its share of Internet searches
dropped. Markets in Moscow resume trading tomorrow after closing
yesterday and today for holidays.  A subsidiary of the gold mining company agreed to sell
151.6 million shares to CIC International Co.’s Chengdong
Investment Corp. unit, and 50.2 million shares and 25.2 million
depositary receipts to VTB, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
according to a statement issued yesterday.  Polyus (PLGL) , which has
previously lobbied Russia’s government to redomicile in London,
also said it is applying for a premium listing on the city’s
stock exchange.  “This is positive for the stock. These are high-profile
organizations who are buying the shares,” Ilya Kravets, a
research analyst at ED Capital in New York, which manages almost
$100 million in assets including Russian equities, said by
phone. “Others may be buying already because those big names
are buying.”  ADRs of Polyus jumped to $3.08 in New York yesterday, the
highest level since March 15. The shares added 1 percent last
month.  Widen Investor Base  Polyus general depositary receipts gained 4 percent in
London to $3.10 yesterday, the highest level since March 19. The
GDRs gained 0.6 percent in April, bringing this year’s gain to
3.3 percent.  Polyus, controlled by billionaires Suleiman Kerimov and
Russian presidential contender  Mikhail Prokhorov , is seeking to
widen its investor base, said Marco Casas, vice president at
Otkritie Financial Corp. in New York. CIC’s stake in Polyus
represents 5 percent minus one share of the company’s issued
share capital, while VTB’s stake in Polyus is 2.5 percent.  “A premium listing will help them try to get included into
FTSE 100 and attract a wider pool of investors, as investors
will start to consider Polyus as a gold producer with assets in
Russia, not a Russian gold mining company,” Valentina Bogomolova, an analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
said by e-mail yesterday.  Yandex Slides  Polyus had withdrawn its application to Russia’s foreign
investment commission to establish the company’s legal permanent
residence in London, Sergey Lavrinenko, a spokesman for the
company, said on March 19. The mining company switched its
domicile from Russia to the island of  Jersey  last year.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most-used search engine, was the
biggest decliner on the Russia-US gauge in April, dropping 12
percent to $23.72 yesterday.  The Hague, Netherlands-based company’s share of Russia’s
online search market fell to a preliminary 60.2 percent in April
compared with 64.7 percent in April 2011, data compiled by
 Liveinternet.ru  show. The share of  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Mail.ru Group
Ltd., Russia’s biggest Internet company, climbed over the same
period.  Yandex fell 3.9 percent yesterday in New York. The stock’s
monthly drop in April was the steepest since November, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Bloomberg Russia-US index fell
3.7 percent, dropping for a second consecutive month.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.2 percent to $29.95 yesterday,
curbing its 3 percent slump in the month.  Urals Monthly Decline  Crude oil for June delivery was little changed at $104.87 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Prices
climbed 1.8 percent last month and are up 6.1 percent in 2012.
 Oil prices  fell after data showed  Spain ’s economy contracted in
the first quarter, putting the country into its second recession
since 2009 and strengthening concern that fuel demand may
decline as a global slowdown intensifies.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 0.3 percent to
$119.47 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday. Brent posted its first monthly drop since December.  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, was little changed
at $117.23 yesterday, falling for the first time in four days.
Urals dropped 2 percent in April, its second monthly decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  