-- Providence Eying Bankruptcy Cuts Pensions in Rhode Island
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/providence-eying-bankruptcy-cuts-pensions-in-rhode-island.html
Providence,  Rhode Island ’s biggest
city, will halt cost-of-living increases for retirees among
steps to overhaul a $422.8 million pension system and avoid
becoming the state’s second municipal bankruptcy.  Less than three months after Mayor Angel Taveras said
Providence stood on the “brink of bankruptcy,” the City
Council yesterday voted 13-0 for changes that save almost $19
million a year, partly by capping benefits, according to Jake
Bissaillon, the council’s staff chief. While Taveras backs the
overhaul, Paul Doughty, who leads the local firefighters union,
called it “a huge mistake” that will be challenged in court.  “These reforms have overwhelming support from the
community, business leaders and the Local 1033 Laborers union,”
Taveras said, referring to a municipal workers’ union. In a
statement after he signed the measure at  City Hall  following the
council vote, the mayor described the overhaul as “a big step
toward the necessary structural changes we must make.”  Rhode Island, which had the ninth-highest  jobless rate  in
the U.S. in February, authorized a similar overhaul of the state
pension system last year, suspending cost-of-living increases
and raising retirement ages for government workers and teachers.
Retiree benefits have been in the spotlight since August when
 Central Falls , the state’s smallest city, declared bankruptcy
after being overwhelmed by pension promises.  Banking on Cuts  Providence is banking on the cuts to help balance its
fiscal 2013 budget. Ending cost-of-living increases of as much
as 6 percent a year for some retired public-safety workers will
save $15.6 million, according to a council report. Taveras said
that one former fire chief who earned $63,510 the year he
retired collects $196,813 annually now and that there are at
least 25 city pensioners whose annual payments top $100,000.  The increases may resume once the retirement system has
enough assets to cover 70 percent of promised benefits,
according to the measure. Testimony at council hearings on
proposed changes put the current funding level at 34 percent.  Another element of the overhaul caps pensions at 1.5-times
the state’s median household income, although no savings
estimate was provided in the report. The city pension serves
3,000 retirees and another 2,000 current workers, including
police and firefighters, said  David Ortiz , a Taveras spokesman.  Cutting Unfunded Liability  The overhaul will reduce Providence’s unfunded liability of
about $900 million by more than $240 million, according to the
council report. The larger figure represents the difference
between what the city has set aside to pay for promises to
retirees and the estimated cost of those future benefits.  Providence is one of the few municipal governments that has
sought to roll back benefits already being paid to retirees or
accrued by public workers, said Amy Monahan, a professor at the
University of Minnesota Law School. In most cases lawmakers have
sought to cut costs by increasing contributions for new workers
or renegotiating current contracts, she said.  “Most people would be very hesitant to take action that
would interfere with a collectively bargained agreement,”
Monahan said. “You typically preserve what has been earned.”  Just as labor groups say they plan to sue the state of
Rhode Island, the smallest in the U.S. with about 1.05 million
residents, unions in Providence, the capital, said they will
challenge the city of about 178,000. Doughty said that Taveras
and the council are playing a dangerous game by counting savings
from the overhaul to help balance its budget, because changing
contracts already in force is illegal.  ‘Huge’ Error  “It’s a huge mistake,” said Doughty, the firefighter
union chief. “If they lose this in court, almost certainly they
will end up in bankruptcy. They’re playing a huge game of
chicken.”  The average city pensioner gets about $25,000 a year,
Doughty said. Rhode Island’s median household income averaged
about $54,900 over five years through 2010.  The vote in Providence comes as the Legislature run by
Democrats debates a  proposal  from Governor Lincoln Chafee that
would authorize municipalities with poorly funded pension plans
to suspend cost-of-living increases. If it becomes law, the
measure would strengthen Providence’s argument that it needed to
overhaul its system, said Ortiz, the Taveras spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 