-- Qatar Air Halts A380 Handovers Until Airbus Fixes Wing Issue
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-04-30T17:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/qatar-air-halts-a380-handovers-until-airbus-fixes-wing-issue-1-.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. said it will put
delivery of its  Airbus SAS A380  superjumbos on hold unless the
planemaker resolves issues with cracks in the model’s wings.  The second-largest Middle Eastern carrier had been due to
take the first of 10 A380s on firm order in October next year,
Chief Executive Officer Akbar  al Baker  said today in Dubai.  “We hope they will find a solution so we still get our
aircraft on time,” Al Baker said during a roundtable discussion
at the Arabian Travel Market 2012 conference.  Airbus, which couldn’t be reached prior to the May Day
public holiday, identified a manufacturing fault after cracks
were found in the wings of some A380s late last year and is now
working to fix planes already in operation while also modifying
production processes to eliminate the problem in new ones.  The cost of repairing aircraft in service will be about 105
million euros ($139 million), Airbus parent European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co. said in March. It hasn’t given an estimate
for the price of changing manufacturing processes and materials.  “We expect decisions about the necessary production
changes and the repair-fix very soon,” Airbus spokesman Rainer Ohler said today by telephone. “We’ll implement them as soon as
possible and schedule the fix in line with airline operational
planning. That will put an end to the whole story.”  Bombardier, Boeing  Qatar Airways is on course to announce a $700 million order
for 10  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  aircraft at next month’s EBACE corporate
aviation show in Geneva, Al Baker said. The planes are required
for the Gulf carrier’s business-jet unit, he said.  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s plans for the new generation 777-8 and 777-9
wide-body models are of interest to Qatar Air, Al Baker said,
adding that the carrier would also be “very keen” to pursue
new aircraft from Chinese and Russian manufacturers.  The CEO said he’s open to the possibility of Qatar Air
joining a global airline alliance should it be asked.  “Co-operating with airlines and feeding traffic into each
other’s networks is always beneficial,” he said. “We haven’t
been invited by anybody and if we are invited, yes, we would
consider it in a positive way.”  Al Baker also predicted that Qatar Air and Dubai-based
Emirates will emerge as the two “dominant” operators in the
region, adding that Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, while fast-
expanding, won’t fall into that category.  Bahrain-based Gulf Air is “shrinking” but should
ultimately survive, even after political interference that means
the carrier is “not what they should have been,” he said.  Qatar Airways  was profitable in the year ended March 31, Al
Baker said, though the earnings figure, which has yet to be
released, “will be much less than last year,” he said.  Qatar posted earnings of $215 million in fiscal 2011, the
CEO said, on airline sales of about $6.4 billion. The comparable
revenue figure last year was about $7.5 billion, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  