-- Raiffeisen Pays Discout on Polbank on Falling Valuation
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-04-30T14:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/raiffeisen-pays-discout-on-polbank-on-falling-valuation.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,
eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender, completed the purchase of
 EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) ’s Polish unit for a lower price than
when the deal was announced a year ago.  Raiffeisen paid 460 million euros ($608 million) for a 70
percent stake in Eurobank’s Polbank, 30 million euros less than
agreed in February 2011, the Vienna-based lender said in a
statement today. The price is 1.5 times Polbank’s book value,
less than the 1.7 agreed when the deal was announced. That could
drop further, depending on Polbank’s equity as of the closing
date today, Raiffeisen said.  The Polbank acquisition makes Raiffeisen one of the biggest
lenders in eastern Europe’s largest economy, and the unit will
become the bank’s biggest foreign division by assets after
 Russia . The deal is part of Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic’s strategy to bolster the bank’s presence in eastern part
of the European Union, while lowering the dependency on business
in the former  Soviet Union .  “Combining Polbank and Raiffeisen Bank Polska will provide
us with a strong basis for a broadly diversified business in one
of the most solid and most strongly growing economies in central
and eastern Europe,” Stepic said in the statement.  Funding Relief  Raiffeisen has formed a new company called Raiffeisen
Polbank by combining Polbank with its existing unit Raiffeisen
Bank Polska. Eurobank will sell its 13 percent stake in the
combined company to Raiffeisen for at least 175 million euros,
Athens-based Eurobank said in a separate statement, giving
Raiffeisen full ownership of Raiffeisen Polbank.  Raiffeisen is gradually taking over the 2 billion euros of
loans Eurobank provided to Polbank, which has funded its 5.23
billion-euro loan book only partly with deposits. Eurobank,
which has suffered a “substantial reduction” in deposits at
home as Greek savers withdrew funds, will be repaid 1 billion
euros in funding immediately, a Raiffeisen spokeswoman, Ingrid Krenn-Ditz, said by e-mail. Raiffeisen will take over another 1
billion euros once it completes the acquisition of the remaining
13 percent stake from Eurobank.  Raiffeisen got authorization to buy Polbank from Polish
regulator KNF this month in exchange for a pledge to sell at
least 15 percent of the combined Polish division on the  Warsaw
Stock Exchange (GPW)  by June 2016. It also plans a secondary listing
for parent Raiffeisen in Warsaw by at least June 2018,
Raiffeisen said in today’s statement.  The new bank’s managing board will be headed by Piotr Czarnecki, CEO of Raiffeisen Bank Polska, with Kazimierz
Stanczak, president of Polbank, as first vice president,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  