-- Rand Declines as Spain Recession Outweighs Higher Credit Growth
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-30T10:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/rand-declines-as-spain-recession-outweighs-higher-credit-growth.html
The rand declined as  Spain  entered
its second recession since 2009, raising fresh concern about the
health of the euro area and outweighing a bigger-than-expected
increase in credit demand in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  South Africa’s currency fell as much as 0.5 percent and
traded 0.1 percent down at 7.7529 per dollar as of 12:07 p.m. in
Johannesburg, reversing an earlier 0.2 percent gain. The rand
has weakened 1 percent this month, headed for a second month of
losses. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
dropped less than one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
7.675 percent.  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
first quarter, the government said today. In  South Africa ,
 borrowing  by households and businesses rose 9.2 percent in
March, compared with 7.9 percent in February, the Pretoria-based
Reserve Bank said on its website today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 economists was 8.6 percent.  “The relatively strong demand for credit may reflect some
level of  consumer confidence ,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “However, there are concerns that upward
pressure on the CPI is becoming more broad-based, therefore, an
increase in credit could potentially undermine the downward
trend in inflation in the months ahead.”  Inflation slowed to 6 percent in March, the top end of the
 Reserve Bank ’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range and the
slowest pace since September, as food price increases eased, the
statistics agency said April 18. The inflation rate will peak at
6.5 percent this quarter and fall into the target band by the
end of the year, Governor Gill Marcus said on March 29.  The Reserve Bank has kept the repurchase rate at 5.5
percent since November 2010 to support economic growth
threatened by a debt crisis in  Europe , a key trading partner.  The euro weakened for the first time in a week against the
dollar and declined for a third day against the yen. The rand
often moves in tandem with the euro, with a statistical
correlation of 0.60 over the past year. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  