-- Treasuries Set for Monthly Gain on Slower Growth, Europe
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-04-30T21:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/treasury-futures-head-for-monthly-gain.html
Treasuries posted their biggest
monthly gain since September as slowing U.S. economic growth and
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening increased demand for
the relative safety of  U.S. debt .  Ten-year  note  yields fell for a third day as  consumer
spending  climbed less than forecast in March and as business
activity expanded in April at the slowest pace since November
2009. Yields declined earlier as  Spain  entered its second
recession since 2009. Economists predict Labor Department data
this week will indicate U.S. hiring increased in April, though
not enough to reduce the  jobless rate .  “There’s definitely that feeling that our growth is
fading,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York
at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “Europe looks like the
same mess that it was. There’s a lot of risk out there, and
that’s got people concerned.”  The 10-year  note  yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.91 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in February 2022 gained 6/32, or $1.88 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 3/4. The yield has fallen from 2.21
percent at the end of March.  Treasuries handed investors a 1.5 percent gain this month
as of April 27, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Household Purchases  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased 0.3 percent, after a revised 0.9 percent
gain the prior month, Commerce Department figures showed in
 Washington . The median estimate in Bloomberg News survey called
for a 0.4 percent rise.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business-activity barometer decreased to 56.2 during April,
lower than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey, from 62.2 in March. Readings greater than 50 signal
growth.  Payrolls rose by 164,000 in April after a 120,000 gain in
March, which followed three months of gains above 200,000, while
the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent, according to other
Bloomberg surveys before the May 4 data.  “The two drivers that pushed rates back up were inflation
expectations and then the concern that the Fed would look at
first-quarter numbers and get more bullish on the economy,”
said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
Memphis,  Tennessee . Those risks now, he said, “are not anywhere
on the horizon for the next couple of months.”  Spain Recession  Spain’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent last
quarter, the same as the previous three months, a government
report showed today. European leaders will seek to restore
market calm this week after Spain was cut by  Standard & Poor’s 
and a German-led austerity agenda to resolve the debt crisis
came under fire ahead of elections in France and  Greece .  “If Europe continues to delve deeper into a recessionary
environment and the U.S. economic outlook slows, we could see
another sequence of demand that could easily push yields out of
their current range,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We aren’t at that point yet.”  The Treasury Department lowered its net  borrowing  estimate
for the current quarter, reflecting lower  government spending 
and higher issuance of state- and local-government securities.  The Treasury’s net borrowing estimate for April through
June is now $182 billion, $19 billion less than estimated in
January. U.S. officials also see net borrowing of $265 billion
in the quarter starting July 1. The estimates set the stage for
the Treasury’s quarterly refunding announcement on May 2.  Fed Buying  The Fed bought $1.833 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to February 2042 today as part of its program,
known as Operation Twist, to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort
to reduce borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a
recession.  As part of the operation, the Fed intends to purchase
during May approximately $45 billion of longer-term Treasuries
while selling about $43 billion of shorter-term securities,
according to the  New York  Fed’s  website .  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing from December 2008 to June as part of
its efforts to spur the  U.S. economy . It has also pledged to
keep its target for overnight bank lending at almost zero until
at least late 2014.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 25 the central bank is
ready to add to its stimulus if necessary, even after it
upgraded its view of the economy.  The odds of an extension to Operation Twist have declined,
Anshul Pradhan and Vivek Shukla, analysts at Barclays Capital
Inc. in New York, wrote in a report at the end of last week.  Floating-Rate Debt  The  difference  between 10- and 30-year yields is poised to
widen as a result, according to Barclays. The spread reached
1.19 percentage points today, the most since Feb. 6.  The U.S. is scheduled to announce on May 2 the sizes of
three-, 10-and 30-year auctions scheduled for next week.  The U.S. may also announce plans to sell floating-rate
securities on May 2,  Mary Miller , the Treasury Department’s
undersecretary for domestic finance, said Feb. 1.  Almost two decades after advising the U.S. to sell so-
called floaters to lower debt expenses, Campbell Harvey says
starting to issue the securities now would be a costly mistake
for American taxpayers.  “In an environment with historically low  interest rates ,
the Treasury should avoid floating-rate debt as it introduces
risk,” Harvey, a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua
School of Business in Durham,  North Carolina , said in a
telephone interview April 17. “If interest rates go up, it puts
the government at risk because they will need to come up with a
lot of extra revenue to pay the interest bill.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  