-- Record Fuel Output Returning Exmar’s Tankers to Profit: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-04-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/record-fuel-output-returning-exmar-s-tankers-to-profit-freight.html
The world is refining and extracting
so much oil and natural gas that record amounts of byproducts
are being generated, creating a flood of liquefied petroleum gas
for the ships carrying the fuel used in stoves and lighters.  Trade in LPG will rise 3.9 percent to 62 million metric
tons this year, compared with no more than 2 percent fleet
growth, according to Lorentzen & Stemoco A/S, an industry
consultant in Oslo. Charter rates will rise 8 percent, the most
since 2008, investment bank Fearnley Fonds ASA predicts.  Exmar
NV (EXM) , which operates 29 of the vessels, will return to profit this
year and its shares will jump 38 percent in 12 months, according
to as many as five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Global refinery capacity rose 11 percent and natural-gas
consumption 31 percent in the past decade, increasing the need
for Exmar and closely held BW Group Ltd.’s LPG ships. The Middle
East is the biggest exporter and Asia the largest buyer. The
rebound in costs is a consequence of owners failing to order
enough new vessels after rates fell 40 percent from 2006 to
2010, in contrast to  oil tankers  and dry-bulk commodity
carriers, where there is now a glut of capacity.  “This market was in the doldrums for years, but now there
are not many new ships and volumes are increasing,” said Steve Engelen, the manager of research and projects at Joachim Grieg &
Co., an Oslo-based broker serving the largest owners. “The
additional volumes of LPG in the  Middle East  are so big they
have to export, rather than consume them domestically.”  Gas Cylinders  The monthly cost of hiring a mid-size carrier will average
$720,000 in 2012, from $666,000 in 2011, according to Rikard Vabo, an analyst at Fearnley in Oslo. Exmar is the biggest
publicly traded operator of mid-sized vessels, each holding
35,000 cubic meters (1.24 million cubic feet) of LPG, enough to
fill about 1.6 million 20-pound gas cylinders.  Exmar, which also operates vessels hauling liquefied
natural gas and storing fuel, expects monthly rates for mid-
sized carriers to reach $1 million by the end of the year, Chief
Financial Officer Miguel de Potter said by phone on April 25.
That would be the most since December 2006, he said.  The Antwerp-based company will report  net income  of $36.7
million for this year, compared with a loss of $45.4 million in
2011, according to the median of five analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Shares of Exmar rose 1.9 percent to 5.86 euros
($7.75) in Brussels trading this year and will reach 8.10 euros
in 12 months, the average of three estimates shows.  The biggest owner of LPG carriers is BW Group, according to
data from London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based company’s bonds maturing
in 2017 are trading at 99.15 cents on the dollar, from 75 cents
in October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ships Moving  Global LPG demand will advance 1.4 percent to an all-time
high of about 232 million tons this year, according to JBC
Energy.  Asia , the biggest consuming region, will use 3.4 percent
more as shipments from the Middle East, the largest exporter,
rise 4.2 percent, the Vienna-based consultant estimates. The
Middle East will account for 29 percent of growth in production
and Asia 90 percent of the additional buying, bolstering
charters for ships moving supply to where it’s needed.  The expansion in energy production may weaken on signs of
slowing economic growth, diminishing the amount of LPG available
for export. The U.K. fell into a double-dip recession in the
first quarter and the  International Monetary Fund  is predicting
a contraction in the 17-nation euro region. Chinese Premier  Wen
Jiabao  cut the nation’s growth target to 7.5 percent last month,
the lowest since 2004, and the  U.S. economy  expanded 2.2 percent
in the first quarter, less than economists had forecast.  Petrochemicals Industry  Energy consumption fell 1.5 percent in 2009 as the global
economy endured its worst recession since World War II,
according to data from London-based BP Plc. Natural-gas output
slumped 2.8 percent, the most since at least 1970, and oil
refining slipped 2.6 percent, the steepest drop since 1981.  Slower growth also may curb demand for chemicals used in
everything from plastics to paints, created using LPG as a
feedstock. European production of ethylene, the largest starting
product made in the region, fell 6 percent in 2009, according to
Nexant Inc., a  White Plains , New York-based consultant to the
petrochemicals industry. The  chemical industry  accounted for 27
percent of LPG demand in 2010, according to a report from the
Paris-based World LP Gas Association.  Weaker demand growth wouldn’t necessarily reverse the
advance in charter rates because there is already little spare
capacity. The fleet expanded 10 percent since the end of 2008
and outstanding orders at shipyards will add another 10 percent,
the least of any tanker class, data from IHS Inc. show.  Energy Agency  That compares with growth of 23 percent for Suezmaxes, each
holding 1 million barrels of oil, and outstanding orders equal
to 24 percent of existing capacity. Rates for Suezmaxes fell 68
percent this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London ,
which publishes daily rates along more than 50 maritime routes.
About 90 percent of world trade goes by sea, the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations estimates.  World oil output rose 2.6 percent from a year earlier to
90.6 million barrels a day last quarter, the International
Energy Agency estimates. Refineries processed 74.1 million
barrels a day on average in 2011, the most since at least 2004,
according to the Paris-based group. Natural-gas production rose
to a record 112.1 trillion cubic feet in 2010, according to the
most recent data from the U.S. Energy Department.  Extracting natural gas yields about 10 percent LPG and
represents 60 percent of supply, according to the gas
association. The remainder comes from refining crude, with about
10 percent of each barrel of oil consisting of propane, ethane
and butane, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A lot of LPG will be shifted overseas from countries that
don’t have consumption,” Exmar’s De Potter said. “Investors
are just starting to get interested in LPG, but most of them are
not there yet. It’s below the radar screen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  