-- Reinharts, Rogoff See Huge Output Losses From High Debt
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-30T20:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/reinharts-rogoff-see-huge-output-losses-from-high-debt.html
The U.S. and other developed
economies with high public debt potentially face “massive”
losses of output lasting more than a decade, even if their
interest rates remain low, according to new research by
economists Carmen and  Vincent Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff .  In a paper published today on the  National Bureau of
Economic Research ’s  website , they found that countries with
debts exceeding 90 percent of the economy historically have
experienced subpar economic growth for more than 20 years. That
has left output at the end of the period a quarter below where
it would have been otherwise.  “The long-term risks of high debt are real,” they wrote.
“Growth effects are significant” even when debtor nations are
able to borrow “at relatively low real interest rates.”  In spite of those dangers, the economists said they are not
advocating rapid reductions in government debt at times of
“extremely weak growth and high unemployment.”  Carmen Reinhart is a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in  Washington , while her
husband, Vincent, works as chief U.S. economist for Morgan
Stanley in  New York . Rogoff is a professor at  Harvard University 
in Cambridge, Mass., and a former chief economist at the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Their paper looked at 26 separate episodes in 22 countries
since 1800 in which central government debt exceeded 90 percent
of gross domestic product for at least five years. Advanced
economies with such big liabilities grew on average 2.3 percent
a year, compared with 3.5 percent in the lower debt period, they
said. The high-debt period on average lasted 23 years, according
to the study.  U.S. Debt  Gross federal U.S. debt has exceeded 90 percent of GDP for
the last two years and is projected to remain above that level
at least through 2017, according to the White House’s Office of
Management and Budget.  Publicly-held debt, which excludes debt held by the Social
Security Trust Fund and other government agencies, was 68
percent of GDP on Sept. 30, 2011, the  OMB data  show.  The lower level of publicly held debt should not be a
source of comfort to the U.S. and other heavily-indebted nations
because such trust funds generally are “woefully underfunded,”
the Reinharts and Rogoff argued in their paper.  They also cautioned the U.S. and other developed nations
against taking solace from low levels of  interest rates  on their
debt. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note stood at 1.92
percent at 3:15 p.m.  ‘Warning Signal’  “Contrary to popular perception, we find that in 11 of the
26 debt overhang cases, real interest rates were either lower or
about the same as during the lower debt/GDP years,” the
economists wrote. “Those waiting for financial markets to send
a warning signal through higher interest rates that government
policy will be detrimental to economic performance may be
waiting a long time.”  Greece and  Italy  were the two countries in the study that
experienced the most instances in which their debt exceeded 90
percent of GDP.  The economists warned that nations with excessive
government liabilities now may even fare worse than history
suggests because their private and foreign debts also are large.  “The fact many countries are facing ‘quadruple debt
overhang problems’ -- public, private, external and pension --
suggests the problem could be worse than in the past,” they
said.  Carmen Reinhart  and Rogoff are co-authors of the book
“This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”
Carmen’s husband, Vincent, is a former director of the monetary
affairs division at the  Federal Reserve  in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  