-- Repsol Said to Cut Gas Shipment on Argentina Noncompliance
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-30T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/repsol-ypf-said-to-cut-gas-shipment-on-argentina-noncompliance.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  blocked a shipment of
liquefied natural gas to  Argentina  because the government failed
to supply the Madrid-based company with a letter of credit, said
a person briefed on the matter.  Spain ’s largest oil company diverted the course of the
vessel on April 27 after the payment guarantee failed to arrive,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because Repsol
hasn’t made details of the shipment publicly available.  Repsol requires the letter of credit for shipments after
Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in debt in 2001, the person
said. YPF, Repsol’s Argentine unit, anticipated Repsol would
block shipments in order to “damage” Argentina after the
government seized control of the company this month, YPF said on
its  website  April 28.  YPF said it will guarantee gas supplies to Argentina and
negotiate a LNG import deal with another company. Argentina’s
gas regulator Enargas began to ration supplies to manufacturers
April 28, Clarin reported today, without citing anyone.  Repsol had no comment on the shipment, spokesman Kristian
Rix said by telephone. Government spokesman Alfredo Scoccimarro
didn’t answer calls to his office or mobile phone made during a
public holiday in Argentina.  Share Drops  Shares in Repsol fell 1.7 percent to 14.45 euros in Spain
today, bringing its decline so far this year to 39 percent. YPF
gained 2.2 percent to $14.48 percent at 3:24 p.m. in New York
trading, reducing a slump this year to 58 percent.  YPF increased gas production by 2 million cubic meters a
day since the government took control of the company, it said in
the statement. Imports from neighboring  Bolivia  will be boosted
by 2 million cubic meters a day, it said. Gas supplies to
residential areas won’t be affected by the cuts, newspaper
Infobae reported, citing Enargas official Antonio Prosanto.  Argentina had to spend $9.3 billion on fuel imports last
year to replace a “huge decline” in YPF oil and gas output,
the company said. Argentina had sold fuel and foodstuffs at
subsidized prices since its 2001 debt default.  Repsol said it invested $20 billion in YPF since buying the
assets in a privatization in 1999 when Carlos Menem was
president of the country. The government estimates the company’s
investments at $3.7 billion. Former Argentine President  Nestor Kirchner  introduced caps on  oil prices  in 2007.  Congress Debate  Argentina’s Congress is debating a bill to nationalize a 51
percent stake in YPF after the government seized control of the
company April 16.  The government is preparing to expropriate the 25 percent
stake in YPF owned by Argentine investor Sebastian Eskenazi,
newspaper La Nacion reported today, citing government officials
that it didn’t identify.  The government may re-sell the stake to a third party, the
Buenos Aires newspaper reported. The Petersen Group holds $2.9
billion of debt with creditors including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , La Nacion reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  