-- Republicans Would Cut Construction Jobs, Obama Says
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   S a b r i n a   S i d d i q u i
-- 2012-04-30T14:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/republicans-would-cut-construction-jobs-obama-says.html
President  Barack Obama  told an AFL-
CIO affiliate that Republicans in Congress are pushing policies
that would increase unemployment among construction workers,
calling on lawmakers to pass a long-term transportation bill.  “Infrastructure shouldn’t be a partisan issue,” Obama
said in remarks prepared for delivery to the Building and
Construction Trades Department Legislative Conference in
Washington. “Investments in better roads and safer bridges and
newer schools have been made by Democrats and Republicans for
generations, because they benefit all of us.”  “Republicans today seem to have exactly the opposite
view,” he said. “That means instead of putting more
construction workers back on the job, they want to lay more
off.”  Obama is looking for ways to spur  job creation  for
 construction workers  and improve an economy that has become
fodder in the presidential campaign and congressional contests.  House Speaker John Boehner yesterday accused Obama of
“diminishing the presidency by picking fake fights” as he
seeks re-election. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, cited the
Democratic president’s recent campaign to freeze  interest rates 
on  student loans , to set a minimum tax on incomes of more than
$1 million, and to curb manipulation in the oil markets.  “The point I’ve been trying to make here in the last
couple of weeks is that the president’s bigger than this,”
Boehner said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program.  Japan Trade  Obama led presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  by seven percentage points among registered voters in a
Gallup poll conducted April 21-26.  Later today Obama and  Japan ’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
will meet at the White House to discuss  trade  and the global
economy, as well as the realignment of U.S. forces in  Asia .  While addressing the union, Obama said that infrastructure
spending can be balanced with long-term  deficit  cuts. “But if
we’re smart about it, we can also afford to make the investments
that will help our country and the American people in the short-
term.”  “I think that’s a no-brainer,” he said.  “And what’s more, they’ve also set their sights on
dismantling unions like yours,” he said. “After all you’ve
done to build and protect the middle class, they’re saying
you’re responsible for the problems facing the middle class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  