-- Roger Federer, Swiss Banking Will Both Come Back
-- B y   P e t e r   V i k t o r   K u n z
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/roger-federer-swiss-banking-will-both-come-back.html
Why is it, many Swiss are asking
today, that the whole world seems to be out to get us?  A recent Swiss court decision blocking Credit Suisse Group
AG from handing confidential banking data on American clients to
the  Internal Revenue Service , and a continuing tax struggle with
Germany have brought what Swiss call the “tax wars” against us
roaring back into the public debate.  Switzerland  gave the world many wonderful things, in
addition to our controversial banking-secrecy laws: world-class
watches and chocolate, the fictional heroine Heidi and  tennis
great  Roger Federer, to name a few. But a series of setbacks
have triggered something of an identity crisis in my country.  Federer is now ranked as only the  third -best player in the
world, and Switzerland’s bank-secrecy laws are cracking under
the weight of pressure from abroad. Unlike our tennis champion,
they may not be able to bounce back.  We Swiss are used to getting belittled as alphorn tooting,
yodeling, simple mountain folk, or demonized in Hollywood movies
as the banker accomplice to the bad guy, helping him to stash
ill-gotten assets in Zurich or Geneva. But lately, we’ve had to
recognize that we have genuine reputational issues abroad.  Swiss Bad Guys  The importance of this hit home hard a few years ago, when
then Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  reacted to the arrest of one
of his sons in Geneva by taking two Swiss businessmen hostage
and asking the  United Nations  to split Switzerland between
Germany, France and  Italy . There was no international outcry in
Switzerland’s defense. Nobody seemed to care.  Fortunately, Switzerland has survived better than Qaddafi.
But are we really the new global bad guys?  Swiss banking remains a world-class brand, for reasons of
legal, political and currency stability, as well as the high
level of training and language fluency among staff at the
country’s more than 300 banks. These strengths remain,
regardless of secrecy laws. The country is also a world leader
when it comes to education, government health insurance and
safeguarding human rights as an intermediary between nations
(Switzerland has mediated between the U.S. and  Iran  since 1980).  Yet, nowadays, all anyone wants to talk about is our
alleged facilitation of tax fraud and evasion.  In a world where citizens’ privacy is being diminished
daily, the idea of banking with the assurance that your details
are private may seem almost quaint, but these laws have deep
roots in Switzerland’s history as a haven. Many people came to
the country seeking refuge for themselves and their money,
particularly before and during World War II.  As a result, the Swiss don’t see banking secrecy as
something to be ashamed of. They see it as just one form of
protection, together with the right to nondisclosure of one’s
religious beliefs, sexual orientation or health status. These
are rights that anybody coming to the country should enjoy,
regardless of what their home government demands. It’s our
strong belief that what you do with your legally gained money
should be nobody’s business but your own.  Like every other right, banking secrecy can be abused. Many
tax evaders from abroad have tried to hide behind numbered Swiss
bank accounts. However, criminal activities such as  money
laundering  by terrorists and organized crime, or  tax fraud ,
don’t find refuge in Switzerland.  Cleaned Up Act  Our country cleaned up its act years before many others. In
particular, Switzerland in recent years has been a leader in
tightening controls on money laundering and has returned large
sums of so-called dictators’ money to their countries since
passing the “Duvalier Law,” named after the former Haitian
leader Jean-Claude Duvalier, to ease the process.  Switzerland’s status as a haven for tax evaders, meanwhile,
has largely been gone since 2009, when the government accepted
international standards set out by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, agreeing to eliminate the
distinction between tax fraud and evasion for non-Swiss
residents.  The Swiss government has also signed a series of double-
taxation treaties with other countries that provide for
information exchange to prevent  tax evasion . Surely it’s time
for other governments to relax their continued assault on the
Swiss banking industry and accept that privacy is not a crime.  What the U.S.  Justice Department  did in 2009, threatening
Zurich-based UBS AG with criminal prosecution for alleged
facilitation of tax evasion (which is not a crime in
Switzerland), was no better than extortion. The U.S. had at its
disposal a legal process based on an international  agreement 
entered into with Switzerland in 1996, but the U.S. chose
instead to employ the intimidation available to a superpower.
Unfortunately, the Swiss government didn’t stand up for itself
and the sovereignty of Switzerland or for Swiss-banking clients,
opening the floodgates to further pressure from abroad.  U.S. legal assaults now under way against 11 more Swiss
banks, including Credit Suisse and Julius Baer Group Ltd., are
equally wrong. Switzerland’s Supreme Administrative Court
earlier this month blocked Credit Suisse from handing over
client data to the U.S. tax authorities, on grounds that the IRS
failed to provide evidence of tax fraud. Switzerland’s existing
double-taxation treaty with the U.S. covers tax fraud, but not
evasion. A  new one  that has been agreed would extend to tax
evasion, as well, and has been approved by the Swiss parliament
-- but not yet by the  U.S. Senate . It’s up to the U.S. to agree
to the new law, not to pressure Switzerland into breaking the
existing one.  German Refusal  We thought and hoped that relations with our neighbors also
were stronger than has proved the case. Last year, Switzerland
signed a groundbreaking taxation treaty with  Germany  that would
maintain banking privacy for German clients of Swiss banks, but
at the same time apply a 26.4 percent withholding tax, and a tax
rate of as much as 41 percent (estimated worth about 10 billion
euros, or $13 billion), for past deposits. Yet Germany’s
political opposition is now refusing to ratify this treaty,
demanding more concessions from Switzerland.  These tax wars are very much on people’s minds. Many Swiss
believe their politicians and diplomats have been blackmailed,
and that the country is no longer respected as independent and
sovereign. Others feel that Switzerland and its banking industry
are being approached every time other countries face a budget
shortfall, seeing a perpetual deep and nonresistant pocket in
Switzerland.  Many see hypocrisy on the part of countries, especially the
U.S. and the U.K., that aggressively pick on Switzerland, while
ignoring their own  tax havens , such as trust funds in the U.K.
and its Channel Islands, or the U.S. shell-company factory
epitomized by  Delaware , which offers foreign-owned companies
anonymity and a virtually tax-free home for profits booked
abroad.  Switzerland shouldn’t be treated as a pariah, or rogue
state. Banking secrecy is not Switzerland’s foundation. Whatever
the future holds -- whether a tax retention concept like the
ones in recent treaties signed with Germany, the U.K. and
 Austria , or an automatic information exchange such as demanded
by the European Union -- Switzerland will remain an
international banking center. And  Roger Federer  will reign
again.  (Peter Viktor Kunz is a professor of business law and
comparative law at the University of Bern Law School. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Osama bin Laden
anniversary  and  Spain ’s  labor reforms ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the
 death of Benzion Netanyahu ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers 
on the  benefits of work-sharing ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  fertility
rates and foreign policy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Viktor Kunz at  KUNZ@IWR.UNIBE.CH   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  