-- Romney Says He Would ‘Of Course’ Have Ordered Bin Laden Raid
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-30T19:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/romney-says-he-would-of-course-have-ordered-bin-laden-killing.html
Presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  said he would “of course” have given the
order to kill Osama bin Laden, as President  Barack Obama  did a
year ago.  Romney, pushing back against an advertisement by Obama’s
re-election campaign that suggests he wouldn’t have taken the
action in Pakistan against bin Laden, said “even  Jimmy Carter ”
would have approved the U.S. raid that killed the al-Qaeda
leader.  Carter, the former president, is criticized routinely by
Republicans as a weak leader during his White House tenure. He
approved a military mission in 1980 to rescue U.S. hostages in
 Iran , which failed. He also was a vocal opponent of the 2003
Iraq war ordered by President  George W. Bush .  Romney, 65, the former governor of  Massachusetts , was asked
by reporters about the bin Laden operation following a campaign
event in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.  Clinton in Ad  Obama’s campaign released an ad April 27 that features
former President  Bill Clinton  calling Obama courageous for
ordering the bin Laden raid, and questions whether Romney would
have made the same call. It notes that during his first
presidential run, he said in an April 2007 interview that “it’s
not worth moving heaven and earth, spending billions of dollars
just trying to catch one person.”  The ad doesn’t tell viewers that Romney later said at a
candidate debate in May 2007 that he “of course” would track
bin Laden and “make sure he pays for the outrage he exacted
upon America.”  “I don’t want to buy into the Democratic pitch that this
is all about one person,” he added. “It’s more than  Osama bin
Laden , but he is going to pay, and he will die.”  Asked at a White House press conference today about the
raid issue, Obama said, “I’d just recommend that everybody take
a look at people’s  previous statements in terms of whether they
thought it was  appropriate to go into Pakistan and take out bin
Laden.”  Explanation Needed  Without mentioning Romney, Obama also said ‘if there are
others who have said one thing and now suggest they’d do
something else, then I’d go ahead and let them explain it.”  Obama denied that he and his administration are celebrating
the anniversary of bin Laden’s killing, saying Americans
“rightly remember” what the nation accomplished with his death.  Romney’s comments today came after he toured and spoke at a
fish pier with Senator  Kelly Ayotte , a  New Hampshire  Republican
and potential running mate. It was the second time in as many
weeks Romney has auditioned a prospective vice presidential
pick; he appeared outside Philadelphia with Florida Senator
Marco Rubio on April 23.  Ayotte brushed aside talk of her joining Romney’s ticket.
Still, she didn’t rule out doing so.  “The governor will do a thorough vetting process and pick
who he thinks is best, and I just want to do whatever I can to
make sure that he gets elected president of the  United States ,
to turn this country around,” Ayotte, a first-term senator,
told reporters as Romney greeted voters after their event.  Asked whether she would allow herself to be vetted by
Romney’s campaign, Ayotte said: “I just don’t see that
happening.”  At the pier, the two boarded three boats to hear complaints
from commercial fishermen about how federal regulations are
hurting their business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Portsmouth, New Hampshire at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  