-- Roomier Pig Pens May Raise Pork Prices as EU Output Ebbs
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-04-30T17:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/roomier-pig-pens-may-raise-pork-prices-as-eu-output-ebbs.html
European Union rules requiring pig
farmers to keep animals in larger pens may mean production in
the world’s second-biggest pork exporter is set to fall, as
farmers choose between barn remodeling or going out of business.  Beginning Jan. 1, farmers in the 27-nation bloc will be
required to keep breeding animals together in open pens for most
of their lives, instead of confining them individually in  stalls 
that are often too small for a pig to  turn  around. Pork output
in  Europe , the biggest shipper after the U.S., may drop as much
as 10 percent after the ruling goes into effect, because some
farmers aren’t prepared to make the change, the U.K.’s
Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board said.  “If European prices go up, that potentially makes European
products a little less competitive on the global market,” said
Stephen Howarth, a senior analyst at AHDB in Stoneleigh Park,
 England , who specializes in the pig industry. “That, in turn,
may increase demand for U.S. pork, as the other major exporter,
which could of course push prices up there as well.”  Global pork output is forecast at a record 104.4 million
metric tons in 2012, while production in the EU has only
increased by 2.6 percent since 1999, to about 22.6 million tons
this year, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Still, the
EU’s pork exports have surged 33 percent since 1999, and may
total 2.13 million tons in 2012, the second highest in at least
14 years, according to the USDA.  ‘Significantly Increase’ Costs  Animal rights advocates have argued that the stalls are
cruel to sows, while farmers say keeping them separated prevents
them from fighting, and allows more pigs to be kept in each
barn. Food companies including McDonald’s Corp. and Burger King
Corp. have asked suppliers to phase out the so-called gestation
crates, while the U.S. National Pork Producers Council, a farmer
group, said April 25 that doing so would “significantly
increase production costs.”  The new  regulations  in the EU, which were passed in 2001,
will allow sows to be kept in stalls for four weeks after
breeding and one week before giving birth. Farmers also may
still keep them in different “farrowing crates” for about four
weeks after piglets are born, prior to weaning, Howarth said.  Only 16 EU member countries will likely be  compliant  with
the regulations by the Jan. 1 deadline, the European Commission
said April 26. Farmer lobby Copa-Cogeca estimates that it may
cost farmers about 200 euros ($265) per sow to expand their
space.  Farmers in  Spain , the EU’s largest pork producer after
 Germany , may have to pay as much as 300 euros per pig to make
the change, costing the hog industry about 700 million euros,
according to La Coordinadora de Organizaciones de Agricultores y
Ganaderos, a farmer and rancher’s group.  Pork Production  A 5 percent decline in EU pork production would equate to
about a 10 percent increase in consumer prices, said Pekka
Pesonen, the secretary-general of Copa-Cogeca in Brussels.  “We are bracing ourselves for a production cut,” Pesonen
said by phone. “If we have an exodus of production to the
extent of 5 percent, on average, there will be an impact. We are
afraid we will have even bigger cuts.”  The EU’s pork production, the largest in the world after
 China , is more than twice the size of the U.S., the biggest
shipper globally.  Chicken Cages  The pork regulations will come into effect after the EU
implemented similar rules in the egg industry, requiring farmers
to keep their laying hens in  cages  with enough space for them to
move. About 14 percent of the EU’s  hens  were still in cages too
small to meet the requirements when the provisions went into
effect Jan. 1, the USDA said Feb. 28.  In  Italy , which has the EU’s biggest laying-hen flock, spot
 egg  prices surged to 14.49 euros per kilogram (2.2 pounds) on
April 8, up about 39 percent from a year earlier, according to
ISMEA, a Rome-based public institute providing research,
insurance and financial services to farms. Across the EU, egg
prices have climbed about 28 percent since January, on average,
Copa-Cogeca’s Pesonen said.  European food manufacturers are facing “alarming shortages
of supplies of eggs and egg products,” CAOBISCO, the the EU’s
association of chocolate, biscuit and confectionery industries,
said in a statement March 20. Demand for eggs may exceed the
region’s production by 20 percent by June, the group said.  U.S. wholesale  pork  prices touched a record $1.1019 a pound
in August, before tumbling 30 percent since then, according to
the USDA. Hog futures traded at 86.6 cents a pound on April 27
on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, down 10 percent from a year
earlier.  Restaurants Respond  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, said in
February that it will require its pork suppliers to submit plans
to get rid of gestation pens by May. Burger King plans to use
only cage-free eggs by 2017 and will only buy pork from
suppliers that “can demonstrate documented plans to end their
use of gestation crates for breeding pigs,” it said April 25.  At a meeting April 25, 80 percent of shareholders for  Ann
Arbor , Michigan-based  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  voted against a
resolution, proposed by the  Humane Society  of the  United States ,
to ban gestation stalls.  “We continue to have conversations with our suppliers on
the topic,” Domino’s spokesman Tim McIntyre said in an e-mail
today. “We do plan on relying on the knowledge of animal
experts, from farmers to veterinarians to the USDA in making
decisions about the food products we purchase.”  No U.S. Ban  While there is no federal  law  in the U.S. banning gestation
crates for sows, eight states have legislation barring the
practice, according to the Humane Society of the United States.
 Australia  has phased out stalls for about a third of its sow
herd, and farmers have committed to ending the practice by 2017,
according to Australian Pork Limited, a producer group.  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest pork processor,
which is based in Smithfield,  Virginia , has said it plans to
eliminate gestation crates by 2017.  Some EU countries have made the switch. The U.K., the 10th-
biggest EU pork producer, banned hog stalls in 1999, spurring a
contraction in the country’s herd, AHDB’s Howarth said. It
totaled 4.35 million head in 2011, the smallest since at least
1973 and about 39 percent less than the herd in 1999, according
to Eurostat.  Pork prices are still likely to rise in the U.K. next year,
as about 60 percent of the meat consumed in the country is
imported, Howarth said.  “Retailers are going to be reluctant to pass on prices
unnecessarily,” Howarth said. “But it comes to a point where
the price increase is too much for the supply chain to bear, and
it will inevitably have to be passed on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  