-- Ruckus Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs for IPO
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-04-30T21:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/ruckus-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-goldman-sachs-for-ipo.html
Ruckus Wireless Inc., a maker of
wireless-networking equipment, is working with  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ahead of a possible initial public
offering, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The offering will probably occur this year, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the plans aren’t
public. Ruckus Chief Executive Officer Selina Lo, when asked
about the potential share sale, said the company is exploring
options and is in talks with bankers about a possible IPO. She
declined to elaborate on plans to choose underwriters.  “We would like to try to go this year,” she said in a
phone interview. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment, as did Goldman Sachs’s  Michael DuVally .  The Sunnyvale, California-based company is a leader in the
market for gear that lets phone companies shunt data traffic
from overcrowded cellular networks onto higher-capacity Wi-Fi
networks. Carriers are using Ruckus’s small networking devices
that can be placed on telephone poles, street lights or roofs to
relieve networks swamped by data traffic from smartphones.  Ruckus had sales of $120 million in 2011, up 50 percent
from the previous year, the company said. This year, Ruckus has
signed deals with Time Warner Cable Inc., Telekom Malaysia Bhd.
and Axtel SAB, Lo said. The company plans to announce a
partnership at the  International CTIA Wireless  show in  New
Orleans  on May 7 with equipment maker Nokia Siemens Networks Oy,
which will resell Ruckus’s gear as part of network deployments,
she said.  Wi-Fi Spectrum  “A lot of service providers weren’t really spending much
time with us last year, but now they all have requests for
proposals to do large Wi-Fi projects,” Lo said.  In  London , Lo said she saw Ruckus’s newest products on a
lamppost on Exhibition Road, as part of plans by Telefonica SA’s
O2 network to offer high-speed wireless service during the 2012
Olympics.  Mike Roudi, senior vice president of mobile services at
Time Warner Cable, said the company will use Ruckus gear as part
of a plan to build 10,000 Wi-Fi hot spots around  Los Angeles ,
including an 11-mile stretch of beaches.  “The team at Ruckus has built a really good mousetrap,”
Roudi said. He cited Ruckus’s antenna design, which helps
maintain a clear signal among competing Wi-Fi networks.  Carrier Shift  When Lo  founded  Ruckus in 2004, most phone carriers saw Wi-
Fi as a threat to revenue, because it had the potential to curb
customers’ need to use cellular networks for mobile computing.
While they spent billions to license cellular spectrum from the
U.S. government, Wi-Fi spectrum was unlicensed and could be used
for free.  When the rise of Apple Inc.’s iPhone and other smartphones
sent data traffic soaring, carriers struggled to maintain
service levels without additional spectrum. Since then, carriers
including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  have taken steps to
build up their Wi-Fi networks, including in high-traffic areas
such as sports stadiums, McDonald’s Corp. restaurants and
Starbucks Corp. coffee shops.  Now, carriers are beginning to adopt a generation of
devices that include both Wi-Fi and cellular technology, said
Infonetics Research co-founder Michael Howard. The goal is for
the network to automatically shift as much traffic as possible
to Wi-Fi, which usually provides a better signal in crowded
urban areas and doesn’t come with per-minute charges.  “We’ve been talking about carrier Wi-Fi since 2008,”  Lo 
said. “We identified this market, and developed it. We’re quite
proud.”  Before starting Ruckus, Lo was vice president of marketing
at Alteon WebSystems, where she oversaw an IPO and then a sale
of the company to Nortel Networks Corp. for $7.8 billion in
2000.  At first, Ruckus focused on making technology to improve
Wi-Fi coverage inside consumers’ homes. Then it shifted to
helping companies improve their Wi-Fi networks.  “It’s been a long haul for Ruckus, but this is going to be
Selina’s biggest hit,” said Infonetics’ Howard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  