-- Rupiah Heads for Third Monthly Loss on Fuel Policy; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-30T09:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/rupiah-heads-for-third-monthly-loss-on-fuel-policy-bonds-steady.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah headed for a
third monthly loss before a government report forecast to show
consumer-price gains quickened in April and on concern fuel-
policy changes will stoke inflation. Bonds were steady.  The nation is ready to begin limiting subsidized gasoline
sales in May after lawmakers rejected the government’s bid to
increase the cost of the commodity last month, President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono said April 26.  Bank Indonesia  predicts
consumer prices will rise 4.7 percent this year if sales are
restricted, Perry Warjiyo, director for economic and monetary-
policy research, said last week.  Standard & Poor’s  refrained
from awarding Indonesia with investment-grade status on April
23, citing “policy slippages.”  “The rupiah remains fragile,” said Artanavaro Gasali, the
Jakarta-based head of global markets at PT Bank ICBC Indonesia.
“The government’s fuel-policy plan and implementation are still
unclear. Concern comes down to the effect on inflation.”  The rupiah declined 0.1 percent this month to 9,174 per
dollar as of 4:08 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has lost 1.2
percent this year and rose 0.1 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 230 basis points, or 2.30
percentage points, in April to 5.50 percent, the lowest level
since August. The measure lost 25 basis points today.  A government report tomorrow will show consumer-price gains
 accelerated  for a second month to 4.46 percent in April,
compared with 3.97 percent in March, according to the median
estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be
the biggest increase since September.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
added one basis point this month to 5.95 percent, according to
final prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The yield
climbed three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  