-- S&C Wins EDF Smart Grid Wind Contract, Studies New Markets
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-30T15:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/s-c-electric-wins-smart-grid-contract-at-edf-scottish-wind-farm.html
S&C Electric Co., a Chicago maker
of electric power systems equipment, won a smart grid contract
on a Scottish wind park from a unit of  Electricite de France SA 
and will target new markets with its voltage control technology.  S&C Electric Company  Europe  Ltd. will supply a system that
helps smooth the power supply from the Fallago Rig wind farm
developed by EDF Energy Renewables Ltd., S&C said today in an e-
mailed statement.  Wind farms, promoted by nations including the U.K., Germany
and  France , produce more variable supplies of electricity than
traditional fossil fuel plants.  Smart grid technology, developed by companies including
American Superconductor Corp. and ABB Ltd. can help integrate
wind power to the grid by controlling voltage, preventing
outages and intermittency as demand surges. Smarter electricity
networks are essential to transition to a low-carbon economy,
Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said  April 24 .  S&C’s system increases the quality of electricity, adding
only a “couple of pence” to its cost over the lifetime of the
wind farm, Andrew Jones, managing director of S&C Electric
Europe, said by phone. The technology prevents effects such as
light-switch flickering or damage to electrical appliances in
homes by keeping voltage flat, he said.  The Fallago Rig project in the Scottish Borders could power
90,000 homes with 144 megawatts of capacity when built,
according to the statement. Britain could generate 13 billion
pounds ($21 billion) for its economy by upgrading its power
network with smart grid technology by 2050, according to a
report this month by consultancy company  Ernst & Young LLP.   S&C plans to grow its business in  South Africa , Romania,
 Greece  and Turkey where clean-energy developers are increasingly
adding projects, Jones said. The company, which has worked on
more than 2,000 megawatts of wind worldwide, is currently
doubling the size of its Franklin, Milwaukee-based factory to
cope with global growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  