-- Santander and BBVA Among 11 Spanish Banks Downgraded By S&P
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-04-30T08:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/santander-and-bbva-among-11-spanish-banks-downgraded-by-s-p.html
Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit
ratings for 11 Spanish banks, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, citing “potentially
negative implications” from the nation’s downgrade last week.  S&P said it may also downgrade six other lenders.
Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, had its long-term debt rating
cut by two levels to A- from A+, and  BBVA (BBVA) , the second-largest,
had its rating cut to BBB+ from A, the ratings company said in a
statement today. The outlook for those ratings is negative.  Spain’s economy shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter
from the fourth quarter, the National Statistics Institute said
today.  Spain’s sovereign rating was cut on April 26 for the
second time this year by S&P, which cited concern that the
country will have to provide further fiscal support to banks as
the economy contracts.  Spain’s downgrade by two levels to BBB+ from A, with a
negative outlook, has “direct negative rating implications”
for the banks it rates at or above the sovereign rating, the
ratings company said today.  “The factors behind the downgrade of Spain could have
potentially negative implications for our view of the economic
risk and the industry risk affecting the Spanish banking
industry,” S&P said today.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy is struggling to convince
investors his government can narrow Spain’s budget deficit by
3.2 percentage points of gross domestic product this year as the
economy shrinks and unemployment approaches 25 percent.  S&P also downgraded  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB) , Ibercaja Banco SA,
Kutxabank SA,  Banca Civica SA (BCIV) , Bankinter SA, the Spanish unit of
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and the Spanish savings bank association.  Bankia
SA (BKIA) , Spain’s third-biggest bank, was placed on “creditwatch with
negative implications.”  S&P said it expects to conclude its review of the sovereign
downgrade’s effect on banks by the end of May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  