-- Saudi Headed for Emerging Status to Schroder on MSCI Move
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-05-01T12:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/saudi-headed-for-emerging-status-to-schroder-on-msci-coverage.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s move to resume coverage of
Saudi shares in standalone indexes could pave the way for
emerging-market status should the exchange open to foreign
investors, Schroder Investment Management Ltd. and  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  said.  “This is a very positive development and a step in the
right direction for a potential inclusion into the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF) , once the market opens up for foreign
investments,” Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head of Middle East
and North Africa investments at Schroder Investment Management,
whose parent company oversees about $291 billion, said in a
telephone interview.  The Capital Market Authority in Saudi Arabia, the world’s
top oil exporter and home to the biggest stock market in the
Persian Gulf, said in January it will allow overseas companies
to list securities on the bourse. The decision helped fuel
speculation the kingdom is taking steps to open up its exchange
to foreign, non-regional investors, who currently can’t directly
invest.  Investors are seeking access to  Saudi (SASEIDX)  Arabia as the
government of the largest Arab economy pursues more than $500
billion of spending to build real estate, infrastructure and
industry. Among companies trading on the Saudi bourse are  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemicals
company, and  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , the investment company
controlled by billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal .  Domestic Indices  MSCI, a New York-based index-provider, said yesterday it
would reintroduce the MSCI Saudi Arabia Domestic Indices and
related regional indexes in June. The index provider said in
2009 it would remove the country’s shares from its Gulf and
Arabian equity indexes because of a dispute with the exchange
over the licensing of information from the bourse.  Manuel Rensink, MSCI’s head of  Middle East  and North
Africa, didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone and calls to
the company’s office in  New York  weren’t answered.  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index has returned 18
percent this year, the second-best performer in the Persian Gulf
after Dubai and compared with a 12 percent gain in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index. The Saudi measure slipped 0.2 percent to
7,545.28 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh today.  Qatar, U.A.E.  The country is the latest in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council to move closer to gaining the emerging-
markets designation at MSCI, which helps exchanges lure
investors because fund managers buy their shares to mirror
MSCI’s indexes. Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates  are up for
review in June after MSCI in December delayed for a second time
in 2011 a decision on whether to upgrade the two nations to
emerging-market status.  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  has surged 37 percent since
MSCI announced the country’s promotion to developed-market
status in June 2009.  Six of the GCC’s seven bourses are classified as frontier
markets by MSCI, a designation for countries with an average
stock-market value of about $30 billion, 94 percent less than in
emerging nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Almost any way you look at it, Saudi belongs in emerging
markets” should foreign ownership restrictions be removed, said
Andrew Howell, a London-based strategist for frontier and
emerging European markets at Citigroup. “There is no doubt that
the market has been anticipating to some degree that Saudi will
be opening more.”  Saudi Arabia will only open its stock exchange to foreign
investors in a “gradual” process and after concluding there
will be no negative impact on trading, the official Saudi Press
Agency reported last month, citing the market regulator’s
Chairman Abdulrahman al-Tuwaijri.  “ Saudi Arabia  from an economic and company perspective
offers a lot of attractive features, so it’s something we would
be recommending to clients to follow closely and look to add
exposure when and if it becomes possible,” Howell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  