-- Scene in D.C.: Elle, Reese, Charlize, Santorum, Uggie
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-30T15:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/scene-in-d-c-elle-reese-charlize-santorum-uggie.html
Glitz and geeks collided in the
hallways of the  Washington  Hilton on April 28 before the White
House Correspondents’ Association Dinner.  Supermodel  Elle Macpherson  and Roger Jenkins, managing
partner at BTG Pactual, made the circuit of pre-dinner cocktail
parties, which saw Uggie, the sprightly dog star of “The
Artist,” plant a canine kiss on Kevin Spacey.  Former Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum  kept
close to his teenaged daughter Sarah. “My daughter wanted to
come, it was the least I could do,” Santorum said.  And Brian Deese, the deputy director of the White House’s
National Economic Council, chatted with Steve Rattner, chairman
of Willett Advisors LLC.  In the hotel lobby, fans waited for celebrity arrivals.  “Be polite, watch your manners,”  Reese Witherspoon  told
an overzealous autograph seeker.  Meanwhile, Rosario Dawson had stern words for politicians.  “Stop acting like it’s high school,” Dawson said on April
27 at the party given by Voto Latino, which encourages Hispanics
and Latinos to register to vote. “We have serious work to do.”  Also reminding guests of a higher purpose were the video
screens at Impact Arts + Film Fund’s “First Amendment Party”
projecting lines from the U.S. Constitution.  ‘True Blood’  Attending that late-night gathering on April 27 were
Charlize Theron and “True Blood” cast member Ryan Kwanten.
Congressional staffers and business leaders present included
Yebbie Watkins, chief of staff to Representative  James Clyburn ,
the South Carolina Democrat, Michael Bassik, chief executive of
 Proof Integrated Communications  and John Unwin, CEO of  the
Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas , an underwriter of the party.  A picture-perfect view of the White House from the rooftop
of the Hay Adams Hotel capped off the weekend for Senator  Roy Blunt  and Mort Zuckerman, who were among those to attend a
brunch yesterday hosted by  John McLaughlin  of “The McLaughlin
Group.”  “Vive la femme” was the spirit of the ladies in long
floral ball gowns at the National Museum of Women in the Arts
25th anniversary gala.  Jacqueline Badger Mars, of the Mars Inc. candy fortune, and
Veronica Webb Del Gatto, former supermodel and now director of
special projects for Circa Inc., admired paintings in the
exhibition “Royalists to Romantics: Women Artists from the
Louvre, Versailles, and other French National Collections.”  Juliana May, senior vice president for  Jones Lang Lasalle
Inc. (JLL) , admired a nude painting by Marguerite Zorach.  “I didn’t know you used to model,” said Peter Cressy, CEO
of the Distilled Spirits Council, causing May to blush.  After a “French country pique nique” dinner, Francois
Delattre, the French ambassador, and Said Jawad, former
Afghanistan ambassador and now CEO of Capitalize LLC, twirled
their wives on the dance floor.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  book  and  wine  reviews.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 