-- MSCI Reintroduces Coverage of Saudi Arabian Stock Market
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-04-30T13:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/msci-reintroduces-coverage-of-saudi-arabian-stock-market.html
MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  will reintroduce coverage
of  Saudi Arabia’s stock market  in standalone country indexes
after signing a deal with the biggest Arab bourse, stoking bets
the nation may get emerging-market status.  MSCI said it would reintroduce the MSCI Saudi Arabia
Domestic Indices and related regional indexes in June, according
to a statement distributed via  Business Wire . MSCI said in 2009
it would remove the country’s shares from its Gulf and Arabian
equity indexes because of a dispute with the stock exchange over
the licensing of information from the bourse.  “The reintroduced MSCI Saudi Arabia Domestic Indices,
including large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap indices, are designed
for institutional investors wishing to invest in Saudi Arabia,
and who are not constrained by foreign ownership limits,” MSCI
said.  Saudi Arabia has signaled it is taking steps to open up its
stock market to foreign, non-Persian Gulf investors, who
currently can’t directly invest in Saudi shares. Six of the Gulf
region’s seven bourses are classified as frontier markets by
MSCI, a designation that typically applies to economies and
financial markets that are less developed than  emerging markets .  Among companies trading on Saudi Arabia’s bourse are  Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemicals
company.  Foreign Investors  The news “will spur speculative buying as the assumption
will be that the next step will be inclusion in emerging-market
universe, but obviously foreign-ownership issues have to be
overcome first,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of
institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  The Saudi  stock index  has returned 18 percent this year,
the second-best performer in the Gulf and compared with a 12
percent gain in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)  The measure was
little changed at 7,558.47 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh
today, trimming the decline for the month to 3.5 percent.  Saudi Arabia’s Capital Market Authority said in January it
will allow overseas companies to list securities on the bourse.  In October, three bankers familiar with the matter said the
market regulator was in talks with international banks to open
the stock exchange to foreign investors in early 2012. The
kingdom hasen’t set a timeline for opening up to foreigners,
stock exchange Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Al-Suweilmy said
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  