-- Serbia Government Has 3 Interested Bidders for Steel Plant
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-30T14:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/serbia-says-three-interested-in-former-u-s-steel-plant.html
Ukraine’s Donetskstal-Metallurgical
Plant, Russia’s Ural Mining and Metallurgical Company Co OJSC
and Luxembourg-based  United Group SA  may bid to become a
strategic partner for Serbia’s only steel plant  Zelezara
Smederevo d.o.o.   The Luxembourg-based holding United Group comprises Pilsen
Steel Sro and Baummash OJSC. The three companies applied for
tender documents on April 27, said the government in an e-mailed
statement today.  Serbia has set a May 4 deadline to select the new strategic
partner for the unprofitable plant, which works at half capacity
of 2.2 million tons of crude steel a year and which the
government bought back in January from U.S. Steel Corp. for $1.  Qualifying bidders need to be involved in mining, minerals,
steel or similar businesses and with 2012 revenue of more than 1
billion euros ($1.32 billion).  Steel exports fell 63 percent in the first quarter of 2012,
compared with the same period a year earlier, to 88.4 million
euros, according to foreign trade figures released by the
statistics office today.  Serbia  is trying to avoid a second recession in three years
as the nation prepares to vote for a new president, parliament
and local governments on May 6.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s cabinet, fighting for re-
election, ends its term in office with an unemployment rate of
24 percent and the dinar at its lowest in a decade.  U.S. Steel bought Serbia’s sole steelworks for $23 million
in 2003 and sold it back to the government in January as it
could no longer cope with weaker-than-expected recovery in the
Balkan region and pressure from low-priced imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  