-- Singapore Signals Policy Tightening Won’t Fully Offset Prices
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-04-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/singapore-signals-policy-tightening-won-t-fully-offset-prices.html
The tightening of Singapore’s
monetary policy earlier this month won’t completely counter
price pressures, as efforts to reduce foreign workers in the
economy push up business costs, the central bank signaled.  “While changes in the foreign worker policy are necessary
to ensure a more efficient allocation of resources and a more
productive workforce over the medium term, the latter will take
time to come to fruition,” the Monetary Authority of Singapore
said in its Macroeconomic Review today. The policy tightening is
“intended to temper, but not fully offset, the pass-through of
these supply-side cost increases,” it said.  The central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to manage
 inflation , said April 13 it would allow faster currency
appreciation as a report showed the island’s economy rebounded
in the first quarter. Price gains will probably remain elevated
amid “modest” growth in the coming quarters as the tourism and
financial industries counter “sluggish” trade-related businesses
such as those in electronics, the MAS said in today’s report.  Gross domestic product  will probably increase 1 percent to
3 percent this year, the central bank said, reiterating earlier
forecasts. Employment may grow at a slower pace in 2012 even as
local wages may climb at a “healthy” rate, it said.  The weakness in the global information technology industry
last year has hurt  Singapore ’s electronics producers, and the
chemicals industry may experience “restrained” growth because of
capacity expansions in  Asia  and the  Middle East , the central 
bank said. Pharmaceutical companies may “see more measured 
growth this year, on the back of the ongoing consolidation in
the global pharmaceutical market,” it said.  Wages Rising  “While prospects for the manufacturing-linked industries
are uncertain, the non trade-related service sectors will remain
buoyant and supportive of GDP growth in 2012, on the back of
strong regional and domestic fundamentals,” according to the
report. “With local wages expected to still increase at a
healthy pace this year, retail sales and other domestic-oriented
services should continue to record steady expansions.”  Expansion in the  construction industry  will be supported by
a ramp-up in contracts awarded over the past two years, the
central bank said.  The labor market will remain “tight” because of supply
constraints, it said, citing further tightening of the foreign
labor policy and signs that hiring sentiment is gradually
improving with the more positive economic outlook.  Singapore’s consumer price index rose 5.2 percent in March
from a year earlier.  Core inflation  was 2.9 percent. The central
bank today reiterated its forecast for inflation of 3.5 percent
to 4.5 percent this year, and core price gains of 2.5 percent to
3 percent.  Cost Pressures  “The strong consumer price increases in early 2012 were
the result of the pass-through of cost pressures accumulated
over the previous two years,” it said. “While the pace of
subsequent price increases will ease from the high seen earlier
this year, overall inflation will remain firm.”  Imported inflationary pressures are likely to be sustained
by the rise in global  oil prices , the central bank said.  Other imported prices may “stay benign before picking up
moderately towards the end of the year when the global economic
recovery is expected to be stronger,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua in Singapore at   lchua@bloomberg.net  