-- Taiwan Slowdown, Singapore Jobs Reflect EU Trade Impact: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-30T09:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/singapore-s-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-rose-last-quarter-to-2-1-.html
Taiwan’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace since 2009,  Singapore ’s jobless rate unexpectedly
rose and growth in South Korean industrial output eased in March,
underscoring the continued impact of Europe’s crisis on Asian
economies reliant on trade.  Taiwan’s gross domestic product rose 0.36 percent last
quarter from a year earlier after climbing 1.89 percent in the
previous period, a report showed today. Singapore’s  unemployment
rate  climbed to 2.1 percent last quarter from near a three-year
low of 2 percent, while South  Korea ’s production gained 0.3
percent from a year ago after rising 14.3 percent in February.
All three reports missed estimates by economists in Bloomberg
News surveys.  Asian central banks are juggling the need to damp
inflationary pressures and bolster growth, with  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in China’s expansion weighing on the
global economic outlook. Singapore’s manufacturing output shrank
in the first quarter, the  Bank of Korea  lowered its full-year
growth forecast this month and  Japan  reported last week that
industrial production rose in March less than economists
estimated.  “We have seen clear deterioration in various momentum
indicators,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “This reflects weakness in
demand from Europe and the U.S. and a slowdown in China. Europe
will be weak even if it emerges out of a recession so the impact
on  Asia  will still remain.”  Factory Jobs  Singapore manufacturers cut jobs after demand for the
island’s goods faltered. Exports unexpectedly dropped last month
as shipments of electronics eased and petrochemical sales fell
amid a decline in demand from China. A stronger  Singapore dollar ,
the best performer in Asia this year, may also weigh on export
orders as the currency appreciation makes the island’s goods
more expensive overseas.  The Singapore dollar rose 0.4 percent to S$1.2352 against
its U.S. counterpart at 5:08 p.m. local time today, while the
 Taiwan dollar  strengthened 0.3 percent to NT$29.232 at the 4 p.m.
close, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The won rose 0.4 percent
to 1,130.13 per dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s production fell 3.1 percent from February
when it gained a revised 0.6 percent. South Korea’s index of
leading economic indicators rose 0.4 percent in March from
February, compared with a 1 percent gain in February, today’s
report showed. Sales of  consumer goods  dropped 2.7 percent from
February and were unchanged from a year earlier.  ‘Weak’ Demand  “Today’s data raises a question about the strength of the
recovery momentum, with exports falling and domestic demand
staying weak,” said  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. “The second half will be
much better but it largely hinges on  China  and other big
economies.”  Some semiconductor chip producers and other technology
companies cut inventories last month, probably ahead of the
release of new products, which may bode well for production in
coming months, Choi Sang Mok, director-general at the  finance
ministry , told reporters in Gwacheon today.  “The economy is on a recovery path but external
uncertainties persist so it’s premature to see a full-speed
recovery yet,” Choi said.  Taiwan’s growth slowdown may crimp scope for the central
bank to raise  interest rates  even as higher fuel and electricity
prices threaten to spur inflation. The government lowered its
2012 GDP growth estimate to 3.38 percent from 3.85 percent today,
and increased the inflation forecast to 1.94 percent from 1.46
percent.  Thai Deficit  Thailand  recorded a current-account deficit for the first
time in four months in March amid rising oil prices and
machinery replacements in factories after last year’s floods.  Spain ’s economy officially entered its second recession
since 2009 after shrinking in the first quarter. GDP fell 0.3
percent, the same as in the previous three months, the Madrid-
based National Statistics Institute said today. European
inflation slowed in April, with the rate falling to 2.6 percent.  The U.S. Commerce Department will provide details today of
how consumption fared last month. Spending may have grown 0.4
percent in March, half as much as February’s 0.8 percent gain
that was the biggest in seven months, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Incomes rose 0.3 percent, following a 0.2 percent
increase, economists said.  Foreigner Curbs  Singapore’s economy added 27,400 jobs last quarter,
compared with 37,600 in the previous period. The jobless rate of
2.1 percent in the first quarter compared with the median
estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News for a
rate of 2 percent.  The government has tightened curbs on foreign labor after
public dissatisfaction over the influx of workers from overseas
led to record opposition gains in general elections last year.
More than a third of Singapore’s 5.2 million population is made
up of foreigners and permanent residents.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has said such limits will
mean forgoing business opportunities and accepting slower growth.
Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in February that
the government would cut the proportion of foreign workers that
companies can hire and may consider further increasing levies
for employing them.  The services industry added 19,800 jobs last quarter, while
manufacturing companies decreased payrolls by 500, the report
showed, citing preliminary data. Construction employment rose
8,000 in the three months through March. Singapore’s industrial
production in the first quarter dropped 1 percent.  Lackluster Output  “Some increase in the  unemployment rate  from historically
low rates is still expected for the first quarter given
lackluster industrial production in the period,”  Alaistair Chan ,
a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics, said before the
report. “A dimmer regional outlook likely also slowed hiring in
tourist-related services.”  Singapore’s GDP will probably increase 1 percent to 3
percent this year, the central bank said in a macroeconomic
review today, reiterating earlier forecasts. Employment may grow
at a slower pace in 2012 even as local wages may climb at a
“healthy” rate, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  