-- Sinopec, ENN Extend Deadline to Buy China Gas to July 6
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-04-30T16:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/sinopec-enn-extend-deadline-to-buy-china-gas-to-july-6.html
China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  and
 ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688) , joint bidders for  China Gas Holdings
Ltd. (384) , extended the deadline for the acquisition to July 6 as
they wait for regulatory approvals.  ENN Energy also postponed distributing a circular to
shareholders on the planned deal to no later than May 31, the
bidders said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday. ENN
said on March 19 it would dispatch a circular on the HK$15.3
billion ($2 billion) bid by yesterday.  China Petroleum,  Asia ’s biggest refiner, and ENN have
extended deadlines twice since offering to acquire China Gas for
HK$3.50 a share in cash in December. China Gas, a fuel supplier
in 20 mainland provinces, rejected the offer, saying it’s
opportunistic and fails to reflect the company’s value, and has
declined invitations by the bidders for talks.  “This war of patience is going to drag on, for there’s no
way China Gas will get engaged in talks unless the bidders
significantly raise the offer price,” Wang Pei, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Bank of China International Ltd., said before
the announcement. “One party has to make compromises to get the
talks started.”  China Gas rose 0.5 percent to HK$3.86 at the close in  Hong
Kong  yesterday. The stock has advanced 38 percent since Dec. 12,
the day before the offer was announced. ENN gained 0.7 percent
and Sinopec climbed 3.7 percent in the same period.  Fair Value  The offer reflects a fair market valuation of China Gas,
ENN President Wang Dongzhi said in Hong Kong on March 28. The
board and president of China Gas were contacted before the bid
was proposed as well as in February and March, and China Gas
officials declined invitations to talks, ENN Chief Financial
Officer Wilson Cheng said at the time.  China Petroleum said the offer is “fair” and reflects the
company’s value. A price higher than the market valuation can’t
be paid, Fu Chengyu, chairman of Sinopec, as China Petroleum is
known, said on March 26.  The bidders previously extended the deadline to May 15 from
March 31, citing extra time needed to acquire regulatory
approvals from the Chinese government. That followed a delay in
February to circulate the notice.  The delays are “extremely frustrating for China Gas, for
our staff and for our shareholders,” President Eric Leung said
on March 20. China Gas objects “in the strongest terms” to the
extension, Leung said at the time.  Access to Customers  Sinopec and ENN sent an open letter to employees at the
takeover target to assure them they would benefit from the
proposed acquisition. The buyers “do not intend to make any
material changes” to employment at China Gas, according to an
exchange filing on April 19.  Buying China Gas, whose shareholders include SK Holdings
Co. and  Fortune Oil Plc (FTO) , would give Sinopec and ENN access to
its 6.6 million residential customers and 42,000 industrial and
commercial users in the world’s second-biggest economy.  ENN, the fourth-biggest Hong Kong-listed gas supplier by
sales, plans to fund 55 percent of the proposed acquisition as
it plans to expand its distribution network, while Sinopec will
pay for the rest.  Moody’s Investors Services and  Standard & Poor’s  put ENN’s
credit ratings on review for a possible downgrade, saying the
proposed acquisition may drain the company’s cash and increase
its debt burden.  Financial Resources  ENN may not have enough financial resources to further
raise the offer price, BOC’s Wang said. To make the deal move
forward, ENN may have to give up its position of the majority
shareholder in the proposed deal, Wang said.  The company had cash and cash equivalents of 3.35 billion
yuan and a restricted bank deposit of 2.52 billion yuan as
escrow for the offer as of Dec. 31, according to its annual
report released on March 28. Total debt was 10.67 billion yuan
as of the end of last year, ENN said.  “Sinopec may have to play a leading role if they want to
raise the offer to an acceptable level to China Gas,” Wang
said. “ENN simply doesn’t have the financial resources to
support a higher offer under the current shareholding
structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  