-- SNC-Lavalin Top Shareholder Faults Board Over Graft Probe
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-30T20:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/snc-lavalin-top-shareholder-faults-board-over-graft-probe.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc.’s (SNC)  biggest
shareholder said directors provided inadequate oversight before
a probe of incorrectly booked payments led to the chief
executive officer’s resignation and a former vice president’s
arrest at Canada’s largest engineering company.  “We have a board that didn’t keep its eye on things,”
said  Stephen Jarislowsky , CEO of Montreal-based money manager
Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., which holds about  14 percent  of SNC-
Lavalin’s stock. “The discipline was pretty loose.”  Jarislowsky spoke in a telephone interview about a scandal
that has helped chop 27 percent of SNC-Lavalin’s market value
this year, to C$5.61 billion ($5.68 billion) today. The shares
plunged on Feb. 28 after the company opened a probe into
inaccurate documentation of payments at its construction unit.  Riadh Ben Aissa, SNC-Lavalin’s former vice president of
infrastructure and construction, was arrested amid a criminal
probe into North African operations, Swiss authorities said
today. Former CEO Pierre Duhaime stepped down in March after
SNC-Lavalin said $56 million in expenses were posted to projects
to which they weren’t related.  Ben Aissa, a dual citizen of  Canada  and  Tunisia  who oversaw
SNC-Lavalin projects in  Libya , left in February. He “is
believed to have direct and significant knowledge about most of
the investigated transactions,” the Montreal-based company said
in a March 26 statement on the review’s results.  Board’s Function  The criminal investigation, opened by Swiss authorities in
May 2011, “has uncovered suspicion of corruption, fraud and
 money laundering , all in relation to business conducted in North
Africa,”  Jeannette Balmer , a spokeswoman for the Swiss State
Prosecution, said today in an e-mail.  Canada plans to cooperate with the Swiss investigation,
Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  told lawmakers in Ottawa.  “There are very serious allegations being made against
this company, there are very serious investigations going on,”
Baird said today. “We’ll do everything we can to support these
investigations and to be as helpful as we possibly can. High
ethical standards for Canadian enterprises are not something
that’s up for negotiation.”  SNC-Lavalin’s board “clearly didn’t perform its function,
and the executive more or less operated on his own,”
Jarislowsky said, referring to Ben Aissa.  ‘Black Mark’  Leslie Quinton, a spokeswoman for SNC-Lavalin, reiterated a
previous statement by Chairman Gwyn Morgan that “when the
matters were brought to the board’s attention, the board acted
swiftly.” The company is continuing to review compliance and
other issues, she said.  SNC-Lavalin rose 0.5 percent to C$37.14 at the close in
Toronto.  The recent events at SNC-Lavalin “are a black mark for the
board,” said Jarislowsky, whose firm oversees more than $38
billion in assets. “They didn’t show that they understood
project management.”  SNC-Lavalin said in March that about $33.5 million in
payments in the construction unit was incorrectly booked in 2011
and an additional $22.5 million was improperly recorded in 2010
and 2011.  The $33.5 million of expenses from so-called agency
agreements were authorized by Duhaime, “in breach” of the
company’s ethics policy, after other executives refused to
approve them, the company said.  ‘The Boss’  “There’s very much that has to be done with respect to
recasting the board of directors, and recasting the fact that
the board of directors is the boss, and not the CEO,”
Jarislowsky said. “That’s essential.”  The board is led by Morgan, 66, a director since March 2005
and the former CEO of natural oil- and gas-producer  Encana Corp. (ECA) 
Vice Chairman Ian Bourne, 64, who has been a director since
November 2009, was named interim CEO when Duhaime stepped down.  Jarislowsky said he expects all 11 directors up for
election at SNC-Lavalin’s annual meeting May 3 to win their
seats and any changes to the board’s makeup to occur afterward.  The directors serving prior to the payment-booking scandal
“didn’t do their job, period,” he said. “It’s not
complicated.”  Jarislowsky also criticized SNC-Lavalin’s board for
authorizing payments of C$4.97 million to Duhaime.  “I think he should have been fired on the spot,” he said.  Duhaime’s severance package is “consistent” with his
employment agreement as well as “customary practices in these
circumstances and applicable law,” SNC-Lavalin said in an April
2  regulatory filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  