-- Sohu Declines as Easing Growth Curbs Profits: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-30T21:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/sohu-leads-slide-as-easing-growth-curbs-profits-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S.
dropped, pulling the benchmark index down from a one-month high,
on concern slower economic growth is dragging on company sales
and squeezing profits.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks listed in the U.S. slipped 0.7 percent to 103.48,
the first decline in four days.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , the owner of
China’s third-biggest online search engine, fell 7.5 percent,
the biggest drop since February, after forecasting second-
quarter sales that missed analysts’ estimates. The  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  and the Hong Kong bourse are closed today.  The world’s second-largest economy grew in the first
quarter  at the slowest pace  in almost three years, after export
growth fell and the housing market cooled as  Europe ’s debt
crisis capped demand. The  average profit margin  of companies in
the China-US gauge fell to 15 percent in the first quarter from
20 percent a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sohu’s “growth is slowing down quite a bit,” Andy Yeung,
a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The implied earnings continue to show
margin pressure. The Chinese advertising market will be
relatively weak until the economy picks up in the second half.”  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.2 percent to $37.93
yesterday. The ETF gained 3.4 percent in April, extending its
advance this year to 8.8 percent.  Falling Short  The Bloomberg China-US index rose 0.5 percent in April,
after slipping 0.6 percent in March. The Shanghai Composite
Index of domestic Chinese stocks was up 5.9 percent last month
and has added 9 percent this year.  Of the 17 companies in the China-US index that have
reported earnings since April 10, nine fell short of analysts’
forecasts, including  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and  China Telecom
Corp. (CHA)  according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based chip
designer, is scheduled to release its first-quarter earnings
after the market closes on May 3.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the biggest online
video operator in China, and Seaspan Corp., a Hong Kong-based
container ship operator, are expected to report earnings the
following day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sohu lost more than $4 to $51.57 in  New York  after the
company said it expects revenue between $244 million and $250
million in the second quarter, trailing the average $253 million
of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Challenging’ Market  Revenue increased 30 percent from a year earlier in the
first quarter to $227 million, the Beijing-based  Internet
company  said on April 30.  Net income  declined to 53 cents per share in the first
quarter from $1.01 a year earlier, as the company faced a
“challenging” market in sales of online display advertising,
and as operating expenses rose 48 percent, according to Sohu.
The earnings beat the 46 cents per-share average prediction of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Baidu Inc., (BIDU)  owner of  China ’s dominant Internet search
engine, said on April 24 that its second-quarter sales may rise
to between 5.34 billion yuan ($850 million) and 5.46 billion
yuan, below the 5.48-billion-yuan average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The projected growth rate of as much as
60 percent from a year earlier would be the slowest pace in more
than two years.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based Baidu fell
1.3 percent to $132.70 yesterday. It dropped 9 percent in April,
trimming its gain this year to 14 percent.  Lower Valuations  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pared this year’s economic
growth target to 7.5 percent, from the 8 percent goal that had
been in place since 2005.  Wen has said the government will fine-tune its economic
policy as the economy slows. The government plans to lower
tariffs on some products to encourage imports as the nation
seeks to alleviate pressures on domestic resources and reduce
trade conflicts, the State Council said in a statement on April
30.  The Shanghai Composite trades for 10.2 times estimated
earnings for member companies, after reaching a record-low
valuation of 8.8 times in January. It compares with a multiple
of 13 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11 times for
the MSCI Emerging Market Index.  The gauge for the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index , which tracks Chinese stocks trading in
 Hong Kong , has declined to 8.4 times from 10.6 a year earlier.  ‘Positive’ Outlook  The outlook for the Chinese stocks trading in Hong Kong is
“positive” because the valuation has become attractive after
investors turned “overly negative” on the economy, according
to  Steven Bell , who manages $600 million in assets as principal
portfolio manager at the GLC Ltd., a London-based hedge fund.  “Chinese equities have become very cheap,” Bell said in a
phone interview from  London . “While the economy may grow a
little less strongly, the outlook for inflation is positive and
that will improve consumer incomes.”  A government report may show today that the country’s
manufacturing sector, tracked by the  Purchasing Managers ’ Index,
probably rose to the strongest level in April since December
2010, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  LDK, Sina  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , based in Xinyu in China’s central Jiangxi
province, reversed an earlier decline to gain 7.4 percent to
$3.18 in New York, the biggest one-day advance since Feb. 17.  Xingxue Tong, chief operations officer of the world’s
second-largest maker of solar wafers, said the company cut 5,554
workers, or about 22 percent, this year as falling prices
reduced margins to record lows.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  fell 1.2 percent to $58.51 after the company
said it could face “severe punishment” for not verifying all
users of its Twitter-like Weibo service, as required by the
government following a crackdown at the beginning of April.  The Shanghai-based company said in a filing on April 27
that should the government enforce compliance of its request for
micro-blogging sites to ensure all users are identified, traffic
may be “severely reduced” and certain features and operations
may be deactivated.  Sina lost 10 percent in April, reducing its gain this year
to 13 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  