-- South African Road Tolls Delay May Add to Government Debt
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-30T12:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/south-african-road-tolls-delay-may-add-to-government-debt.html
South African sovereign bond yields
may increase after a  High Court  prevented the state road agency
from implementing tolls in Johannesburg from today, adding to
the government’s debt burden, Rand Merchant Bank said.  The likelihood the government will have to repay
outstanding debt of 20 billion rand ($2.6 billion) owed by the
South African National Road Agency Ltd. has increased, Carmen Nel, an economist at Johannesburg-based RMB, said in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  The  Pretoria  High Court on April 28 prevented Sanral from
starting electronic tolling on 185 kilometers (115 miles) of
roads around Johannesburg after consumer and labor groups pushed
for a delay. That decision came two days after the ruling
 African National Congress  and the country’s largest labor
federation agreed at a meeting to postpone the toll system for a
month.  “The bond market will probably start to price a higher
 risk premium  to compensate for the uncertainty,” Nel said in
the note. “If users will not be paying for infrastructure
development, there must be a significant risk that funding will
be raised in bond markets.”  The yield on the government’s R157 bond, due 2015, fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.47 percent today.  Budget Deficit  Sanral wants to charge road users between 30 cents and 1.75
rand a kilometer to help repay debt incurred in expanding
highways. The government has already allocated 5.75 billion rand
to Sanral.  South Africa is struggling to narrow its budget deficit to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product this year as a slowdown in
the global recovery curbs growth in  Africa ’s largest economy.
The government is spending as much as 300 billion rand on roads,
railways and  power plants  to bolster the economy and create jobs
for one in four people that’s unemployed.  “The whole process must be viewed as a setback for the
country as it questions the viability of the government’s
infrastructure program and is potentially negative for
government’s funding costs,” Nel said.  Jabulani Sikhakhane, spokesman for the National Treasury in
Pretoria, declined to comment when called on his mobile phone
today. Tiyani Rikhotso, spokesman for the Department of
Transport, wasn’t immediately available when called on his
mobile phone.  Public Investment Corp.  The postponement of the toll system raises the risk that
Sanral’s debt rating may be downgraded, Nel said. Moody’s
Investors Service on Feb. 29 lowered the rating to Baa1 from A3
and changed the outlook to negative, indicating it may be cut
again.  The state-owned Public Investment Corp.,  South Africa ’s
largest fund manager, which holds 17.7 billion rand of Sanral’s
outstanding debt, said it’s not concerned about a default. The
PIC owns 56 percent of Sanral’s debt, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  “PIC communicates with all the companies in which it is
invested, and that includes Sanral,” Chief Executive Officer
Elias Masilela said in an e-mailed response to questions today.
“We are not at all concerned about a default. But having said
this, we do not want to be drawn into a speculative exercise.”  The yield on Sanral’s rand-denominated debt due in 2028
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 9.25
percent last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  