-- South African Trade Gap Narrows as Iron Ore Exports Surge
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-30T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/south-african-trade-gap-narrows-as-iron-ore-exports-surge.html
South Africa’s trade deficit
narrowed for a second month in March as coal and iron ore
exports to  Asia  surged, the South African Revenue Service said.  The  shortfall  eased to 5.5 billion rand ($710 million) from
7.5 billion rand in February, the Pretoria-based South African
Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today. The  median
estimate  of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a
deficit of 5 billion rand.  South Africa has boosted exports of coal and iron ore to
meet rising demand from Asian markets, including  China , the
world’s biggest coal consumer. Last month’s improvement in
exports may help to narrow the current-account deficit, the
broadest measure of trade of goods and services, underpinning
the rand.  Exports rose 9 percent to 61.3 billion rand in March from
the previous month, led by a 25 percent, or 3.5 billion rand,
surge in coal and iron ore shipments, the revenue service said.
Imports advanced 4.8 percent to 66.8 billion rand as machinery
shipments rose 12 percent, or 1.6 billion rand.  The  current-account gap  eased to 3.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the fourth quarter from 4.1 percent in the
previous three months, the central bank said on March 19. The
deficit will probably reach 4.3 percent this year, according to
the government.  South Africa  relies on foreign investment in stocks and
bonds to finance the current-account deficit, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as slower economic growth led investors to
sell riskier, emerging-market assets. The rand has strengthened
3.5 percent against the dollar this year and was trading as high
as 7.7259 today.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  