-- Spain Slips Back Into Recession in First Quarter: Economy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-30T10:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/spain-gdp-contracts-less-than-forecast-amid-recession.html
Spain ’s  economy  contracted in the
first quarter, putting the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
into its second recession since 2009.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.3 percent, the same as in the
previous three months, the Madrid-based National Statistics
Institute said today. That compares with the Bank of Spain’s
estimate on April 23 for a 0.4 percent decline. From a year ago,
GDP dropped 0.4 percent, INE said.  Spain’s government is struggling to convince investors it
can narrow the  budget deficit  by 3.2 percentage points of GDP
this year as the economy shrinks and  unemployment  approaches 25
percent. While it forecast Spain to return to growth in 2013,
 Standard & Poor’s  last week lowered the nation’s credit rating
to three levels from junk status, citing concern the country
will need to pour more money into its lenders.  “We fear things are likely to get worse before they get
better,” Martin van Vliet, a senior euro-region economist at
ING Bank in Amsterdam said in a note. “The recession will
almost certainly deepen in the coming quarters, pushing
unemployment to even more dramatic highs.”  Spanish 10-year bond yields eased to 5.874 percent today
from 5.881 percent on April 27, leaving the gap over equivalent
German yields at 418 basis points. The yield is 1 percentage
point higher than at the start of March as foreign investors
reduced holdings of the nation’s debt.  Investor Confidence  Non-resident  holdings of Spanish bonds fell to 220 billion
euros ($291 billion) in March from 245 billion euros the
previous month, data on the Treasury’s website showed today. At
the same time, Spanish banks increased their holdings to 171
billion euros from 142 billion euros, the data showed.  As part of its efforts to win back the confidence of
foreign investors, the government said on April 27 it would
shift the burden of taxes onto consumption and reduce levies on
employing workers. The move will add 8 billion euros to revenue
next year, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said, while helping
to make Spanish goods more competitive abroad.  The government forecast the economy to shrink 1.7 percent
in 2012 before expanding 0.2 percent next year, leaving the
jobless rate at about 24 percent. By comparison, the  European
Central Bank  last month forecast euro-region GDP to drop 0.1
percent this year and increase 1.1 percent in 2013.  Taiwan, Singapore  Spain is relying on exports to drive the recovery as
households pay down debt. While  1.73 million  households have all
their members out of work, families that do have income have
been hit by tax increases and may see their wages fall after
changes to labor rules made it easier to renegotiate contracts.  Companies may see faltering sales growth as economies
around the world show signs of slowdown. Taiwan’s economy
expanded at the weakest pace since 2009 in the first quarter,
Singapore’s jobless rate unexpectedly rose in that period and
growth in South Korean industrial output eased in March, reports
showed today.  Asian central banks are juggling the need to damp
inflationary pressures and bolster growth, with the risks of
Europe’s fiscal crisis and a cooling Chinese economy. The  Bank
of Japan (8301)  last week expanded its stimulus program to help bolster
the economy.  German Hiring  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  probably rose 0.3 percent in
March, up from 0.2 percent in the previous month, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The  Federal Reserve  remains “prepared to do
more as needed,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 25,
after policy makers reiterated their pledge to keep borrowing
costs at record lows through 2014.  Germany  has helped support the region’s economy and offset
some of the impact of austerity measures. Retail sales in
Europe’s largest economy increased in March, a report showed
today, and unemployment probably declined this month, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
will release the report on May 2.  Still, with economies from Spain to  Greece  in recession and
the region’s slump deepening, ECB President  Mario Draghi  last
week called for a “growth compact” consisting of structural
changes and improvements in competitiveness to bolster the
economy. The Frankfurt-based central bank on May 2 will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  “There has never been any successful austerity program in
any large country,” Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  told reporters in Vienna on April 26. “The European
approach definitely is the least promising.  Europe  is headed to
a suicide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  