-- Spain’s Slump Means Europe Must Rethink Tough-Love Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/spain-s-slump-means-europe-must-rethink-tough-love-policy.html
Spain is the crucial front in  Europe ’s
battle to contain its economic crisis, and the fight is going
badly.  Spain’s economy is in a tailspin. Some forecasters say the
 unemployment rate , already a punishingly high 24.4 percent,
could reach 30 percent. The government’s credit rating has just
been  downgraded , and its cost of borrowing -- close to 6 percent
-- is putting its solvency in question. Investors are watching
the country’s banks with mounting concern.  Europe’s leaders cannot blame  Madrid . Mariano Rajoy’s
center-right government is making progress on reforms aimed at
improving the country’s competitiveness and has tried -- to a
fault -- to meet the European Union’s austerity demands. The
resulting budget cuts are strangling the economy, squeezing the
government’s revenue and increasing the likelihood that  Spain 
will need still more austerity to meet the EU’s fiscal targets.
The policy has become self-defeating.  The EU must come to the country’s assistance while it can
still make a difference. If Europe’s leaders don’t move fast to
help rescue Spain’s banks and at least mitigate its economic
decline, the crisis will quickly become much harder to contain.  Spain is running out of options to shore up its banking
system, laden with problem loans extended during the country’s
record-breaking housing bubble. The government has reformed the
sector and called for new capital and loan-loss provisions, but
analysts increasingly doubt this will be enough.  Bad Assets  Rajoy is now considering a program to protect banks’
capital by getting bad assets off their balance sheets. To do
this in a way that strengthens the banks, though, the government
will need to put in money -- money it doesn’t have. If it taps
funds set aside to guarantee deposits -- an approach that is
being debated -- this would only increase financial risk with
one hand while reducing it with the other.  Rajoy has also done plenty to reform Spain’s notoriously
sclerotic labor market. The government has liberalized the dual-
contract system that made many employees impossible to fire and
forced all the stress of economic adjustment onto temporary
workers. Although only a first step, it’s a radical move that
took courage.  Persevering with these and other structural reforms, plus
wage restraint, can improve the country’s long-term prospects
but can’t provide short-term relief. Such relief can only come
from the EU as a whole, partly through easier monetary policy
and partly through backloading of the fiscal consolidation.
Spain can’t loosen its fiscal policy on its own for fear of
spooking investors. So any feasible solution will require some
pooling of Europe-wide fiscal policy, with the  European Central
Bank  acting as lender of last resort for distressed sovereigns
or the issuance of euro-area bonds jointly backed by all the
currency union’s members.  The ECB’s trillion-euro  liquidity operation  brought
temporary relief, but only at the cost of increasing Spain’s
financial fragility as its banks used the ECB’s loans to buy
more of their government’s subsequently downgraded debt. The
more investors understand this frailty, the greater the risk of
financial meltdown becomes. Considering that Spain’s economy is
far larger than those of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  combined,
the repercussions would put all of Europe at risk.  On this background, it’s absurd to assert -- as  Germany  has
-- that Spain and other struggling economies can claw their way
back to economic stability through fiscal austerity, despite
slow or no growth. If Europe’s leaders are betting they’ll have
time to act if the situation deteriorates, they’re wrong. The
pressure on Spain is no longer productive. It’s undermining a
government that is doing all it can. If the gamble fails, things
will unravel quickly -- too quickly, maybe, for Plan B to take
effect.  The time for Plan B is now.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View   Today’s highlights: the View editors on the  Osama bin Laden
anniversary ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  death of Benzion Netanyahu ;
Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on the  benefits of work-
sharing ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  fertility rates and foreign policy ;
and Peter Viktor Kunz on the  benefits of Swiss banks .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 