-- Standard Chartered Investors Should Oppose Pay Report, PIRC Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-30T12:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/standard-chartered-investors-should-oppose-pay-report-pirc-says.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  investors
should vote against the bank’s executive pay report because it
doesn’t disclose long-term bonus targets and Chairman John Peace
helps set compensation, according to corporate governance
adviser Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd.  The remuneration committee, of which Peace is a member,
gave him about $769,000 of share awards, London-based PIRC,
which advises investors with total assets of about 1.5 trillion
pounds ($2.4 trillion), said in a statement today.  Standard Chartered, Britain’s No.2 bank by market value,
paid  Mike Rees , head of corporate banking, as much as $13.4
million for 2011, while the bank’s five highest-paid employees
got $42.1 million for 2011, according to its  annual report . The
PIRC advice comes after 27 percent of shareholders last week
voted against the pay report of Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets.  “The lack of cap for the annual bonus raises concerns over
the quantum of awards being provided to individual directors,”
PIRC said in the statement. Rees may receive a $10 million
annual performance bonus, including cash, shares and deferred
shares, “nearly nine times” his base salary of $1.12 million,
said PIRC.  “We’ve delivered nine years of record income and profit,
so there’s clearly evidence of long-term performance within the
bank,” bank spokesman Jon Tracey said by phone. “Pay and
compensation is absolutely geared very stringently to long-term
performance objectives within  Standard Chartered .”  The bank adheres to the U.K. corporate governance code
relating to Peace, Tracey said.  -- Editors: Jon Menon,  Keith Campbell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  