-- Sting, Joel Face Rival as Jon Regen Gets Revolution
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-04-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/sting-joel-face-rival-as-jon-regen-gets-revolution.html
Jon Regen was in the shower at his New
York home when the idea came to him for a new song.  “I heard the phrase, ‘there’s a revolution inside my
heart’ in my head,” he recalls. “I ran out of my shower,
almost slipped across my floor and sat down at my piano.”  In minutes he had a lyric and melody for the title track of
“Revolution,” a fine album that features Andy Summers of the
Police and bears comparison with recordings by  Bruce Hornsby ,
 Billy Joel , Harry Connick Jr.,  John Legend  and  Leonard Cohen .  Regen, who plays in  London  tomorrow as part of a tour to
promote the disc, finished the composition by turning away from
his normal Steinway. He used a retro drumbeat supplied by a $35
1981 Casio keyboard he’d bought at a thrift store. “My
girlfriend at the time said, ‘what are you going to do with
that? You’re a jazz piano player.’”  Indeed, Regen has moved into singer-songwriting territory
from pure jazz, where he accumulated serious credentials. He was
raised in Maplewood,  New Jersey , performed his first gig at the
age of 16 in an Irish pub and later worked with  Kenny Barron ,
 Jimmy Scott  and  Kyle Eastwood .  His jazz LP “From Left to Right” came out in 1996.
Shortly after, Summers was impressed when he heard Regen
improvising at a festival. “He said, ‘that sounds really
nice,’” Regen says. “For me, it was one of the biggest
validations of my career.”  Police Music  The two became friends: Summer’s distinctive guitar graces
“Spirits of the Soul,” a track as good as some crafted by his
Police mate Sting. The song was co-authored with U.K. soulster
David McAlmont; Regen has also written with Matchbox Twenty’s
Rob Thomas.  Regen’s name also attracted appearances from  Martha
Wainwright , and members of  Tom Petty  and Bonnie Raitt’s bands.
Regen financed recording on his  credit card  -- he jokes he’s
still paying it off -- and handled his own publicity.  “The story is,” he says, “how does a guy that nobody
knows make a record like this?”  Regen’s CDs stood out in my review pile because they came
from the artist himself, and also because they were better than
most of the others, which tend to be mediocre copycats swimming
in record-company hype.  Bigger  record companies  and concert halls beckon, while
Regen, a youthful 41-year-old with cropped black hair and
wearing a T-shirt, says he wants to push himself beyond his
comfort zone.  “Whether it’s a new instrument or a new piece of
literature,” he says, “something to take you off the path
you’ve always been on.”  Jon Regen plays with bassist P.J. Phillips and drummer  John
Miller  in London tomorrow, May 2, at the Pheasantry, 152 Kings
Road, Chelsea, SW3 4UT. His Revolution tour continues with dates
in Slovakia, Austria, Washington D.C.,  Italy  and  Germany .  “Revolution” and “Let It Go” are on CD Baby records
priced about $14. For more information:  http://www.jonregen.com ,
 http://www.pizzaexpresslive.co.uk/popVenue.aspx   Download fees vary across services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford on  art ,
Richard Vines on  restaurants .  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 