-- Sudan’s Use of Chinese Arms Shows Beijing’s Balancing Act
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-04-30T07:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/sudan-s-use-of-chinese-arms-shows-beijing-s-balancing-act.html
Sudanese jets fired rockets bearing
Chinese characters during an air strike inside  South Sudan  just
a week before that country’s president travelled to Beijing to
strengthen ties and drum up economic support.  Small Arms Survey, a Geneva-based research group, analyzed
fragments from the explosives and said they probably were from a
Chinese-made 80-mm rocket fired by a jet in an April 15 air
strike on Bentiu, the capital of  Sudan ’s oil-rich Unity state.  “They have Chinese characters and have a dark green paint
that is typical among Chinese rockets,” Jonah Leff, the
survey’s Sudan project coordinator, said in an April 25 response
to e-mailed questions. “China is Khartoum’s principal supplier
of weapons, and the two countries have enjoyed an arms-for-oil
relationship for several years.”  Sudan’s use of the rocket highlights the diplomatic
tightrope  China  is walking as it deals with Sudan since the
south seceded in July and took with it three-quarters of the
formerly united country’s oil production. China is the biggest
purchaser of Sudanese crude and China National Petroleum Corp.
is among the largest producers in the two countries.  China is handling the weapons issue “prudently” and its
“cooperation with Sudan does not violate” United Nations
Security Council resolutions, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman
Liu Weimin told reporters April 27 in Beijing.  Months of border skirmishes and allegations of support for
insurgents by both countries escalated on April 10 when South
Sudan occupied the disputed oil-rich area of Heglig. Ten days
later, it said it was withdrawing to comply with a  Security
Council  request.  ‘Declared War’  Sudan said it drove the southern army out. It also carried
out a series of bombing raids inside South Sudan, including one
that killed two people in a market in Bentiu.  The south’s information minister, Barnaba Marial Benjamin,
said that while his government is aware that Sudan is using
Chinese-made weapons, it considers China an important partner.  “If they sell weapons to Khartoum to fight with us they
must also sell us weapons,” he said in an April 25 phone
interview from Juba, South Sudan’s capital, as President Salva Kiir was visiting China. During the trip, he said Sudan had
“declared war” on his country.  Beijing is working with the U.S. in the Security Council to
help solve the Sudan-South Sudan dispute, Liu said.  “China and the U.S. will continue to use their influence
so as to ease the tension between the two sides so they can sit
down and negotiate with each other to solve their disputes,” he
said.  ‘Delicate Dance’  The conflict has forced China to undertake a “delicate
dance” as it seeks to maintain its relationship with Sudan,
while deepening ties with South Sudan, the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group  said in an April 4 report.  “As with government, party, and commercial ties, continued
military engagement is part of a signal that they won’t abandon
old friends in Khartoum,” Zach Vertin, a senior researcher at
 International Crisis Group , said April 27 in an e-mailed
response to questions.  China plans to strengthen military ties with Sudan, the
official Xinhua news agency reported on Nov. 21, citing the vice
chairman of China’s central military commission, Xu Caihou.  China was key to developing Sudan’s oil industry in the
1990s during the north-south civil war when Western nations
imposed economic sanctions. Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,
known as Petronas, and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. are also major
producers.  Now much of the infrastructure that it helped to build is
dormant.  Oil Shutdown  In January, South Sudan halted its oil production after
accusing Sudan of stealing its oil. Sudan said it confiscated
the crude to make up for unpaid fees.  The shutdown deprived China of about 260,000 barrels a day,
New York-based Eurasia Group said in February. Facilities in
Heglig were damaged during the fighting and those fields, which
supply about half of Sudan’s 115,000 barrels per day of
production, are closed.  Since the beginning of the dispute, Chinese diplomats have
visited both countries, urging them to find a solution to their
disagreements. Li Yuanchao, the Communist Party’s Organization
Department head, led a delegation to Juba in January that
discussed loans and pledged aid and capacity building in the oil
industry.  “They still own and operate the majority of that
infrastructure, which represents billions of dollars in
investment, not all of which has been recovered,” Vertin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  