-- U.K.’s Chambers Cleared for Olympics After Court Ruling
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-04-30T14:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/u-k-s-chambers-cleared-for-olympics-after-sports-court-ruling.html
U.K. athletes such as sprinter
Dwain Chambers and cyclist David Millar will be eligible for the
Olympics after the highest sports court ruled that a lifetime
ban for drug doping is unlawful.  The  British Olympic Association ’s 20-year-old bylaw doesn’t
comply with the  World Anti-Doping Agency ’s code, the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) said on
its website today.  “The bylaw is a doping sanction and is therefore not in
compliance with the WADA Code,” the CAS said. “The CAS
confirms the view of the WADA Foundation Board as indicated in
its decision. Therefore, the appeal of BOA is rejected, and the
decision of the WADA Foundation Board is confirmed.”  The decision means Chambers and Millar, who have both
served drug suspensions, can compete to qualify for this
summer’s London Olympics, which start July 27.  Britain is the only nation that has a life-time Olympic ban
for athletes caught doping. Its bylaw had come under scrutiny
after the CAS in October ruled that Olympic organizers can’t ban
athletes guilty of doping from taking part in the next Games
because it amounts to double punishment. The  International
Olympic Committee  in 2008 had moved to stop those suspended for
more than six months for a doping violation from taking part in
the next Games, even if their ban had ended.  “The BOA are clearly disappointed in the outcome,”
chairman Colin Moynihan told a news conference today in London.  He said the ruling would be seen as “a hollow victory for
WADA,” and called for “fundamental and far-reaching reforms”
to the World Anti-Doping Agency.  This include longer suspensions for first-time doping
offenders of four years including one  Olympic Games  instead of
two years, Moynihan said.  That CAS decision paved the way for American runner  LaShawn
Merritt  to defend his 400-meter and 4x400 meters titles in
 London . He was suspended for two years after testing positive
for a banned substance that the athlete says he consumed
accidentally. The ban was later reduced to 21 months.  Chambers, 34, was banned for two years for steroid use in
2003. He was the first athlete to be suspended for testing
positive for THG, the designer steroid distributed by Balco, the
California-based Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative that was at
the center of a U.S. probe of drug use by top athletes.  Chambers was stripped of his 2002 European 100-meter title,
had his British 100-meter record of 9.86 seconds annulled and
got a lifetime ban from the Olympics. After failing to overturn
the life-time ban to make the British team for the 2008 Beijing
Olympics, Chambers won the European 60 meters title in 2009 and
the world indoor championships in 2010.  “Dwain is in the top tier of sprinters in Britain,” the
British Broadcasting Corp. quoted former 110-meter hurdles
silver medalist Colin Jackson as saying yesterday. “There is no
doubt he will be at the Olympics.”  Scotland ’s Millar, 35, got a two-year ban in 2004 for
testing positive for erythropoietin, or EPO, an endurance-
boosting hormone that stimulates red blood cell production which
may improve the amount of oxygen that the blood can carry to the
body’s muscles.  Following their suspensions, both Chambers and Millar have
cooperated with anti-doping authorities in order to crack down
on doping offences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  