-- U.S. Senior Loan Officer Survey on Banking Lending (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-04-30T18:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/u-s-senior-loan-officer-survey-on-banking-lending-text-.html
Following is the text of the
 Federal Reserve ’s senior loan officer survey.  The April 2012 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank
Lending Practices addressed changes in the supply of, and demand
for, bank loans to businesses and households over the past three
months. This summary is based on responses from 58 domestic
banks and 23 U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks.  Overall, in the April survey, modest net fractions of domestic
banks generally reported having eased their lending standards
and having experienced stronger demand over the past three
months.2 Standards on C&I loans to large and middle-market
firms, and to small firms, were about unchanged.3 However,
moderate to large net fractions of domestic banks eased many
terms on C&I loans to firms of all sizes, with most indicating
that they had done so in response to more aggressive competition
from other banks or nonbank lenders. Domestic banks also
reported an increase in demand from firms of all sizes. In
contrast, a small net fraction of foreign respondents again
reported a tightening of their lending standards on C&I loans
and a decrease in demand for such loans. A moderate net fraction
of domestic banks reported having eased standards for commercial
real estate (CRE) loans. As has been the case recently,
significant net fractions of domestic banks reported that demand
for CRE loans had strengthened. On net, foreign branches and
agencies reported that standards and demand for CRE loans were
little changed.  Regarding loans to households, standards on prime residential
mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) were
about unchanged. However, the April survey indicated a moderate
strengthening in demand for prime residential mortgage loans.
With respect to consumer loans, moderate net fractions of banks
reported that they had eased standards on most types of these
loans over the past three months. In addition, demand for all
types of consumer loans increased somewhat, on net, with demand
for auto loans showing the largest increase.  The survey included two sets of special questions: the first set
asked banks about lending to firms with European exposures, and
the second set asked banks about their residential real estate
(RRE) lending policies. In response to the first set, banks
reported tightening standards on loans to European banks and on
loans to nonfinancial firms with substantial business in  Europe ,
and domestic respondents reported increased demand owing to
reduced competition from European banks. In response to the
second set, banks reported that they were less likely than in
2006, to varying degrees, to originate mortgages to any
borrowers apart from those with the strongest credit profiles. A
moderate net fraction of banks reported anticipating increasing
their exposure to RRE assets over the next year. However,
several large banks indicated that they anticipated reducing
their exposures somewhat or substantially, and banks of all
sizes cited a variety of factors that were limiting their
current ability to originate or purchase RRE loans. A moderate
share of banks reported that they were actively soliciting
applications for the revised Home Affordable Refinance Program,
or “HARP 2.0.”  Business Lending
(Table 1, questions 1-11; Table 2, questions 1-10)  Questions on commercial and industrial lending. Domestic banks
reported that their credit standards on C&I loans to both large
and middle-market firms and to small firms were little changed
over the first quarter of 2012. However, for the third
consecutive quarter a small net fraction of U.S. branches and
agencies of foreign banks reportedly tightened their standards
on C&I loans.  Moderate to large net fractions of domestic banks eased many
terms on C&I loans to firms of all sizes. A large net fraction
of respondents indicated that they had decreased spreads on C&I
loan rates over the cost of funds to both large and middle
market firms and to small firms. A sizeable net fraction of
banks also indicated a reduction in their use of interest rate
floors and reduced costs of credit lines.  Almost all domestic banks that reported having eased standards
or terms on C&I loans cited more-aggressive competition from
other banks and nonbank lenders as a reason for having done so,
with fewer than half of the banks that reported having eased
standards attributing the change to an improved or less
uncertain economic outlook. The few banks that reported having
tightened at least one C&I loan term cited a variety of reasons,
including a less favorable or more uncertain economic outlook, a
worsening of industry-specific problems, a reduced tolerance for
risk, and increased concerns about legislative, supervisory, or
accounting policies.  Meanwhile, a moderate net fraction of foreign survey respondents
increased the costs of credit lines on C&I loans. The foreign
respondents that reported having tightened their standards or
terms on C&I loans cited a variety of reasons, including a less
favorable or more uncertain economic outlook, a worsening of
industry-specific problems, a reduced tolerance for risk,
deterioration in their current or expected liquidity position,
and increased concerns about legislative, supervisory, or
accounting policies.  For the second straight survey, reports from domestic banks of
stronger demand for C&I loans outnumbered reports of weaker
demand. Domestic banks also reported that the number of
inquiries from potential business borrowers regarding new or
increased credit lines increased, on net. Banks reporting
stronger demand cited shifts in borrowing from other bank and
nonbank sources, as well as increases in customers’ funding
needs related to inventories, investment in plant or equipment,
accounts receivable, and mergers and acquisitions as important
factors underlying the increase. The small fraction of banks
indicating that demand had decreased cited an increase in their
customers’ internally generated funds, as well as decreases in
customers’ funding needs related to inventories, investment in
plant or equipment, and accounts receivable. In contrast, a
small net fraction of foreign respondents saw weaker demand for
C&I loans, and those that did most often cited customers’
decreased investment in plant and equipment and reduced
financing needs for merger or acquisition activity.  Special questions on lending to firms with European exposures. A
set of special questions in the April survey asked respondents
about lending to banks headquartered in Europe and their
affiliates or subsidiaries (regardless of the location of the
affiliates and subsidiaries), as well as to nonfinancial firms
that have operations in the  United States  and significant
exposure to European economies (regardless of the location of
the firms). Most of these questions were also asked in the
previous two surveys, conducted in January 2012 and October
2011.  Moderate net fractions of both domestic and foreign respondents
reported having tightened standards on loans to European banks,
and small net fractions stated that they had also tightened
standards on loans to nonfinancial firms that have operations in
the United States and significant exposure to European
economies. However, in all cases, the net fractions that
reported having tightened were substantially smaller than in the
January survey. Demand for credit was reportedly little changed,
on net, from European banks (or their affiliates and
subsidiaries) and from nonfinancial firms with significant
European exposures. About two-thirds of the domestic respondents
who reported competing with European banks for business noted an
increase in business as a result of decreased competition from
European banks and their affiliates or subsidiaries, a somewhat
larger fraction than in January.  Questions on commercial real estate lending. A modest net
fraction of domestic banks reported easing their standards on
CRE loans in the April survey. Foreign survey respondents
indicated that their standards on CRE loans were about
unchanged. As has been the case in recent surveys, moderate net
fractions of domestic banks reported that demand for CRE loans
had strengthened, on net, over the past three months. In
contrast, the foreign respondents reported that demand for CRE
loans had changed little over that period.  Lending to Households
(Table 1, questions 12-33)  Questions on residential real estate lending. Most banks
continued to report little net change in standards on prime
residential mortgage loans, while a modest net fraction of banks
indicated that standards on nontraditional residential mortgage
loans had tightened over the previous three months. Moderate net
fractions of banks indicated that demand for both types of loans
had strengthened, although a few large banks reported a
weakening in demand. Most banks continued to report little
change in their lending standards for home equity lines of
credit, and demand for such loans was also about unchanged.  Special questions on residential real estate lending. A set of
special questions asked survey respondents about residential
real estate lending policies at their institutions. Banks were
asked to compare their willingness to originate a GSE-eligible
30-year fixed-rate mortgage loan intended for home purchase
today with their willingness in 2006 for borrowers with FICO (or
equivalent) credit risk scores of 620, 680, and 720, and down
payments of 10 or 20 percent (for a total of six categories of
borrowers). A large majority of banks indicated that they were
less likely to originate a GSE-eligible mortgage loan to
potential borrowers with a FICO score of 620 and a 10 percent
down payment than they were in 2006. Raising the down payment to
20 percent reduced the fraction of banks less likely to
originate such a loan somewhat. A moderate net fraction of banks
were less likely to originate loans to borrowers with a FICO
score of 680, regardless of down payment size. A modest net
fraction of banks were less likely to originate loans to
borrowers with a FICO score of 720 and a 10 percent down
payment, although survey respondents indicated that they were
about as likely to originate loans now as they were in 2006 if
such borrowers had a down payment of 20 percent. Most banks
cited borrowers having higher costs for, or greater difficulty
in obtaining, mortgage insurance coverage as an important factor
contributing to the reduced likelihood of originating GSE-
eligible mortgage loans. About as many respondents noted the
higher risk of putbacks of delinquent mortgages by the GSEs as
an important factor, and that factor was listed as the most
important one by the largest number of banks. Similar fractions
of respondents pointed to less favorable or more uncertain
outlooks for  house prices  or for the economy more broadly as
factors. A majority of respondents reported as at least somewhat
important factors greater concern about their bank’s exposure to
residential real estate loans; increased concerns about effects
of legislative changes, supervisory actions, or accounting
standards; higher servicing costs if mortgages were to become
delinquent; the prevailing spread of  mortgage rates  over cost of
funds being insufficient to compensate for risks; and borrowers
having higher costs of greater difficulty in obtaining
simultaneous second liens.  A moderate net fraction of banks reported that they anticipated
increasing their exposure to RRE assets over the next year (such
as RRE loans or government backed or other mortgage-backed
securities). However, several large banks indicated that they
anticipated reducing their RRE holdings either somewhat or
substantially.  Banks were also asked to indicate what factors were currently
impeding their ability to originate or purchase additional RRE
loans. Most survey respondents cited periods during which the
high volume of RRE loan applications exceeded their application
processing capacity, difficulty in completing timely and
accurate underwriting or in completing timely and accurate
appraisals or in hiring sufficient servicing or loan processing
staff as important factors.  Several special questions asked about banks’ participation in
HARP 2.0. About one-third of banks reported that they were
actively soliciting HARP 2.0 applications and were satisfying
most demand as it comes in. In contrast, nearly half indicated
that they had very little participation in HARP 2.0. A majority
of those that were participating reported that they anticipated
that 60 percent or more of such applications would be approved
and successfully completed. Many respondents reported the risk
that the GSEs might put back the mortgage, difficulty in
obtaining transfers of existing private mortgage insurance
coverage, difficulty in identifying junior lien holders, or
difficulty in obtaining resubordination of a known second lien
as factors reducing their willingness or ability to offer such
loans. A moderate fraction of banks reported that they were
actively soliciting applications or satisfying most demand as it
came in for refinancing underwater loans outside of HARP 2.0 for
borrowers who have been current on their existing mortgage for
at least 12 months.  Questions on  consumer lending . As in the previous four surveys,
small to moderate net fractions of domestic banks reported
having eased standards on  credit card , auto, and other consumer
loans. Moderate net fractions of banks reported having narrowed
spreads on auto loans. However, other terms across the
categories of consumer loans were little changed on net. Demand
for consumer loans reportedly continued to increase, especially
for auto loans.  Respondent banks received the survey on or after March 27, 2012,
and responses were due by April 10, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  