-- U.S. Consumer Spending Probably Rose on Income Gains
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-30T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/u-s-consumer-spending-probably-rose-on-income-gains.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably climbed in March as  incomes  grew, indicating the
biggest part of the economy is helping to sustain the expansion,
economists said before a report today.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.4 percent after a 0.8 percent gain that was
the most in seven months, according to the median estimate of 62
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. An  index (S15RETL)  of business
activity cooled this month, separate figures may show.  A job market that’s on the mend and warmer weather
underpinned household purchases, which grew in the first quarter
by the most in more than a year as sales climbed at  car
dealerships  and retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT)  The pace of demand
may be difficult to maintain this quarter without a pickup in
hiring and wages.  “Consumers certainly helped to support first-quarter
growth and will continue to play their part,” said  Ryan Sweet ,
a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “The risk is, they may not be able to shoulder
the expansion as much going forward. We need to see bigger gains
in employment.”  The Commerce Department’s spending report is due at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts for consumption ranged
from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.  At 9:45 a.m., a report from the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. may show its  business barometer  fell to
60.5 in April, from 62.2 the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  Income Gains  The Commerce Department data may also show incomes grew 0.3
percent, following a 0.2 percent gain, according to the survey
median.  The March results will signal whether the consumer was
gathering strength or losing it as the quarter drew to a close.
Household spending rose 2.9 percent from January through March,
Commerce Department data showed on April 27. Gross domestic
product climbed at a 2.2 percent annual rate, less than
projected and following a 3 percent pace the prior quarter.  The report was a reminder of the concerns of Federal
Reserve officials, who last week said growth will be
“moderate” as unemployment remains “elevated.”  The central bank “expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,”
policy makers said in an April 25 statement. They repeated a
plan to hold borrowing costs low through 2014 to spur growth.  Employers increased payrolls by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006.  April Employment  Later this week, the Labor Department may report payrolls
advanced in April by 165,000 after a 120,000 gain the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Unemployment
probably held at 8.2 percent. The rate has been above 8 percent
since early 2009.  Unseasonably mild temperatures may have also spurred
Americans to dine out and go shopping. The January-to-March
period was the warmest first quarter in records going back to
1895, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration .  Retailers posted gains in March as stores offered discounts
and shoppers stocked up early on spring gear. March same-store
sales at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, and  Gap
Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. apparel chain, beat the average estimate
of analysts. Cars  sold  last quarter at the fastest pace in four
years, according to industry data.  Gasoline Prices  Employment and income gains may have given Americans some
relief from higher  fuel prices . The cost of a gallon of gasoline
at the pump jumped 65 cents from the beginning of the year to
$3.93 on March 31, which was the highest level in 10 months,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. auto group. Fuel costs have
eased since, to $3.83 on April 27.  Investors are optimistic about consumer spending. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has increased
almost 24 percent since the start of this year compared with a
12 percent advance in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Consumers also are spending on leisure.  Starwood Hotels &
Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W
brands, said first-quarter earnings rose more than fourfold,
driven by sales of vacation units at the company’s new resort in
south Florida.  “Our corporate clients and our leisure guests tell us that
their appetite for travel is quite robust,” Frits van Paasschen, president and chief executive officer, said in an
earnings conference call with analysts on April 26. “I still
have yet to hear from a customer that plans to travel less in
2012 than in 2011.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  