-- U.S. Auto Sales Rates Seen Skewed as Rebound Continues
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-30T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/u-s-auto-sales-rates-seen-skewed-as-rebound-continues.html
One year after  Japan ’s tsunami
tripped up global auto production, the aberrations in supply
that followed are diminishing the reliability of a widely used
statistic. Investors need to carefully watch tomorrow’s results.  The seasonally adjusted annual rate, known as SAAR, uses
recent history to account for fluctuations in demand over the
course of the year. After shortages triggered by the March 2011
tsunami in Japan trimmed auto deliveries in the second and third
quarters, seasonal adjustment estimates may be skewed for months
starting with April’s U.S. vehicle-sales results to be announced
tomorrow. Analysts estimate sales will be higher than a year ago
and slower than the first-quarter pace.  The numbers aren’t just for geeks. Automakers use them to
decide whether to boost or cut production; government policy
makers study them to gauge the health of the economy; and
investors parse them as a kind of box score of the market. The
numbers this month and for the next few months will be open to
even more interpretation than usual.  “It’s going to be a noisy month,”  Paul Ballew , chief
economist at Dun & Bradstreet and a former General Motors Corp.
sales analyst based in  Short Hills ,  New Jersey , said in a phone
interview. Volatile gasoline prices, complicated year-ago
comparisons and the warm U.S. winter make analysis more tricky.
“You’re going to get some seasonal-factor anomalies,” he said.  Total light-vehicle sales in April may rise 0.9 percent to
1.16 million, the average of nine analysts’ estimates.  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , Chrysler Group LLC and Toyota Motor Corp. may report
the biggest sales increases, while  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Ford
Motor Co. deliveries may drop from a year earlier. The SAAR may
be 14.3 million, the average of estimate of 15 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, an increase from 13.2 million a year earlier.  Selling-Day Adjustment  The April estimates are further complicated by a fluke of
the calendar. Some statistics are typically calculated based on
the month’s number of “selling days,” because vehicles
historically weren’t available for sale on Sundays and holidays.
April 2012 has three fewer selling days than the year-ago month
did. There’s rarely more than a one- or two-day difference.  “The selling days are wild,”  George Magliano , senior
principal economist for IHS Automotive, said in a phone
interview. The disparity in selling days means deliveries are
“going to come in a bit light” and disguise improvement from
last year’s results, he said.  A one-day adjustment changes the measure by about 4
percentage points. April’s three-day adjustment means that the
difference between adjusted and unadjusted results is about 11
percentage points.  Extra Scrutiny  Auto sales have long been used as an economic indicator
that shows consumers’ willingness and ability to make large
purchases. Because of the selling-day disparity and potentially
skewed SAAR statistics, April’s figures will require extra
scrutiny and context, said Ballew, a former senior economist at
the  Federal Reserve . Even the weather is a factor, he said.  “You’re seeing this in other sectors like housing, for
instance, where you got a relatively good result in January and
February, not so much in March and then the early readings in
April are tailing in the other direction,” Ballew said. “When
you get exceptionally good weather in the first quarter, that’s
going to cause some noise as well.  ‘‘We’re going to try to pull it apart, really examining the
first four months in total,” he said. “And when we do that, we
see it’s been a good start to the year.”  One of Many  April’s SAAR figure by itself “really doesn’t tell the
story of what’s happening out there,”  Bob Carter , group vice
president of  Toyota (7203) ’s U.S. sales, said in an interview. “It’s
just one indicator we have in the market.”  Automakers also study 90-day moving averages, the size and
turnover of inventory, and the mix of sales such as between cars
and trucks, Ballew said.  A second consecutive month below February’s SAAR of 15.1
million might lead to disappointment about April sales results,
 Chris Ceraso , a New York-based analyst for Credit Suisse, wrote
in an April 26 research note.  Monthly sales rates in the 14 million to 14.5 million range
are “healthy and realistic” given economic fundamentals, while
the February pace was inflated by unseasonably warm weather and
pent-up demand for cars from Japanese automakers, Ceraso wrote.  Slowing Demand  The SAAR will probably decelerate from the 14.6 million
rate averaged in the first quarter. Slowing sales may reflect
data showing the U.S. labor market is losing momentum.  More Americans than forecast have filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  in every week since mid-February,
according to Labor Department figures. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index declined to minus 35.8 in the period to April 22
from minus 31.4 the previous week, the biggest drop since March
2011.  Gasoline prices, which slipped from an 11-month high
earlier in the month, probably didn’t drop enough to keep
pickups from continuing to cede market share to cars, according
to  Barclays Capital  estimates. Cars may account for 55 percent
of industry deliveries in April, up from 54 percent in March and
the 49 percent averaged the past two years, Barclays said in an
April 24 report.  GM, the top-selling automaker in the U.S. and globally, may
report a 9 percent decline in April sales, the average estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Detroit-based carmaker
is introducing new models such as the Chevrolet Spark small car
later this year to boost U.S. market share that fell by 1.9
percentage points in the first quarter.  Ford (F) , the No. 2 U.S. seller, may say deliveries fell 5.7
percent, the average of 11 estimates. Ford’s production hasn’t
kept up with demand, so the company sees its U.S. market share
dropping this year, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks told
reporters after the company reported a first-quarter profit of
$1.4 billion on April 27.  Nissan, Chrysler Up  Nissan, which passed  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  in March to rank No. 5
among in U.S. deliveries, may have increased deliveries 19
percent in April, the average estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The Yokohama-based automaker showed a
refreshed version of its Altima sedan at this month’s New York
auto show that begins selling in July.  Chrysler may report a 16 percent sales gain for April, the
average estimate of eight analysts. That would snap the Auburn
Hills, Michigan-based automaker’s five-month streak of monthly
sales increases exceeding 30 percent. Chrysler said last week
that profit quadrupled to $473 million in the first quarter as
U.S. deliveries of its 200 and 300 sedans more than tripled.  Toyota Eyes 10%  Toyota, the third-largest automaker by U.S. deliveries,
probably increased sales by 10 percent in April, the average of
eight analysts’ estimates. The Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker increased its forecast for 2012 industry sales this
month to the low- to mid-14 million unit range from 13.6
million, citing improvement in  consumer confidence .  “We’re having another good month,” Toyota’s Carter said.
“We’ll be up over 10 percent in terms of volume. It’s really
being driven by two vehicles: Camry and the Prius family.”  Honda deliveries may decline for a second consecutive
month, slipping 6.7 percent, the average estimate of eight
analysts. The Tokyo-based carmaker’s inventories have only
partially rebounded from last year’s tsunami, with 22 days’
supply of the CR-V crossover and 31 days worth of the Fit
subcompact, according to Credit Suisse. The industry benchmark
is about 60 days’ supply.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which is on pace to exceed its target for
more than 500,000 U.S. sales this year, may increase combined
sales of its Volkswagen and Audi brand vehicles by 9.2 percent
in April, the average of four analysts’ estimates.  Affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , both
based in Seoul, may combine to sell 0.4 percent fewer vehicles
than a year earlier, the average of six analysts’ estimates.  Hyundai’s gains may may slow this year on tight production
capacity and concern that quality might suffer after years of
growth,  John Krafcik , chief executive officer of the company’s
U.S. sales unit, has said.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from April 2011. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  April had 24 selling days, three fewer than the year-
earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  