-- U.S. April Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-04-30T14:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/u-s-april-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity increased in April, according to business executives
responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production index, a key
measure of state manufacturing conditions, fell from 11.1 to 5.6, suggesting growth
continued but at a slower pace than last month.  Other measures of current manufacturing conditions stagnated in April. The
capacity utilization index came in at 1.4, down markedly from 12.3 in March, with
one-quarter of respondents noting decreases. Shipment volumes were flat in April
after increasing for the previous three months; the shipments index fell from 8.6 to
-0.8. The new orders index posted a near-zero reading for the second consecutive
month.  Perceptions of broader economic conditions worsened in April. The general
business activity index turned negative after three months of positive readings,
falling from 10.8 to -3.4. Thirteen percent of firms noted improvement in the level
of business activity, while 16 percent noted a worsening. The company outlook index
also fell into negative territory, slipping to -4.5 after a reading of 9.5 last
month.  Labor market indicators reflected sharply slower labor demand growth and
shorter workweeks. Employment growth continued in April, but at a much slower pace
than in previous months, with the index receding from 21.7 to 11.8. Nineteen percent
of firms reported hiring new workers, while 7 percent reported layoffs. The hours
worked index declined eight points to -4.6, its first negative reading in eight
months.  Input prices and wages increased at a slower pace in April, and selling prices
declined. The raw materials price index was 21.2, down from 27.7 in March. This was
the index’s lowest reading in five months and is well below last year’s April
reading of 57.1. The wages and benefits index moved down from 21 to 15.2. The
finished goods price index was negative for a second month in a row and edged down
to -5.4. Looking ahead, 45 percent of respondents anticipate further increases in
raw materials prices over the next six months, while 24 percent expect higher
finished goods prices.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were less optimistic in
April. The index of future general business activity edged down from 19.1 to 15.7.
The index of future company outlook came in at 14.4, down significantly from 26.2 in
March. Other indexes for future manufacturing activity also decreased, although all
remained in strong positive territory.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected Apr.
17-25, and 89 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked whether
output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased or
remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease. 