-- UN Chief Hails Myanmar Democracy Shift as Suu Kyi Spat Ends
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-04-30T07:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/un-chief-hails-myanmar-democracy-shift-wants-sanctions-lifted.html
United Nations Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon praised Myanmar’s transition to democracy and called
on the West to lift sanctions as dissident  Aung San Suu Kyi 
agreed to take her seat in parliament.  Ban commended moves toward reconciliation by President
Thein Sein and Suu Kyi, whose party today ended a week-long
dispute over an oath all lawmakers are required to take. Her
National League for Democracy party won 43 of 45 seats in by-
elections this month, prompting the U.S. and European Union to
ease sanctions.  The international community should “go even further in
lifting, easing and suspending trade restrictions and other
sanctions,” Ban said today during the first address by a world
leader to the country’s year-old parliament. Suu Kyi’s decision
to end the impasse was “encouraging” and “in the interest of
greater and fuller democracy,” Ban said after the speech.  Myanmar’s political opening has spawned interest from
private equity investors and companies from  General Electric Co. (GE) 
to Honda Motor Co. in the former dictatorship where one in 30
people have a mobile phone. The nation of 64 million people,
nestled between  China  and  India , could record annual economic
growth of 8.5 percent starting in 2016 if reforms gain speed,
the Economist Intelligence Unit said in an April 26 report.  The U.S. said this month it will lift economic and
financial restrictions on certain sectors of Myanmar’s economy,
 Japan  forgave about $3.7 billion of debt and the European Union
suspended sanctions. EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton ,
who is also visiting Myanmar, opened a diplomatic office on
April 28 in Yangon.  Luring Investment  “To some extent the ball is in the court of the Myanmar
government now,” said  Thant Myint-U , an author of two books on
Myanmar whose grandfather, U Thant, was the first Asian head of
the  United Nations . “With at least a partial lifting of
sanctions, the question now is will the policy environment in
Myanmar be good enough that the country will attract the foreign
investment and trade that everyone wants.”  The NLD had refused to take their seats in parliament until
an oath taken by lawmakers to say they will “respect” instead
of “safeguard” the constitution was changed. The party changed
its position and agreed to say the oath “because of the
people’s desire,” spokesman Nyan Win said by phone.  “We want to participate,” he said. “We will push for
constitution change within parliament.”  Ban Praise  In his speech, Ban praised Suu Kyi and her party for
joining the political process after years of “resilience and
fortitude.” He also lauded Thein Sein for “his vision,
leadership and courage to put Myanmar on the path to change.”  “I am here to say, and to say clearly: the road before you
is exciting,” Ban told lawmakers. “But it will not always be
easy. Eventual success will rest largely on this assembly. The
perils and pitfalls are many. There is no single formula for
success.”  Ban will wrap up his three-day trip tomorrow by meeting Suu
Kyi for the first time at her lakeside home in Yangon, where she
spent 15 of the past 23 years under house arrest. Three years
ago, Ban said he was deeply disappointed to have been barred
from seeing Suu Kyi, known in her homeland simply as “The
Lady.”  Since taking office in March 2011, Thein Sein has freed
political prisoners, held talks with Suu Kyi, dismantled a fixed
 exchange rate  that distorted government revenue and halted the
construction of a $3.6 billion Chinese-backed hydropower project
in response to growing criticism China was exploiting Burmese
resources. He has also sought peace deals with ethnic-based
armies that control certain border areas.  Census  Earlier today, Ban signed an agreement with Myanmar’s
government to help conduct a census in 2014, which will be the
country’s first in 31 years. Population estimates vary widely,
with the  World Bank  putting the figure at 48 million, the  Asian
Development Bank  at 60 million and the IMF at 64 million.  Ban will travel in a helicopter to Shan State, a
mountainous and isolated region where opium production is
rampant as farmers cultivate poppy fields as a cash crop to buy
food and other basic goods. Myanmar is the second-biggest
producer of opium after  Afghanistan  and has a rising number of
drug users that has led to the third-largest HIV epidemic in
 Asia , according to the UN’s program on HIV/AIDS.  The UN Office on Drugs and Crime last month expressed
“ cautious optimism ” that government efforts to eradicate opium
in the region have made significant progress, in part due to
negotiations on peace deals with minority ethnic groups.  “These ceasefires present the opportunity for a new
beginning, but what is really needed for the people of Shan is a
permanent end to all conflict through the acquisition of a
lasting peace,” Jason Eligh, Myanmar country manager for the UN
drug office, said in a March 23 statement. “The path to
achieving this peace is lined with poppies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Naypyidaw at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  