-- VeriFone Drops as Organic Growth Questioned: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-04-30T20:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/verifone-drops-as-organic-growth-questioned-san-francisco-mover.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , the largest
maker of credit-card terminals, dropped the most in more than
three years after an analyst questioned the company’s method of
accounting for organic growth.  VeriFone  fell $6.80, or 12 percent, to $47.64 at the close
in  New York , its biggest decline since March 2, 2009. Shares of
the  San Jose , California-based company had climbed 53 percent
this year before today.  “We believe the 11.8 percent organic growth stated on the
1Q12 earnings call significantly exaggerates the ‘true’ flat
1Q12 organic growth,” Bryan Keane, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  Keane downgraded VeriFone to a sell rating from a hold, and
lowered the 12-month target price to $40 a share from $44.  “In our view, organic growth is being inflated through
acquisitions,” he wrote. Keane added: “The more appropriate
method to calculate organic growth is to look at all
acquisitions as if they were owned in both comparable periods.”  While VeriFone’s growth is expected to improve in 2012,
“we believe it will likely be in the 4 percent to 6 percent
range, well below the 12 percent to 13 percent guided range,”
Keane wrote.  Pete Bartolik, a spokesman for VeriFone, said the company
stood by its growth calculations.  “VeriFone uses a methodology of calculating organic growth
prescribed by the vast majority of investors and Wall Street
analysts: excluding revenue of all acquired companies, large and
small, until 12 months after acquisition,” Bartolik said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘True Organic Results’  “Deutsche Bank is choosing to include in its calculation
the revenue of acquired companies as if VeriFone had owned them
for the entire current and year-ago period,” he added. “We
believe this does not reflect the true organic results of
VeriFone’s business and we reaffirm our expectations for 10-15%
organic growth rates for fiscal year 2012 and long-term.”  Today’s Verifone drop is a good buying opportunity, Andrew Jeffrey, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in  San
Francisco , said in a telephone interview.  “The company has a proven track record, and this space has
generally coalesced around incumbents, so VeriFone has been our
top pick this year, and we are standing by it,” Jeffrey said in
a telephone interview. “It may be the best time of the year to
buy the stock.”  Jeffrey, who has a buy rating and a $65 target price on
Verifone, expressed concern that organic growth was being
confused with pro forma figures.  ‘Apples and Oranges’  “It appears that apples and oranges are being compared,”
Jeffrey said. “The concern about longer-term competitive
threats in a space of payments complexity may be offset by the
tailwind that comes from new services, share gains, and
upgrades, which means I think the company beats its numbers.”  Companies such as  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  are seeking
ways to accelerate upgrades to electronic point-of-sale payment
systems, which could benefit VeriFone, he said.  The focus is on shifting U.S. electronic payments away from
systems that rely on the magnetic stripes on the back of credit
and debit cards to so-called EMV technology, cards embedded with
microchips.  “We are seeing increased complexity at the point of
sale,” Jeffrey said. “What  PayPal (EBAY)  is doing for its point-of-
sale payment system with Home Depot, what  Google (GOOG)  Wallet will do,
the Visa products, the ISIS platform, and what Apple will decide
to do in mobile payments, all bode well for VeriFone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  