-- Warner Chilcott Said to Consider Options After Interest
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-04-30T12:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/warner-chilcott-said-to-consider-options-after-interest.html
Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX)  is weighing
options including a possible sale after receiving interest from
strategic and private-equity buyers, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. The shares jumped in early trading.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is helping the drugmaker assess
interest, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private.  Warner Chilcott  is also considering
paying a  dividend  as an alternative to a sale, one person said.  Warner Chilcott climbed 18 percent to $22.10 at 8:17 a.m.
On April 27, the  stock  rose 8 percent on takeover speculation by
investors, giving the company a market capitalization of $4.69
billion. The Dublin-based drugmaker focuses on women’s health
care, dermatology, urology and gastroenterology. It has an
 enterprise value , a figure that includes net debt, of $7.93
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A “takeout represents an ideal exit for Warner Chilcott,”
said Irina Rivkind, an analyst with Cantor Fitzgerald in  New
York . In a  note  to clients, she said a sale might help overcome
issues the company has with a government investigation of its
marketing practices; production problems in  Puerto Rico ; and
products losing exclusivity.  A Warner Chilcott spokeswoman didn’t respond to a call
outside of regular work hours. A spokesman for Goldman Sachs
declined to comment.  Financial Advisers  A group including Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Bain Capital
LLC, and the buyout units of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  took Warner Chilcott private in 2005 and brought
it public again in 2006. Credit Suisse sold its stake in 2010.
After the company’s most recent secondary stock offering, last
year, the remaining buyout firms together owned about 30 percent
of the stock, Warner Chilcott said in a regulatory filing in
February.  The shares have dropped 21 percent during the past 12
months. Warner Chilcott has traded at a lower valuation than
similar drugmakers, largely because of concern about looming
competition from generic copies of its products, said  Gary Nachman , a Susquehanna Financial Group analyst in New York, in
an April 23 research note.  Nachman said company management told him they were
exploring “numerous opportunities” and “casting a relatively
wide net over what could make sense for the company.” Warner
Chilcott’s size and debt levels make a leveraged buyout by
private equity less likely, he said.  $2.7 Billion  Warner Chilcott had $2.7 billion  in revenue  last year, with
sales led by osteoporosis treatment Actonel, Asacol for
ulcerative colitis and Loestrin 24 FE, a low-dose birth-control
pill. Sales may fall for the second straight year to $2.54
billion this year, according to the  average estimate  of 19
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company is scheduled to
report its first-quarter financial results on May 4.  Bayer AG, the Leverkusen, Germany-based drugmaker, could be
an ideal buyer of Warner Chilcott, said  Cantor Fitzgerald ’s
Rivkind. The company’s women’s health  portfolio  has sales of
about $1.5 billion, an Asacol, a drug for ulcerative colitis,
sold $743 million last year. “Both of these products could fit
in nicely with Bayer’s primary care franchise,” Rivkind said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  