-- Weir Sees International Fracking Market Doubling in Three Years
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-04-30T23:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/weir-sees-international-fracking-market-doubling-in-three-years.html
Weir Group Plc. (WEIR) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic fracturing equipment in the oil industry,
expects the international market for the pressure-pumping gear
to roughly double over the next three years.  The amount of equipment used to shoot jets of water and
sand underground to blast open oil- and natural-gas-bearing rock
should grow to about 2 million horsepower in places outside the
U.S. and Canada, up from about 1 million horsepower today, Chief
Executive Officer Keith Cochrane said yesterday in an interview
at the Offshore Technology Conference in Houston.  The Glasgow, Scotland-based company said it expects to sell
at least about 10 percent to 15 percent of its fracking
horsepower for applications outside  North America  over the next
three to four years.  “I think momentum is gradually building,” Cochrane said.
“Is it going to happen? Absolutely. It’s a good place to be.”  The North American market, which is made up of the U.S. and
Canada, is the world’s largest for fracking with about 18
million horsepower this year, according to slides released in
January by Spears & Associates Inc., a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
industry consultant.  The major areas of international fracking growth are in
 China , Argentina and  Australia , Steve Noon, managing director of
Weir’s oil and gas division also said in the interview.  Weir, which is also the world’s largest provider of pumps
to the mining industry, generated 38 percent of total sales last
year from its Fort Worth, Texas-based oil & gas unit, which
mostly makes fracking gear.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest
users of fracking equipment, said in earnings calls last month
they’re holding off in adding more equipment in North America,
where the demand for fracking work now roughly equals supply.
Schlumberger said April 20 it will shift money or equipment to
the international markets, giving them capacity earlier in the
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  