-- White Sugar Premium Climbs in Thailand, Steady in India, Europe
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-30T09:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/white-sugar-premium-climbs-in-thailand-steady-in-india-europe.html
The premium buyers are prepared to
pay for white, or refined, sugar from the European Union,
 Thailand  and  India  held firm or climbed in the past week because
of increased demand, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Sugar from Thailand for May loading is $25 a metric ton
more than the August futures on NYSE Liffe, up from $20 a ton on
April 22, the company said in a report dated yesterday. Premiums
were unchanged at $35 a ton for EU sugar at the French ports of
Dunkirk and Le Havre and at Antwerp, Belgium and $15 a ton from
India, it said.  “Values are getting supported, whether EU, Thai or Indian
sugar, on the back of some sales made to Sudan, the  Middle East 
and North Africa and to West Africa,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at
the Rolle, Switzerland-based company, wrote in the report.  White sugar climbed 0.3 percent last week. It has dropped
4.1 percent this year in London while the raw variety tumbled
8.6 percent in  New York . The premium for white sugar over raw
sugar futures climbed 22 percent over the period.  “A lower flat price does not generate more final buying of
raws, but does generate more white buying,” Paul Bannister,
head of sugar brokerage at Marex Spectron Group in London, said
in a report e-mailed today.  Buyers of raw sugar from top global producer  Brazil  are
getting a discount of 0.05 cent a pound to the May contract on
ICE Futures U.S. for sugar for loading from May 15 to June 15 at
ports in the center south, the country’s main growing region,
data from Swiss Sugar Brokers show. That compares to a premium
of 0.1 cent a pound on April 22, according to the data.  More Negative  “Premiums are getting more negative daily,” Beydoun
said, adding that the weakness resulted from a trade surplus.  Sugar supplies will outpace demand by 6 million tons in the
2011-12 season started in October, up from a previous forecast
of 5.2 million tons, according to the  International Sugar
Organization  in  London .  White sugar futures for August delivery were up 0.2 percent
at $578 a ton by 10:46 a.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.
Raw sugar for July delivery rose 0.3 percent to 21.28 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 