-- TMX Rally Shows Optimism for Maple Deal Rising
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-30T20:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/tmx-rally-shows-optimism-for-maple-deal-rising-corporate-canada.html
Investors are more optimistic a
takeover of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  by a group of banks and pension funds
will go ahead after  Canada ’s antitrust watchdog said its
concerns on the deal may be eased.  TMX shares rallied 4.6 percent on April 27, its biggest
surge in 11 months, after the Competition Bureau said its
“serious concerns” on the sale may be “substantially
mitigated” by rules laid down by Ontario’s securities regulator
governing operations of the exchange.  “People think it’s more realistic to get the tender
offer,” said  Edward Ditmire , a New York-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. “It sounds like they’re getting to the end
of the tunnel.”  Maple Group Acquisition Corp.’s C$3.73 billion ($3.78
billion) offer to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange owner expires
today unless the deadline is extended. Maple plans to extend its
offer today and all members are expected to remain in the group,
the Globe and Mail reported, citing unidentified people. The bid
has been extended six times as the buyers sought approval from
provincial regulators and the Competition Bureau.  Ditmire called the Competition Bureau statement
“encouraging” and said it improves the odds of a deal going
through, which he previously pegged at “50-50.”  Still, TMX’s stock price suggests some investors remain
skeptical of the offer from Maple, whose 13 members include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   Below Offer  TMX shares  rose 40 cents to close at C$45.10 in Toronto.
The shares are about 9.8 percent below Maple’s C$50-a-share
offer. The premium is the widest of any billion dollar deal in
the U.S. or Canada, indicating traders aren’t convinced Maple
can get the approvals it needs, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Investors in this transaction are getting nervous that we
might see a block here, or Maple might walk away,” Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of mergers and special situations trading at
New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC, said in a telephone
interview.  Maple said April 27 that there’s “no assurance” that
regulatory approvals can be obtained. Regulators may also demand
changes to Maple’s proposal that may be unpalatable to its
members, prompting them to abandon a transaction that’s been in
the works for about a year.  “Deals don’t age like fine wine,” Oshodi said. “Anything
that takes this long has some fundamental problem, and the only
remedies are usually drastic.”  Extended Six Times  Maple has sought to buy Toronto-based TMX since May 13,
after the TMX had already agreed to a friendly combination with
the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)  The LSE deal fell apart in
June after failing to get enough shareholder support. TMX, which
initially rejected the Maple bid, began negotiations a month
later and by Oct. 30 reached an agreement that carried an April
30 expiry date. Maple is in talks to extend the agreement
because it won’t get regulatory approvals before the deadline.  “We expect to have an announcement before the current
offer expires on April 30 at 5 p.m.,” Maple spokesman  Peter
Block  said in a telephone interview.  Maple ultimately plans to buy all of TMX and integrate it
with the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house
and Alpha Group, a bank-owned company whose Alpha Exchange
competes with TMX.  “Serious Concerns”  The Competition Bureau said Nov. 29 that it had “serious
concerns” about the plan in connection with equities trading
and clearing settlement. Those concerns may be eased after the
Bureau provided “views and input” with the Ontario Securities
Commission.  Ontario’s securities regulator will publish draft terms and
conditions for a 30-day public comment period before making a
final decision, Maple said. Quebec’s financial markets authority
said March 15 that it intends to approve the proposed takeover.
TMX also operates the Montreal-based  derivatives market .  TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  