-- Yahoo, Orion, Under Armor, Fuku: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-30T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/yahoo-orion-under-armor-fuku-optus-intellectual-property.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  asked a federal judge
to invalidate some  Facebook Inc. (FB)  patents and dismiss the social
network company’s counterclaims of infringement in an
 intellectual property  dispute between the two firms.  Facebook bought several of the patents at the center of its
counterclaims “for purposes of retaliation” after being sued
in March by Yahoo for patent infringement, Yahoo’s attorneys
said in a filing April 27 in federal court in  San Francisco .  Yahoo, owner of largest U.S. web portal, also added new
infringement claims against Facebook.  Facebook, the  Menlo Park , California-based operator of the
biggest social-networking site, accused Yahoo of infringing 10
patents through its home page and Flickr photo-sharing service
and in ads displayed throughout its site. The claims were made
to counter patent-infringement allegations Yahoo filed March 12
against Facebook.  Facebook didn’t invent technologies claimed in eight
patents it sued over, which it bought from patent holding
companies or patent aggregators, Yahoo’s lawyers said.  “Facebook’s infringement assertions appear to be based on
nothing more than conjecture, assumptions, and unsupported
inferences about how Yahoo’s products may possibly operate,”
the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in the April 27
filing.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  Orion Sues Mylan for Infringement of Stalevo Drug Patents  Orion Oyj, (ORNAV)  a Finnish drug maker, accused rival  Mylan
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MYL)  of infringing three U.S. patents for
Stalevo with plans to market copies of the drug, used to treat
 Parkinson’s disease .  In a complaint filed April 26 in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware , Orion contends the unit of Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Mylan Inc. is wrongly preparing to sell
generic Stalevo before the patents expire.  “Orion will be substantially and irreparably damaged and
harmed” unless the copies are prohibited by a judge, lawyers
for Orion said in court papers, which seek legal fees.  Orion, based in Espoo,  Finland , said in a statement that
“generic competition is not imminent” based on Mylan’s new
application to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for
approval of the copies.  In 2009, Orion settled lawsuits against Indian generic-drug
maker Wockhardt Ltd. over Stalevo and another drug, allowing
some generic sales by this September.  Nina Devlin, a Mylan spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  In dispute are patents 5,446,194, issued in August 1995;
6,500,867, issued in December 2002; and patent 6,797,732, issued
in September 2004.  The case is Orion Corp. v. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-
cv-523, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  HumanEyes Patent Complaint Against Sony to Get ITC Hearing  HumanEyes Technologies’ patent-infringement complaint
against  Sony Corp. (6758)  will receive a hearing before the U.S.
International Trade Commission, according to a  statement  on the
commission’s website.  Sony’s Cyber-Shot cameras and Xperia smartphones are
accused of infringing two patents related to a technology that
gives a sense of depth to digital images.  The Washington-based commission has the power to ban the
imports of goods that infringe U.S. patents.  The dispute is to be assigned to one of the commission’s
six administrative law judges who will schedule and hold an
evidentiary hearing. That judge will make an initial
determination -- subject to review by the entire commission --
as to whether the Sony products should be excluded as
infringing.  In March, Jerusalem-based  HumanEyes  sued Sony in federal
court in Wilmington, Delaware, for infringing the patents that
are at issue in the trade complaint.  In dispute are patents 6,665,003 and 7,477,284.  The case in federal court is HumanEyes Technologies Ltd. v.
Sony Electronics Inc., 1:12-cv-00398-GMS, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Obama Moves to End Deceptive School Recruiting of Veterans  President  Barack Obama , calling the recruiting tactics of
some schools trying sign up veterans “appalling,” signed an
order requiring more financial disclosure to protect military
members and their families.  The order will limit recruiters’ access to military
facilities and require schools to provide financial aid options.
The government will also seek to halt improper use on websites
of the term “GI Bill,” referring to the educational benefit
program for veterans.  In efforts to limit use of the term, it will be registered
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  “Sometimes you’re dealing with folks who aren’t interested
in helping you,” Obama told veterans, soldiers and their
families at Fort Stewart in Hinesville,  Georgia , home of the
U.S. Army’s 3rd Infantry Division. “They don’t care about you,
they care about the cash.”  The Obama administration said some for-profit and nonprofit
schools recruit veterans with brain injuries, offering them
limited academic support and encouraging service members and
their families to take out expensive loans rather than directing
them to less expensive federal student aid.  The policy isn’t designed to single out any category of
schools, according to an administration official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity last night. Still, much of
the deceptive recruiting reported since 2001 has been carried
out by for-profit schools, the official said.  Under the order, students who take part in the Defense
Department’s Tuition Assistance program must be given a “Know
Before You Owe” form, created by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and the Department of Education, that outlines
tuition and federal financial aid information.  ‘Fuku’ Name Brings Bad Fortune to Florida Restaurant Owners  The operators of an Asian-themed restaurant in  West Palm
Beach ,  Florida , had their application for a state trademark on
the restaurant rejected because the Japanese word chosen for the
name sounded “immoral” in English, the Miami Herald  reported .  The restaurant’s name is “fuku,” according to the Herald.  Paul Ardaj, who owns the restaurant, told the Herald that
in Japanese “fuku” is a word for good fortune, and that “it’s
not our intention to be scandalous or deceptive.”  Florida’s Department of State Divisions of Corporations
said it couldn’t be registered because it “consists of,
compromises or included immoral, deceptive or scandalous
matter,” the newspaper reported.  Under Armour Sues Maker of Body Armor Drink for Infringing Mark  Under Armour Inc. (UA) , the Baltimore-based maker of sports
apparel and goods, sued a beverage maker for trademark
infringement.  According to the complaint filed April 26 in Baltimore,
 Body Armor Nutrition LLC  is accused of infringing the Maryland
company’s trademarks for its water-based nutritional beverages.  In addition to infringing the trademarks for the name, Body
Armor is also accused of using a logo that is too similar to
that used by the sports-gear company, and of using the “Protect
+ Restore” tagline Under Armour says infringed its “Protect
This House” tagline.  Both companies target the same class of customers, Under
Armour claims, causing the public to be confused and to assume
falsely that a connection exists between the two entities,
according to court papers.  Under Armour asked the court for an order barring further
infringement and seeks to be transferred the drinkbodyarmor.com
domain name. Additionally, it asked the court to order the
destruction of all allegedly infringing products and promotional
material, and the cancellation of the  California  company’s
trademark.  The company also asked for awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Body Armor Nutrition didn’t respond immediately to an
e-mailed request for comment.  Under Armour is represented by Douglas A. Rettew and Danny
M. Awdeh of  Washington ’s Finnegan Henderson Farabow Garrett &
Dunner LLP.  The case is Under Armour Inc. v. Body Armor Nutrition LLC,
1:12-cv-01283-JKB, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Optus Loses Legal Fight With Sports Leagues Over Match Showing  Singtel Optus Ltd. lost a legal dispute with Australian
sports leagues over the showing of football and rugby matches on
computers and mobile devices soon after they air live on free-
to-air television.  An Australian federal court appeal panel in Sydney
overturned a lower court ruling April 27 that said Optus’s “TV
Now” service doesn’t infringe copyright laws because the
company’s customers record the broadcasts for personal use much
as people use video cassette or digital video recorders.  The  Australian Football League , the most popular spectator
sport in the country, and the  National Rugby League  sought to
protect broadcasting rights valued at more than $2 billion. The
main point of dispute was who creates the electronic files that
are sent to the customer for viewing. The AFL, NRL and Telstra
Corp.,  Australia ’s biggest phone company, said Optus’s service
infringed their copyrights because it makes the recordings,
stores them on its servers, and passes them on to customers.  The AFL signed a five-year, A$1.25 billion ($1.3 billion)
agreement last year with  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ’s Seven Network,
Foxtel, Australia’s biggest pay television operator, and Telstra
for exclusive broadcast rights to its games. The NRL is in talks
with broadcasters on a new deal that would run from 2013 to
2017, with the Sydney Morning Herald having reported earlier
this month that the rugby league was guaranteed a A$1.2 billion
deal after Fox Sports declared it won’t be beaten for the
rights.  Optus is covered by an exemption in the copyright law that
allows people to make recordings of copyrighted material for
their own personal use, the company said.  “The customer operates Optus’s equipment,” Richard
Cobden, Optus’s lawyer, told the appeal panel at a March 15
hearing in Sydney. “The last human intervention is the maker.”  Neil Murray , the NRL’s lawyer, called Optus’s argument
“self-serving.”  A customer who orders a pizza online didn’t make the pie,
Murray said at the appeal hearing.  “There’s no doubt who the maker is,” he said. “It’s
 Pizza Hut .”  The case is National Rugby League Investments Ltd. v.
SingTel Optus Ltd. NSD201/2012 Federal Court of Australia, Full
Court (Sydney).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 