-- Myanmar’s Opium Growers Struggle to Get by With Potatoes
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-30T21:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-30/myanmar-s-opium-growers-struggle-to-get-by-with-potatoes.html
Ukan Nang Ati, 48, used to scrape a
living growing opium in the isolated countryside behind the
village of Kyauk Ka Chan in Myanmar’s mountainous north. Then
soldiers swept through Shan State and razed swathes of poppy
fields to the ground.  Pointing to a denuded area on a steep slope behind him, the
farmer from the Pao tribe said he’s now trying to feed his wife
and two children by growing potatoes and tea leaves, even though
that earns him a fraction of what he made cultivating the blooms
that are processed into opium paste and refined into heroin.  “Two-thirds of the people in this area don’t grow food to
eat for the whole year, so they are dependent on growing poppy
to get this money to buy food,” Jason Eligh, Myanmar manager
for the United Nations drug office, said in an interview
yesterday. “When you eliminate the poppy, many get put in a
situation where they have no money, no food and are at a huge
disadvantage.”  A person who works in a poppy field will earn around 5,000
kyat ($6) a day, while a person who works in a rice paddy will
make 1,000 kyat, maybe 1,500, Eligh said. “That is the
challenge, and there is no silver bullet.”  Basic economics and survival instincts may drive Ukan Nang
Ati and thousands of Myanmar’s impoverished ethnic minorities
back into the opium trade. Illicit drug production has been an
economic lifeline for the country formerly known as  Burma , which
under decades of military dictatorship went from being the
world’s biggest exporter of rice in the 1960s to the second-
largest producer of opium, after  Afghanistan .  ‘Breathtaking’ Changes  All that is changing in what visiting UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon yesterday called an “exciting” transformation
under new leadership composed of former generals. The new
leaders held the country’s most inclusive elections since 1990
on April 1, and have brokered cease-fires in rebel areas,
including the Shan state, where ethnic minorities have relied on
drug money to fund their insurgencies.  “The government is getting serious on the issue of opium
poppy cultivation and the consequence that it has in the region
and in the country,” said Gary Lewis, regional director of the
 UN Office on Drugs and Crime , in an interview yesterday. “They
destroyed more than one-third of the crop this year in the
entire Shan state, which is a massive undertaking compared to
Afghanistan, where 3 percent of the crop is destroyed.”  China , Myanmar’s biggest trading partner, is a “huge”
market for opiates, which are refined into heroin along
Myanmar’s eastern borders, according to Eligh. The Shan State,
which shared borders with China and  Thailand , another market for
drugs and transit point for their export, has been the biggest
domestic opium producer.  Drug Fight  Myanmar’s economic and political opening, after decades
under a military dictatorship, has led the U.S. and European
Union to begin to ease sanctions. The country’s most famous
dissident,  Aung San Suu Kyi , who spent 15 of the past 22 years
under house arrest, is coming to the capital tomorrow to take an
oath on the constitution for the first time and a seat in the
664-member parliament.  Kyauk Ka Chan, a remote village of 2,000, has become the
poster child for the government’s fight to eradicate drug
production by 2014.  “That is not realistic,” said Guillaume Foliot, deputy
country director for the UN World Food Program, which is
providing Ukan Nang Ati and others with free bags of rice to
compensate for their loss of income. “It’s a matter of crossing
one bridge after another, and the magnitude is such that it
would be delusional to believe that one would fix everything
with free food distribution.”  UN Leader Visits  The UN’s Ban yesterday traveled to Kyauk Ka Chan, dotted
with bamboo houses built on sticks and connected through dirt
roads, in a 30-minute ride on a military helicopter from Heho
airport in Shan, which served as a base in World War II for
first Japanese, and then Allied forces.  The UN leader met with villagers and was presented with a
document crammed with statistics, prepared by the government’s
committee for drug abuse control. It said that opium was
introduced into what is now Myanmar by a 16th century trader
from  Venice , Cesar Fredericke, who brought it from  India , and
that opium production “did not exist in Myanmar before it
became a colony” under the British in 1886.  In a country with little government openness, the admission
by Myanmar’s new rulers that the nation cannot shoulder the
burden of eradication on its own marks a significant shift,
according to Foliot. To highlight its commitment to addressing
the drug problem, the government says it destroyed 23,584
hectares (58,277 acres or 91 square miles) of poppy since 2011,
three times the amount in 2010, according to data provided.  Opium Grower  Dressed in his tribe’s traditional attire, with a purple
turban of toweling on his head, Ukan Nang Ati’s story of a
repentant opium grower finding a legal way to make money is the
one the new government, led by former generals, is eager to
sell.  “The problem is that eradication is not the solution,”
said Foliot, who was deployed to  Sri Lanka  after the 2004 Indian
Ocean tsunami and to  Haiti  after the 2010 earthquake there. “It
is only part of a solution because people will go back to the
crop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Shan State, Myanmar at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  