-- AC Milan Says Soccer Fans Can’t Afford Tickets Because of Crisis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ac-milan-says-fans-can-t-afford-tickets-because-of-crisis.html
Italy’s economic crisis has made it
harder for soccer fans to attend matches, a director of one of
the country’s most popular clubs said.  The Italian economy,  Europe ’s second most-indebted, will
shrink 2.4 percent this year as rising joblessness and austerity
measures weigh on demand, according to employers’ association
Confindustria.  “Our fans cannot afford to come to games because they have
other priorities” as Italy grapples with the sovereign-debt
crisis,  Umberto Gandini , organizing director of AC Milan, told
delegates yesterday at the Leaders in Football conference at
 Stamford  Bridge in London.  Milan’s home games are played at the San Siro, the largest
stadium in the country with a capacity of more than 80,000. The
seven-time European Cup winner shares the facility with  Inter
Milan . AC Milan is averaging about 46,800 fans a game, according
to ESPN’s Soccernet website. Ticket prices range from 375 euros
($485) in the Executive Lounge against current Italian champion
Juventus to 20 euros in the third tier against other Serie A
teams, according to the club’s website.  Italian soccer fans are increasingly choosing to watch
matches at home because it’s cheaper. This leaves stadiums
empty, ruining the atmosphere for spectators and television
viewers, Gandini added.  Gandini said he was “little bit worried,” about the
introduction of so-called Financial Fair Play regulations
created by UEFA, European soccer’s governing body, that aim to
punish clubs that spend beyond their means from 2014.  “Everybody is going to look at reducing costs,” he said.
“And there would be no opportunities to make new investments
and new growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the  London  sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  