-- Accused Chicago Bar Bomb Plotter Daoud Pleads Not Guilty
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-11T21:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/accused-chicago-bar-bomb-plotter-daoud-pleads-not-guilty.html
An  Illinois  man accused of plotting
to set off a bomb outside a bar in downtown Chicago as an act of
jihad pleaded not guilty to federal charges stemming from an FBI
sting operation.  Adel Daoud, 19, appeared today before U.S. District Judge
Sharon Johnson Coleman in Chicago. He was indicted on Sept. 20
on charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction,
which is punishable by life imprisonment, and attempting to
damage or destroy a building with an explosive.  Asked by Coleman how he pleads, Daoud replied, “not
guilty.”  A resident of Hillside, Illinois, 15 miles (24 kilometers)
west of the city, Daoud has been in custody since his Sept. 14
arrest. Slightly built, with a mass of bushy black hair, he
appeared in court wearing an orange, prison-issue uniform and
shifted his weight from foot to foot as he stood before the
judge and answered questions.  Daoud told Coleman he is a high school graduate who, while
occasionally using an asthma medicine, has not been hospitalized
or treated for psychiatric problems.  Holy War  In the months before his arrest, Daoud allegedly told
undercover agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that
he was interested in engaging in Islamic holy war in the U.S or
elsewhere.  After being contacted by the FBI’s agents, Daoud expressed
interest in carrying out an attack,  Chicago  Acting U.S. Attorney
Gary Shapiro said last month. Daoud was arrested after trying to
detonate a fake car bomb supplied to him by U.S. agents,
prosecutors said.  “His convictions about the killing of Americans are dead-
set,” Assistant U.S. Attorney William Ridgway told U.S.
Magistrate Judge Arlander Keys at a Sept. 20 detention hearing.  Defense lawyer Thomas A. Durkin has said his client was the
victim of a “set-up” by the undercover agents. After the
hearing today, he told reporters his client is “a young kid,”
and “incredibly naive.”  “I don’t think he believes this is happening to him,”
Durkin said. Citing possible legal consequences, the lawyer
declined to say whether his client truly understood the severity
of the charges against him.  Classified Evidence  In court, Durkin sparred with Assistant U.S. Attorney Barry Jonas about his right to attend a conference at which the
government would disclose to the judge classified evidence it’s
relying on in the case.  Durkin asserted he has previously received security
clearance from the U.S. Justice Department.  Jonas countered that such clearance needed to be obtained
on a case-by-case basis, a claim Durkin disputed.  “Classified material exists as part of the
investigation,” prosecutors said yesterday in a court filing
requesting the closed-door conference with the judge. “The
disclosure of such material, however, would raise issues of
national security.”  In papers filed in response to prosecutors’ request,
Daoud’s defense lawyers said, “this is a simple case that will
be litigated solely over the factual determination of whose idea
it was to attempt to use the faux weapon of mass destruction
created by the FBI; i.e., this 18-year-old defendant or the
undercover FBI agent posing as a ‘half-Afghan’ terrorist
following the fatwa of his purported foreign sheikh.”  Daoud’s parents, Ahmed and Mona, attended today’s
proceedings, after which a visibly-unhappy Ahmed Daoud said,
“he’s the best kid, not just because he’s my son.”  The case is U.S. v. Daoud, 12-cr-723, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  