-- Advanced Micro Devices Cuts Sales Forecast on PC Weakness
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-10-12T20:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/advanced-micro-devices-cuts-sales-forecast-on-pc-weakness.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers, cut
its third-quarter revenue forecast, citing weak demand across
all product lines in a challenging economic environment.  Revenue will drop approximately 10 percent from the prior
period, more than the decline of about 1 percent that AMD had
previously projected, the Sunnyvale, California-based company
said yesterday in a statement. The new forecast indicates sales
of about $1.27 billion. Analysts predicted $1.38 billion, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The stock  slumped .  AMD joins other makers of computer components suffering
fallout from sluggish growth and a shift in consumer tastes
toward mobile devices, away from traditional desktop and laptop
machines. The forecast revision follows the resignation,
announced last month, of Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert.  “AMD’s competitive position is so much weaker than in the
past,” said  Patrick Wang , an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) 
“When demand declines, AMD is the first to go.”  AMD shares fell 14 percent to $2.74 at the close in New
York, the biggest plunge in more than three years. The stock has
lost 49 percent this year. Standard & Poor’s placed the
company’s BB- rating on watch for a possible downgrade today.  Shipments Drop  In the third quarter, total global PC shipments fell 8.3
percent from a year earlier to 87.5 million, market-research
firm Gartner Inc. said earlier this week.  AMD is also struggling with market-share losses to bigger
competitor  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Even so, the company’s difficulties are
part of a larger slowdown in the chip market. Intel last month
slashed its own third-quarter sales forecast, and is on pace for
a sequential decline in third-quarter sales for the first time
in two decades.  PC makers are reducing orders for chips at a time of the
year when they normally buy more ahead of the holiday season.
The weakness is more surprising considering that later this
month Microsoft Corp., the biggest software maker, is releasing
a new  Windows operating system , which usually spurs PC
purchases.  The computer-processor industry is in the midst of one of
the worst periods in the past two decades, estimates Dean
McCarron an analyst at  Cave Creek , Arizona-based Mercury
Research.  According to McCarron, computer-processor industry sales
have posted as steep a decline only twice before in 20 years: in
2000, amid the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and in the fourth
quarter of 2008, after the financial meltdown.  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest producer of chipmaking
equipment, in August gave a forecast for fiscal fourth-quarter
sales that was less than analysts had estimated. The company
said last week it will cut as much as 9 percent of its
workforce. Disk-drive makers  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  and  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  have also said demand has been worse than
projected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.neT  