-- Affirmative Action Cuts Loom As Colleges Await Ruling
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/affirmative-action-cuts-loom-as-colleges-await-ruling.html
Universities may be forced to roll
back affirmative action programs that date to the 1960s, as the
U.S. Supreme Court’s Republican-appointed majority weighs how
far to limit the use of racial preferences in admissions.  Chief Justice John Roberts and the court’s conservative
wing voiced suspicion about preferences yesterday during
arguments on the University of  Texas ’s admissions policies, with
Justice Anthony Kennedy in position to dictate how far the court
will go. The ruling is scheduled to come by June.  Universities face the prospect of having to find new ways
to maintain racially diverse campuses, potentially including
class-based affirmative action. With the vast majority of
selective universities now considering race, a broad Supreme
Court ruling would shake up admissions systems across the U.S.  “Universities need to be able to have this issue
settled,” said Lee Bollinger, the president of Columbia
University in New York. “They don’t need to feel like every
five years or more there’s a new challenge.”  The case is also being closely watched by some of the
nation’s biggest companies, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., (WMT)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) , which are among those
that filed a  brief  supporting Texas saying they rely on
universities to prepare a racially diverse workforce.  New Court  Only nine years ago the Supreme Court reaffirmed the right
of universities to consider race as an admissions factor to
achieve campus diversity. The court’s composition has changed
since then, most notably through the retirement of Justice
Sandra Day O’Connor, who wrote the 5-4 ruling. O’Connor, who was
in the audience yesterday, was succeeded by Justice Samuel Alito, a skeptic of racial preferences.  Kennedy, who dissented in that 2003 case and is now the
court’s swing vote, suggested yesterday that Texas was going too
far. He balked when the university’s lawyer, Gregory Garre, said
Texas wanted to have diversity within racial groups, as well as
among them.  “What you’re saying is that what counts is race above
all,” Kennedy said. “You want underprivileged of a certain
race and privileged of a certain race.”  Roberts, who once described racial classifications as “a
sordid business,” signaled he would support a broad ruling. He
repeatedly voiced discomfort with the idea of identifying
students by racial group.  “Should someone who is one-quarter Hispanic check the
Hispanic box or some different box?” Roberts asked.  Little Difference  Bert Rein, the lawyer challenging the Texas program on
behalf of a rejected white applicant, stopped short of directly
asking the court to overturn its 2003 ruling. The logic behind
that stance was questioned by Justices Sonia Sotomayor and
Stephen Breyer, both Democratic appointees, who said they saw
little difference between the Texas policy and the University of
Michigan Law School plan upheld in 2003.  The 2003 decision, Grutter v. Bollinger, said colleges and
graduate schools could consider race as long as they do so
through a broad review of a student’s application and don’t
mechanistically award extra points to every minority.  “You don’t want to overrule Grutter,” said Sotomayor, the
court’s first Hispanic justice. “You just want to gut it.”  A central question in the Texas case is whether
universities can adequately diversify without resorting to
racial preferences. The University of Texas admits three-
quarters of its freshman class each year on the basis of high
school class rank -- the “top 10 percent rule.”  That system, the product of a 1997 state law, ensures a
significant number of minorities because it guarantees slots to
students at predominantly Hispanic and black schools. The
university considers race only in admitting the rest of the
class.  Many Options  The court has multiple options for resolving the case short
of barring all affirmative action policies. The justices could
say the top-10 program achieves sufficient diversity by itself,
making explicit racial preferences unnecessary.  Such a ruling would potentially force other universities to
look more closely at race-neutral approaches, including socio-
economic affirmative action and the abolition of legacy
preferences, which disproportionately favor white students.  Another possibility would be to require a stronger showing
from universities as to why their programs are necessary, said
 Richard Sander , a professor at the UCLA School of Law in Los
Angeles who attended the argument. The justices spent part of
the hour-plus argument trying to sort out exactly how the Texas
preference works.  Lack of Information  “What struck me is how frustrated they were with the lack
of information,” said Sander, who filed a brief urging the
court to put limits on affirmative action. “Nobody had any idea
of how large the preference was.”  The Texas program is being challenged by Abigail Noel
Fisher, who applied unsuccessfully to Texas in 2008 and later
enrolled at Louisiana State University. A graduate of a Houston-
area public high school, she says she was passed over by UT in
favor of minority classmates with lower grades and fewer
extracurricular activities.  Texas has support in the case from some of the most
powerful institutions in the U.S. The 59 companies that signed
the brief backing the university also include Gap Inc., Pfizer
Inc., Shell Oil Co. and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)   Those corporations are in the unusual position of arguing
alongside the Obama administration, which has  cast  affirmative
action as a national security issue. The administration says
race-conscious admissions, both at the country’s military
academies and at universities with Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps programs, help ensure a diverse group of officers.  ‘Effective Citizens’  “The core of our interest is in ensuring that the nation’s
universities produce graduates who are going to be effective
citizens and effective leaders in an increasingly diverse
society, and effective competitors in diverse global markets,”
said U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the
administration’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  Texas also drew support from Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg,
as well as Sotomayor and Breyer.  “This program certainly is no more aggressive than the one
in Grutter,” Ginsburg said. “It’s, in fact, more modest.”  Alito faulted the Texas program for potentially giving a
preference to the minority child of two corporate lawyers. The
plan helps Hispanics and blacks “who come from privileged
backgrounds,” he said.  Justice Elena Kagan isn’t taking part in the case. She was
the Obama administration’s top courtroom lawyer when the
administration filed a brief at the appeals court level.  Akin to Quota  In his 2003 dissent, Kennedy said the University of
Michigan Law School policy at issue in that case was akin to a
quota. At the same time, he said in that case that universities
could constitutionally make racial diversity a goal.  Although Kennedy directed the bulk of his questions at the
lawyers defending affirmative action yesterday, he also balked
at Rein’s criticism of Texas’s policy for adding only a handful
of minority students to the school.  “If it’s so few, then what’s the problem?” Kennedy asked.  Kennedy “recognizes the continuing challenges that the
nation has in the area of race,” said Debo Adegbile, acting
president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
At the same time, “he has expressed skepticism in several
contexts about what the remedies are to address it.”  Bollinger said he was cheered that Fisher’s lawyer didn’t
ask the court yesterday to overturn the Grutter ruling.
Bollinger was president of the University of Michigan during
much of that case, leading the defense of its affirmative action
program.  “I am perhaps more hopeful than I was six months ago,”
Bollinger said.  The case is Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin,
11-345.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  