-- African Discount Airline Courts Big Oil as Fleet Grows
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-10-12T10:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/african-discount-airline-courts-big-oil-as-fleet-grows.html
FastJet Plc (FJET) , seeking to become the
first low-cost airline spanning sub-Saharan Africa, said it has
held talks with potential clients at embassies and international
 oil companies  in advance of its first flight next month.  The carrier also plans to offer allocated seating for an
extra fee to meet interest from corporate passengers, though the
primary focus remains a pent-up market for visits to friends and
family, Chief Executive Officer Ed Winter said in an interview.  FastJet is close to sealing a deal for “a few more” of
the  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A319 single-aisle planes with which it’s building
its fleet, Winter said, adding to an aircraft it agreed to lease
from BBAM LLC, formerly Babcock & Brown Aircraft Management. The
company aims to have five A319s in operation within six months
and 15 by the end of the first year of operations, he said.  “We’re applying European standards whether required or not
and making reliability the selling point, which is attractive to
lots of customers,” Winter said. “Business travelers want to
be first through immigration and first on and off the plane,
especially in  Africa , so we need to offer allocated seating.”  Shares of FastJet rose for the first time in seven days and
were trading 1.4 percent higher at 3.68 pence as of 11:22 a.m.
in  London , their biggest gain in three weeks.  The reservation system will most likely be branded
FastSeat, according to Winter, who said his company has been in
contact with diplomatic services including the U.S. embassy in
 Ghana , which he says is Africa’s biggest with 5,000 staff.  Approved Carriers  Oil and mining companies are also being courted, and will
most likely conduct an audit of FastJet’s operations when it is
more established, Winter said, adding that some governments and
companies will sanction travel only on approved carriers.  FastJet, backed by  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder Stelios Haji- Ioannou, plans to establish bases in Tanzania, Kenya, Ghana and
Angola with licenses held by majority owner  Lonrho Plc (LAF) , an oil,
mining and agricultural group active in Africa for 100 years.  The carrier will deploy its first plane in  Dar es Salaam ,
capital of Tanzania, from where it plans to commence operations
with services to Nairobi. The Tanzanian market can probably
support five aircraft and Kenya a further 10, Winter said.  The jets that FastJet is close to accepting have not been
sourced from BBAM, Winter said, with the market for the 156-seat
A319 becoming tighter after deals involving Sky Airline of  Chile 
and U.S.-based Allegiant Air, which this month agreed to take
nine planes from General Electric Co.’s leasing arm.  FastJet may move toward purchasing its own planes in three
to five years, with the Airbus A320 neo and  Boeing 737  MAX the
most likely contenders, Winter has said. With the initial five
jets the airline will have a capacity of 1.5 million passengers
a year, double that of Lonrho’s existing Fly540 division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  