-- Make Colleges Tell Us More About Graduates’ Fate
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-10-11T22:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/make-colleges-tell-us-more-about-graduates-fate.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  says
federal college-aid programs should be expanded, and in return
the schools need to be held accountable for their costs and
results. Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  thinks students should
shop around for the best deal and get help from their parents.  Their  plans  may differ, yet they are similar in one way:
They expose the glaring gap of reliable information about the
colleges’ success rates. Parents can’t shop around and schools
can’t be held accountable if there is no data available. So high
school juniors from well-off families make their decisions based
on how friendly people were during their tours of pretty
campuses, while poor kids gamble that a college degree is worth
the risk of going into  debt .  A bipartisan initiative in the  U.S. Senate , pushed by
Democrat  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  and Republican Marco Rubio of
 Florida , might help address this lack of information.  For universities to be efficient or produce better
outcomes, we have to collect and disseminate data on both the
costs of obtaining a degree and the payoffs. Although they are
in the knowledge business, colleges are often ignorant of the
“value added” their students might gain from critical thinking
and leadership skills. They are also reticent to tell the public
what they already know: for example, data on the costs versus
the benefits of  remedial education , on how many papers students
write, and on what the average annual income is of graduates
from their school.  Bipartisan Legislation  The public craves information on colleges, as shown by the
popularity of magazine college  rankings . Although we learn about
the earnings of some professional-school graduates, in general
we don’t know much about the success of undergraduates. Why
can’t the colleges themselves provide, in a uniform fashion,
more information to potential customers, donors and taxpayers?  Enter Senators Wyden and Rubio. If Wyden, who is relatively
liberal, and Rubio, who is conservative,  agree  that more is
better than less when it comes to providing consumers and policy
makers with facts about education costs, remedial instruction
and postgraduate average annual earnings (the three areas the
bill targets), then there is no reason colleges should resist.  Some educators will object that a focus on average future
earnings is a misleading measure. Universities provide what
economists call a signaling or screening function. The
bachelor’s degree certification is supposed to give employers
some reasonable  assurance  that the student is fairly bright, a
pretty persistent and disciplined worker, and one who is quite
knowledgeable about the world. Thus, college graduates earn more
on average than those with high school diplomas. This isn’t
necessarily because of what they learned in school -- the “human
capital” they acquired. They may have inherently productive
character traits or other advantages unrelated to their
education.  But what if the earnings of graduates from College A
average far more than those of College B? Going further than the
Wyden-Rubio measure, I suggest that schools receiving federal
aid should be required, with the mandated cooperation of the
 Internal Revenue Service , to provide average earnings on
graduates one, 10 and 20 years after graduation. The schools
give the IRS the requisite Social Security numbers, and the IRS
churns out the descriptive statistics such as the average
earnings and those at the 25th and 75th percentiles of the
earnings distribution. That would allow prospective students to
do more cost-benefit analysis on the merits of different
schools.  Allowing Comparisons  Yes, earnings vary vastly by field of study.  Philip Coelho 
and  Tung Liu  of Ball State University, using data compiled by
PayScale.com, suggest in a new study that average annual
earnings of aerospace-engineering graduates at midcareer is
$109,000, compared with $42,400 for those who majored in
elementary education. A helpful form of consumer information
would be to provide average earnings by several broad areas of
study, such as science, technology, mathematics and engineering,
as well as humanities, business, communications and social
science.  There are other forms of information not included in the
Wyden-Rubio proposal that would be useful. Perhaps colleges
should be required to administer and report results from the
 National Survey of Student Engagement , giving information on the
number of hours a week students study, the number of lengthy
papers they write, how engaged they feel about their academic
work, and so on. Do students participate seriously in the
academic programs on campus?  The Wyden-Rubio bill, which was unveiled last month, is far
from perfect, but the concept behind it is sound. My prediction
is that the higher-education establishment will fight its
adoption. Maybe an elite private college such as Amherst
wouldn’t care if its graduates knew they earned less than the
alumni of Williams, but schools such as the  University of Texas 
may not welcome unfavorable comparisons with archrival  Texas
A&M .  Just as performance evaluations from  Consumers Reports ,
 J.D. Power & Associates  or  Underwriters Laboratories  LLC can
help consumers choose products, so similar information can lead
to better choices in higher education.  (Richard Vedder is director of the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity and teaches economics at Ohio
University. The opinions expressed are his own. Read his article
on federal college loans  here .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving U.S. food safety ;
Stephen L. Carter on  which facts last the longest ; William Pesek
on  economist Raghuram Rajan’s return to India ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 funny numbers companies use  to burnish their earnings.  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 