-- Alex Rodriguez Is Dropped in Yankees’ Lineup After Pinch Hit
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-11T21:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/alex-rodriguez-is-dropped-in-yankees-lineup-after-pinch-hit.html
Alex Rodriguez was moved down two
places to the No. 5 spot in the New York Yankees’ lineup for
today’s playoff game against the Baltimore Orioles, a day after
being benched during the ninth inning in favor of pinch-hitter
Raul Ibanez.  Rodriguez, Major League Baseball’s active career home-run
leader, went 0-for-3 with two strikeouts before being replaced
by Ibanez, who hit a game-tying home run in the ninth and the
winning homer in the 12th inning to give the Yankees a 3-2
victory in Game 3 of their American League Division Series.  The win gave the Yankees a two-games-to-one lead in the
best-of-five series. A victory tonight at Yankee Stadium would
send New York into the AL Championship Series against the
Detroit Tigers or Oakland Athletics.  “I expect big things from him tonight,” Yankees manager
Joe Girardi said of Rodriguez at a news conference. “I still
think he’s a great player.”  Rodriguez, 37, had batted third or fourth in 121 of his
previous 122 starts this season. He hit third against the
Orioles in the first three games, going 1-for-12 with seven
strikeouts.  Derek Jeter is in the lineup as the designated hitter after
sustaining a bone bruise yesterday when he fouled a ball off his
left ankle. Jeter is hitting leadoff, followed by Ichiro Suzuki,
Mark Teixeira and Robinson Cano. Rodriguez is fifth and playing
third base, followed by Nick Swisher, Russell Martin, Curtis Granderson and Jayson Nix, who is at shortstop in place of
Jeter.  Understood Move  Rodriguez said after last night’s game that he understood
manager Joe Girardi’s decision to replace him. Rodriguez struck
out against Orioles right-handed reliever Jim Johnson in the
ninth inning of the first two games of the series, so Girardi
opted for the left-handed hitting Ibanez, who homered on the
second pitch.  “Maybe 10 years ago, I’d react a much different way, but
I’m at a place in my career right now where team means
everything,” Rodriguez said. “I don’t think there was anybody
in the ballpark more excited for Raul than me.”  He said the last time he had been pinch-hit for was “maybe
high school.”  Ibanez, 40, became the first player in major-league history
to hit two home runs in the ninth inning or later in a
postseason game as the Yankees ended the Orioles’ run of 16
straight extra-inning wins. Baltimore is 16-3 in extra-inning
games this season, with all three losses coming against the
Yankees.  12th Yankee  Ibanez was the 12th player in Yankees’ history to end a
playoff game with a home run and the first since Mark Teixeira
in 2009. The Yankees’ only game-ending homer to come later in a
playoff game was Jim Leyritz’s 15th-inning blast in Game 2 of
the 1995 ALDS against  Seattle .  “I wish it was me that hit two home runs, but if it
wasn’t, it was the next-best guy, Raul,” Rodriguez said.  Rodriguez is 3-for-30 with 13 strikeouts over the past two
postseasons. A three-time AL Most Valuable Player whose 647 home
runs rank fifth on the MLB career list, Rodriguez last hit a
homer on Sept. 14 and has gone 20 games since his last
postseason home run in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  