-- Amazon Protesters Demand 10% Stake in Belo Monte Dam Profits
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-10-11T16:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/amazon-protesters-demand-10-stake-in-belo-monte-dam-profits.html
Protesters paralyzing construction
of  Brazil ’s biggest hydroelectric project are demanding a 10
percent stake in profits from the sale of energy.  Indian tribes and peasant farmers this week joined
fisherman who last month seized control of a construction site
at the  Belo Monte  dam being built in the Amazon, alleging that
its operator hasn’t followed through on a pledge to invest in
communities affected by the project.  Protesters submitted their demands yesterday to the federal
government’s Indian agency and the Norte Energia SA consortium
developing the project, said Maira Irigaray, Brazil program
director for Amazon Watch, a San Francisco-based environmental
watchdog. A federal judge in Altamira, the city closest to the
work site, gave both sides a 48-hour deadline ending tomorrow to
negotiate a resolution to the conflict.  The impasse is the latest setback for Belo Monte, which has
drawn fire from celebrities including Avatar director  James Cameron  over plans to flood hundreds of kilometers of tribal
lands and pristine forest along the Xingu River. In addition to
protests and worker strikes that have delayed construction,
prosecutors and the Washington-based  Organization of American
States  are seeking to suspend work on the dam, which will
generate 11,233 megawatts of energy when it’s completed in 2019.  In July, Norte Energia agreed to build schools, clinics and
other infrastructure in areas affected by the dam’s
construction, according to a statement from Altamira-based
organization Xingu Alive Forever.  Protester Demands  In addition to the 10 percent stake in profits, protesters
are now demanding the right to fish and move freely along the
river, new boats, and a monthly stipend of 3,000 reais (1,472
dollars) for families whose livelihood depends on the river.  “When negotiations finish and the last Indian leaves the
area, we’ll start working again,” Fernando Santana, spokesman
for the consortium, said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro . In a
statement, Norte Energia said that a good part of the
protesters’ demands require action from the Brazilian
government.  The dam located across the Xingu River is slated to become
the world’s third largest, behind Brazil’s Itaipu and  China ’s
Three Gorges, capable of providing enough energy to light 18
million homes.  Norte Energia is led by Sao Paulo-based builder Grupo
Andrade Gutierrez SA, and includes  Camargo Correa SA (CCIM3) , Queiroz
Galvao SA, Grupo OAS, Odebrecht SA, and five smaller partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  