-- American Air Extends 1% Capacity Cut to Nov. 14 on Delays
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-11T22:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/american-air-extends-1-capacity-cut-to-nov-14-on-delays.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines said
its 1 percent reduction in capacity will be extended through the
first 14 days of November because the bankrupt carrier’s on-time
 arrival rate  hasn’t improved enough.  “We are not yet back to the levels our customers deserve
and expect,” American said today in a memo to employees.
Keeping the capacity cutbacks in place for part of the month
“will give us additional time to ensure the operation returns
to a more normal pattern. This will not impact holiday travel.”  Based on a daily schedule of 3,500 flights, American’s cuts
mean the elimination of about 35 trips a day, according to the
airline.  American initially trimmed flight and seat capacity by 1
percent to 2 percent in mid-September through October as its on-
time arrival rate tumbled to less than 50 percent. The delays
occurred after the airline imposed concessions on pilots and
began notifying mechanics of layoffs.  The slowdowns coincided with three instances of seats
becoming dislodged on American planes to drive some passengers
to other airlines. Fort Worth, Texas-based American’s September
U.S. passenger traffic fell 7.1 percent.  American’s on-time arrival rate was 76 percent for 1,190
flights tracked as of 6:30 p.m.  New York  time today, according
to data researcher FlightStats.com. Yesterday’s rate was 65
percent, compared with 82 percent at  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  and 77 percent at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   The carrier has threatened legal action against the  Allied
Pilots Association  if the delays don’t stop, saying pilots were
reporting maintenance questions just before flights. The union
said it wasn’t encouraging or supporting a slowdown and advised
members not to deliberately delay operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  