-- Andrew Brimmer, Who Broke Color Barrier at Fed, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-10-11T21:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/andrew-brimmer-who-broke-color-barrier-on-fed-board-dies-at-86.html
Andrew Brimmer, an economist who
became the first black member of the U.S.  Federal Reserve  Board
when President  Lyndon B. Johnson  appointed him in 1966, has
died. He was 86.  He died on Oct. 7 at George  Washington  University Hospital
in Washington, said his daughter, Esther Brimmer. Though ill for
the past few years, he had continued working until a month ago,
she said. He was a resident of Washington since 1965.  The son of a  Louisiana  sharecropper, Brimmer moved north to
pursue higher education and didn’t stop until he had a Ph.D.
from  Harvard Business School  in  Boston . He worked as a staff
economist in the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and as an
assistant professor of economics before becoming a deputy
assistant secretary of commerce under President  John F. Kennedy .  In nominating Brimmer as a Fed governor on Feb. 26, 1966,
Johnson said, “He is a man of wide professional experience and
great personal integrity, a man of moderation whose brilliance
is combined with a sense of fair play that I believe will enable
him to serve with distinction.”  The lead story in the next day’s New York Times carried the
headline, “Johnson Appoints Negro Economist to Reserve Board.”  The Senate Banking Committee endorsed the nomination
without dissent, and 11 days after his name was proposed, in the
East Room of the White House with Johnson looking on, Brimmer
was sworn in by Fed Chairman William McChesney Martin Jr. With
the addition of Brimmer, the seven-member Fed board had, for the
first time, a majority of professional economists, according to
the Times.  Fighting Inflation  During more than eight years on the Fed, Brimmer became
known as an expert on international monetary policy. Early on,
he supported the board’s effort to combat inflation by gradually
raising  interest rates . After Congress and Johnson raised taxes
and trimmed spending in 1968, Brimmer was one of the first Fed
governors to call for easing the rates.  In his later years on the board, he drew attention for
blunt observations on the economic conditions of black
Americans.  “I do feel that the economic plight of blacks is a serious
matter,” the Times quoted him in a 1973 article. “So I bring
the same economist’s tool kit to that subject as other
economists bring to examine other national economic problems.”  Brimmer researched income and wage disparities between
white and black Americans. His public comments on black America,
according to the Times, included references to black-owned banks
as “ornaments” and to the “fallacy of black capitalism.”  Black-Owned Banks  He said that black-owned banks seemed focused on investing
deposits in U.S. securities, not in their own neighborhoods, the
Times reported. “Perhaps inadvertently,” he said, the banks
“may be diverting resources from the black community into the
financing of the national debt.”  Brimmer served 8 1/2 years of his 14-year term, stepping
down in 1974 to join the faculty of Harvard Business School.  The Fed has had two black governors since Brimmer: Emmett Rice, nominated by President  Jimmy Carter  in 1979, and  Roger Ferguson , nominated by President  Bill Clinton  in 1997.  Ferguson said in a  2002 speech  to college students that, as
a teenager growing up in Washington in 1966, he followed
newspaper accounts of Brimmer’s barrier-breaking appointment
and, in the process, “became absolutely fascinated with
economics and with this institution, the Federal Reserve.”  ‘Role Model’  Now the chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF, Ferguson said
today in an e-mail:  “Andy Brimmer was a trailblazer and a role model for a
generation of African-Americans who aspired to be economic
policy makers. Only in America could the son of a sharecropper
rise to become a national leader. Andy’s passing will be mourned
deeply.”  After his Fed tenure, Brimmer formed Brimmer & Co., an
economic consulting firm, and wrote an economics column for
Black Enterprise magazine. From 1995 to 1998, he served as the
first chairman of the District of Columbia Financial Control
Board, created by Congress to oversee the finances of the
nation’s capital.  Since 1999, he served as principal economic policy adviser
to Bermuda’s Ministry of Finance, and he was recently appointed
chairman of a newly created Bermuda Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to a  statement  by Premier Paula Cox.  Tuskegee Ties  He was a board member for more than 40 years at Tuskegee
University in  Alabama , which  named  its business school building
for him.  “He was always looking for opportunities to learn more and
teach more,” his daughter, who is U.S. assistant secretary of
state for international organization affairs, said today in an
interview. “He had a thirst for knowledge.”  Brimmer is also survived by his wife, the former Doris
Scott.  Andrew Felton Brimmer Jr. was born on Sept. 13, 1926, in
Newellton, a rural village of 800 in northeastern Louisiana. His
father, Andrew Sr., was a sharecropper and warehouse worker,
according to a 1995 Times profile.  After high school, Brimmer left the South for  Seattle . He
served in the U.S. Army during World War II, then attended the
 University of Washington , where he earned an undergraduate
degree in economics in 1950 and a master’s degree in 1951. He
studied in  India  at the Delhi School of Economics and the
University of Bombay as a Fulbright scholar. He earned his Ph.D.
from Harvard Business School in 1957.  Mass Migration  In an  interview  with the Harvard Crimson in 1974, Brimmer
described his journey from the South in the context of U.S.
history.  “I was part of the same outward-bound stream of people --
literally thousands of them -- that had migrated out of the area
since World War I, although interrupted by the Depression, of
course,” he said. “It was Steinbeck’s dust bowl of ‘The Grapes
of Wrath’ --  Oklahoma ,  Arkansas , northern Louisiana. There were
very few opportunities.”  Following his studies at Harvard and work at the New York
Fed, Brimmer taught at  Michigan State University  in East
Lansing, Michigan, and the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton
School of Finance and Commerce in Philadelphia. Kennedy made him
deputy assistant secretary of commerce for economic affairs, and
Johnson elevated him to assistant secretary in January 1965.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  