-- Realogy Climbs in Debut After Pricing at Top of IPO Range
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-10-11T20:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/apollo-s-realogy-rises-in-debut-after-ipo-prices-at-top-of-range.html
Realogy Holdings Corp. (RLGY) , the real
estate brokerage company controlled by  Apollo Global Management
LLC (APO) , rose 27 percent in its first day of trading as investors
bet on a housing recovery.  Realogy climbed to $34.20 in  New York  after selling 40
million shares for $27 each yesterday, the top of its initial
public offering range. The owner of the Coldwell Banker and
Century 21 brands raised $1.08 billion through the sale of a 31
percent stake, according to a statement.  The IPO price gave Parsippany, New Jersey-based Realogy a
market value of about $3.5 billion. The firm had planned to use
the proceeds from the sale to help reduce debt by more than a
third to $4.5 billion. Realogy was taken private by Apollo in
2007 in the largest U.S. leveraged buyout of a real-estate
services firm on record, just as U.S.  home prices  headed for the
worst slump since the 1930s.  “We’re happy with the outcome but we have a lot of work to
do,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Smith  said in a telephone
interview today. “If you want broad housing exposure as a
component of your portfolio, this is the only pure play for
you.”  Realogy and such rivals such as closely held Re/Max
International Inc. and Keller Williams Realty Inc. are poised to
benefit as home sales and prices recover. The market is being
propelled by tight supplies of listings and borrowing costs that
are close to a record low.  Prices Rise  Home prices rose 4.6 percent in August from a year earlier,
the biggest increase since July 2006, according to  CoreLogic
Inc. (CLGX) , a  Santa Ana , California-based mortgage data firm. Sales of
existing houses in August jumped to the highest in more than two
years, rising 7.8 percent from the previous month, the National
Association of Realtors said.  Smith said that Realogy plans to retire about $1 billion of
debt a year as it works to reach profitability. The company had
a net loss of $25 million in the second quarter after recording
$176 million of interest expense and $44 million of depreciation
and amortization costs. Revenue rose 11 percent from a year
earlier to $1.31 billion.  Realogy will benefit even if the economy recovers slowly
because of divorces, births and other life events that spur
Americans to buy and sell homes, he said. Realogy has cut its
annual costs by about $500 million and reduced its employee
count by 30 percent during the six-year housing slump, he said.  “We are well positioned for a strong recovery, a moderate
recovery or a choppy recovery,” Smith said.  Apollo Buyout  Apollo, co-founded by  Leon Black  more than two decades ago,
invested $1.05 billion in the 2007 Realogy buyout. The takeover
was valued at $6.8 billion, according to a regulatory filing.
Apollo announced the acquisition in December 2006, five months
after home  prices  peaked, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index. At the $27 IPO price, Apollo’s 50.2 percent stake in
Realogy was valued at about $1.8 billion.  Apollo, based in New York, took Realogy public as it
prepares to raise a new fund of as much as $12 billion, people
familiar with the situation have said. Last week, Apollo’s  Berry
Plastics Group Inc. (BERY)  completed its own IPO, pricing its shares at
the bottom of its planned price range.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led the
offering for Realogy, which is listed on the  New York Stock
Exchange (NYX)  under the symbol RLGY.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  