-- Arsenal Eyes Llorente, Lewandowski as Extra Striker: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-11T07:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/arsenal-eyes-llorente-lewandowski-as-extra-striker-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Striker Wanted  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  asked his scouting network to
find another striker before the January transfer window as he
seeks back-up to Olivier Giroud as the spearhead in a 4-2-3-1
system, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Athletic Bilbao’s Fernando Llorente, Atletico Madrid’s
Adrian Lopez,  Robert Lewandowski  of Borussia Dortmund and
Fiorentina’s Stevan Jovetic are among those being monitored, the
newspaper added.  Wenger has about 35 million pounds ($56 million) to spend,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Sherwood Bid  Blackburn Rovers will make a second bid to hire Tim Sherwood, a technical co-ordinator at Tottenham Hotspur, as
their new manager, the  Sun reported .  Rovers, who are willing to pay Sherwood 2 million pounds a
year, have already had an approach rejected by Spurs chairman
Daniel Levy, the newspaper added.  Rooney Role  England manager  Roy Hodgson  is considering using  Wayne Rooney  in the midfield role he recently played for Manchester
United in tomorrow’s World Cup qualifier against San Marino, the
 Independent reported .  Hodgson may deploy Rooney in a deeper position because
 Frank Lampard  is in doubt for the match at London’s Wembley
stadium because of a knee injury, the newspaper added.  Swansea Revolt  Senior Swansea players have held secret meetings with
chairman Huw Jenkins about the management methods of Michael Laudrup, the  Daily Mail reported .  Players have been angered by Laudrup’s demands for a change
to their tactical approach and are reluctant to adopt the Danish
coach’s methods, the newspaper added.  Young Returns  Manchester United winger  Ashley Young  returned to training
for the first time since injuring his knee in August and may be
available for an Oct. 20 home game against Stoke City, the  Daily
Mail reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  