-- Hartford Faces Lawyer’s Claim Involving Treasury Official
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-11T21:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/hartford-faces-lawyer-s-claim-involving-treasury-official.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  went to trial in a lawsuit by a Texas lawyer who accuses
the insurer of causing him to be prosecuted on bribery charges
that were dropped after a mistrial.  The negligence lawsuit includes the lawyer’s accusation
that the company’s former general counsel, Neal S. Wolin, now
U.S. deputy treasury secretary, took part in a cover-up linked
to alleged extortion by two employees, according to court
filings.  Todd Hoeffner, the lawyer seeking $25 million in damages,
sued the Hartford, Connecticut-based insurer in state court in
Houston. Wolin, who isn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit,
testified against Hoeffner in a 2009 criminal trial that ended
with a deadlocked jury. Wolin’s testimony will be part of the
 jury trial  that began today with opening statements by lawyers.  Hoeffner was charged with making illegal payments to two
claims processors to get inflated insurance settlements for
clients suffering from silicosis. The charges followed an
internal company investigation ordered by Wolin and given to
federal prosecutors, according to court records.  Jurors at the 2009 trial couldn’t reach a verdict.
Hoeffner, later faced with new charges that didn’t include
bribery, agreed to pay prosecution costs and the criminal case
was dropped.  Alleged Extortion  Hoeffner sued Hartford in October 2011 on claims the
insurer lied to the government about him. The motive, he said,
was to hide the claims processors’ extortion of $3 million from
the portion of the settlements paid to him as legal fees. He
accuses Hartford of negligence, economic duress, interference
with his attorney-client relationships and intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  Hartford protected the employees to keep them from telling
regulators the company lacked sufficient cash reserves to pay
asbestos-related claims at the time of the scheme, and Wolin
participated in the cover-up, Hoeffner said in court filings.  Wolin, through his attorney, denied Hoeffner’s allegations
and said that when he learned of what appeared to be a bribery
scheme involving rogue workers, he ordered company investigators
to dig into the matter.  “He directed them to investigate the facts no matter where
those facts led them, and if they deemed it appropriate, to
refer the matter to law enforcement authorities for a full and
complete investigation,”  James E. Rocap , Wolin’s lawyer, said
in an e-mail. “Any assertion to the contrary is ridiculous.”  Obama Adviser  Wolin left Hartford in early 2009 to become an adviser in
President  Barack Obama ’s administration. He was named to the
second-highest ranking post at the Treasury in May 2009.  As the No. 2 official behind Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , Wolin has helped lead the department’s efforts on the
Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul.  Chris Flood , Hoeffner’s lawyer, said in court papers that
the internal probe “resulted in Hoeffner being indicted on
bribery/kickback allegations that the government later abandoned
because they were not true.”  “These charges ruined life as Hoeffner knew it and have
destroyed his legal career,” Flood wrote.  Hoeffner, 48, said in court filings he was the victim of
extortion by claims processors.  Two BMWs  The processors, Rachel Rossow and John Prestage, demanded
part of his 40 percent contingency fee from silicosis
settlements with their company and threatened to scuttle his
other agreements, Hoeffner said in court filings. He said he
paid the two about $3 million including two $50,000 BMW
automobiles, from 2002 to 2004 so they would recommend $34
million in settlements for hundreds of clients.  Hoeffner said in court filings that he believed Rossow’s
threats because she was having an affair with her boss, an
executive with veto power over all such settlements.  Hartford said in court papers that “Hoeffner had many
options other than to give in to the criminal extortion,” which
it maintains was actually a bribery scheme he concocted. Tainted
settlements earned Hoeffner millions of dollars in fees beyond
the $3 million he shared with Rossow and Prestage, the company
said in court filings.  “This is a cynical attempt by a manipulative lawyer to
turn common sense on its head,” Bob Schick, Hartford’s
attorney, told jurors today. “He has no right to suggest he’s
the victim here. He was playing this game freely and
willingly.”  Asbestos Reserves  Hartford added $2.6 billion to its asbestos reserves in
2003 and strengthened them by $262 million in 2004, according to
a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Flood told the jury of 10 women and two men today that
Rossow’s lover and boss, David Cain, calculated that Hartford’s
asbestos reserves were $7 billion too low in 2003, a time when
most insurers were scrambling to set aside enough cash to cover
such claims.  Hartford “buried” that first study, destroyed all
evidence of it, and commissioned another showing the asbestos
reserve shortfall was about $2 billion. When the payments from
Hoeffner were discovered, Flood said Hartford chose to protect
Cain to keep him quiet about the asbestos reserves.  ‘Extortion Scheme’  “Hartford decided it couldn’t allow its senior vice
president to be criminally charged in an extortion scheme,
knowing what he knows,” Flood told jurors. “So there was an
effort by the Hartford to call this a bribery and kickback
scheme.”  “There is no evidence to support Hoeffner’s allegations,”
Thomas Hambrick, a Hartford spokesman, said in a phone interview
before the trial. He declined to comment specifically on the
company’s asbestos reserves at the time.  Andy Drumheller, a lawyer for Cain, didn’t immediately
respond to phone and e-mail messages today seeking comment on
Flood’s statement. Drumheller didn’t respond to calls earlier
this week seeking comment on the case. Cain hasn’t been charged
with any wrongdoing.  Rossow and Prestage pleaded guilty in 2010 to conspiracy to
commit mail and wire fraud. Each was sentenced to one year of
probation, according to court records. Rossow’s lawyer,  Dan Cogdell , didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment on
Hoeffner’s lawsuit.  Prestage is expected to testify via video in Hoeffner’s
civil case, according to his lawyer, Paul Nugent, who declined
to comment further.  Inflated, Inappropriate  According to court filings, Hoeffner testified in the 2009
trial that he agreed to the processors’ demands to settle
hundreds of claims before such cases could exhaust the carrier’s
coverage.  “In protecting his client’s rights, he has suffered for
decisions he should not have been forced to make,” Flood said
in court papers.  In a 2004 internal draft memo reviewing Hoeffner’s
settlements, the company described the deals as inflated and
inappropriate, according to evidence produced in the criminal
trial. The report, which the company said was never finished,
was later given to prosecutors who used it in their case against
Hoeffner, according to court records.  Wolin testified in 2009 that he hadn’t seen the document
that Hoeffner’s lawyers call the Wolin Memo. He said the company
determined that its settlements with Hoeffner’s clients were
fair and reasonable.  The former general counsel testified that he did nothing
wrong and followed company policy by turning the company’s
findings over to  law enforcement .  Surrendered License  By the end of the five-week trial, the government had
stopped referring to bribes and kickbacks and unsuccessfully
moved to have the terms deleted from a copy of the indictment
given jurors. Jurors deadlocked on charges of conspiracy, fraud
and money-laundering.  After the mistrial, prosecutors sought to retry Hoeffner
under a new indictment that didn’t mention bribery. He signed a
pretrial diversion agreement, completed a year of court
supervision, paid $2.5 million in prosecution costs and
surrendered his law license for two years. All charges were
dismissed in June, according to court records.  The federal judge who presided over the criminal trial
barred lawyers from questioning Wolin about company asbestos
reserves.  State Judge Jaclanel McFarland ruled this month that Wolin
can be questioned by Hoeffner’s lawyers on those topics during
the current trial. Wolin’s testimony and cross-examination will
be shown to the jury on video.  The case is Sanchez v. Hoeffner, 2010-15489, 133rd Judicial
District Court of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor on this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 