-- Europe Stocks Fall With Euro on Spain Downgrade; Aussie Gains
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-10-11T07:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/asian-stocks-drop-with-euro-metals-as-s-p-cuts-spain-s-rating.html
Most European stocks fell, the euro
weakened and German bonds advanced after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded Spain’s debt rating. Australia’s dollar rose on
better-than-expected jobs data.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SPX)  slid 0.1 percent as of 8:02 a.m.
in London, while S&P 500 Index futures were little changed. The
yield on German 10-year bunds dropped to a one-week low of 1.44
percent and Italian bonds fell before a debt auction. The euro
weakened against all 16 major counterparts. The Dollar Index, a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, touched a one-
month high. Australia’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent versus the
greenback and China’s yuan climbed to a 19-year high.  S&P cut Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk as the
government considers a second bailout. Australian employers
hired almost three times the number of workers economists
forecast last month, while Japan’s machinery orders dropped more
than economists forecast. Central banks in Brazil and  South
Korea  cut  interest rates  while  Bank Indonesia  left rates
unchanged, according to announcements yesterday and today.  “The global economy’s in a tough place,” Gary D. Cohn,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s president and chief operating officer,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Tokyo. “If you
look at what’s going in the  euro zone , you look at what’s going
on in the United States, you look at what’s going on in Japan
and you even look into China today, you’ve got a lot of anxiety
in the system.”  Spanish banks including Banco Santander SA and Bankia SA
fell at least 1.7 percent following the S&P rating action.
France’s  Carrefour SA (CA)  rose 4.8 percent after the world’s second-
largest retailer posted third-quarter sales that beat analyst
estimates.  Fanuc, Toyota  In Asia, the Nikkei 225 Stock Average declined 0.6 percent
and the Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.8 percent. Japan’s
machinery orders dropped 3.3 percent in August, compared with a
median estimate for a 2.3 percent decline and a 4.6 percent gain
in July, data showed today. Wholesale deliveries of passenger
vehicles in  China  fell 0.3 percent last month, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said yesterday.  Fanuc Corp., the world’s largest maker of controls that run
 machine tools , sank 2.7 percent in Tokyo.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
fell 1.4 percent after announcing a recall of about 7.43 million
vehicles because of a faulty power-window switch. Asia’s biggest
carmaker also fell as a territorial dispute led to a slump in
deliveries of Japanese marques in China.  SAIC Motor Corp. led declines among automakers in China,
dropping 3.3 percent. Lynas Corp. slumped 15 percent in Sydney
after a court ruling further delayed the development of its
rare-earth refinery in Malaysia.  ‘Remains Difficult’  “The situation remains difficult,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who oversees more than $350 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney. “Investors need to remain cautious, and it’s not a time
to bet big. It’s worth keeping an eye on how the U.S. election
is shaping up as well as how the European development is shaping
up.”  The euro fell for a fourth day versus the dollar and the
yen, slipping 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. Spain’s
deepening recession is limiting the government’s policy options
and social discontent is likely to intensify, S&P said in a
statement yesterday.  The Australian dollar reached $1.0287, its strongest level
since Oct. 2. The statistics bureau said the number of people
employed in Australia rose by 14,500 in September, compared with
the median estimate for a 5,000 increase in a Bloomberg survey.  The  yuan  touched 6.2770 per dollar, the strongest since
China unified official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993. That was 0.99 percent stronger than the central bank’s
daily reference rate, near to the maximum permitted gap of 1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  