-- ASIC ‘Kill Switch,’ EU Bank, Russia Tobacco: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-11T12:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/asic-kill-switch-eu-bank-russia-tobacco-compliance.html
Australian regulators are
considering requiring all trading algorithms to have an inbuilt
“kill switch” to immediately disable them if they malfunction,
 Australian Securities and Investments Commission  Chairman Greg
Medcraft said at a conference in Sydney.  ASIC is also pondering a mandate that any trades done
through a dark pool, an off-exchange venue that doesn’t display
prices or the identity of buyers and sellers, have meaningful
price improvement from public platforms, Medcraft said.
Australia’s latest consultation paper on electronic trading
closed for comments Sept. 14. Final rules are expected this
month.  Electronic trading has come under scrutiny globally after
the practice was blamed for a May 2010 incident in which the Dow
Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000 points in
less than 20 minutes. Traditional exchanges worldwide are losing
market share to dark pools and other alternative venues.  Regulators plan to require any trades through dark pools
obtain a better price than lit, or public, venues by at least
one tick size or that they occur at the midpoint between bids
and offers, Medcraft said. ASIC planned to lower the threshold
for block trades from A$1 million ($1 million) to A$200,000, he
said.  In March, 16.4 percent of Australian trading went through
dark pools, with an additional 13.2 percent trading in blocks of
larger than A$1 million away from the exchange, according to
ASIC statistics e-mailed to Bloomberg.  The smaller size of Australia’s market means it’s more
vulnerable to fragmentation and off-exchange trades,  ASX Ltd. (ASX) ,
Australia’s main bourse operator, said on Aug. 6 in response to
the market-structure consultation.  U.S. regulators are also mulling kill switches.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU May Back Delay on Bank-Liquidity Rule Detail in Basel Law  The European Commission is urging legislators to postpone
their demands for detailed rules on bank liquidity amid concerns
they might increase market pressure on lenders and cut interbank
lending.  The commission has made the proposal to help broker a deal
on the European Union’s implementation of global bank rules
before a January deadline. European Parliament members have so
far insisted on inserting precise liquidity rules in the law to
apply the standards -- a prospect that has raised concerns among
governments and central banks.  A less detailed approach in the draft law would have
“major advantages,” according to the note drawn up by
commission officials for lawmakers working on the dossier, and
obtained by Bloomberg News. It’s “less risky, less susceptible
to harmful pressure from the markets and rating agencies.”  The EU has struggled to agree on how to implement the
revised global rulebook for banks, which was drawn up by
regulators in the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The liquidity standard, called a liquidity coverage ratio,
or LCR, is scheduled to apply from 2015, and would require banks
to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day funding
squeeze.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
Oct. 9 that an accord is possible by the end of this month.  For more, click here.  Separately, Barnier said the bloc is close to a deal on the
capital charges that should apply to bank loans to small
businesses.  Cigarette Makers Wage Final Battle to Tame Russian Smoking Bill  Cigarette makers including  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) 
and  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  are fighting a last-ditch
battle against a smoking crackdown in Russia, with three weeks
left to change the government’s mind.  Russia should scale back the proposal that would ban
smoking in public places, tobacco sponsorship and cigarette
sales in kiosks,  Alexander Shokhin , the head of the Union of
Industrialists, a lobby group for big business, said Oct. 9.
Government legal advisers in August reversed their original
approval of the anti-tobacco bill, recommending changes to the
planned measures.  Russian President Vladimir Putin wants to curb smoking and
alcohol consumption to stem the country’s population decline.
Thirty-nine percent of the 143 million people in Russia, the
world’s largest tobacco market behind China, are habitual
smokers according to the World Health Organization. That
compares with 28 percent in China and 27 percent in the U.S.  The government is due to submit the  bill  to lawmakers by
Nov. 1, outlawing all cigarette advertising and sponsorship
immediately, with the bans on kiosk sales and smoking in public
places taking effect Jan. 1, 2015. The government is expected to
resist pressure to weaken the proposal.  Philip Morris, the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company and BAT, Europe’s biggest cigarette maker, generate
about a third of global sales in Eastern Europe, Africa and the
Middle East.  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  relies on the region
encompassing Russia, the other ex-Soviet states  For more, click here.  Japan’s FSA May Raise Cap on Banks’ Holdings, Nikkei Says  Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  is considering a cap of
10 to 15 percent as the limit on banks’ holdings of non-
financial companies, up from the current 5 percent, Nikkei
reported.  The proposal aims to counter the impact of the March 2013
expiration of laws encouraging loans to small and midsized
companies and includes keeping the cap below 20 percent,
according to Nikkei. The 10 percent ceiling for credit
associations and cooperatives would be unchanged.  The proposal was discussed yesterday at a meeting of the
financial advisory council to the prime minister, Nikkei
reported.  Consumer Groups Ask CFPB to Scrap Mortgage Rules as Inadequate  A coalition of groups supporting tougher financial
regulations has asked the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
to scrap its proposed revamping of mortgage rules over what it
called inadequate safeguards for borrowers.  “Major improvements in these areas are needed -- including
withdrawing and re-issuing a proposal if that is necessary in
order to make the major changes required,”  Americans for
Financial Reform  wrote in a letter to the agency on Oct. 9, the
last day of a public comment period on the proposal.  The bureau plans to issue final regulations in January.
 Richard Cordray , the CFPB’s director, on Aug. 10 proposed the
rules for mortgage servicing that he summed up as “no surprises
and no runarounds.”  One set of rules is intended to provide homeowners with
clearer, timelier information about changes to interest rates
and options for avoiding foreclosure. A second set requires
servicers to credit payments promptly, correct errors, stay
accessible and limit foreclosures if homeowners are working on
loan modifications.  The rules would cover major bank servicers, such as
Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  and San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , as well as non-depository
companies such as  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , based in West Palm
Beach, Florida.  Tension has arisen between advocates of greater disclosure
for consumers and those who seek to reform mortgage providers.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.S. Swaps Relief for Forex Traders Said to Be Weighed by CFTC  Financial firms that predominantly trade foreign-exchange
swaps are poised to gain a temporary reprieve from Dodd-Frank
Act rules scheduled to take effect this week, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the regulatory process.  Companies with foreign-exchange derivatives business that
pushes them above the $8 billion swap-dealer threshold starting
on Oct. 12 wouldn’t be required to register with the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission until after the end of the
year, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the discussions are ongoing.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, gives
the Treasury Department authority to exempt foreign-exchange
swaps and forwards from most of the law’s clearing and trading
regulations. Treasury, which has already proposed an exemption,
plans to complete the decision by the end of the year, Alastair
M. Fitzpayne, assistant Treasury secretary for legislative
affairs, said in an Oct. 4 letter to Representative  Barney
Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat.  The CFTC, which oversees derivatives markets, may issue
“no-action” letters to ease the compliance burden for traders
whose predominant business is foreign exchange.  OFT Says It May Move on Airlines That Don’t Show Debit-Card Fees  The U.K.’s  Office of Fair Trading  said it may take action
against airlines that don’t include debit-card surcharges in
their advertised prices.  The government office made the comment in a statement on
its website yesterday.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  were among airlines
that pledged to stop charging extra fees for card payments, the
OFT said in July.  Barclays Ends Sales-Based Bonuses for Consumer Bank Employees  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s consumer unit will stop awarding bonuses to
employees based on sales and instead focus on customer
satisfaction as Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  attempts
to bolster the lender’s reputation.  Britain’s second-largest bank by assets will hire a company
to poll customers on the quality of their experience and use the
data to decide bonuses, Emma Austin, a spokeswoman for London-
based Barclays, said by telephone today. About 18,000 U.K.
workers in the division were told yesterday of the plan, which
takes effect Dec. 1.  Jenkins said last month that employee performance will be
measured against the firm’s values as well as financial
achievement as part a plan to overhaul the bank’s culture
following a number of banking scandals. British regulators said
last year that consumers may receive as much as 9 billion pounds
($14.4 billion) in industrywide compensation as a result of
improper sales of loan insurance. Incentive programs for
employees are likely to encourage people to mis-sell to meet
targets and receive bonuses, the Financial Services Authority
said last month, following a review of 22 firms.  Courts  Reserve Fund Lied About Losses on Lehman, SEC Lawyer Tells Jury  Reserve Primary Fund, the failed $62.5 billion money-market
fund, misled shareholders about the safety of its fund after it
lost money on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. debt, a government
lawyer told a jury.  Reserve, which held $785 million in Lehman debt, caused a
run on money-market funds after its net asset value fell below
$1 a share on Sept. 16, 2008, the day after Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in history. The failure of Reserve, the first
money fund in 14 years to “break the buck,” contributed to the
global financial crisis.  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  sued Reserve,
founder and Chief Executive Officer Bruce R. Bent and his son,
President Bruce Bent II, in May 2009. The SEC accuses the Bents
of violating federal securities laws by making misleading
statements to investors and trustees in the run-up to the
collapse of the fund.  SEC lawyer Nancy Brown told a nine-person jury in her
opening statement that the Bents lied on the morning after
Lehman announced its bankruptcy, falsely telling investors,
regulators and the fund’s trustees that they would use money
from their firm, Reserve Management Co., to support the $1 net
asset value of fund shares.  The commission seeks disgorgement of unspecified ill-gotten
gains, a civil fine and an order barring the defendants from
violating the securities laws in the future.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the Bents and the company,
told jurors in his opening statement that his clients didn’t lie
or defraud investors.  He said the trial is about a 12-hour period when Lehman
filed for bankruptcy and the Bents decided they didn’t have
enough money to cover a $785 million shortfall. He told the jury
that both Bents will testify and explain what occurred and what
they were thinking during these two days.  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co. Inc. 09-cv-04346,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  AMF’s Rameix Says France Needs Shareholder Vote on Pay  Gerard Rameix, president of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, discusses executive pay packages, corporate
governance and the possible impact of a financial-transaction
tax.  He speaks from Paris with Mark Barton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  For the video, click here and click here.  Dimon Not Sure JPMorgan Would Rescue Bear Stearns Again  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said his bank did the U.S. a favor by buying Bear Stearns Cos.
in 2008 and he might not go through with it again because of how
much the deal ultimately cost.  He spoke yesterday in Washington at an event held by the
Council on Foreign Relations.  For the video, click here.  Separately, Dimon said the U.S. didn’t get the overhaul of
its banking system right with Dodd-Frank.  “We have to get rid of too big to fail,” Dimon added. The
U.S. “should allow orderly bankruptcy for large banks,” he
said.  Levitt Says Facebook IPO Will Alter Future Offerings  Arthur Levitt, former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman, said the SEC “is going to take a look” at
the initial public offering process after  Facebook (FB) ’s IPO. Levitt
talked with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.” They were joined by Bloomberg
economist  Joseph Brusuelas .  For the audio, click here, and click here.  Comings and Goings  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman Sets Nov. 9 Departure Date  Douglas Shulman, the commissioner of the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service, will leave his job Nov. 9, the agency said
yesterday in Washington.  Shulman, 45, had announced his intention to leave office
when his term expires. He became commissioner in March 2008.  Steven Miller , a deputy commissioner, will become acting
commissioner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 