-- Latham, Kirkland on Bain, Eversheds: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/latham-kirkland-on-bain-eversheds-business-of-law.html
Affirmative action came under attack
at the U.S. Supreme Court as Chief Justice  John Roberts  took the
lead in questioning whether universities should continue to give
special preference to racial minorities.  Latham & Watkins LLP’s Gregory G. Garre argued for the
 University of Texas , while Bert W. Rein, founding partner of
Wiley Rein LLP, was the lawyer challenging the  Texas  program on
behalf of a rejected white applicant. U.S. Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli argued on the university’s side.  During arguments yesterday in Washington, the court’s
Republican-appointed majority scrutinized the University of
Texas’s admissions program, which uses race as a consideration
in admitting as much as one quarter of each class.  “What you’re saying is that what counts is race above
all,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy , the likely swing vote, told the
lawyer defending the plan. “You want underprivileged of a
certain race and privileged of a certain race.”  At stake are policies that have been a fixture on U.S.
campuses since the 1960s. All but a handful of the nation’s
selective colleges and professional schools consider race as
they seek to ensure a diverse student body. A ruling against
Texas would raise new legal questions about those programs --and
perhaps even wipe them out. The court will rule by June.  The Texas case may undermine or overturn a 2003 Supreme
Court decision that reaffirmed the right of universities to
consider race in admissions as a means of ensuring campus
diversity.  Rein stopped short of directly asking the court to overturn
its 2003 ruling. The logic behind that stance was questioned by
Justices Sonia Sotomayor and  Stephen Breyer , who said they saw
little difference between the Texas policy and the University of
Michigan Law School plan upheld in 2003.  The 2003 decision, Grutter v. Bollinger, said colleges and
graduate schools could consider race as long as they do so
through a broad review of a student’s application and don’t
mechanistically award extra points to every minority.  Texas says its program is a model of the type of plan the
high court approved in the Grutter ruling. The university’s
lawyer Garre, said race was “one modest factor among many.”  “This program certainly is no more aggressive than the one
in Grutter,” Ginsburg said. “It’s in fact more modest.”  The case is Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, 11-
345, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Deals  Kirkland Advises Bain Capital in $1.6 Billion Deal for Apex  Kirkland & Ellis LLP advised  Bain Capital  LLC, which agreed
to buy Apex Tool Group LLC, the maker of Craftsman hand tools,
from  Danaher Corp. (DHR)  and  Cooper (CBE)  Industries Plc for about $1.6
billion in its largest deal so far this year. Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP represents Cooper Industries Plc, Danaher
Corporation and Apex Tool Group, LLC in the sale.  Kirkland partners Matthew E. Steinmetz, Neal J. Reenan,
Richard J. Campbell, Matthew H. O’Brien, Yaman Shukairy,
Michelle Kilkenney and Joshua N. Korff led the team.  The Gibson Dunn partners involved in the transaction
include: Stephen Glover, corporate; Aaron Adams, finance;
 Michael Collins , executive compensation and employee Benefits;
David Kennedy, IP; and Raymond Ludwiszewski, environment.  Danaher expects the sale to the Boston-based private-equity
firm to generate after-tax net proceeds of about $650 million
and be completed in the first half of 2013, the two companies
said yesterday in a statement. Danaher, based in Washington, and
Houston-based Cooper each own 50 percent of Apex.  The acquisition of Apex is the largest this year for Bain,
which has participated in announced deals worth $4.7 billion in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Apex, based in
Sparks, Maryland, describes itself as one of the world’s largest
makers of hand and power tools. It has dozens of its own brands,
including GearWrench ratchets, and makes some of the tools sold
by Sears.  Danaher and Cooper join United Technologies Corp. and
DuPont Co. in selling major divisions to private-equity buyers
this year. Danaher, which generated $16.1 billion in revenue
last year, formed Apex with Cooper in 2010 by combining their
tool businesses and naming Steve Breitzka, previously the head
of the Danaher tool unit, chief executive officer.  For more, click here.  News  Ex-Refco Lawyer Collins Begins Retrial After Winning Appeal  Joseph Collins , Refco Inc.’s former outside lawyer whose
2009 fraud conviction was reversed by an appeals court in
January, is being retried for allegedly helping Chief Executive
Officer Phillip Bennett and other executives defraud investors
of $2.4 billion.  Collins, formerly with the Chicago firm Mayer Brown LLP,
was found guilty in July 2009 by a federal jury in Manhattan. He
was granted a new trial by a U.S. appeals court, which ruled
that the trial judge improperly instructed a deliberating juror
outside the presence of Collins’s lawyers.  The U.S. accuses Collins of helping Refco’s management
conceal from lenders and investors the existence of transactions
that hid losses incurred by the New York-based firm. Collins,
who is free on bail, was sentenced to serve seven years in
prison. He faces retrial on 10 charges, including conspiracy and
bank, wire and  securities fraud .  “This is a case about a corporate lawyer who helped his
biggest client, Refco, create a massive fraud that cost victims
more than $2 billion and put the company out of business,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Harry Chernoff told jurors yesterday.  Jonathan Bach, a lawyer for Collins, argued his client had
served as outside counsel for Refco without any knowledge of the
fraud. Bach said his client didn’t have any motive to join in
the scheme, which he argued was set in motion and concealed by
Bennett and senior executives Robert Trosten and Santo Maggio.  All three men pleaded guilty and Trosten and Maggio agreed
to cooperate against Collins. They testified against him at the
earlier trial.  Once the biggest independent U.S. futures trader, Refco
collapsed in 2005 two months after raising $670 million in an
initial public offering. Refco Inc., as it was known after the
IPO, filed one of the biggest bankruptcies in U.S. history after
disclosing that it had transferred more than $1 billion in
losses to a firm owned by Bennett.  Collins is accused of helping Refco’s management conceal
transactions that hid losses incurred by the New York-based
futures firm. The U.S. alleges Collins knew of the scheme and
still drafted legal documents that allowed Bennett to deceive
investors and helped it transfer losses to the Bennett-owned
firm. Mayer Brown wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Collins was convicted of five counts, including two counts
of  wire fraud , two counts of security fraud and one count of
conspiracy. Jurors were unable to reach a verdict on nine other
charges.  Bennett is serving a 16-year sentence. His ex-partner, Tone Grant, is serving 10 years following a conviction at a trial.  The case is U.S. v. Collins, 07-cr-1170, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Squire Sanders Expands in Saudi Arabia With Local Firm  Squire Sanders  LLP expanded in the  Middle East  through the
acquisition of El-Khoury & Partners MENA business in Riyadh.  “ Saudi Arabia  is the Middle East’s largest economy and so
a strong, on the ground presence in the Kingdom is a key step in
further developing our regional practice,” Kevin Connor, who
will lead the office said in a statement.  The firm Squire Sanders is acquiring formerly operated in
Saudi Arabia as EK Partners & Al-Enezee, the firm said in a
statement. The new office is operating as Al-Enezee in
association with Squire Sanders. Ziad Ghassan El-Khoury
previously managing partner of EK Partners & Al-Enezee, is a new
Squire Sanders partner, along with Wissam Hachem and Hadi Melki.  The office will represent businesses and government
entities as well as multinational companies, financial
institutions and private investors throughout the Middle East
and North Africa (MENA), the firm said.  “We’re delighted to deepen and expand our association with
Squire Sanders,” Khulaif Al-Enezee, the managing partner of Al-
Enezee, said in a statement. “There is increasing international
interest in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, particularly in terms
of inward investment and M&A, and of course in construction and
project finance. Saudi companies are looking for advisers who
have the know-how and experience of working with global
businesses in these areas.”  Squire Sanders now has 46 lawyers in the MENA practice,
Connor said. The firm has lawyers in 37 offices in 18 countries.  Firm Management  Eversheds Reappoints CEO, Names New Middle East Leadership  Eversheds LLP reappointed Bryan Hughes to a second term as
chief executive officer, among other firm leadership news.  Against a backdrop of fierce competition, “Bryan’s steady
hand and keen eye for business has helped the firm to
significantly improve its cash position, profitability and
ability to invest in our clients and our people,” John Heaps,
chairman of Eversheds, said in a statement.  Hughes, who was appointed after an uncontested partnership
election, will hold the position until May 2017.  “One of my major challenges is to continue the process of
ensuring that the whole business remains connected and engaged,
so that wherever our people work, they feel part of and are
proud to be part of Eversheds,” Hughes said in a statement.
“We have seen some firms lose their way as they have expanded
globally and my number one priority is to ensure that this does
not happen to us.”  Eversheds also appointed Nasser Ali Khasawneh, who was
deputy managing partner in the Middle East and head of the
firm’s practice in the UAE, as managing partner for the firm’s
operations in the Middle East as of Nov. 1.  Khasawneh succeeds Chris Jobson, who will become chairman
of the firm’s Middle East region. Jobson will concentrate on
expanding the firms operation’s in Qatar, which has experienced
rapid growth in non contentious areas of work including banking,
corporate and infrastructure, as the country prepares for the
 World Cup  in 2022 and its 2030 Vision, a government economic
diversification plan, the firm said.  Eversheds tripled in size under Jobson’s leadership after
merging in 2011 with legal consortium KSLG.  “Chris has done an amazing job of growing the firm’s
presence in the region. This year, our financial results showed
a 100 percent growth rate for the firm in the Middle East,”
Khasawneh, said.  MoFo Lawyer Joins Jackson Lewis to Lead San Diego office  Jackson Lewis LLP hired Craig Schloss, as managing partner
of the San Diego office. Schloss, who began his legal career as
an associate at the firm, led the employment and labor group at
 Morrison & Foerster LLP ’s San Diego office, and served as the
managing partner of that office at one point, the firm said.  He succeeds Paul Sorrentino, who has been the interim
managing partner and the office litigation manager since January
2008. Sorrentino will remain the office’s litigation manager and
continue his active practice representing employers in all
aspects of employment disputes.  Schloss specializes in employment and trade secret
litigation, and has experience litigating wrongful termination
cases, employee unfair competition/trade secrets disputes, wage
and hour class actions, and discrimination and sexual harassment
lawsuits. He also practices before the  National Labor Relations
Board  regarding union representation matters on behalf of
management.  Jackson Lewis has over 700 attorneys practicing in 49
locations.  Moves  Jones Day, Littler, Skadden Hire New International Partners  In international lateral hires announced this week,  Jones
Day  picked up a team of four lawyers in Paris, and firms added
to their ranks in Germany and Mexico.  Jones Day hired partner Alban Caillemer du Ferrage and four
other lawyers, who joined the banking and finance practice in
the firm’s Paris office on Oct. 8.  Caillemer du Ferrage and his team, formerly at Gide
Loyrette Nouel, are known for their work in structured and
derivative products and market infrastructures. Caillemer du
Ferrage led the derivatives practice at Gide Loyrette, the firm
said.  As well as working with the banking and finance services
teams at offices throughout the firm, the team will collaborate
with Jones Day’s mergers and acquisitions, litigation, public
law, tax and antitrust teams to serve both financial
institutions and corporate clients in all their financial
transactions.  Caillemer du Ferrage is the International Swaps and
Derivatives Association counsel for France. He also acts as
French counsel for several market makers associations that
publish standard documentation for financial transactions,
including The British Bankers’ Association, the Zentraler
Kreditausschuff, the Treuhand Kammer of Switzerland, and
associations sponsored by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
and the Federation of Bankers’ Association in Japan, the firm
said.  Littler, De la Vega y Conde, the Mexico offices of Littler
Mendelson PC, has expanded its attorneys ranks in Monterrey with
the addition of Amado Diaz Perez, who joins the firm as a
shareholder. Prior to joining Littler, he served as a partner
and head of the labor practice at Santos Elizondo, the firm said
in a statement.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP hired Johannes Frey as a partner in the German tax practice. He was previously
at Shearman & Sterling LLP. Frey has experience in all types of
corporate tax matters, including acquisitions, spin-offs, joint
ventures, restructurings, and transactions involving cross-
border tax planning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  