-- Aussie Trades Near One-Week High on Commodity Price Gains
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-12T05:59:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/aussie-trades-near-week-high-on-commodity-price-gains.html
Australia ’s dollar rose, trading 0.2
percent from its highest level in more than a week as gains in
commodity prices boosted demand for the currency.  The so-called Aussie strengthened versus most of its 16
major counterparts this week after prices for iron ore,
Australia’s top export, climbed to the most in more than two
months. A report yesterday showed claims for  jobless benefits  in
the U.S. fell to the least since February 2008, buoying risk
appetite. Data today may show confidence in the world’s biggest
economy stayed near the strongest level since May. New Zealand’s
dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, rose as Asian stocks advanced.  “Iron ore prices have improved,” said Hans Kunnen, chief
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “The labor market
may be picking up a touch in the U.S. It’s positive for the
Aussie and it’s positive for risk.”  The Australian dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0277 as of
4:49 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0264 yesterday, when it reached
$1.0294, the highest since Oct. 2. It has climbed 0.9 percent
this week. New Zealand’s currency strengthened 0.2 percent to
81.91 U.S. cents and is poised for a 0.2 percent weekly advance.  Australia’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 3.04
percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made
to receive floating rates, was little changed at 2.615 percent,
two basis points below last week’s close.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares added 0.5 percent.  Commodities Rally  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
rose 0.6 percent yesterday. Physical iron ore with 62 percent
content at the Chinese port of Tianjin advanced to $117.70 a ton
on Oct. 10, the  highest close  since July 25, according to The
Steel Index Ltd.  China  is Australia’s largest trading partner
and New Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  The New Zealand dollar is the best performing currency this
year among the 10 tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, having risen 3.7 percent. The Australian dollar has
fallen 1.5 percent over the same period, and has tumbled 2.9
percent in the past three months.  Further declines in the Australian dollar may be curbed as
the scale of central bank rate cuts priced in by traders of
overnight index swaps is now in “overshoot territory,”
according to Royal Bank of  Canada .  “With so much negative news already in the price, we see
downside in the Australian dollar limited from current levels,”
 Sue Trinh , a Hong Kong-based senior currency strategist at RBC,
wrote in a report today.  Rate Cuts  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 80
percent chance Governor Glenn Stevens will lower the Reserve
Bank of Australia’s overnight cash-rate target to a record 2.75
percent or lower as early as February. This comes after
officials cut the rate by a quarter-percentage point to 3.25
percent at the RBA’s most recent meeting on Oct. 2.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index,
a gauge of confidence among U.S. consumers, was probably at 78
this month, according to the  median estimate  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before preliminary figures are
released today. That compares with a reading of 78.3 in
September, the highest since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  