-- Australia Adds More Workers as Unemployment Hits 2 1/2-Year High
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-11T02:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/australian-employers-added-more-workers-than-forecast-last-month.html
Australian employers hired almost
three times the number of workers economists forecast for
September, pushing up the local currency, even as the
 unemployment rate  jumped to a 2 1/2-year high.  The number of people  employed  rose by 14,500, the biggest
increase since May, after a revised 9,100 drop the prior month,
the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The  jobless rate 
climbed to 5.4 percent, the highest since April 2010, from 5.1
percent as more workers sought employment. That 0.3 percentage
point rise was the biggest since May 2009.  The local dollar gained for a fourth day as traders pared
bets  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will
reduce the benchmark  interest rate  by another quarter point next
month after he lowered it to 3.25 percent last week. Australia’s
economy expanded at an annual pace of about 4 percent in the
first half, driven by resource investment, before commodity
prices eased and companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  delayed
or scrapped projects.  “You’ve still got modest employment growth and the growth
is being driven by full-time jobs, which is good,” said  Kieran Davies , chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Sydney who
predicted a 17,500 gain and a higher jobless rate. Still, the
RBA “would place the most weight on” the unemployment rate
picking up, he said.  The number of  full-time jobs  advanced by 32,100 in
September, and part-time employment fell by 17,700, today’s
report showed. Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the
 labor force  in proportion to the population, gained to 65.2
percent in September from a five-year low of 65 percent a month
earlier, it showed.  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar bought $1.0246 at 12:37 p.m. in
Sydney, compared with $1.0225 before the release. Traders are
pricing in a 76 percent chance the RBA will lower the benchmark
rate by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent at its Nov. 6
policy meeting, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Queensland recorded the biggest job losses, shedding 20,900
as the state’s unemployment rate climbed to 6.3 percent in
September, the highest level in three years.  The state government said last month it will cut 14,000
public service jobs this fiscal year as it aims to return the
budget to surplus. BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  last month announced almost 900 job cuts across
their coal mines in Australia as they scale back production
because of falling prices.  State Gains  New South  Wales  and Victoria, the two most populous states,
added a combined 22,400 positions, today’s report showed.
Employers in the key mining state of Western Australia added
11,100 workers.  Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all
but 23 days this year.  Today’s Australian data contrast with a drop in Australian
help-wanted notices for a sixth straight month in September as
project delays and cancellations eased demand for labor in
mining states.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23
economists was for a 5,000 increase in employment in September
and for the jobless rate to rise to 5.3 percent.  Unemployment at 5.4 percent “is now more in line with the
reality of a softer labor market,” said Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-
Pacific strategist at TD Securities Inc. in Singapore. An
encouraging part of the report was a bounce in hours worked, he
said.  RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said this week that the
labor market has “coped reasonably well” with adjustments
including a strong currency triggered by the resource boom, and
needs to adapt further to sustain low unemployment.  “The labor market appears to have generally softened in
recent months, with only modest growth in total employment,”
Lowe said in an Oct. 9 speech in Hobart, Tasmania. “Various
indicators also suggest a lower rate of  job creation  than was
the case a while back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  