-- Avigilon Best IPO on HD Security Camera Surge: Corporate
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-11T20:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/avigilon-best-ipo-on-hd-security-camera-surge.html
Avigilon Corp.’s (AVO)  91 percent rise
since its trading debut has made it the best performing Canadian
initial public offering in the past 12 months. The chief
executive officer of the video surveillance company said the era
of high-tech monitoring has barely begun.  Alexander Fernandes forecasts annual revenue for the
Vancouver-based manufacturer of high-definition surveillance
systems to reach C$500 million ($510 million) by the end of
2016, up from C$60 million last year.  “It’s a land grab,” Fernandes, 44, said in a telephone
interview. “Most digital systems out there are still low-
resolution like analog but the HD is what’s going to take over
that industry and we’re leading that transition.”  Avigilon is seeing demand from retailers, banks, airports
and governments, which want to overhaul their analog security
systems to catch thieves and foil terrorists. It’s a market
that’s projected to generate $20.5 billion in sales by 2015, up
from $10.6 billion in 2011, according to Austin, Texas-based IMS
Research.  Since  debuting  on the Toronto Stock Exchange on Nov. 8 at
C$4.50, Avigilon’s stock rose 91 percent to trade at C$8.60 at
the close today, giving it market value of C$310 million. That’s
the biggest gain in the past year for companies that began
trading in  Canada  with an offering of C$20 million or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Morguard North American
Residential REIT was second with a 17 percent rise since its
April debut.  Fragmented Market  Fernandes saw the need for better quality video monitoring
in 2004 while struggling to decipher security footage from
research and manufacturing sites his company was reviewing in
his previous job. He quickly realized poor surveillance video
was an industry-wide problem.  “Our mission is to become the world’s largest video
surveillance provider,” Fernandes said in the interview last
week.  The security market is still relatively fragmented because
there are few companies that sell both the hardware and software
for video-security systems, said  Kris Thompson , a technology
analyst at National Bank Financial in Toronto.  Its camera-making rivals include Lund, Sweden-based  Axis
Communications AB (AXIS) , while companies like Genetec Inc., Milestone
Systems and Exacq Technologies Inc. compete in the software
market.  High Valuation  The lack of a single standard for Internet-based
surveillance also has held back the growth of the industry. The
fact Avigilon makes both hardware and software and its gear is
open and adaptable to different systems gives it a competitive
advantage, Thompson said. By the end of 2014, its sales should
be C$191 million, he estimates.  “The market is so big and growing so rapidly,” Thompson
said. “There’s room for Avigilon and several other competitors
to prosper.”  Of the  seven analysts  with recommendations on the stock,
six rate it a buy and one a hold.  While Thanos Moschopoulos, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets, said he likes the company’s strategy and growth
prospects, he said the stock may be expensive relative to
current profit. Its price-to earnings  ratio , a measure of a
stock’s affordability, is 57 compared with 17 for the Nasdaq
composite  index  of tech stocks, which has climbed 17 percent
this year.  “We’ve struggled with the stock’s valuation, as our focus
has been on earnings-based metrics,” rather than price-sales
multiples, Moschopoulos said in a Sept. 20 note. He has the
equivalent of a hold rating on the stock.  Airports, Casinos  Avigilon’s cameras and software are installed at airports
in  Dallas  and the Saudi Arabian capital  Riyadh , as well as a
number of large casinos in  Las Vegas  that Fernandes declined to
name. The company uses data-compressing technology to transmit
high-definition video more cheaply, giving it an edge over
competitors, he said.  The company is counting on more innovation to keep ahead.
That means trying to be more like  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , and less like
fellow Canadian company  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , which makes the
struggling BlackBerry device.  RIM pioneered the smartphone market, only to see Apple’s
iPhone and devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system steal its market share. Avigilon isn’t making the same
mistakes as RIM, Thompson said.  “They didn’t innovate -- Avigilon is the leading innovator
in this space,” he said.  International Expansion  In the past year, Avigilon has added offices in Russia,
Poland and  Croatia  as part of a push into Eastern Europe. It’s
also established outposts in Singapore and Dubai to expand in
 Southeast Asia  and the  Middle East .  Andrew Martz, Avigilon’s chief operating officer, is
leaving the company as his role is split into two positions, the
company said after the close of regular trading yesterday. Martz
will stay on until the middle of 2013 to help with the
transition as Avigilon hires new executive vice-presidents for
product development and global operations, Angela St. Amour, a
company spokeswoman said in an e-mail. Avigilon’s shares were
little changed today.  “This type of management reshuffling isn’t uncommon for a
high-growth company scaling up its operations,” Moschopoulos
said yesterday. “We wouldn’t read into Mr. Martz’s departure.”  Asked whether he worries Avigilon’s security systems could
be used by governments to spy on their people, Fernandes said it
doesn’t decide where its technology ends up. The company doesn’t
sell to governments or businesses directly, relying instead on
system integrators such as Siemens AG,  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  and  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)   “A video-surveillance system is just a tool -- it’s not
good nor bad,” Fernandes said. “The CCTV debate is more about
putting in proper procedures and proper usage as a society, not
whether the technology is good or bad.”  Avigilon raised C$27 million in a second share sale last
month, letting it hire more salespeople, develop new
technologies and buy more ads. That will help propel the company
toward its half-billion-dollar sales goal, Fernandes said.  “We’ve got the finances in place, the team in place and
the innovation to actually achieve that goal,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  