-- Lawson Sees Accelerating Sales With Japan Pharmacies
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2012-10-12T06:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/lawson-sees-accelerating-sales-with-japan-pharmacies.html
Lawson Inc. (2651) , the Japanese
convenience-store company anticipating a 10th straight year of
operating income gains, plans to accelerate growth by tapping
rising demand for  prescription drugs .  The Tokyo-based company’s  revenue  could jump by as much as
45 percent in seven years as it adds pharmacies in more stores
and benefits from consolidation in the health-care industry,
Chief Executive Officer Takeshi Niinami said yesterday in an
interview at the company’s headquarters.  Lawson is seeking a bigger presence in the pharmacy
business as an aging population in Japan drives up demand for
medicines and health care. Deregulation needed to cut health
care costs as the national debt rises could spur consolidation
in the pharmaceutical industry and create opportunities for
Lawson, Niinami said.  “I expect 50 percent of the 52,000 mom-and-pop pharmacies
will survive” over the next seven years, Niinami, 53, said.  If all Lawson stores offered pharmaceutical services, the
company would boost per-store turnover to 800,000 yen ($10,207)
daily from the 550,000 yen now, he said. As of August, 15 of
Lawson’s stores offered these services, according to an Oct. 3
earnings statement.  By 2050, 42 percent of Japanese will be at least 60 years
old, up from 32 percent now, already the highest proportion in
the world, according to Global AgeWatch.  Lawson shares rose 1.4 percent to 5,750 yen in Tokyo
trading today. The Nikkei 225 stock average rose 0.2 percent.  Health-Care Costs  Japan ’s aging population is expected to boost demand for
medicine, leading to growth in the market even with biennial
price cuts, the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics said in
a July report. The nation’s market for prescription medicine was
worth $111.2 billion last year after growing 3.9 percent
annually from 2007 to 2011, according to the report.  “Convenience stores are doing well,” Akira Iwasaki, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities Co., said in a
phone interview.  “One thing is they are expanding into the
elderly population and winning customers.”  Japan should make its health care more efficient by
reducing government subsidies, Niinami said. Lawson would seek
to employ pharmacists in its stores, creating jobs for the
“sleeping workforce” of educated and trained people who
currently don’t have jobs.  Deregulation  “Deregulation would be good for the deficit and good for
society,” said Niinami, who added that he expects the
opposition Liberal  Democratic Party  to push for changes after it
regains power from Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s Democratic
Party of Japan in elections no later than the end of August.  Lawson, which had 10,960 stores in Japan as of September,
lowered its revenue projection for the year ending Feb. 28 by
0.4 percent to 501 billion yen on Oct. 3. Its  same-store sales 
fell 1.5 percent in September, the fourth straight decline,
while the number of customers shrank by 1.3 percent, according
to the company.  Japanese consumer sentiment deteriorated in September for
the first time in four quarters as more households saw their
incomes decline, according to a  Bank of Japan (8301)  survey released
Oct. 1.  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382) , operator of the 7-Eleven chain and
Japan’s biggest convenience-store company, lowered its net
income forecast by 7.7 percent to 143 billion yen for the year
ending February due to weakened  consumer confidence .  Widened Margin  While Lawson might have to revise its sales projection
again at a future date, profit forecasts are unlikely to be
affected because margins continue to improve, Niinami said.  Lawson’s operating margin widened to 16.2 percent in the
second quarter ended August from 11.5 percent in the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Gross profit on merchandise went up by 0.6 percentage
points in the first half of the year, and could grow by another
0.2 or 0.3 points in the second half,” Niinami said. He expects
another 1 percentage point gain next fiscal year.  Lawson’s results aren’t likely to be hurt by a consumer
backlash over a territorial dispute between Japan and  China ,
Niinami said.  Demonstrators protesting Japan’s purchase of islands
claimed by both countries in September ransacked stores and auto
showrooms, forcing Japanese companies to shutter Chinese outlets
and factories.  China Dispute  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  reported their
biggest drops in China sales since at least 2008 after consumers
shunned Japanese cars in September amid the tensions. Lawson
plans to have 10,000 stores in the world’s most populous nation
by 2020, up from close to 400 at the end of September.  The dispute could damage  Asia ’s biggest economies, Prime
Minister Noda warned on Oct. 10. “If our ties cool,
particularly economic ones, then it isn’t a question of one or
the other country suffering,” Noda said in an interview in
Tokyo. “Both countries lose out.”  Lawson originated in the U.S. state of  Ohio  in 1939 as a
dairy milk store before moving to Japan in 1975, according to
its website.  Lawson, which has two stores in  Hawaii , doesn’t have a
presence in the continental U.S. The chain will be interested in
eventually expanding into  North America , with a focus on cities
like  New York  or San Francisco, Niinami said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  