-- BAE CEO Says Company Robust in Wake of EADS Merger Failure
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-11T08:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bae-ceo-says-company-is-robust-in-wake-of-eads-merger-failure.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , which yesterday
abandoned plans to merge with European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co., said its business on a standalone basis remains
“robust” and the company is on course to meet profit targets.  Adjusted earnings per share are set to show “modest
growth” this year as long as price negotiations with  Saudi
Arabia  over a fighter-jet order are concluded on time, the
London-based company said in a statement today.  BAE and EADS called off merger talks after  Germany  failed
to join  France  and the U.K. in backing the creation of the
world’s largest aerospace and defense company by sales in which
the British company would have been a junior partner. Ending
negotiations has raised questions about the future of BAE.  “The key issue for BAE shares now will be to rebuild
investor confidence around the earnings and dividend
sustainability of BAE as a stand-alone entity,” said Ben
Fidler, analyst at Deutsche Bank in London. A 500 million-pound
share buyback “would be a positive catalyst,” he said.  Chief Executive Officer Ian King, who said he was
disappointed that a combination with EADS failed, said today
that “our business remains strong and financially robust.” BAE
has “opportunities across our platforms and services offerings
and in the various international markets in which we operate,”
he said in a statement.  Dividends  Investors accustomed to BAE’s  high dividends  were troubled
by merger talks with EADS, which general has a lower payout.
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , BAE’s largest shareholder, questioned the logic of
the deal before it crumbled.  A buyback “is something we would consider as and when the
balance sheet allows,” Chairman Richard Olver said yesterday.  The U.K. defense market has stabilized after a period of
government cutbacks though the threat of tightening budgets
clouds the U.S. outlook, BAE said.  BAE rose as much as 0.8 percent and was trading at 322.90
pence at 8:20 a.m. in London. The stock is trading 1.8 percent
below pre-merger levels.  The company said it still expects to complete negotiations
this year to sell 12 Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jets to Oman.
Eurofighter, the consortium including BAE, EADS and  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) , also are targeting sales in  Malaysia  and other export
markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  