-- Korea Matches Brazil Rate Cut as World Growth Stumbles
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-10-11T06:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bank-of-korea-cuts-interest-rates-as-the-economy-slows.html
South Korea  cut interest rates hours
after Brazil as economies around the world shield themselves
from the risk of a deeper slowdown driven by weakness in China
and austerity measures in Europe.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board in Seoul today
lowered the benchmark  seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.75 percent
from 3 percent, a decision predicted by 13 of 16 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Brazil’s  Selic rate  fell by the same
amount to a record low 7.25 percent.  Indonesia  left its
benchmark unchanged.  Five years after the global financial crisis began, policy
makers meeting in  Tokyo  this week are still battling threats to
growth, with the  International Monetary Fund  cutting its
worldwide forecasts and the U.S. nearing a so-called fiscal
cliff of spending cuts and tax increases. South Korea’s central
bank lowered estimates for the nation’s expansion and Kim said
the rate reduction reflected “deteriorating conditions.”  “Central banks need to be in an easing mode at least until
early next year,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at
 JPMorgan Securities  in Tokyo and a former central bank official.
“We still have a lot of uncertainties centered on the  European
debt crisis , the U.S. fiscal cliff and China’s slowdown.”  Leadership Needed  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slipped 0.2 percent as of 3:31
p.m. in Tokyo, after Spain’s debt rating was cut to one level
above junk by  Standard & Poor’s .  Gary D. Cohn, the chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., told Bloomberg Television today that the world
economy is in a tough place and lacks leadership. In another
sign of weakness in Asia, Japan’s  machinery orders  fell more
than economists forecast in August, declining 3.3 percent, a
Cabinet Office report showed today.  “A rate cut now is better than doing it later to support
growth,” Governor Kim told reporters in Seoul. “Monetary
easing now will do more good than harm.”  The  Bank of Korea  lowered its forecast for the nation’s
growth in 2012 to 2.4 percent from a July estimate of 3 percent.
The economy will expand 3.2 percent next year, and the inflation
rate this year will be 2.3 percent, it said, lower than an
earlier prediction of 2.7 percent.  In an interview at the Bloomberg News office in Seoul this
week, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said the nation’s economy
will see a “weak”  rebound  this quarter after hitting bottom in
the previous three months.  ‘Harmful Effects’  Using “all available fiscal, monetary and financial policy
means” could have harmful effects, Bahk said, indicating why
the government has resisted adding a supplementary budget.
President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration targets a fiscal
deficit of 0.3 percent of gross domestic product for next year,
a six-year low.  In Brazil, the central bank said keeping monetary
conditions stable for a “sufficiently prolonged period” will
balance inflation risks with continued “complexity” in the
global economy. Policy makers led by bank President Alexandre Tombini have cut rates 525 basis points since last August, more
than any Group of 20 nation.  “Rates will stay at the current level for a long time, and
a long time means at least a year,”  Jankiel Santos , chief
economist at Banco Espirito Santo Investment bank, said in a
phone interview from  Sao Paulo . Prior to the decision, Santos
had expected the bank to begin raising rates by August 2013.  No Joke  Brazil’s central bank last month cut to 1.6 percent from
2.5 percent its forecast for growth this year, falling in line
with private estimates that Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  as
recently as June ridiculed as a “joke.”  “At the beginning of this year, policy makers worldwide
expected the global economy will recover in the second half of
this year but they have been proven to be wrong,” said Adachi
of JPMorgan Securities.  Indonesia’s central bank left its  reference rate  unchanged
at 5.75 percent for an eighth straight month, as forecast by
economists.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year,
compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9
percent in 2013, the IMF said in report this week. It also
reduced its forecasts for South Korea, now projecting 2.7
percent growth for 2012 and 3.6 percent for 2013.  “Korea’s export-oriented economy has struggled due to
weakness in Europe, the U.S. and China, all of which are
important markets for its exporters,” Sukhy Ubhi, an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said before today’s
decision. “Global growth is likely to remain weak not just for
the remainder of this year but in 2013 too. The BOK will loosen
policy both this year and next.”  Producer Prices  Also today, South Korea’s producer prices rose at the
fastest pace in four months in September, while elsewhere in the
region, Australian employers hired almost three times the number
of workers economists forecast for September, even as the
 unemployment rate  jumped to a 2 1/2-year high.  In Europe, Germany and France will report inflation data
for September, while Sweden will publish its  unemployment rate .  The  U.S. trade deficit  probably widened to $44 billion in
August from $42 billion in July, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Initial jobless claims probably climbed 3,000 to 370,000
in the week ended Oct. 6, another Bloomberg survey of economists
showed. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is also due today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  