-- Barclays Ends Sales-Based Bonuses for Consumer Bank Employees
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-11T11:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/barclays-ends-sales-based-bonuses-for-consumer-bank-employees.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s consumer unit will
stop awarding bonuses to employees based on sales and instead
focus on customer satisfaction as Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  attempts to bolster the lender’s reputation.  Britain’s second-largest bank by assets will hire a company
to poll customers on the quality of their experience and use the
data to decide bonuses, Emma Austin, a spokeswoman for London-
based Barclays, said by telephone today. About 18,000 U.K.
workers in the division were told yesterday of the plan, which
takes effect Dec. 1.  Jenkins said last month that employee performance will be
measured against the firm’s values as well as financial
achievement as part a plan to overhaul the bank’s culture
following a number of banking scandals. British regulators said
last year that consumers may receive as much as 9 billion pounds
($14.4 billion) in industrywide compensation as a result of
improper sales of loan insurance. Incentive programs for
employees are likely to encourage people to mis-sell to meet
targets and receive bonuses, the Financial Services Authority
said last month, following a review of 22 firms.  Barclays last month was also criticized by lawmakers for
being slow to redress customers mis-sold interest-rate hedging
products after setting aside 450 million pounds for
compensation.  Jenkins succeeded  Robert Diamond  in August after the bank
was fined a record 290 million pounds by U.S. and U.K.
regulators for manipulating the  London  interbank offered rate, a
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  