-- Beano Cook, ESPN College Football Analyst, Dies at Age 81
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-11T17:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/beano-cook-espn-college-football-analyst-dies-at-age-81.html
Beano Cook, who delivered college
football television commentary in a nasal voice for 30 years,
has died at the age of 81.  Cook’s death was announced by ESPN in a Twitter post. Bill
Hofheimer, a spokesman for the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  network,
confirmed Cook’s passing in an e-mail.  Cook died overnight in Pittsburgh, his hometown for 74
years, ESPN said. It gave no cause of death.  “He was one of a kind,” George Bodenheimer, ESPN
executive chairman, said in a statement released on Twitter.
“There never was and never will be another Beano. His
combination of humor, passion, love of college football and his
engaging personality left an indelible mark on the sport and
touched anyone who knew him.”  Cook joined ESPN as a college football studio commentator
and occasional sideline reporter in 1986, after four years as a
studio analyst with ABC Sports.  “You only have to bat a thousand in two things -- flying
and heart transplants,” he once said in his trademark twang.
“Everything else, you can go four for five.”  Cook said in a blog post on Oct. 1 that he was ill.  “Sorry to say that health issues hit me at the worst time
-- start of college football season,” he said. “Everything
except recovery takes a back-burner now. I won’t say I’ll be
back to the blog by a certain date, as some businesses might
‘promise,’ but I do hope to return soon. Thanks for your support
and encouragement. Enjoy the season!”  Boston Roots  Carroll H. Cook was born Sept. 1, 1931, according to his
biography on ESPN.com. After his family moved to Pittsburgh from
 Boston  when he was 7, a new neighbor said, “Oh, from Boston,
like the beans,” nicknaming Cook “Beano.”  Cook graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1954
and spent 21 months in the Army before becoming the sports
information director at his alma mater. He worked in sports
public relations, including a stint with the National Football
League’s Miami Dolphins, and also was a sportswriter for the St.
Petersburg Times before joining ABC in 1982.  “I’d like to do the last scoreboard show and then go,”
Cook said in 1988. “I don’t want to die in the middle of the
football season. I have to know who’s No. 1 in the last polls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  