-- Better Land, Water Management Needed to Fight Hunger, Group Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/better-land-water-management-needed-to-fight-hunger-group-says.html
Smarter use of land, water and
energy is needed for the world to continue to make gains against
hunger, the  International Food Policy Research Institute  said
today as it released its annual Global Hunger Index.  The gauge shows 20 countries with levels of hunger that are
“extremely alarming” or “alarming,” down from  26 last year 
and 43 in 1990 when the institute began compiling the index.
Burundi, Eritrea and Haiti scored the worst, while the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, a perennial poor performer, didn’t
have enough data to be ranked. The bulk of low-scoring countries
are in sub-Saharan Africa and  South Asia .  “Demographic changes, rising incomes and associated
consumption patterns, and  climate change , alongside persistent
poverty and inadequate policies and institutions, are all
placing serious pressure on natural resources,” the Institute
said in the report. “There is enough planet for all of us -- if
we don’t waste it.”  The worst U.S. drought in more than 50 years pushed the
price of corn, the country’s most valuable crop, to a record
$8.49 a bushel in August. Soybeans reached an all-time high last
month while wheat touched its highest levels since 2008 in July.
 World food prices  saw their biggest monthly increase since 2009
in July and are up 2.4 percent for the year.  Food Riots  The higher prices have destabilized family food budgets and
increased hunger over the past five years. A 40 percent run-up
in global costs pushed as many as 150 million people into
extreme poverty in 2007 and 2008, while record-high prices in
2011 touched off food riots in North  Africa  and the  Middle East ,
the report said.  Spending on agricultural research needs to increase,
focusing on investments that reduce hunger and malnutrition,
such as in better-yielding seeds and education for women, which
lowers birth rates, the institute said in the report.  “Eradicating hunger in the near and medium term is a
complex, multifaceted challenge,” the report said.  The most progress in reducing hunger since 1990 has been in
Angola, Bangladesh, Ethiopia,  Malawi ,  Nicaragua , Niger and
Vietnam, according to the report. The index is calculated using
the proportion of a country’s population that is undernourished,
the prevalence of underweight children and the child mortality
rate, with a focus on developing nations.  Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe, two other anti-
hunger organizations, collaborated in publishing the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 