-- Blackstone Said to Buy San Francisco Offices for $165 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-10-11T20:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/blackstone-said-to-buy-san-francisco-offices-for-165-million.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the second-
biggest U.S. office landlord, agreed to buy a 25-story building
in downtown San Francisco for $165 million in a bet it can
improve occupancy as rents rise, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  Blackstone is buying the  office tower  at 100 Montgomery St.
from a joint venture of Houston-based Hines and Sterling
American Property Inc., based in Great Neck, New York, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  The purchase price works out to $393 a square foot, based
on the building’s roughly 420,000 square feet (39,000 square
meters), less than what similar properties have sold for
recently, according to the people. Comparable office properties
have sold for about $350 to $800 a square foot this year, the
people said.  About 72 percent of the building’s space is either vacant
or will become available as leases expire over the next five
years, giving New York-based Blackstone the chance to increase
rents, the people said. San Francisco led the U.S. in office
rent growth in the 12 months through Sept. 30, with rates paid
by tenants after any landlord discounts rising 5 percent,
according to  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based property research firm.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, and Kim Jagger, a
spokeswoman for Hines, declined to comment. Todd Katz, who
oversees  investor relations  for Sterling, didn’t immediately
return a phone call.  The tower is currently 84 percent occupied, with the U.S.
General Services Administration as its largest tenant, according
to the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  