-- BofA Promotes Baldock to European Financials Chairman
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-10-11T14:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bofa-promotes-baldock-to-european-financials-chairman-correct-.html
Bank of America Corp. , the nation’s
second-largest lender, promoted Henrietta Baldock to chairman of
European financial institutions investment banking as it
rearranges the senior team at the division.  Baldock, 41, will continue to be based in  London , according
to a memo from Bill Egan, head of global financial institutions
corporate and investment banking, and Bob Elfring, co-head of
European corporate and investment banking. She will report to
Elfring, according to the memo to employees, which was confirmed
by Victoria Garrod, a spokeswoman in London.  “We are looking to significantly build our market share in
this sector,” Egan and Elfring said in the memo. Baldock, the
firm’s most senior female investment banker in the region, will
focus on the “most important clients,” the pair said.  Bank of America has been overhauling its investment banking
team in  Europe  following the exits of  Andrea Orcel  as chairman
of global banking and markets and Jonathan Moulds, the firm’s
president of Europe. It hired Alex Wilmot-Sitwell from UBS AG in
April to be president of its European division and Diego De Giorgi, chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
investment banking division, as joint head of global corporate
and investment banking for Europe.  New Position  Bank of America this week promoted Rupert Hume-Kendall to
the newly created position of chairman of global corporate and
investment banking for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa .  The firm today also appointed Michael Frieser, 42, and Marc Tempelman, 41, as co-heads of financial institutions corporate
and investment banking for Europe, replacing Baldock in the
position.  Baldock, who joined Merrill Lynch in 2000, holds a degree
in economics and accounting from the University of Bristol. Her
clients have included the Irish government and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) , according to the bank. She also helped advise a  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc -led consortium on its purchase of
Dutch lender ABN Amro Holding NV in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Menon at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net  