-- BofA’s Moynihan Sees More Job Cuts as Economy Sputters
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-10-11T11:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bofa-s-moynihan-sees-further-job-losses-as-economy-sputters.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer Brian Moynihan will press on with a plan to
cut more than 30,000 jobs as revenue stays flat.  “I think we continue to reduce our headcount -- you can
see it in our patterns, it’s really based on demand,” Moynihan,
53, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Tokyo
today. “As we continue to get through the mortgage issues at
Countrywide, you’ll see the headcount come down substantially.”  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, is among
financial firms cutting expenses to restore profitability after
the 2008 crisis sent borrowers into delinquency and pushed the
global economy into the deepest slump in at least seven decades.
Moynihan announced $3 billion of cuts at the company’s
investment bank, trading and wealth-management units in July.  In March, Moynihan promised “demonstrable progress” on
job cuts every quarter, with more than 30,000 positions in
retail and support targeted for elimination.  The company’s  shares  were unchanged at $9.21 in  New York 
yesterday. Gains this year were 66 percent, outpacing the 18
percent advance of the MSCI World Financials Index.  “Our revenues are flat because of the interest-rate
environment, the economic environment, therefore we have to
bring in the costs in,” Moynihan said. “When I talk to our
clients and customers, they don’t expect to hire a lot more
people because of the amount of uncertainty in the market.”  Housing Recovery  Losses at Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial Corp.,
the mortgage unit that was careering toward collapse in 2008,
narrowed to $768 million in the second quarter from $14.5
billion in the same quarter of last year.  In housing, “everything that we see points that the worst
is over, from the amount of delinquent loans, to the amount of
seriously delinquent loans to the amount of backlog homes that
are still going through the process,” Moynihan said today.  Trading and investment-banking revenue at the five largest
Wall Street firms dropped 18 percent in the second quarter. Deal
and trading volume fell amid concern that  Greece  would leave the
euro and the region’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread to
other nations, including  Spain . The decline led to questions
about whether banks could cut costs to improve returns.  Banks’ profitability is being squeezed by sluggish deal
making and new rules on capital, McKinsey & Co. said in an
annual review of the industry published this week.  “Like many of our peers, equity issuance is down, so we’re
downsizing some of those businesses,” said Moynihan. “But our
corporate banking business and our treasury management business
continue to grow and we continue to add people in  Asia  and
around the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in  Tokyo  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  