-- Bolivia Hires Goldman, BofA for First Debt Sale Since 1920s
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-10-11T20:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bolivia-hires-goldman-bofa-for-first-debt-offering-since-1920.html
Bolivia plans to meet with investors
next week to gauge demand for the South American country’s first
overseas bond sale since the 1920s.  The government hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to arrange the meetings, according to three
investors contacted by the banks. The discussions, which are
scheduled for Oct. 15 to Oct. 19, will take place in Europe, the
U.S. and  Latin America , according to the investors, who asked
not to be identified because the discussions are private.  Emerging-market countries that have never sold debt or last
did so years ago are issuing bonds to take advantage of the
lowest borrowing costs on record. The  yield  on emerging-market
debt fell to a record low 4.68 percent last week, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., as investors looked for alternatives to
near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and Europe.  “People are looking at countries off the beaten path to
pick up some yield,” Alejandro Urbina, who manages and gives
advice on $800 million of emerging-market assets at Silva
Capital Management, said in a telephone interview from Chicago.
“They’re coming at a good time.”  Bolivia plans to raise as much as $500 million selling
bonds at a yield below 10 percent to fund mining and electricity
projects, Finance Minister Luis Arce told reporters in Uruguay
on March 16. A press official at Bolivia’s  Finance Ministry 
declined to comment in a phone interview today.  Paraguay, Zambia  Kerrie McHugh, a spokeswoman at Bank of America, declined
to comment, citing company policy in an e-mail. Goldman Sachs
press officials didn’t respond to calls and an e-mail message
seeking comment.  Paraguay plans to sell its first global bonds by mid-
January, President Federico Franco said last month. The sale
would follow Zambia’s debut in the  bond market  in September with
a $750 million Eurobond offering.  Angola, which shares Bolivia’s BB- rating from  Standard &
Poor’s , three levels below investment grade, sold $1 billion of
debt in the form of loan participation notes due in seven years
to yield 7 percent in August for its first international issue.
Guatemala and Aruba also returned to the bond market this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  