-- Bowles Invokes Lagarde in BOE Push as Turner Outlines QE Views
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-12T08:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bowles-cites-lagarde-succession-to-strauss-kahn-in-boe-job-push.html
European Parliament lawmaker  Sharon Bowles  invoked  Christine Lagarde  at the International Monetary
Fund as an example of why she should be Bank of England governor
as rival candidate Adair Turner spelled out his views on
monetary policy.  “There’s a case to be made for a different kind of
governor,” Bowles, 59, said in a phone interview. “A parallel
I make is the IMF. When it was  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , he was a
top economist. When we have Christine Lagarde, that’s not what
she’s doing -- it’s a lead from the front, it’s a diplomacy
thing, negotiation thing.”  Bowles, chairwoman of the Parliament’s Economic and
Monetary Affairs Committee, cited those skills this week when
she applied to be governor, competing with potential candidates
including Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority,
and Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker . In a speech in
London late yesterday covering monetary policy, the financial
crisis and the euro-area turmoil, Turner said quantitative
easing may have diminishing returns and that central bankers
need to continue to innovate.  “QE alone may be subject to declining marginal impact, the
economy facing a liquidity trap in which replacing private
sector holdings of bonds with private sector holdings of money
has little impact on behavior and thus on demand,” Turner said.
“So optimal policy also needs to include a willingness to
employ still more innovative and unconventional policies.”  ‘Chaotic Fashion’  Turner, 57, also said the U.K. won’t allow its lenders to
be supervised by the European Central Bank and “does not need
to, and will not, be part of that euro-zone banking union.”  The speech was Turner’s last at the Mansion House in the
City, as London’s financial district is known, before the
regulatory regime changes and the FSA’s powers are transferred
to the Bank of England. He also said that if the euro area fails
to stem the debt crisis, it needs to have a plan to avoid a
disorderly breakup.  The U.K. has “an enormous national self-interest in the
euro zone either taking the steps required to succeed, or, if
that is politically unattainable, dissolving in a controlled
rather than chaotic fashion,” he said. “We need to use what
limited influence we have to help achieve the best possible way
forward.”  The next governor of the Bank of England will have
increased powers, including supervision of U.K. banks, to add to
their monetary-policy responsibilities. Tucker, 54, remains the
favorite for the job, according to odds from William Hill Plc.
The bookmaker has him at 4-5, meaning a 5-pound ($8) winning bet
would yield a 4 pound profit. Turner is at 3-1, followed by Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and Independent Commission on
Banking Chairman  John Vickers  at 7-1. Bowles is at 16-1.  Bank Strategies  Speaking in Tokyo today, Tucker said the central bank’s new
powers aren’t going to be about “box ticking or a lot of
detail. It’s going to be about talking to CEOs and their boards
and seeing where they are making money.” He also said it’s
vital to have resolution strategies for banks.  Bowles said that her comments throughout the euro-zone
crisis identify her as someone who understands markets, and that
“in some ways I have more strengths on the markets side than an
economist does.”  She studied chemical physics and math rather than
economics, and is the only woman and lawmaker known to seek the
job. Lagarde, 56, succeeded fellow French national Strauss-Kahn
as IMF managing director. Lagarde is a  lawyer by training ,
unlike her predecessor, who is an economist.  Lagarde and I have “very similar kind of strengths,”
Bowles said. “She and I are very different people, but there
are similarities there.”  She also said the U.K. central bank needs a “different
kind of governorship.”  “I applied because the Bank of England is undergoing a big
change, in that it is not going to be just setting monetary
policy, it is going to have financial stability and
supervision,” she said. “If it’s predetermined for a top
economist on monetary policy, who will go and make very erudite
speeches on monetary policy, then that’s the same as before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  