-- Boxing Champ Takes Aim at Philippine Dynasties: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o ,   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-10-11T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/boxing-champ-takes-aim-at-philippine-dynasties-southeast-asia.html
World boxing champion Manny “Pac- Man” Pacquiao is tapping his relatives in creating a political
clan to rival families like those of President  Benigno Aquino 
that have ruled the Philippines for decades.  Pacquiao and his wife Jinkee Pacquiao will run in May 2013
elections to represent Sarangani province in the southern
Philippines, while brother Rogelio Pacquiao will compete in
neighboring South Cotabato. The trio registered for the
elections before an Oct. 5 deadline.  Aquino’s efforts to tackle corruption and rein in spending
have bolstered the economy, lifted stocks and strengthened the
currency. Those gains might be threatened by the power of
political families, as an entrenched reliance on personalities
over institutions raises the risk that administrations after
Aquino will put clan before country, according to  Edwin Gutierrez  of Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London .  “Thankfully the Aquino dynasty has been one of the better-
intentioned dynasties,” Gutierrez, who helps oversee about $9
billion of emerging-market debt, said by e-mail. “We can see
how things can easily go wrong when the presidency is entrusted
to someone who is more concerned with serving those dynastic
interests.”  The economy may grow 5.5 percent this year, the  Asian
Development Bank  said last week, up from an earlier forecast of
4.8 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index has gained 30
percent in the past year, third in  Asia  behind  Thailand  and
Karachi, and reached a record last week. The peso has
strengthened 4.5 percent, according to Tullett Prebon Plc
prices, making it the third best performer in Asia in that time.  National Elections  The Philippines will hold  elections  for more than 18,000
local and national positions in May, including the entire House
of Representatives and half of the Senate’s 24 seats. Aquino,
the son of a former president and senator, has four years left
in the term he won in 2010 and can’t stand for re-election.  Legislators with family links make up 40 percent of the
total in the  Philippines , compared with 6 percent in the U.S.
and 10 percent in  Argentina , according to a study to be released
this month by Ronald Mendoza, an economics professor at the
Manila-based Asian Institute of Management. Eight out of 10
Filipino lawmakers aged 25 to 40 are from political clans, he
said.  “Consolidating power is a political reality in the
Philippines and politicians seem to win allies through kinship
and not because they have a common platform,” Mendoza said in a
telephone interview. “To beat a dynasty, you must in fact build
your own and eventually take over.”  Family Interests  The result can often be negative, with politicians
promoting family interests instead of making investments in
education and job growth to reduce poverty, he said. The
Philippines has lagged behind neighbors  Malaysia  and Thailand in
reducing poverty during the past two decades even as economic
expansion kept pace, a Bloomberg chart in May showed.  Pacquiao, 33, claimed his first election victory in May
2010 after winning boxing world championships in eight weight
classes. After fighting in the 1990s for purses as small as 150
pesos ($3.50), the high school dropout is now the richest
Philippine congressman, with a net worth according to a report
from the  House of Representatives  of $32.6 million, bolstered by
television appearances and endorsement deals with Nike Inc.,
Hennessy Cognac and Hewlett-Packard Co.  Pacquiao is running unopposed for re-election, and his wife
faces two opponents in the race for vice governor of Sarangani
province, election officer Ercee Arrieta said yesterday. Rogelio
Pacquiao is running for a congressional seat.  Manny Pacquiao 
didn’t return repeated calls for comment.  ‘Deserves Praise’  “For somebody who has everything in life, Manny Pacquiao
deserves praise for choosing to serve the public,” Franklin
Gacal, the Pacquiao family’s lawyer and chief of staff at the
House of Representatives, said in a telephone interview on Oct.
9. “We should encourage and guide the family. Let’s criticize
them when they end up not doing anything.”  Jinkee and Rogelio Pacquiao were persuaded to run by local
officials of Sarangani and South Cotabato, Gacal said.  Pacquiao has filed and co-authored  House bills  on human
trafficking, single-parent benefits, credit assistance for
Filipino workers overseas and wage increases for school
teachers. He also campaigned against a bill to provide poor
families with access to  birth control .  The Pacquiaos are the latest clan to emerge in the country
of 98 million people where political success is often tied to
surnames. While the 1987 constitution called for equal
opportunity and the prohibition of political dynasties, no law
banning them has been passed.  ‘Everybody’s Related’  “Nothing has changed, everybody’s related,” Congressman
Teddy Casino, whose Nation First party has introduced anti-
dynasty legislation since 2001, said by phone. “It’s still the
same political elite that have ruled the country in the past
four decades.”  Aquino’s cousin Paolo Benigno “Bam” Aquino and his aunt
Margarita “Tingting” Cojuanco are running for Senate seats.
His father, Senator Benigno Aquino, was assassinated in 1983,
while his mother, the late President  Corazon Aquino , died three
years ago. Aquino’s uncle, Eduardo “Danding” Cojuangco, was a
congressman when late dictator  Ferdinand Marcos  declared
military rule in 1972 and ran for president in 1992 and lost.
He’s the chairman of  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)   Imelda Marcos , Ferdinand’s widow, will seek a second term
as a representative of Ilocos Norte in the country’s north. Her
daughter Maria Imelda Josefa “Imee” Marcos is running for
governor in the same province, while son Ferdinand Jr.’s six-
year term as senator will end in 2016.  Can’t Choose  Ousted president  Joseph Estrada  will run for mayor of
 Manila  and son Joseph Victor “JV” Ejercito, if elected next
year, will join half-brother Jinggoy as a senator.  Three of Vice President Jejomar Binay’s children plan to
run in next year’s elections.  “That should not be taken against them,” Joey Salgado, a
spokesman for Binay, said by phone. “You cannot choose your
relatives. What is important is that they are competent and they
are chosen in free elections without coercion.”  Washington-based Freedom House ranked the Philippines as
“partly free” in a report this year, citing weak rule of law
as “a few dozen leading families continue to hold an outsized
share of land, corporate wealth, and political power.” The
International Monetary Fund estimates per capita gross domestic
product at $2,329 in the Philippines, about half as much as
Thailand and five times less than Malaysia.  “Dynasties thrive in the Philippines because our electoral
system is based primarily on patronage,” Earl Parreno, an
analyst at the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in
Manila, said in a phone interview. “We have an electorate with
a low level of maturity that would rather see candidates sing
and dance on stage than debate issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  