-- BP’s Caspian Oil Drop Draws Threat From Azerbaijan
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-10-11T17:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bp-s-caspian-oil-drop-draws-threats-from-azerbaijan-s-aliyev-1-.html
(Corrects proportion of output BP gets from Azerbaijan in
first paragraph.)  BP Plc (BP/) ’s declining production in
Azerbaijan prompted President Ilham Aliyev to threaten action
against the U.K. explorer, which gets more than 3 percent of
output from the former Soviet republic.  Aliyev said the “unexpected decline” in oil output was
because of “grave mistakes’ by BP, which operates the Azeri-
Chirag-Guneshli, or ACG, and Shah Deniz fields. In comments
broadcast yesterday on state TV, Aliyev accused BP of failing to
deliver on a promise nearly a month ago to keep output at a
stable level.  “It’s totally unacceptable,” Aliyev said in his first
public criticism of the London-based company. “The State Oil
Co. of Azerbaijan has been instructed to officially raise this
issue and take the necessary measures. Serious measures are
needed and will be taken.”  The dispute comes as  Europe ’s  second-largest oil company 
works through litigation in the U.S. over the 2010 Gulf of
 Mexico  spill and attempts to sell its stake in the Russian
venture TNK-BP. BP shares have dropped about 5 percent this year
and remain about a third below their price before the Macondo
disaster two years ago.  ACG output plunged 12 percent in the first half of 2012
from a year earlier, according to data on BP’s website. The
field, which BP operates and holds a 35.8 percent stake in,
produced 684,000 barrels a day in the period. ACG produced 35.4
million metric tons of oil last year, or 78 percent of
Azerbaijan’s total output.  BP’s failure to meet output targets at the field had cost
Azerbaijan $8.1 billion in revenue, Aliyev said in comments
posted on the  presidential website .  BP’s worldwide output was 2.4 million barrels a day in the
first half, excluding its share in TNK-BP. Azerbaijan accounts
for either 4.5 percent without TNK-BP or 3.2 percent including
it.  Fully Committed  “We are fully committed to Azerbaijan,” said London-based
BP spokesman  Robert Wine  in an e-mailed response to questions.
“We are working with Socar to address ACG production issues as
quickly as possible.”  Shah Deniz produced about 18.5 million cubic meters of gas
a day in the first half, or 119,000 barrels of oil equivalent.
BP’s share was about 4.7 million cubic meters a day, or 30,000
barrels of oil equivalent.  BP and the U.S. Department of Justice are getting closer to
a settlement over the Gulf oil spill that would resolve civil
and criminal liabilities for the company, the Wall Street
Journal reported today, citing unidentified people close to the
discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  