-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall on Copom Signal; Currency Little Changed
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o
-- 2012-10-11T22:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/brazil-swap-rates-fall-on-central-bank-signal-currency-gains.html
Brazil  swap rates fell after the
central bank signaled it will keep borrowing costs at an all-
time low for an extended period.  Swap rates on contracts due in July 2014 decreased two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.73. Longer-term
swap rates tumbled, with the yield on the contract due in
January 2022 dropping as much as 24 basis points to a record low
9.44 percent. The real was little changed at 2.0426 per dollar.  The eight-member central bank board cut the target lending
rate by a quarter-percentage point to 7.25 percent yesterday,
saying in its statement that keeping monetary conditions stable
for a “sufficiently prolonged period” was the best way to
balance inflation risks stemming from a domestic recovery with
“complexity” in the global economy. Three dissenters favored
leaving borrowing costs unchanged.  “The central bank gave quite a strong signal about the
stability of interest rates,” Antonio Madeira, an economist at
LCA Consultores, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “We
see a reasonable probability that rates will stay stable until
at least the fourth quarter of 2013.”  Brazil’s policy makers have cut the target lending rate by
525 basis points since August 2011 to pump up the economy, more
than any Group of 20 nation.  While yesterday’s statement indicated that the easing has
ended, officials remain focused on growth even as price
increases are forecast by economists to stay above the
government’s 4.5 percent target until at least 2014.  ‘Here to Stay’  Longer-term swap rates plunged on speculation policy makers
will do everything they can to keep borrowing costs at record
lows, Enestor Dos Santos, an economist at BBVA, said in a phone
interview from  Madrid .  “My opinion is that low interest rates are here to stay,”
he said.  The bank’s statement overshadowed faster-than-expected
retail sales in August, which climbed as tax cuts and record low
borrowing costs helped revive demand.  The volume of sales rose 10.1 percent from a year earlier,
the national statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The
median forecast of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
9.1 percent increase.  2012 Decline  The currency has fallen 8.6 percent in 2012, the worst
performance among the dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank sold $5.7 billion in
reverse currency swaps Sept. 12 through Sept. 17 to contain the
real and auctioned $1.3 billion Oct. 5.  Economists were divided before yesterday’s central bank
decision, with some highlighting the need to contain inflation.
Traders boosted bets on a rate cut after board member Luiz Awazu
Pereira compared the global slowdown with  Japan ’s lost decade
after the collapse of its asset bubble in 1990.  The Bank of  Korea  followed Brazil today by lowering its
benchmark lending rate for the second time this year, reducing
it to 2.75 percent from 3 percent after the International
Monetary Fund cut its forecast for global economic growth this
year to 3.3 percent.  Speculation that cuts in Brazil’s borrowing costs have come
to an end was bolstered by the three dissenters who voted to
keep rates unchanged, Dos Santos said.  “There are two clear signs the cutting cycle ended,” he
said. “The first one is these three guys who voted for stable
rates. The second is the bank talked about stability for a
prolonged period. It’s impossible to be more clear than that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  