-- Brown’s ‘Pigs’ Vie With Kennedy Dig for Debate Audience
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-10-11T14:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/brown-s-pigs-vie-with-kennedy-dig-for-debate-audience.html
Republican Senator Scott Brown
called Washington politicians “pigs at a trough” while
Democratic challenger Elizabeth Warren tied him to an attack on
the late  Edward Kennedy  as “Public Enemy No. 1” during their
third debate in the Massachusetts Senate race.  The comments ignited some of the biggest outcries from a
live audience as the candidates faced off last night in an
issues-heavy forum on jobs, education, military spending and
women’s health.  With less than four weeks until the election, the race is
one of the most closely watched and expensive in the Senate,
where Democrats are fighting to hold a majority. The two have
traded leads in polls for months.  “One thing we can’t do right now, in the middle of this
three-and-a-half-year recession, is by taking more money out of
people’s hardworking pocketbooks and wallets and giving it to
the federal government,” Brown said. “They’re like pigs at a
trough up there -- they’ll just take and take and take.”  The cheers from the crowd of about 2,600 in Springfield
followed boos minutes earlier when Warren, 63, said Brown was
using statistics from the National Federation of Independent
Business, “a group that endorsed Senator Brown and other
Republicans and refers to Ted Kennedy as Public Enemy No. 1.”  The citation came when Brown reiterated his opposition to
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, in part because it
would cost the state 17,000 jobs, he said. Brown, 53, beat
Attorney General Martha Coakley in the 2010 special election for
the seat held by Kennedy for almost 47 years.  Telling Differences  The candidates were intent on distinguishing themselves
from one another, Warren by spotlighting her support for
investment in education and infrastructure and a balanced
approach to budgeting that would include revenue increases.  Brown held steadfast to his pledge not to raise taxes. He
repeatedly pointed to his more than 30 years in the National
Guard and his position as a ranking member on the Armed Services
Committee after Warren pegged military spending and agriculture
subsidies as two areas where she’d cut federal spending.  “Your policies are hurting middle-class families and every
class of family in  Massachusetts  and the United States,” Brown
told Warren. “I’m not going to be raising taxes on any
American.”  Republican Vision  Warren said Brown and “the Republicans have a vision --
cut taxes for those at the top and let the chips fall where they
may for everybody else.”  It was the only debate in the less-populated western part
of the state, where Democrats enjoy some of their most
concentrated support outside of Boston. While the area is
“mostly Warren country,” voter surveys show Obama winning by
bigger margins, said Raymond La Raja, who teaches political
science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Warren needs
to better solidify the Democratic base to counter the lead Brown
has among independents, who make up 52 percent of the
electorate, he said.  Warren, a Harvard Law School professor, highlighted her
role in starting a federal consumer protection agency under
Obama and its success in returning hundreds of millions of
dollars to people who had been cheated. Brown commended Warren’s
work, adding that the legislation that made it a reality
wouldn’t have passed without his casting the deciding vote.  Birth Control  The two sparred over who was the bigger champion of women’s
rights. Warren said Massachusetts women couldn’t trust Brown 100
percent of the time and cited his support for employers to deny
birth-control coverage on religious or moral grounds and his
opposition to the Supreme Court appointment of a woman who
supports abortion rights.  Brown accused Warren of cherry-picking his actions and used
his personal narrative of being a husband and father of two
daughters while pointing to his co-sponsorship of the
reauthorization of the violence-against-women act.  Last week, Brown was met with boos when he cited Supreme
Court Justice Antonin Scalia, who opposes abortion and gay-
marriage rights, as his model jurist. Warren’s campaign used the
comment in an advertisement as evidence that Brown’s views are
more closely tied to the “extremist” national Republican Party
than he’s sought to project in the Democratic-leaning state.  Native American  One point of contention, a focal point in the first two
debates and throughout the race, was notably absent: Brown’s
questioning of Warren’s claims to Native American heritage and
whether they helped her get hired at Harvard. Brown has used the
issue to question Warren on her honesty and trustworthiness.  He suggested Warren “put down the hammer,” a reference to
one of her most oft-quoted lines that the “middle class is
getting hammered” due to Wall Street greed and Republican
economic policy. The six-figure salary Warren earns at Harvard
is among a package of administrative costs that jack up the cost
of higher education and saddle students with debt, he said.  “I went to a commuter college and I paid $50 a semester in
tuition, and I’m proud to have made it where I’ve made it in my
profession,” Warren countered. “But let’s be clear: I paid $50
a semester because America was investing in public colleges and
universities.”  Only Republican  Brown invokes his bipartisan record often on the campaign
trail and continued to do so during the debate as he seeks to
hold onto his post as the only Republican in Massachusetts’
congressional delegation. Less than 12 percent of the state’s
electorate is registered with the party.  Three-fifths of likely voters said they saw or heard one of
the first two debates, according to the Western New England
University Polling Institute in Springfield. About 31 percent
said the debate made them more inclined to vote for Brown, while
30 percent said Warren. Thirty-seven percent said the debate
made no difference.  The institute’s poll of 440 voters was conducted Sept. 28
through Oct. 4 in partnership with The Republican newspaper of
Springfield and MassLive.com. The margin for error was plus or
minus 4.7 percentage points.  Brown and Warren will debate for the fourth and final time
on Oct. 30 in  Boston .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in Springfield, Massachusetts at   edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  