-- Bubble-Era Financing Returns as Profits Falter: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r   a n d   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-10-11T16:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bubble-era-financing-returns-as-profits-falter-credit-markets.html
A type of financing that peaked
before credit markets seized up four years ago is staging a
comeback just as concern mounts that corporate profits are
falling and the global economy is losing steam.  Offerings of $2.1 billion in the past 30 days of so-called
payment-in-kind notes, which allow borrowers to pay interest
with extra debt, account for more than a third of this year’s $6
billion of deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc., a Wilmington, North
Carolina-based contract research firm, sold $525 million of the
notes yesterday.  Sales of high-yield, high-risk bonds are soaring to a
record pace as  interest rates  hover at unprecedented lows send
investors toward riskier assets. JPMorgan Chase & Co. says
credit metrics are deteriorating, with leverage at investment-
grade borrowers potentially approaching financial crisis levels
by year-end, as the  International Monetary Fund  lowers its
global growth forecast to the slowest pace since 2009.  “You only hear about PIK bonds when the high-yield markets
are really frothy,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money
manager  who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management
Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone interview. The
trend “is OK if we’re at that part of the cycle where things
start to accelerate. But we don’t know that.”  ‘Sellers’ Market’  Even as issuance of PIK bonds accelerates, sales are below
the record $14.9 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show. Sales
fell to $14.5 billion the following year, as the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. led to a credit freeze.  Relative yields on high-yield bonds reached a record 21.82
percentage points on Dec. 15, 2008, from that year’s low of 6.1
percentage points on Jan. 2, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Spreads have fallen to 5.61 percentage points as of
yesterday.  “The increased use of payment-in-kind structures is
confirmation that this is a sellers’ market,” Edward Marrinan,
macro credit strategist at RBS Securities in Stamford,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “Many issuers are
in a position to dictate terms to investors.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 96.7 basis points
as of 12:12 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.12 basis point to 12 basis points as
of 12:12 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as company debentures and widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of Sprint Nextel Corp. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
121 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:15 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Softbank Deal  Sprint said it’s in talks with Softbank Corp. for a
“substantial” investment from the Japanese carrier. Sprint’s
$2.48 billion of 6.875 percent, senior unsecured debt due
November 2028 increased 10.9 cents on the dollar to 102.75 cents
to yield 6.59 percent.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
contracted to the lowest level in five months, falling $10.2
billion to $964.9 billion in the week ended yesterday, the
 Federal Reserve  said on its website. That’s the lowest level
since May 2.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  Demand for PIK bonds underscores investors’ appetite for
riskier assets. Sales of  junk bonds  in the U.S. are proceeding
at an unprecedented pace, with issuance of $259.9 billion
exceeding the $210.6 billion sold in the corresponding period of
2010, the busiest year on record, Bloomberg data show.  Riskier Assets  Yields on U.S. corporate bonds reached a record low 3.676
percent on Oct. 3, before climbing to 3.67 percent as of
yesterday, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate & High Yield Master.  PIK toggle bonds allow borrowers to elect to pay interest
in cash or through issuing more debt, or a combination of the
options, generally within the first few years of the bond’s
term, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  NBTY Inc., the maker of Nature’s Bounty and MET-Rx
nutritional supplements, is offering $500 million of five-year
PIK notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
The securities will rank senior to the company’s existing and
future debt and liabilities, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  Pharmaceutical Product’s offering was increased by $25
million from the $500 million initially planned, Bloomberg data
show. The five-year debt pays 9.375 percent in cash and 10.125
percent if the company pays in the form of additional debt.  Jo-Ann Stores Inc., based in Hudson,  Ohio , sold $325
million of seven-year PIK notes on Oct. 9 that pay 9.75 percent
in cash and 10.5 percent if the company pays in added debt,
Bloomberg data show.  Petco Debt  Five days earlier, Petco Animal Supplies Inc., owned by
 Leonard Green  and TPG Capital, raised $550 million selling five-
year debt that pays 8.5 percent in cash, and 9.25 percent if
paid in added debt.  The debt from all three borrowers is rated Caa1 by Moody’s
and CCC+ at  Standard & Poor’s . Ned Glascock, a spokesman for
Pharmaceutical Product, declined to comment on the offering.
Representatives of Jo-Ann and Petco didn’t return telephone
calls seeking interviews.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  The securities provide issuers with flexibility if the
economy weakens or the companies struggle to make cash interest
payments,  Sabur Moini , who manages about $2.5 billion of high-
yield assets at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles, said in a
telephone interview.  Hedge funds  and other investors that favor
riskier assets are typical buyers.  Investors find PIK securities appealing with the global
speculative-grade default rate of 3 percent in September below
the historical average of 4.8 percent in data going back to
1983, according to Moody’s.  ‘Deteriorate Further’  Leverage metrics in investment-grade bonds are likely to
have weakened in the third quarter because of a drop in earnings
and a rise in debt, analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  at JPMorgan
wrote in an Oct. 9 report. Leverage reached 1.98 times in the
second quarter, compared with a crisis high of 2.11 in the third
quarter of 2009 and a low of 1.86 in fourth quarter of 2010.  “There is little doubt that credit metrics will
deteriorate further” in the third quarter, according to the
report. “We would not be surprised to see leverage move back
near the crisis peak again” in the third quarter of by the
fourth quarter.  Economic Growth  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said Oct. 9, compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent
in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based lender now
sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a
one-in-six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  Third-quarter profits and sales for companies in the  S&P
500 (SPX)  probably fell in unison for the first time in three years,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Per-
share earnings may have dropped 1.7 percent on average after
they were little changed in the second quarter. Sales may have
slipped 0.6 percent, the data show.  While PIK bonds may perform for a while, “when they stop
performing well they become virtually unsellable at times, and
they can drop in price rather substantially,”  James Kochan ,
chief fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management
LLC in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  