-- Bubbledogs Mixes Champagne With British Bangers in London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bubbledogs-mix-champagne-with-british-bangers-in-london.html
A bore at the next table in a Paris
brasserie once ruined my dinner by insisting that I was wrong to
accompany my food with Champagne, which was an aperitif.  This gastronomical gendarme was drunk, which might explain
it.  I myself, sober though I was, wondered about the lineup of
Champagne and hot dogs at the new  London  restaurant Bubbledogs.  Any doubts were misplaced. I’m more excited by Bubbledogs
than any new London restaurant I’ve tried since Dabbous, where
you can wait months for a table. The hot dogs are great, the
Champagnes are varied and inexpensive, and the service is first-
class.  To use a phrase I dislike, what’s not to like?  There’s a choice of about a dozen hot dogs, each of which
is available as beef, pork or vegetarian. For the purist,
there’s the Naked Dog, at 6 pounds ($9.75). The top price is 8
pounds for the BLT, which comes with caramelized lettuce and
truffle mayo. There are no starters and no desserts.  (Crif Dogs, in  New York , helped inspire Bubbledogs.)  Sides are restricted to tots (potato croquettes), sweet-
potato fries and coleslaw. That’s it. I can’t think why anyone
would want more choice in a hot-dog restaurant. If anything, I’d
like things simpler: no sides and a single price.  Those who shrug that it’s hard to get hot dogs wrong should
eat their words. Simplicity is complex: You might get away with
a mistake in an elaborate fine-dining meal, but there is nowhere
to hide with a sausage and a bread roll.  The Breakie  My personal favorite is the Breakie, which comes with
tomato relish and chunks of black pudding and a fried egg on
top. If I want to go off piste, the Buffalo Dog is fun. Spicy
buffalo sauce, blue cheese and celery? Whoever thought up that
combo? To answer my own question, it was the husband-and-wife
owners, James Knappett and Sandia Chang.  Knappett is a talented chef who has headed the kitchen at
Marcus Wareing and worked for  Brett Graham  at the Ledbury and
for Rene Redzepi at Noma. (Knappett has also opened a posh
restaurant, Kitchen Table, at the back of Bubbledogs.) Chang was
born to Chinese parents in  Saudi Arabia  and went to school in
 Los Angeles . She used to be front-of-house at Marcus Wareing and
Roganic, and is a fan of grower Champagnes.  When you visit Bubbledogs, it’s worth seeking her out for
advice on bubble-and-banger matches. Champagne starts at less
than 40 pounds a bottle --  Gaston Chiquet , Selection Cuvee is 38
pounds -- and there’s plenty of choice below 60 pounds. Chiquet
is a fine Champagne for the price. Talking of price, Jacquesson
Cuvee No. 735 is 58 pounds. It’s 95 pounds at  Petrus .  Great Service  Even if Chang isn’t around, Bubbledogs has some of the best
service I have encountered in London. The staffers are friendly,
professional, well informed and good company.  That waitress asking you to choose between a Horny Dog
(corn breading with corny bits) and a Red Rocket (cabbage and
mustard) may be Jennie Wood, who created the blog  http://cod -
philosophy.tumblr.com/. Among independent London restaurateurs,
the only person I can think of who has brought together such a
crew from scratch is  Russell Norman  of Polpo.  So I invited him along. He said Bubbledogs was brilliant.  What’s wrong with Bubbledogs? It’s too popular, so you
might face a long wait for a table. (Reservations are only taken
for groups of six or more, and the booking line is only open for
150 minutes a day for Bubbledogs and the posh Kitchen Table.)  It’s crowded and not very comfortable. You may feel
reluctant to linger. Even if you do, you may mind being squished
in with strangers in a noisy room where rubbing shoulders means
exactly that. Even McDonald’s offers more space.  Yet I can see Bubbledogs opening in cities around the
country. Then we’ll all be asking, who let the dogs out?  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? Less than 20 pounds a head, plus Champagne.  Sound level? Can get noisy: 70 decibels and rising.  Inside tip? Arrive early.  Special feature? Dogs.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Woof.  Rating? ***1/2.  Bubbledogs is at 70  Charlotte  Street, Fitzrovia, London,
W1T 4QG. Information:  http://www.bubbledogs.co.uk/  or +44-20-
7637-7770.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history, Zinta
 Lundborg’s  New York weekend and  Hephzibah Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 