-- Bullard Backs Limiting Banks’ Size to Proportion of GDP
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-11T21:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bullard-backs-limiting-banks-size-to-proportion-of-gdp.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he would back limiting the size of
individual U.S. banks to a proportion of gross domestic product,
while warning of the risks from “too-big-to-fail” firms.  “Scaling by GDP would make sense,” Bullard said to
reporters today in St. Louis. “Of course, the devil is in the
details of exactly how you would do that.”  Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said yesterday that the  U.S.
Congress  should weigh capping the size of the largest financial
institutions. U.S. law permits the biggest banks to grow to such
an extent that they increase “perceptions of at least some
residual too-big-to-fail quality,” he said in a speech.  “I appreciate that Governor Tarullo is entertaining the
idea of size restrictions,” Bullard said. “This is something I
do back. We would be better served by putting size restrictions
generally on financial firms.”  Tarullo told the University of Pennsylvania Law School that
“it would be most appropriate for Congress to legislate on the
subject” of limiting size. The idea “that seems to have the
most promise would limit the non-deposit liabilities of
financial firms to a specified percentage of” GDP, he said.  Fed presidents including Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker ,
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and  Richard Fisher  of Dallas have
said the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 won’t necessarily end
taxpayer bailouts because it gives regulators discretion to
provide rescues. Plosser has called for a bankruptcy law that
would set rules for the wind-down of a large financial company.  Take Over  The Dodd-Frank law gave the Fed and other regulators powers
to take over and shut down failing institutions, mandated that
the central bank look for evidence of emerging risks to
financial stability and required annual stress tests of the
largest U.S. banks.  “I do not think we need firms that are so large and
complicated in order to have a healthy intermediation sector in
the U.S.,” Bullard said to reporters at the  St. Louis  Fed’s
fall economic conference. “We would be better served by a setup
that had smaller firms and a competitive landscape across the
sector.”  Bullard also said that recent economic data are consistent
with his forecast for U.S. growth of about 2 percent in the
second half of this year and more than 3 percent next year.  “It probably has been a bit mixed,” he said of recent
reports. “You have got some sectors like housing that seem to
be doing somewhat better but you have got other parts that are
maybe a little more ominous. Europe seems to be maybe a little
deeper in recession than what we have seen earlier this year.”  Prejudge Decision  Bullard said he “wouldn’t want to prejudge” his position
on monetary policy at the next Fed meeting in two weeks.  U.S. stocks erased gains as optimism about a drop in
jobless claims faded and a slump in Apple Inc. dragged down
technology shares. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little
changed at 1,432.84 in New York.  The Fed yesterday said in its Beige Book summary that the
 U.S. economy  was expanding “modestly” last month, supported by
improvements in housing and auto sales, even as the labor market
showed little change. A Labor Department report last week showed
that while the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined in
September, payroll growth slowed.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of Illinois,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky , Mississippi,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  