-- Indonesia’s Bakries Seek Exit From Venture With Rothschild
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-10-11T17:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/bumi-plc-gets-proposal-from-bakrie-group-on-bumi-resources-swap.html
Indonesia’s Bakrie family, founders
of a palm oil-to-property-empire in 1942, offered to buy back
coal assets it helped bring to the London stock market with
Nathaniel Rothschild to end a yearlong dispute.  The proposal would split Rothschild, 41, from the Bakries
and effectively dissolve a $3 billion venture agreed in 2010
that married a centuries-old British banking dynasty with one of
Indonesia’s most-powerful families. London-based  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , whose
board met in Singapore today, last month started investigating
“potential financial and other irregularities” at PT Bumi
Resources, the Bakrie-backed Indonesian coal company.  “The deal would completely disassociate Plc from the
Bakries and PT Bumi,” Richard Knights, a London-based analyst
at Liberum Capital Ltd., wrote in a note today.  The plan would leave Bumi Plc, which holds 29 percent of
Bumi Resources, without any mining assets. The proposals will
deliver cash of about $1.2 billion to the company, a unit of the
Bakrie Group said. The offer is a 67 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing prices, Knights said.  The Bakrie Group has offered to swap its 23.8 percent stake
in London-listed Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) ,
Bumi Plc said today in a statement. The Bakries also proposed to
buy back the remaining 18.9 percent in Bumi Resources by
Christmas for about $278 million, or 680 rupiah a share. It also
offered $947 million for Bumi Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in PT
Berau Coal Energy Tbk within six months.  Sovereign Risk  The London-traded venture, is “likely to accept the first
offer given the difficulty Plc has faced in imposing its will,”
Liberum’s Knights said. The cash proposal for the Berau stake,
worth about $533 million, is “more controversial,” he said.
“To our minds the only reason for Plc to sell its stake in
Berau at this juncture would be perceptions over sovereign risk
in  Indonesia .”  Bumi Plc said it’s considering the share swap offer along
with the cash proposal for its remaining stake in Bumi
Resources, Indonesia’s largest coal producer, and will make a
recommendation to shareholders.  Bumi jumped by a record in London, advancing 39 percent to
259 pence by the close. Bumi Resources gained 5.8 percent to 720
rupiah in Jakarta. Berau Coal Energy soared 34 percent to 200
rupiah, the biggest jump since it started trading Aug. 19, 2010.  Rothschild Comments  Rothschild said in an e-mailed statement that Bumi Plc
would continue to face challenges even after an exit by the
Bakries Group.  “As has been noted over the last 12 months, there have
been challenges in implementing appropriate standards of
corporate governance and these have been a source of friction
among the board members and shareholders,” he said.  “Even if the Bakries exit, one of the key concerns that I
share with other minority investors is that Bumi Plc would still
face a concentration of ownership by a small number of closely
related parties and such challenges would remain.”  Rothschild said he noted today’s announcement by the
Bakries Group and said he would wait for the investigation a
 London  lawfirm is conducting on behalf of Bumi Plc’s independent
directors before commenting further.  “We believe this is an attractive, pragmatic and
deliverable solution,” Long Haul Holdings Ltd., a unit of the
Bakrie Group, wrote in an Oct. 10 letter to Bumi seen by
Bloomberg News. The offer is the result of “irreconcilable
differences between the original promoters of the company and
the current major shareholding groups,” it said.  Mandarin Hotel  As part of its proposal, the Bakrie Group expects the
founders, including Rothschild, to return 16 million Bumi Plc
shares for cancellation, it said. The stock was originally
awarded in return for the deal being agreed, it added.
Rothschild owns 10 percent of the company.  Bumi Plc directors, including Rothschild, met on the eighth
floor of Singapore’s Mandarin Orchard Hotel. Rothschild and Bumi
Plc Chairman Samin Tan declined to comment outside the meeting.
Directors Sony B. Harsono and Alexander Ramlie also declined to
comment.  “The development appears positive and a likely all round
win-win,”  Dileep Srivastava , a Bumi Resources director, said
today by e-mail. “We are focused on operational excellence,
without distractions.”  ‘Cleaning Up’  The probe announced Sept. 24 by Bumi Plc is linked to a
$637 million writedown of development funds and exploration
assets. Relations between Rothschild and Bumi Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie began to sour last year after the financier made public a
letter to then-Chief Executive Officer Ari Hudaya urging a
“radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources.  Hudaya quit the board of Bumi Plc a day after the probe was
announced. He is president director at Bumi Resources.  Investors in Rotshchild’s Vallar Plc, the precursor to
Bumi, paid 1,000 pence a share in the initial public offering of
July 2010. The stock fell to as low as 120 pence on Sept. 24.  PT Bakrie & Brothers, controlled by Aburizal Bakrie,
billionaire and brother of Indra, sold half of their 47.6
percent stake in London-listed Bumi in November to help pay
$1.35 billion in debt owed to Credit Suisse Group AG. Aburizal
is the chairman of the Golkar Party of Indonesia. He’s also the
2014 presidential candidate for the nation’s second-biggest
political party, which was founded by former dictator Suharto.  Bumi Plc CEO Nalin Rathod declined to comment on how the
the Bakries would fund the purchase.  After announcing the tie-up with Indonesia’s Bumi and Berau
in 2010, Rothschild outlined a vision to create a global
“mining champion” for Indonesia.  “Indonesia is a sleeping giant,” he said in an interview
after the original deal was announced Nov. 16, 2010. “One
scratches one’s head to think why isn’t there a mining champion
out there already and hopefully we are in the process of
showcasing one in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  