-- Burberry Advances Most in Three Years as Sales Bring Relief
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-11T08:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/burberry-sales-growth-slips-to-two-year-low-as-demand-weakens.html
Burberry Group Plc, (BRBY)  the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods maker, rose the most in three years in
London trading after reporting a partial recovery in retail
sales growth since September’s profit warning.  The shares gained as much as 9.2 percent to 1,095 pence,
 the steepest  advance since April 2009.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent in the
second quarter, London-based Burberry said today in a statement.
That’s an improvement on the unchanged performance it reported
on Sept. 11 for the first 10 weeks of the period. The retailer
also increased its guidance for the second-half retail and
wholesale operating margin. The profit measure will be in-line
with last year, according to Burberry, which had previously
predicted a decline.  “This improvement should bring some relief,” said
Rodolphe Ozun, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch with
a neutral recommendation. “Trends suggest the second half
should remain challenging.”  The shares were up 9 percent as of 9:46 a.m., paring the
decline for the year to 7.9 percent.  Prorsum, London  The higher-priced Burberry Prorsum and  London  ranges
outperformed in the second quarter compared with the entry-
priced Burberry Brit range even as shopper numbers slowed, Chief
Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright told reporters. The two more
expensive ranges represent 49 percent of apparel sales, a 6
percentage-point gain compared to last year.  “We’re seeing more business at the higher end, we do feel
it is the aspirational luxury consumer who is more impacted
against the current macro backdrop,” Cartwright said. She
blamed the slowdown in sales on lower footfall “which suggests
to us part of the slowdown is macro-related” given the debt
crisis in  Europe , upcoming Chinese elections and a slowdown in
luxury travel.  “The fact that underlying retail growth has not further
deteriorated since the profit warning is reassuring,” William Hutchings, a Goldman Sachs analyst, wrote in a note.  Burberry said last month that pretax profit for the year
ending March would be at the lower end of a range of 407 million
pounds ($652 million) to 454 million pounds, citing slowing
same-store sales. The company today said second-half underlying
wholesale revenue will be little changed.  Damaged Brand?  “We expect the retail like-for-like beat will offset
disappointments elsewhere,” said Bethany Hocking, an analyst at
Investec who downgraded her recommendation to hold last month.
“We do not ascribe to the view that the brand is damaged.”  Revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 3 percent
to 475 million pounds, the company also said today. That was the
worst performance since a 2 percent drop in the quarter ended
March 2010 and compared with the 477 million-pound median of
five analysts’  estimates .  “In a more challenging external environment, footfall
declined but brand momentum remained strong, particularly with
our higher spending luxury consumer,” Burberry Chief Executive
Officer Angela Ahrendts said in the statement.  In  China , where a boom in demand for watches and jewelry
has spurred sales gains for luxury companies, revenue has slowed
ahead of a once-a-decade leadership transition by the Communist
Party later this year, Cartwright has said. The executive said
Chinese same-store sales in the second-quarter were
“marginally” positive from being in the “teens” previously.
There has also been a slowdown in gift-giving.  “I don’t think we can call at what point the brakes come
off,” in China, she said, adding Burberry is planning
conservatively there.  Burberry announced separately that it will directly operate
fragrance and beauty as its new fifth product division from
April 2013 as it ends its license relationship with  Interparfums
SA. (ITP)  The move will help it take “greater control over our
brand,” Ahrendts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  