-- Business Fervor of U.S. Grads Survives Wall Street Crisis
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/business-fervor-of-u-s-grads-survives-wall-street-crisis.html
The worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression did little to dampen U.S. students’ interest in
commerce. The number of American college graduates holding
business degrees jumped 6.2 percent from the end of the
recession in 2009 to last year.  More than 12 million Americans, or one in five college
graduates, have a business degree, according to data from the
 U.S. Census Bureau . Four times as many adults hold business
degrees as liberal arts and history majors among the nation’s
almost 59 million people who have undergraduate degrees.  “Business is a safe harbor,” Kevin Burns, director of
 career services  at  Arizona  State University’s W.P. Carey School
of Business, said in a telephone interview. “So a lot of people
were getting on the biggest boat they could in turbulent
times.”  The concentration of business majors skews heavily to the
Sun Belt, home to the 33 metropolitan areas with the greatest
percentage of business-degree holders, according to the Census
Bureau data released last month. The government began providing
information about undergraduate degrees for people 25 years and
older in its 2009 American Community Survey, an annual poll of 3
million households.  Lifetime Earnings  The Census Bureau also  said yesterday  the average American
with an undergraduate business degree will earn $2.6 million
over a lifetime, about $200,000 more than the average for all
people with a bachelor’s degree.  The payoff is even better for engineers, who had the
highest average lifetime earnings for college-educated
graduates. They can expect to earn $3.5 million during a 40-year
career.  The growth in science and engineering majors also surpassed
that of undergraduate business-degree holders. Their ranks grew
to 5.3 million, an 8.2 percent increase from the 4.9 million
graduates in 2009.  The Census data was released amid concern that the U.S. is
failing to produce enough science, technology, engineering and
medical graduates to meet future needs. A May study by a
consortium, including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the Partnership for  New
York City , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , estimated that restrictive
immigration policies could contribute to a shortage of 224,000
high-technology workers by 2018.  More Flexibility  The ranks of liberal arts and history degree holders fell
to 3 million, down 100,000 from 2009. The number of graduates
with degrees in multidisciplinary studies fell to 343,000, down
67 percent from the 1 million cited in 2009, the Census Bureau
said.  While liberal arts degrees can provide more flexibility for
mid-career changes, their benefits aren’t always immediate, said
William Spellman, a University of North Carolina-Asheville
historian and director of the Council of Public Liberal Arts
Colleges.  “It took me two years after I earned my Ph.D. to get an
interview, much less a job,” he said.  Attention to liberal arts classes has helped boost the job-
placement rate of the University of  Notre Dame ’s Mendoza College
of Business, said Roger Huang, the college’s dean. Last year, 99
percent of business undergraduates had job offers, he said.  “There’s something we do here that the market likes,”
said Huang, whose school in March was rated No. 1 among
undergraduate business programs for the third consecutive year
by Bloomberg Businessweek.  ‘Down Economy’  Sean Egan , a 20-year-old accounting major at the  South
Bend ,  Indiana , school, said he has already found a summer
internship with KPMG LLP. If graduates from Notre Dame’s
business program weren’t getting jobs, “then it really wouldn’t
matter what degree I earned because chances are that no one
would be hiring,” said Egan, a junior.  “The down economy played a small role in why I chose
accountancy,” said Egan, whose mother is an auditor for the
 Chicago  Mercantile Exchange and whose father is a portfolio
manager for  Bank of America . “I could not tell you the number
of people, my parents included, who told me the world will
always need accountants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in  New York  at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in Chicago at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark McQuillan  in Washington at 202-
   mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 