-- California Leading U.S. Out of Housing Bust: Mortgages
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-10-11T20:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/california-leading-u-s-out-of-housing-bust-mortgages.html
California , the state that led the
U.S. into the housing boom and bust with some of the most
reckless subprime mortgage lending, is now leading the way out.  A plunge in new defaults in California helped push U.S.
 foreclosure  filings to the lowest level in almost five years,
according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , a seller of home-loan data. Across
the country, 531,576 properties received notices of default,
auction or repossession in the third quarter, down 13 percent
from a year earlier and the lowest since 2007. One in every 248
households got a filing, RealyTrac said today.  California, the birthplace of subprime mortgage lending,
saw an explosion of foreclosures thanks to such industry
innovations as “no-doc” loans that required no proof of
income. The state’s recovery is mirrored by U.S.  home values 
that rose 1.2 percent in July from a year earlier, according to
the S&P/Case Shiller index of property prices in 20 major
cities. It was the second straight 12-month advance and the
biggest jump for the real estate gauge since August 2010.  “We’re starting to see improvement in some of the hardest
hit areas, strong demand, competitive bidding on properties and
rising prices,” Sean O’Toole, chief executive officer of
ForeclosureRadar.com, which tracks sales of foreclosed
properties, said in a telephone interview.  The gains are moving in tandem with foreclosure declines as
lenders control the flow of bank-owned homes that come to
market, crimping inventory and pushing up prices, said Daren Blomquist of  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac.  Initial Filings  Initial filings in September fell in 31 states, led by
California, the most-populous U.S. state, which dropped to a 69-
month low. Defaults dropped 45 percent from a year earlier, 34
percent in  Arizona , 22 percent in  Michigan  and 21 percent in
 Georgia , RealtyTrac said.  Home sales in California’s biggest population centers
climbed in August to the highest level since 2006, according to
real estate research firm DataQuick. Median house and
condominium prices in six Southern California counties jumped 11
percent from a year earlier to $309,000, while values in nine
counties in the San Francisco  Bay Area  gained 11 percent to
$410,000, the San Diego-based company said.  “Much of the pickup reflects a continuation of trends
we’ve seen for months, like the unleashing of pent-up demand in
move-up markets and high levels of cash and investor buying,”
DataQuick President  John Walsh  said in a Sept. 13 statement
about the Southern California sales surge.  Pent-Up Demand  KB Home (KBH)  is seeing “dramatic improvement” in California,
where strength in the coastal markets, including the Bay Area
and Orange County, is spreading inland, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said on a conference call with
analysts last month. The West Coast is KB Home’s largest market.  “It’s simply a different market than it was six months ago
in the inland areas as inventories have declined significantly
and prices are now rising,” Mezger said.  The Los Angeles-based homebuilder fell 1.4 percent today
trimming its gain this year to 118 percent. That compares with
the 75 percent advance for the 11-member Standard & Poor’s 1500
Homebuilding  index .  New home orders in the U.S. are likely to remain robust,
according to Barclays Plc. “We expect building product
companies to remain profitable, driven by momentum in the new
home construction market and offset by continued weakness in
discretionary housing products,” Barclays analysts led by
Vincent Foley wrote in a note to investors today.  ‘Constrained Inventory’  Investors and first-time buyers who can qualify for a loan
are being lured to lower-priced locations, even with a 3.2-month
supply of homes statewide that’s about half the historical
average of a “balanced inventory,” according to Leslie Appleton-Young, chief economist of the California Association of
Realtors. At the height of the housing crisis, inventory stood
at more than a 16-month supply, she said on an Oct. 2 media
call.  “Sales would be higher if the inventory weren’t so
constrained,” Appleton-Young said during the call. “We don’t
see that changing significantly in 2013.”  California home sales probably will increase 1.3 percent to
530,000 units in 2013 for the third consecutive year of gains,
the Los Angeles-based Realtors group forecasts. Estimated sales
of 523,300 in 2012 would represent a 5.1 percent jump from 2011.  “Pent-up demand and first-time buyers will compete with
investors and all-cash offers on lower-priced properties, while
multiple offers and aggressive bidding will continue to be the
norm in mid- to upper-price range homes,” according to
Appleton-Young’s forecast.  Orange County  Orange County, home base for defunct subprime lender New
Century Financial Corp., had the highest median price of the six
Southern California counties in August, rising 6 percent from a
year earlier to $445,000, according to DataQuick.  San Francisco 
led northern counties, up 13 percent to $700,000.  Bulk-buying of foreclosure properties by firms such as
Colony Capital LLC and Carrington Holding Co. LLC has soaked up
some of the housing excess in inland counties, said O’Toole, of
Discovery Bay, California-based Foreclosure Radar.com.  In Antioch and Vallejo in northern California, and
Riverside in the south, homes that sold for $400,000 at the peak
have been purchased for about $130,000 each and renovated for
the rental market, Gary Beasley, managing director of Oakland,
California-based Waypoint Real Estate Group LLC, said in an
interview.  The mortgage industry, which lowered underwriting standards
to increase loan volume and fuel price gains, used so-called
robo-signers to handle the flood of foreclosures that followed.  Judicial Review  The country’s top banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Bank of America Corp., agreed to a $25 billion settlement in
February after  attorneys general  in 49 of 50 states participated
in a probe of fraudulent paperwork used to repossess homes.  Driving the recovery in California has been the relative
speed it has worked through foreclosures, in part because home
repossessions there don’t require judicial review as they do in
about half of U.S. states, said Ivy Zelman, CEO of Zelman &
Associates LLC. There are 24 non-judicial states, according to
RealtyTrac.  A new California law that goes into effect Jan. 1 may make
it harder for lenders to seize property, which could delay the
clearing of distressed homes and a swifter statewide recovery,
Blomquist, a RealtyTrac vice president, said in an interview.  “We’ve been seeing a downward trend in new defaults, while
the market in California is gradually improving,” said
Blomquist. “The danger is that the law will delay foreclosures
in the short-term, and be followed by a spike down the road.”  Scaled Back  Investors may already be getting out of the market after
California’s housing gains. Insight Capital Research Management
Inc., which had $360 million under management as of June 30, has
scaled back positions in homebuilders, including those with
heavy California exposure, said Mike Ashton, portfolio manager
with the Walnut Creek, California-based fund.  Even in the Vallejo/Fairfield metropolitan area, which had
the highest U.S. foreclosure rate in September at one filing for
every 202 households, California’s relative housing value is on
display. The average foreclosure property there cost $187,939,
compared with the U.S. average of $170,040, RealtyTrac said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  