-- Canadian Trade Deficit Narrows From Record on Import Drop
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-11T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/canada-august-trade-deficit-narrows-from-record-on-import-drop.html
Canada ’s  merchandise trade  deficit
narrowed more than economists forecast in August from the prior
month’s record on the steepest decline in imports in more than
three years.  The deficit of C$1.32 billion ($1.35 billion) followed a
revised shortfall of C$2.53 billion in July, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast a C$1.9 billion deficit, based on the median of 21
forecasts.  Sluggish shipments abroad have helped keep Canada’s
economic growth rate below 2 percent in the first two quarters
of this year. Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney has kept his
benchmark  interest rate  at 1 percent for more than two years,
the longest pause since the 1950s, and said the recovery in
exports is the slowest since World War II.  Imports declined 3.1 percent to C$38.8 billion in August,
the fastest since May 2009, with drops in every major category
except energy, Statistics Canada said. Industrial goods and
materials fell 7.4 percent to C$7.92 billion while machinery and
equipment declined 3.8 percent to C$10.4 billion. The volume of
imports, which excludes price changes, fell 2.2 percent.  There is “nothing to celebrate” in the report, said  Jimmy Jean , a strategist in the fixed-income group at Desjardins
Capital Markets in  Montreal . “We had a big drop in imports of
machinery and equipment -- that speaks to a lack confidence in
investment.”  Dollar Strengthens  Canada’s dollar added 0.4 percent to 97.75 cents per U.S.
dollar at 10:45 a.m. in Toronto, after declining 0.4 percent
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0230.  Exports decreased 0.1 percent to C$37.5 billion in August,
Statistics Canada said. Energy shipments in August rose for the
first time in seven months, by 5.5 percent to C$8.59 billion,
while industrial goods and materials fell 6.1 percent to C$8.82
billion. Export volumes rose 0.7 percent.  Trade has weakened in the third quarter, suggesting
economic growth may again be slower than 2 percent, said Royal
Bank of Canada economist David Onyett-Jeffries.  “The downside risks to growth, along with the impact of
the strong currency on trade, are likely to be in focus in the
upcoming policy discussions at the Bank of Canada,” he said in
a client note.  Canada’s trade balance has swung from a surplus of C$3.19
billion in December to a series of five straight deficits
through August.  ‘Frank Discussions’  Canada has  said  that “frank discussions” are needed on
steps to protect the global economic recovery at International
Monetary Fund meetings in  Tokyo  this week. The IMF cut its
global growth forecast Oct. 9, citing the euro area’s debt
crisis.  Exports make up about one-third of Canada’s economy, with
about 75 percent of  the shipments  going to the U.S.  Canada’s trade  surplus with the U.S.  widened to C$3.48
billion in August from C$2.02 billion a month earlier.  Statistics Canada also said today that on Oct. 18 it will
present a new set of trade data making it compatible with
changes to the so-called national accounts used to formulate the
country’s gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 