-- Canada Extends Cnooc-Nexen Review Period by 30 Days
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-10-11T20:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/canada-extends-cnooc-nexen-review-period-by-30-days.html
Canada  said it extended its review
of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  for 30 days
to conduct a “thorough and careful” assessment.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government is reviewing the
bid, China’s largest ever foreign acquisition, under Canada’s
foreign takeover law, which specifies transactions must have a
domestic “net benefit” to win approval.  “Extensions to the review period are not unusual,”
Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The government said Aug. 29 it had received Cnooc’s
application. Under the law, Canada has 45 days to examine a deal
and may extend that deadline by 30 days as long as it notifies
Cnooc before the initial period expires. The government can
extend the review further if Cnooc agrees.  “The proposed transaction is undergoing a rigorous review
under the Investment Canada Act,” Paradis said in the
statement. “The required time will be taken to conduct a
thorough and careful review of this proposed investment.”  A 30-day extension would make Nov. 9 the next deadline for
a government decision.  Margaux Stastny, a spokeswoman for Paradis, declined in an
e-mail to confirm the deadline.  Cnooc doesn’t comment on the regulatory process, Steven
MacKinnon, a spokesman for the company in Canada, said in an e-
mail.  Nexen rose 0.4 percent to $25.75 in New York, the highest
closing price since Aug. 22. Cnooc has offered to pay Nexen
investors $27.50 a share.  Difficult Questions  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, is seeking
greater access to Canada’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest
pool of reserves, to support growth. While Harper has said
selling more of the nation’s natural resources to Asia is a
“national priority,” and that his government welcomes Chinese
investment, he also said Oct. 4 the Cnooc offer raises a “range
of difficult policy questions.”  Alberta Premier Alison Redford requested the federal
government insist Calgary-based Nexen’s management and board
remain at least 50 percent Canadian. The provincial government
also wants Chinese state-owned Cnooc to maintain current
employment levels for five years and keep capital spending plans
intact, according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke
last week on condition of anonymity.  Alberta ’s government has indicated it would not object to
the transaction if the conditions were met.  Workforce Pledges  As part of the proposal by Cnooc, details of which have not
been made public, the Chinese company pledged 25 percent
Canadian composition of its board, the person said. The company
also said it would maintain Nexen’s workforce at no less than 80
percent of current levels for three years, they said, a
commitment the Albertan government wants to extend by two years.  In announcing its offer July 23, Cnooc pledged to follow
through on Calgary-based Nexen’s capital spending plans and
maintain the company’s employment level and management, without
giving details or a time frame.  Cnooc also promised to make Calgary the head office of its
North American operations, as well as list its common shares on
the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Cnooc is controlled by state-owned China National Offshore
Oil Corp., which indirectly owns 64.4 percent of the company’s
shares.  Foreign investment is crucial to promote Canadian growth,
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said in a Bloomberg TV interview
in  Tokyo  today.  Investment Rules  “There’s lots of countries around the world which have
investors who want to invest in Canada,” Flaherty said. “It’s
important that we get our foreign direct investment rules
clear.”  The New Democratic Party, the country’s biggest opposition
party, on Oct. 4 called on the government to block the bid,
saying the review process lacked transparency.  Canada’s 2010 rejection of Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s hostile $40 billion bid for  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan
Inc. was one of only two acquisitions since 1985 to be blocked
under the current law.  Opposition by Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall to BHP’s bid
foreshadowed the federal government’s rejection of that
takeover.  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and in Nigeria, as well as
oil-sands reserves at Long Lake, Alberta, where it already
produces crude in a joint venture with Cnooc.  Nexen shareholders approved the bid on Sept. 20, with about
99 percent of those who voted casting ballots in favor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  