-- Canada August New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-11T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/canada-august-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for August released by
Statistics Canada.  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.2% in August,
following a 0.1% increase in July.  The combined metropolitan regions of Toronto and Oshawa, as
well as Calgary, were the top contributors to the advance. In
Toronto and Oshawa, market conditions were the primary reason
for higher prices. In Calgary, builders reported that the main
factors were increased material and labour costs, as well as
market conditions.  The largest monthly price advance in August occurred in the
metropolitan region of Québec (+0.6%), followed by  London , which
recorded a 0.5% increase. In both, the increases were primarily
the result of higher material and labour costs.  Prices were unchanged in 9 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed in August. Monthly prices declined 0.4% in Victoria as
a result of lower land prices. Prices fell 0.1% in Charlottetown,
as some builders recorded lower negotiated selling prices.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.4% in the 12
months to August, following a 2.3% increase in July. The main
contributor to the advance was the combined metropolitan regions
of Toronto and Oshawa.  The largest year-over-year increases in contractors’
selling prices occurred in Toronto and Oshawa (+4.7%), Winnipeg
(+4.4%) and Regina (+3.5%).  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in
Québec (+3.3%) and Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo (+3.0%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in August. The largest decrease was in
Victoria (-3.0%).  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
Provincial Sales Tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial sales
tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  