-- Carrefour Sees First Signs of Turnaround as Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-11T08:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/carrefour-third-quarter-sales-climb-helped-by-latin-america-2-.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, gained the most in  France ’s benchmark CAC 40
Index after reporting sales that signaled new Chief Executive
Officer Georges Plassat’s turnaround plan may be working.  The shares rose as much as 5.6 percent to 16.89 euros, the
steepest intraday advance since Aug. 30.  A 2.1 percent gain in third-quarter revenue to 22.6 billion
euros ($29 billion) “demonstrates that Carrefour’s performance
is stabilizing in France and the action plan by new CEO Plassat
is starting to bear fruits,” Nicolas Champ, an analyst at
Barclays Plc, said in a note to clients today.  Plassat, who replaced Lars Olofsson as CEO in May, is
seeking to combat weak  consumer spending  in France and other
European countries. His plan includes giving more control to
store managers and maintaining low prices on food to attract
shoppers to the grocer’s largest stores, as well as eliminating
jobs and exiting some countries to generate cash and cut debt.  Sales at the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based retailer
beat the 22.4 billion-euro average of seven analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. In France, Carrefour’s largest market,
sales increased 1.2 percent, the company said.  “We believe Carrefour’s momentum will improve only
gradually and it will take time to rebuild confidence with
investors,” Champ said.  The shares were up 4.6 percent at 16.73 euros as of 10:41
a.m., paring this year’s decline to 5 percent.  Profit Guidance  Carrefour, which has lowered its outlook for profit five
times in the past two years, is “comfortable” with analysts’
consensus for full-year earnings before interest and tax of 2.07
billion euros to 2.1 billion euros, Chief Financial Officer
Pierre-Jean Sivignon said today.  Same-store sales in the third quarter rose 0.2 percent,
excluding currency swings and gasoline. Revenue on that basis
declined 1.5 percent in France and 3.3 percent in the rest of
 Europe . Sales on the same basis advanced 10 percent in Latin
American and decreased 3.1 percent in  Asia , Carrefour said.  “In all, a rather reassuring publication,” Arnaud Joly,
an analyst at CA Cheuvreux, said in a note. “That said, we fear
a quick deterioration in consumer spending in France and we
believe that the consensus for 2013 is still overoptimistic.”  Sales from  convenience stores  and other formats in France
rose 3.1 percent on a same-store basis, excluding gasoline.
Sales deteriorated in the grocer’s French hypermarkets, falling
3.3 percent on the same basis, though the decline was a 2
percentage point improvement on the previous quarter, Carrefour
said. Supermarket sales were unchanged.  Southern Europe  Same-store sales fell 5.4 percent in  Spain  and 6.6 percent
in  Italy , excluding currency swings and gasoline. Pressure on
discretionary spending remained “intense” in Spain, while
competitive pressure increased in Italy amid a significant drop
in consumption, Carrefour said. Sales rose 2.1 percent in
 Belgium  on the same basis, with all formats registering growth.  Latin America’s same-store sales growth, excluding currency
swings and gasoline, was led by an 11 percent rise in countries
excluding Brazil. Brazilian sales advanced 9.7 percent, with
hypermarket revenue continuing to improve, Carrefour said.  Same-store sales fell 6.1 percent in  China , excluding
currency swings, and declined 3.1 percent in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  