-- Caterpillar Says Ed Rapp to Lead Construction
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-11T19:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/caterpillar-says-ed-rapp-to-lead-construction.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  said Chief
Financial Officer Ed Rapp will take over responsibility for
construction industries and growth markets as part of a
reshuffle of senior management at the the world’s biggest
construction and mining-equipment maker.  Rapp, 55, will start as group president effective Jan. 1
replacing Rich Lavin, who will retire, Peoria, Illinois-based
Caterpillar said today in a statement. The company also
announced the retirement of Gerard Vittecoq, group president for
energy and power systems, who will be replaced by Jim Umpleby,
currently vice president for solar turbines.  Brad Halverson, vice president with responsibility for
finance services, will replace Rapp as CFO.  Rapp will relocate to  Singapore  as the company works toward
market leadership goals for growth markets such as China, where
Caterpillar’s progress has faltered this year as the country’s
economic growth slowed. While Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  has said he expects the company to be
the market leader in China by 2015 at the latest, Caterpillar
has moved inventories out of the country this year after demand
cooled.  “I am confident our new leaders will build on the work of
their predecessors as we move toward our 2015 goals and
beyond,” Oberhelman said in the statement.  Caterpillar on Sept. 24 cuts its 2015 profit forecast to
$12 to $18 a share from $15 to $20. Oberhelman has bet on a
continuation of growth in commodity demand by buying mining-
equipment maker Bucyrus International Inc. for $8.6 billion last
year and agreeing in November to acquire ERA Mining Machinery
Ltd. in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  