-- Celebrity Economist Rushes to Save India
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-10-11T21:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/celebrity-economist-rushes-to-save-india.html
The first time I met  Raghuram Rajan ,
the Indian economist couldn’t sit still.  It was over coffee in Bangkok in November 2008, less than
two months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. imploded and
almost took the global financial system down with it. Rajan had
become a big draw by then, having warned as early as 2005 that a
crash was coming. On that day in Thailand, he had a more local
crisis on his hands: The hotel’s WiFi was out.  “I’ll be back -- I need to make a call and make sure the
world economy is still there before I begin my speech,” he
deadpanned. “You never know.”  That last sentiment could also apply to an extraordinary
bit of recruitment on the part of Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh . Rajan, 49, is one of his most pointed critics, never one
to shy away from slamming India for trying the same failed
policies over and over again. Rather than castigate Rajan, Singh
offered him a job: top adviser to the  Finance Ministry .  Rajan’s arrival might shake up India at just the right
moment and accelerate recent moves to open retailing, aviation
and insurance to foreign investment. Palaniappan Chidambaram’s
return as finance minister in July might have seemed enough of a
jolt. He wasted no time in announcing policies that amounted to
shock therapy for an economy that has lost its way. If those
were a sign India is again open to business, hiring Rajan
suggests it won’t stop there.  Three Things  There are three things about Rajan that are noteworthy.  One, his focus. He’s looking in exactly the right places
from the start -- modernizing the  financial sector , making it
easier for companies and entrepreneurs to do business, and
tackling the labyrinthine distribution system in areas such as
agriculture.  Two, Rajan is a  University of Chicago  guy. It means that,
at least to some extent, he’s about increasing economic
efficiency as a means of raising  living standards . Supply-side
solutions can clearly go too far, as we saw when the U.S. went
off the financial rails thanks to lax regulations and oversight.
Yet if there is anything India needs, it is a burst of
deregulation fever.  Among the most common phrases you hear uttered in India is
“license raj,” shorthand for the baffling, elaborate and
multilevel system of issuing permits to do anything. This snarl
of red tape throttles business and breeds corruption. It is the
single-biggest barrier standing between India’s 5.5 percent
growth and shantytown dwellers in Mumbai or Kolkata. New
strategies are desperately needed to remove it.  Three, Rajan is an intellectual re-import. It is often said
that India’s best export is its chief executive officers --
Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo Inc.,  Lakshmi Mittal  of ArcelorMittal,
Anshu Jain of Deutsche Bank AG, just to name a few. Its
academics, too, remind us that the developed nations don’t have
a monopoly on economic wisdom.  Rajan is part of a growing pattern of Indian talent
returning home. Take Rana Kapoor, who left  Wall Street  to start
Mumbai-based Yes Bank Ltd. Or former Citigroup executive
Jaithirth Rao who founded software maker Mphasis in the U.S.
before moving the company’s headquarters to India, where he
started an affordable-housing  finance company . Rajan’s
experience as chief economist of the  International Monetary Fund 
from 2003 to 2006 and as a celebrity academic is now to India’s
benefit.  World Bank  There’s still plenty of flow in the opposite direction,
including  Kaushik Basu . He recently left India’s Finance
Ministry to become chief economist of the  World Bank , which
along with the IMF is holding its annual meeting this week in
 Tokyo .  Basu is the rare iconoclast in a position to make a
difference. He is an adherent of his own brand of Freakonomics.
His interest lies not with the politically correct or expedient,
but common-sense solutions to the biggest quandaries of our day.
One is what to do about official  corruption . He argues that it
be legalized, thereby adding transparency to the process and
having the effect of naming and shaming graft seekers.  Like Basu, Rajan is an example of an Indian in the right
job at the right time in ways that could benefit humanity. Jump-
starting  India’s economy  would offer the world another economic
engine at the perfect moment. It would also arrest the policy
decay that has befallen Asia’s third-biggest economy.  A day after Chidambaram met U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  in  New Delhi  earlier this week,  Standard & Poor’s 
reminded India it may become the first BRIC economy --  Brazil ,
 Russia , India, China -- to lose its investment-grade rating.
Junk status would be a terrible blow to a nation S&P predicts
will see its budget shortfall widen to about 6 percent of gross
domestic product in the 12 months ending in March 2013.
Borrowing costs would surge, investors would flee and reducing
poverty would instantly become harder.  The good news is that Rajan is on the case to help Singh’s
team get back in touch with its reformist roots. You can bet he
won’t be sitting still on the job.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  