-- CFTC Said to Be Close to Granting Delay on Energy Swaps Rule
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-10-11T18:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/cftc-said-to-mull-delay-on-energy-swaps-rule-set-for-tomorrow.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is close to granting a delay on a rule set to take
effect tomorrow affecting energy swaps clearing, potentially
helping  CME Group Inc. (CME)  avoid customer defections, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  The regulation concerns how crude oil, natural gas and
other energy swaps cleared at CME Group and Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. are tallied toward a new $8 billion threshold that
the CFTC has set to determine whether a market participant
should face dealer oversight. Both companies are trying to shift
that activity to futures trades to avoid the threshold. While
Intercontinental is ready, CME Group isn’t, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010 to overhaul the
financial services industry following the credit crisis,
companies that are determined to be swaps dealers will face
higher capital, collateral and trading standards, which could
erode profits. The CFTC is deciding whether to grant an
exemption for 60 days or until Dec. 31, one of the people said.  The CFTC is considering the delay as a temporary measure to
ease the transition between swaps and futures, according to
another person.  CFTC spokesman  Steven Adamske  and Intercontinental’s
Brookly McLaughlin declined to comment. CME Group spokesman
Damon Leavell didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  A group backed by commercial firms including  BP Plc (BP/)  and
Cargill Inc. has petitioned the CFTC to delay implementing the
rules for non-bank dealers, according to a letter submitted to
the agency Sept. 18 by the Washington-based Commodity Markets
Council.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  