-- Champion Technologies Family Said to Seek $2 Billion in Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/champion-technologies-family-said-to-seek-2-billion-in-sale.html
The family that controls  Champion
Technologies Inc.  is seeking a sale of the closely held company,
one of the world’s largest makers of oilfield chemicals, said
people with knowledge of the matter.  Descendants of the late Willard M. Johnson, who first
bought a stake in Champion in 1959, hired Tudor Pickering Holt &
Co. and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  for advice on a potential divestiture, the
people said. The company may be near a deal with a larger
competitor that would value Champion at around $2 billion, one
of the people said.  Champion competes against some of the largest oilfield-
services companies, including  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) 
and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , making ingredients that are pumped
underground to clean wells and boost production.  Ecolab Inc. (ECL) 
bought rival Nalco Holding Co. for $5.4 billion last year.  A message left for Champion’s chairman, Steve Lindley, and
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Amonett wasn’t returned.
Representatives of Tudor Pickering and Lazard declined to
comment.  Schlumberger, the largest oilfield-services company,
expanded in drilling fluids with the $11 billion purchase of
Smith International Inc. in 2010, while No. 2 Halliburton bought
Multi-Chem Group LLC for $650 million last year to add chemicals
for hydraulic fracturing.  The Wall Street Journal reported last month that Magnablend
Inc., another closely held oilfield chemicals company, was
seeking a buyer with help from Lazard and might fetch as much as
$800 million.  Permian Mud  Willard Johnson co-founded a company called Permian Mud
Service Inc. that bought a stake in Champion more than five
decades ago, according to the company’s  website . Johnson’s
family owns 80 percent of Permian Mud, according to a  study  of
the oilfield chemicals industry published by Freedonia Group. He
died in 2000.  The family behind Champion would be the latest in the oil
business to seek to sell a multi-billion-dollar company. The
Yates family of  New Mexico  is seeking a buyer for Yates
Petroleum Corp., which may be worth billions of dollars, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Family-owned
Samson Investment Co. of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , sold for $7.2 billion
to KKR & Co. last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  