-- Charging on Deposits Will Hurt Banks Most, Denmark’s Sohn Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-11T09:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/charging-on-deposits-will-hurt-banks-most-denmark-s-sohn-says.html
     Oct. 11 (Bloomberg) --  Danish banks  discussing whether to
charge for deposits will end up hurting themselves as they repel
customers and raise their reliance on wholesale funding,
Business and Growth Minister Ole Sohn said.  Denmark’s banks have come under pressure after the central
bank in July cut its  deposit rate  to an unprecedented minus 0.2
percent. Governor Nils Bernstein, who uses monetary policy to
defend the krone’s peg to the euro, has said he can’t soften his
focus on the  exchange rate  even as banks pay the price.  Lenders in the Nordic nation have since discussed the
option of passing the negative deposit rate on to clients in an
effort to cover their costs, according to the Danish Bankers
Association.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s biggest
and third-largest lenders, said this week some professional
counterparties already pay as short-term money market rates sink
below zero. Banks in the U.S.,  Sweden  and  Canada  have also
started charging clients on Danish krone deposits.  “I have a hard time imagining that this is a good business
move,” Sohn said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “My
expectation would be that customers would leave pretty quickly.
Some banks still need to attract customers to help address their
deposit shortfalls.”  State Street Corp. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , two
of the world’s biggest custody banks, are charging clients for
krone deposits. State Street accounts will carry a rate of minus
0.75 percent annually, according to a client note, while BNY
Mellon started charging for krone deposits last month, a person
familiar with the matter said.  RBC, SEB  Last week, Swedish bank SEB AB started charging some
customers for deposits held in Danish kroner, said Laurence Westerlund, a spokesman for the Stockholm-based lender.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  is also imposing negative interest
rates on some customers who hold Danish kroner and Swiss francs.
Should nominal interest rates turn positive again, “we would
reflect this change in the  interest rates  applicable to client
balances,” Katherine Gay, a spokeswoman at the Toronto-based
bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Danske Bank “doesn’t want to be arbitraged by professional
counterparties,” said Jens Peter Neergaard, global head of
markets at Danske. “If they leave balances on the account,
depending on the client and if it’s a big amount, there will be
a negative rate.”  For most of the bank’s clients, Danske continues to offer a
flat or positive deposit rate, he said.  Rate Freedom  “Banks have repeatedly tightened their credit standards
and raised their prices to boost their earnings,” Sohn said.
“The banks are free to set their own rates, but imposing
negative deposit rates would naturally limit their
competitiveness.”  Interest rates on new bank lending to households rose to
6.6 percent in the second quarter on average, from 6.2 percent a
year earlier, while rates on outstanding loans increased to 6.1
percent from 5.3 percent, according to  central bank  data.  The increase helped boost the industry’s aggregate net
interest income an annual 2 percent in the first six months to
25.7 billion kroner, the Financial Supervisory Authority said
Oct. 1. Banks and mortgage lenders extended the increases into
the third quarter and expect to raise prices further, the
central bank said Oct. 8 in its quarterly lending survey.  Denmark’s banks have been weakened by the central bank’s
decision to cut its deposit rate below zero,  Fitch Ratings  said
last month. According to Anders Dam, the chief executive officer
of  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s financial industry will lose about
half its banks by 2020 as troubled lenders struggle to fund
themselves.  “There’s healthy competition in the Danish banking
sector,” Sohn said. “There’s always the possibility that
people will start to prefer cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  