-- Cheung Kong Seeking Separate Listing for Long-Stay Hotels
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-12T08:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/cheung-kong-seeking-separate-listing-for-long-stay-hotels.html
Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  plans to
seek a separate listing in Hong Kong of its extended-stay hotels
unit, the second initial public offering this month by companies
controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing .  Horizon Hospitality Investments and Horizon Hospitality
Holdings have submitted an application to list share-stapled
units on the main board of the city’s stock exchange, Cheung
Kong, Hong Kong’s second-biggest builder by value, said in
filing to the bourse yesterday. Dynasty Real Estate Investment
Trust, an investor in Chinese real estate backed by Li, on Oct.
10 said it is seeking a spinoff in  Singapore .  Nicknamed “Superman” by the media for his investing
prowess, Li is tapping investor demand for property companies
which pay regular dividends. The Hang Seng Property Index has
surged 26 percent this year, while  Cheung Kong  is up 23 percent.  “Right now many investors are seeking something with
steady yields,” said Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Citic Securities International Co. “This is also not a bad
timing for an IPO as sentiment has improved following the U.S.
quantitative easing. There’s also speculation that the Chinese
government may announce measures to boost the economy.”  The People’s Bank of  China  has cut key  interest rates  twice
this year, reduced  reserve requirements  for banks three times
since November, and accelerated approvals for investment
projects.  Cheung Kong  shares  fell 0.4 percent to HK$113.20 at the
close in Hong Kong trading.  Tourism Boost  The Horizon group plans to use proceeds from the listing to
buy extended-stay hotels from Cheung Kong and publicly traded
unit  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , including 4,833 suites and 3.32
million square feet (308,438 square meters) of rental space,
Cheung Kong said. The four properties are located in Hong Kong.  The number of tourists to Hong Kong has been rising since
China’s government in 2003 began relaxing visa restriction for
its citizens traveling to the city, boosting demand for rooms.
Hotel room rates per night rose 16.4 percent from a year earlier
to HK$1,356 in 2011, while the average occupancy rate gained 2
percentage points to 89 percent, according to statistics on the
Tourism Commission website.  A total of 41.9 million tourists visited Hong Kong in 2011,
up 16.4 percent from a year earlier, according to the  Tourism
Commission . More than half of those visitors stayed overnight,
the government body said. Visitors to the city rose 16 percent
in the first eight months of this year to 31.6 million,
according to the  Hong Kong  Tourism Board.  Cheung Kong will give current shareholders a preferential
application for the units, according to the statement. Cheung
Kong and Hutchison will retain less than a 30 percent aggregate
stake in Horizon, the company said.  Dynasty REIT  Cheung Kong didn’t provide financial details of the
proposed transaction. The company and Hutchison will provide
five-year term-loan facilities to Horizon after the listing,
according to the filing.  Dynasty REIT is seeking as much as 5.4 billion  yuan  ($860
million) in Singapore’s first dual-currency IPO.  Li, 84, is 13th on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index with a
net worth of $26.8 billion. He forecast in 2007 that China’s
stock-market bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted the rally
in Hong Kong home prices.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $34 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  