-- Emanuel Calls Proposed Chicago Budget a ‘Break With Past’
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-11T17:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/chicago-mayor-emanuel-calls-proposed-budget-break-with-past-.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said his
proposed budget for next year is a “clear break with the past”
and is based on “very, very conservative” revenue projections.  The 52-year-old Democrat, who presented his $8.3 billion
spending plan to the City Council yesterday, said revenue growth
of 1 percent to 3 percent in the nation’s third-most-populous
city is driven partly by higher-than-expected hotel tax receipts
and increased property sales.  “These measurements are not wild-eyed,” Emanuel told
reporters today during a breakfast meeting at Bloomberg's 
Chicago bureau.  Emanuel’s second spending plan since taking office in May
2011 would eliminate a projected deficit of $298 million without
raising fees or taxes. While budget officials said they expect a
surplus of $30 million to $40 million at the end of next year,
ballooning pension costs may force the city to make deep cuts in
government services.  Pension costs will consume 22 percent of the budget --
about $1.2 billion -- within four years if the state Legislature
doesn’t restructure the retirement systems, including
adjustments in benefits and contributions, the mayor has said.  Workers now have no guarantee of the financial stability of
their retirement funds, Emanuel said, because the city doesn’t
have the means to pay for past promises without more than
doubling property taxes or making large cuts in essential
services.  Pay Out  “Right now they’re contributing to a system that won’t pay
out -- I think there’s nothing more dishonest than that,” he
said. “Let’s get them certainty.”  Illinois lawmakers are expected to address the pension
shortfall in early January as part of a package of changes to
address underfunded state retirement funds. Current retirees
haven’t been affected.  Illinois has the nation’s weakest pension-funding ratio,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The state, which has an
unfunded retirement gap of $83 billion, had its credit-rating
cut in January by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited
“severe pension under-funding.”  Emanuel criticized a lack of leadership in Springfield, the
state capital, on the pension matter, saying, “They need to get
in gear.”  His budget proposed funding for 457 new police officers, as
the city deals with a 28 percent jump in homicides through the
first nine months of the year. The mayor described reporters’
attention to the rise in murders as “journalism through a
rearview mirror,” and said the city is making progress at
cutting that rate as well as the incidence of overall crime.  Chicago Police reported 406 homicides as of Sept. 30, up
from 317 during the same period in 2011, according to department
records. The rate has dropped since March, when the  murder rate 
was up 66 percent, the mayor said.  Of the overall rate, he said: “We are without a doubt
bringing our crime down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  