-- China’s Sincere, Over-the-Top Pride for Mo Yan’s Nobel
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-10-11T17:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/china-s-sincere-over-the-top-pride-for-mo-yan-s-nobel.html
In the fall of 2010, a Chinese
friend and I met for dinner a few days after the dissident  Liu
Xiaobo  became  China ’s first citizen to  win a Nobel Prize .  It was a touchy subject: Liu’s writings had landed him in
jail, and the peace prize only seemed to re-enforce the
authorities’ determination to keep him there. My friend, a
Chinese who teaches at a small college, didn’t have much of an
opinion on Liu, his writings or his political plight. But as the
boozy evening wore on, it became clear that he did have an
opinion about Nobel Prizes. “All we need is one Nobel Prize,” he
told me directly. “Just one!”  It was a memorable sentiment coming after China’s first
Nobel, and not an uncommon one. After all, regardless of what my
friend and other Chinese thought of Liu and his reasons for
winning the peace prize, it wasn’t an award in which most
Chinese could take national pride. Liu Xiaobo, after all, is a
harsh critic of the Chinese political system, and the Nobel
Committee’s award was an explicit recognition of the rightness
of that critique.  For my friend and his likeminded citizens, the “one  Nobel
Prize ” for which they hungered would be the exact opposite of
Liu’s: a nonpolitical recognition that China’s contribution to
the world isn’t just exported goods, but rather ideas, culture
and “soft power” influence. Correct or not, a Nobel in science
or literature would be viewed as an affirmation of international
respect and status.  Rumors that the Chinese author Mo Yan was in the running to
win the 2012 Nobel Prize in Literature began to circulate in
China  late last week , and intensified  over the weekend . It
wasn’t the first year his name was floated, and in hope of
preventing a repeat of previous year’s disappointments, Chinese
news media and the country’s mobs of microbloggers, went out of
their way to play down the chances. But the intensity of the
effort gave way the depth of the desire, and Mo’s name began
trending on Chinese microblogs. When, Thursday night, it was
announced that  he had won , his name shot to the very top of the
list of trending topics on Sina Weibo, China’s leading
microblogging service. State-run news services quickly issued
lengthy, prepared stories and the Chinese Writer’s Union issued
an  over-the-top but entirely sincere statement  claiming that Mo
Yan symbolizes China’s emerging impact on the world stage.  Alas, outside of China, it will be all-too-easy to judge
this second Chinese Nobel Prize in political and human rights
terms only. No doubt, the contrast between how the Chinese
authorities are embracing Mo Yan and how they’ve detained Liu
Xiaobo is striking and disturbing. But the outpouring of
national pride that Mo’s prize has inspired is both real and
important, and -- at least among Chinese not involved in the
upper reaches of government -- has little to do with politics.
China, and its writers especially, has every right to enjoy the
honor.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .
 