-- China Room to Ease Seen Fading as Inflation Lull Set to End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-12T01:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/china-room-to-ease-seen-fading-as-pork-costs-end-inflation-lull.html
A U.S. drought that pushed soybean
and corn prices to records is adding to the risk of a rebound in
inflation in  China , where consumer-price gains were probably
close to the slowest in two years in September.  Inflation was 1.9 percent last month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  before a report on
Oct. 15. Credit Agricole CIB says the rate may approach 4
percent by year-end and Citigroup Inc. estimates a pace of about
3.5 percent.  The prospect of faster price gains in coming months may
encourage policy makers to refrain from cutting interest rates
for a third time this year, contrasting with reductions in
 Brazil , South Korea and  Australia  and adding to the risk
economic growth will be the weakest since 1999. Increased grain
costs are feeding into pork prices and the government is also
battling to prevent a rebound in the housing market.  “Inflation will rise in the fourth quarter as pork and
other food prices are expected to climb and housing costs are
creeping up,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “This means
there is no room for the central bank to cut interest rates.”  The benchmark one-year lending rate is now 6 percent and
the one-year  deposit rate  stands at 3 percent after reductions
in June and July.  Loan Limits  Officials at the nation’s top four lenders have indicated
that they are limiting discounts for the best corporate clients
to 10 percent on the benchmark lending rate, not the 30 percent
allowed by the central bank from July. The officials asked not
to be identified as they’re not authorized to speak publicly.  Stocks in China have slumped about 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 on concern the government isn’t loosening
monetary policy or introducing stimulus policies fast enough, as
the central bank focuses instead on operations in the money
market. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose today on
signs of improvement in the U.S. economy, gaining 1 percent as
of 9:47 a.m. local time.  The  yuan  rose beyond 6.28 per dollar for the first time in
19 years yesterday on speculation policy makers will act to
revive growth and as the central bank raised the currency’s
fixing by the most in seven weeks.  Trade Outlook  Trade figures to be released tomorrow may show some
improvement in exports.  Overseas shipments  probably rose 5.5
percent from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
35 economists, after a 2.7 percent gain in August. Imports
increased 2.4 percent, the survey indicated, after a 2.6 percent
drop the previous month.  Industrial output, retail sales, fixed-asset investment and
gross domestic product figures are due Oct. 18.  The worst U.S. drought in half a century and dry weather in
 Europe  this year are limiting world corn supplies. In China,
officials have sold reserves to limit the effect on costs and
monitored prices of cooking oil made from soybeans.  A rebound in inflation would complicate efforts to  reverse
the nation’s economic slowdown, as the Communist Party prepares
for a once-a-decade leadership transition. The People’s Bank of
China said last month that it will place a bigger emphasis on
price stability in setting monetary policy.  Feed Costs  China futures for soybean-meal, the main protein ingredient
used in animal feed, advanced to a record last month and
wholesale pork prices climbed for seven straight weeks through
the week ended Sept. 23.  “The lagged impact of rising corn and soybean prices will
push consumer inflation above 3 percent by the year end,” said
Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.
“Pork prices may take up the inflation baton in coming
months.”  China’s inflation rate in the first eight months of the
year was 2.9 percent,  National Bureau of Statistics  data show.
The estimates of 34 economists for September consumer-price
gains range from 1.5 percent to 2.2 percent.  In contrast, September’s producer-price index, which
measures prices at the factory gate, probably fell 3.5 percent
from a year earlier, the seventh straight drop, the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey showed. That data is also due
Oct. 15.  China’s  economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years, as Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to cool prices damped demand and Europe’s debt
crisis crimped exports.  Cutting Forecasts  Growth may have slowed to 7.4 percent in the third quarter,
according to the median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from Sept. 11 to 18.  The International Monetary Fund on Oct. 9 cut its
projection for China’s expansion this year to 7.8 percent, which
would be the weakest pace in 13 years.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest
U.S. aluminum producer, this week reduced its forecast for
global consumption of the metal, citing China as the main driver
of the slowdown.  Not all economists see looming inflation pressures as large
enough to deter easing. Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
economist for Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said that while the
price cycle may be near its bottom and a rebound is likely,
“the economy is still caught in a downturn.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  