-- China’s Stocks Decline Most in Two Weeks on Economic Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-10-11T07:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/china-stock-index-futures-fall-on-more-signs-of-slowing-economy.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index down by the most in two weeks, as an unexpected
drop in auto sales and a jump in money-market rates deepened
concerns about the economy.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  led declines for automakers after Chinese
vehicle sales shrank for the first time in eight months.
Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest producer, retreated 1 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Chinese copper and aluminum demand
is set to plunge by 2014. Shanxi Lu’an Environmental Energy
Development Co Ltd. paced declines for coal producers after the
government ordered output growth limits.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.8 percent to 2,102.87
at the close, the most since Sept. 26. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  dropped
0.9 percent to 2,302.53. The Shanghai index had risen the
previous two days on signs the government is taking measures to
support the market and boost  consumer spending . The yuan rose
beyond 6.28 per dollar for the first time in 19 years today on
speculation policy makers will act to revive growth.  “After rebounding earlier this week, investors are now
looking for concrete evidence to back up any gains in stocks
such as better economic data or more loosening from the central
bank,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Before that happens, the market will remain
in a consolidation phase as investors take a wait-and-see
approach.”  The Shanghai index is down 4.4 percent this year on concern
the government isn’t loosening monetary policy or introducing
stimulus policies fast enough to counter the slowdown in the
economy. The gauge is valued at 9.8 times estimated earnings,
compared with the 17.8 average since Bloomberg began compiling
the weekly  data  in 2006.  Carmakers  SAIC Motor, China’s biggest carmaker, dropped 3.3 percent
to 13.25 yuan, the biggest decline since Aug. 22. FAW Car Co.
lost 4.1 percent to 7.08 yuan.  China’s auto sales unexpectedly shrank for the first time
in eight months as a territorial dispute with Japan turned
consumers away from buying cars made by Toyota Motor Corp. to
Nissan Motor Co.  Wholesale deliveries, including multipurpose and sport
utility vehicles, fell 0.3 percent to 1.32 million units last
month, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in
a statement yesterday. That compared with the 1.35 million
average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Metal ‘Crash’  Jiangxi Copper slip 1 percent to 22.21  yuan . Yunnan Copper
Industry Co. lost 1.4 percent to 16.59 yuan. Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. slipped 0.4 percent to 5.07 yuan.  Copper and aluminum demand in China is set to get support
until at least the middle of next year, boosted by construction,
and then the wave is “set to crash by 2014,” Goldman Sachs
said.  Smaller coal producers led declines for a gauge of  energy
stocks  in the CSI 300. Shanxi Lu’an slumped 2.9 percent to 18.25
yuan. The government will guide domestic coal producers to limit
annual production growth to below 4 percent, Wu Yin, deputy
director of National Energy Administration, said at a conference
in Beijing today. Production growth that is too high will hurt
the coal price, Wu said.  China ’s money-market rate rose, snapping a two-day decline,
as the central bank scaled back its cash injections into the
financial system.  Money Rates  The People’s Bank of China issued 47 billion yuan ($7.5
billion) of 14-day reverse repurchase agreements at a yield of
3.45 percent today and 12 billion yuan of seven-day contracts at
3.35 percent, said a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions. That compared with a fund injection of 265
billion yuan on Oct. 9, the second-biggest amount for a single
day since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2004.  “Those who saw the massive Tuesday injection as a sign of
an easing shift are disappointed and the drop yesterday was so
big that it begged for a correction,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . The smaller size
of reverse repos “means that the PBOC is not trying to push
money market rates much lower,” he said.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong added 1.8 percent today. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, gained 0.4 percent yesterday.  Chinese stocks in  New York  rebounded from a two-week low,
led by Guangshen Railway Co., on prospects next month’s
leadership change will pave the way for more government measures
to stimulate the economy.  China will debut its new leadership during the 18th
Communist Party Congress starting Nov. 8. BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest money manager, said yesterday that the economy
will recover as the new leaders act to boost local consumption.  China Railway Construction Corp. gained 2.6 percent to 4.79
yuan, the highest close since Aug. 1. The company won two
projects worth a combined 5.2 billion yuan.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan in  Shanghai  at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  