-- Coast Guard Says Sheen Near Macondo Matches 2010 BP Spill
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-10-11T17:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/coast-guard-says-sheen-near-macondo-site-matches-2010-bp-spill.html
An oil sheen discovered last month
in the  Gulf of Mexico  near the site of the Deepwater Horizon rig
explosion matches samples from the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill.  BP reported the sheen on Sept. 16 about 50 miles (80
kilometers) off the coast of  Louisiana  and the U.S. took samples
10 days later, the Coast Guard said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. The size of the sheen has varied depending on
conditions, the Coast Guard said.  “The exact source of the sheen is uncertain at this time,
but could be residual oil associated with wreckage and/or debris
left on the seabed from the Deepwater Horizon incident,”
according to the statement. “The sheen is not feasible to
recover and does not pose a risk to the shoreline.”  An explosion aboard the drilling rig on April 20, 2010
caused 11 deaths and led to the biggest offshore spill in U.S.
history, with an estimated  4.9 million barrels  escaping into the
Gulf.  The size of the sheen has varied, the Coast Guard said. It
was 4 miles long about a week and a half ago, Petty Officer Ryan
Tippets said today in a telephone interview. The width was not
estimated, he said.  Riser Suspected  BP and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon, may
be held “accountable” for costs associated with further
assessments or operations related to the sheen, according to the
Coast Guard’s statement yesterday.  “The most likely source is the bent riser pipe that once
connected the rig to the well head, where a mix of oil, drilling
mud and seawater were trapped after the top kill operation,”
Brett Clanton, a spokesman for London-based BP, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Samples that BP analyzed from the sheen contain a compound
found in the drilling mud and not in the source oil, the company
said.  BP set a target for $30 billion of asset sales to shore up
its balance sheet following the 2010 Macondo oil spill off the
southern U.S. It later raised that goal to $38 billion by the
end of 2013.  BP rose 0.6 percent to 438.75 pence at the close in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  