-- Coca-Cola HBC Gets $2 Billion Loan to Back London Listing
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2012-10-11T17:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/coca-cola-hbc-gets-2-billion-loan-to-back-london-listing-2-.html
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling SA, (EEEK)  the
world’s second-largest bottler of the soft drink, has obtained
1.55 billion euros ($2 billion) of loans to back the company’s
move out of  Greece .  The financing is being arranged for Coca-Cola HBC AG, a new
company established in Switzerland to take over the Greek
business, and comprises 550 million euros of acquisition
financing, 500 million euros of revolving credit facilities and
a 500 million-euro term loan to refinance debt, according to an
Athens exchange filing today.  The company, advised by Credit Suisse Group AG, plans a
primary listing in London and potentially New York, it said.
Listing in London “will give us greater recognition among
international investors, will increase the liquidity of our
stock and improve our access to the international equity and
debt markets,” Dimitris Lois, Coca-Cola HBC’s chief executive
officer, told reporters on a conference call today.  Coca-Cola HBC shares fell 4.9 percent today to 15.66 euros
at the close of trading in  Athens .  The acquisition loan will be used for the cash component of
the offer if it’s needed, and the revolver and refinancing lines
will replace Coca-Cola Hellenic’s existing debt if required,
according to the filing.  Both loans mature in July 2014 or 18 months after the
company issues a prospectus for the London Stock Exchange
listing, whichever is sooner. The refinancing loan matures in
March 2014 or at the time the acquisition facility matures,
whichever is later.  Under a revolver, money can be borrowed again once it’s
repaid.  Coca-Cola HBC may enter the FTSE 100 if successful, as its
market value is equivalent to about 4.4 billion pounds ($7.1
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  