-- Coca-Cola Is Said to Weigh Investment in Spotify Service
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/coca-cola-is-said-to-weigh-investment-in-spotify-service.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  is in discussions to
invest about $10 million in Spotify Ltd., the subscription
music-streaming service, according to two people with knowledge
of the discussions.  An agreement isn’t assured, said one of the people, who
sought anonymity because the talks are private. An agreement may
be reached in the next few weeks,  Sky News  reported yesterday,
citing people close to the beverage company.  Coca-Cola, owner of the world’s most-valuable brand, has
increased its ties to entertainment so it can market products to
young consumers in a subtle way. The Atlanta-based company
reached a deal in April to add Spotify to its Internet
marketing, after a successful collaboration with record labels
to produce the 2010 World Cup anthem “Wavin’ Flag.”  The song by singer-songwriter K’naan was a No. 1 iTunes
download in at least 17 counties.  Coca-Cola fell 1.2 percent to $38.09 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have gained 8.9 percent this year.  Closely held Spotify is seeking to raise $100 million to
$200 million from investors in a funding round that would value
the company as high as $4 billion, people with knowledge of the
situation said in May. The company was recruiting investors
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the people said then.  The service, based in London, has been expanding to new
territories and seeking to add artists as it faces competition
from rivals including Rdio Inc. It raised $100 million last year
from investors including DST Global, Accel Partners and Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  