-- Colombia Yields Fall to Record as U.S. Jobs Report Buoys Risk
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-10-11T19:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/colombia-yields-fall-to-record-as-u-s-jobs-report-buoys-risk.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields fell to
a record low as evidence of recovery in the U.S. job market
boosted the South American nation’s higher-yielding assets.  Colombia’s proposed reduction in the withholding tax that
international investors pay on fixed-income assets supported
demand for peso bonds, said Daniel Lozano, the head analyst at
Serfinco SA in Bogota.  “There’s a search for yield, and foreign investors are
looking to participate in the local assets,” Lozano said. “The
tax proposal is also something that attracts investors, but
people have to be careful since the tax bill needs to be
approved by Congress before it becomes a reality.”  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in July 2024 dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 6.06 percent, according to the central
bank, the lowest level on a closing basis since the debt was
first sold in 2009. The price increased 0.812 centavo today to
132.512 centavos per peso.  Legislation sent to Congress last week would reduce taxes
foreigners pay for profits on fixed-income investments to 12.5
percent from 33 percent. The bill covers government peso bonds
sold in the local market and corporate debt.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in a Javeriana
Radio interview today that the government is seeking to reduce
its borrowing costs by attracting more foreign investors to
local peso bonds, known as TES.  Cardenas’s View  “The whole economy will benefit if we are able to reduce
the spread” between TES and peso-linked bonds sold abroad,
Cardenas said.  The peso closed little changed at 1,799.30 per  U.S. dollar 
and has rallied 7.7 percent this year.  The local currency will weaken to as low as 1,850 by year-
end as foreign companies in Colombia repatriate revenue, said
Juan Camilo Rojas, an analyst at Correval SA in Bogota.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits dropped by 30,000 to
339,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest since February
2008, Labor Department figures showed today. The decrease may
reflect difficulty adjusting the data for seasonal swings at the
start of a quarter.  Interest rates  near zero in the U.S. and  Europe  compare
with Colombia’s overnight lending rate of 4.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  