-- Comcast’s Laggard NBC Network Turns Leader in New TV Year
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-11T20:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/comcast-s-laggard-nbc-network-turns-leader-in-new-tv-year.html
NBC, the struggling broadcast
network acquired by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  in January 2011, is off to a
surprisingly strong start in the new television season.  Thanks to new hits like “Revolution” and returning shows
such as “The Voice,” NBC has been the top-rated network among
18-to-49-year-old viewers for the first two weeks of the season.
Though NBC is unlikely to stay No. 1 as rivals bring back their
popular shows, the performance signals the start of a comeback
for a network that spent eight years near the bottom of audience
ratings that help set advertising rates.  A revival would help Comcast Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Brian Roberts  capitalize on his $13.8 billion gamble on
 NBC Universal . Comcast justified the purchase largely on the
strength of profit from cable channels such as USA Network and
CNBC, and a resurgent NBC broadcast business could add billions
to the bottom line.  “We came in with a sober, realistic long-term approach,”
Roberts, 53, said in an interview. “In the last 90 days, we’ve
seen a shift with some really good things taking off. Several
major bets have started to pay off.”  Comcast’s broadcast business, including NBC and Spanish-
language Telemundo, generated only $138 million in operating
profit on revenue of $5.94 billion in 11 months of new ownership
last year, filings show. By contrast,  CBS Corp. (CBS) , the profit
leader, made $1.99 billion in TV and radio in 2011.  Comcast fell 0.1 percent to $35.13 at the close in  New York 
and has advanced 54 percent since acquiring control of NBC.  Ripple Effect  A stronger NBC will lead to more than just advertising
gains, said Steve Burke, NBC Universal’s CEO. Local affiliate
stations benefit, along with company’s own production studio.
More popular shows equal greater sales of reruns later in
domestic and international markets, including Web services like
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   “Turning around NBC is the single most important objective
we have at NBC Universal,” Burke, 54, said in a phone
interview.  The network’s importance was clear in the weeks leading up
to the new season. Olympics fans on NBC, cable’s Bravo, CNBC,
MSNBC and NBC Sports Network were blitzed with promos for the
fall slate. Spots were added later on the USA Network, Oxygen,
Syfy, E! Entertainment and the Golf Channel.  The network took about 30 minutes of prime time during the
Olympics to preview the Matthew Perry comedy “Go On,” and ran
a four-and-a-half minute clip of “Revolution,” a dystopian
drama from “Lost” creator  J.J. Abrams . Commercial time during
the games averaged $725,000 for a 30-second spot, Adweek said.  Profit Potential  “I’m not sure NBC has solved anything to make the network
more profitable in the long term,” said Porter Bibb, managing
partner at Mediatech Capital Partners, a New York-based merchant
bank. “They’ve put together a tremendous slate of pilots, but
only a few are actually showing much traction.”  Philadelphia-based Comcast has a lot to gain. For the new
season, NBC won just $1.8 billion in advance advertiser
commitments, compared with $2.7 billion for New York-based CBS,
people with knowledge of the sales said in June. The company’s
other businesses, its cable networks, theme parks and film
studios, collectively earned $3.98 billion on $14 billion of
sales through 11 months of 2011.  NBC finished the 2011-2012 TV season in third place among
the younger 18-to-49-year-old viewers advertisers target --
topping  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and marking its best standing in
eight years. Only NBC and CBS posted gains in the group and
total audience.  Two weeks into the new season, the network’s audience in
the younger demographic has increased 12 percent from last year,
according to Nielsen data. It’s third in total audience.  $20 Billion  Those results follow the summer’s break-even Olympics
telecast and a series of high-profile commitments that Comcast,
the largest U.S. pay TV company, made shortly after taking
control. According to Roberts, NBC in the first 100 days of
Comcast ownership made $20 billion of decisions -- from buying
out a minority investor in its theme parks to extending
contracts for football, hockey and the Olympics.  This season’s new shows mark the first full slate under  Bob Greenblatt , who was brought in to lead NBC Entertainment after
ushering “Dexter” and “The Tudors” at CBS’s Showtime.  Greenblatt has benefited from a $200 million annual boost
in NBC’s production budget since he took over in November 2010.
He unveiled 10 shows in May, after introducing a dozen a year
earlier.  “It’s about having enough money to develop a lot of
things, given the situation we’re in,” Greenblatt, 52, said in
an interview. “The programming was down to the bare threads.”  Full Orders  Based on initial ratings, Greenblatt has placed full-season
orders for “Go On,” “Revolution” and “The New Normal,” a
comedy about a gay couple that becomes friends with the
surrogate mother of their child and her grandmother.  The company still faces the task of rebuilding its studio.
In 2009, under  General Electric Co. (GE) , NBC cut entertainment
spending, shuttered in-house production and tried to draw
viewers back to its lineup by moving  Jay Leno  to 10 p.m.  When that failed three months later, NBC raced to order
shows. Under Greenblatt, the network has restarted making
programs for itself and for sale to others, such as “The Mindy
Project” on Fox.  “You’ve already seen the worst case,” said Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in New York who has an
“outperform” rating on Comcast. “The best case is they go to
No. 3 overall and gain a billion dollars in incremental
revenue.”  Morning Sickness  As the network addresses entertainment shortcomings, it
faces challenges elsewhere. This week, NBC named Willie Geist a
co-host of “Today” at 9 a.m. and appointed a new executive
producer for “Rock Center With  Brian Williams ,” a prime-time
news program. In the first week of the new season “Today”
trailed ABC’s “Good Morning America” in Nielsen ratings.  Comcast must also negotiate the purchase of General
Electric’s remaining 49 percent stake in July 2014. NBC
Universal has begun to stockpile cash with the $3.03 billion
sale of its stake in A&E Networks, Chief Financial Officer
Michael Angelakis said at a Sept. 19 investor conference.  NBC is rebuilding prime time day by day, said Burke, who
led ABC before joining Comcast in 1998. Each night takes a year.
The network is using “Sunday Night Football,” the most-watched
show on TV, to promote Monday’s “The Voice,” a singing
competition that regularly wins the night, and “Revolution.”  “It’s a long, long climb up the ladder and we’re only on
the second rung,” Greenblatt said from his office in  Los
Angeles . “But at least we’re not falling off the ladder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  