-- Commercial Paper Contracts to the Least in Five Months, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-10-11T15:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/commercial-paper-contracts-to-the-least-in-five-months-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted to the lowest level in five
months as issuers reduced offerings of short-term IOUs, instead
extending debt maturities by selling corporate bonds.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $10.2 billion to $964.9 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
It’s the longest stretch of declines since the period ended Oct.
19, 2011 and the lowest level since the market touched $939.9
billion May 2, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuers are concerned that Europe’s persistent debt crisis
may degrade  credit quality  globally, making it more difficult
for companies to repay short-term obligations. Borrowers are
seizing advantage of record-low  interest rates  to issue longer-
term company debt.  “Commercial-paper issuers are mindful of the current world
where investors can and have abruptly caused debtors to lose
market access, and have opted in many cases to extend their
maturities,” rather than issue short-term IOUs,  Tony Crescenzi ,
a portfolio manager and strategist at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, wrote in an e-mail.  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based financial
institutions  fell for a sixth week, dropping $8.1 billion to
$249.4 billion outstanding, the lowest level since January 2011.
 Short-term IOUs sold by non-U.S. banks  rose for a third week,
increasing $200 million to $234.9 billion outstanding, according
to the Fed.  Global Weakness  Weakness in the global economy is also reducing issuance,
as companies have less need to raise short-term working capital,
Crescenzi wrote. Corporations sell commercial paper, typically
maturing in 270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such
as rent and salaries.  Companies have sold $3.1 trillion of bonds worldwide this
year, a pace that’s second only to the record issuance in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on global
investment-grade company bonds fell to an all-time low 2.725
percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  