-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Stayed Near Three-Month High Last Week
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-11T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-stayed-near-three-month-high-last-week.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
stayed near a three-month high last week, with more Americans
saying it was a good time to make purchases even as they grew
more pessimistic about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 38.5 in
the week ended Oct. 7 from minus 36.9 in the prior period. The
drop was within the gauge’s margin of error of 3 percentage
points and ended a six-week upswing that was the longest since
early 2006. The measure has been higher than minus 40, a level
associated with recessions and their aftermath, for the last
three weeks.  “Consumer sentiment appears to have stabilized, albeit at
historically low levels,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. A drop in gasoline prices
since the mid-September “likely boosted household perceptions
of the buying climate despite clear signs of discontent over the
direction of the economy,” he said.  Labor Department figures last week that showed the U.S.
 jobless rate  at a three-year low of 7.8 percent in September may
help explain an 8.9-point rise in the sentiment index since mid-
August. At the same time, further improvement in the labor
market may be needed to shore up confidence in an economy that
86 percent of those surveyed said was bleak.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  last week, the Labor Department reported
today.  Applications for jobless benefits dropped 30,000 to 339,000
in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest since February 2008.
Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. One state accounted for most of
the plunge in claims, a Labor Department spokesman said.  Stocks Rebound  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent to 1,442.01
at 9:33 a.m. in  New York . The gauge yesterday fell to the lowest
level in a month on concern that the global economy is slowing
down and will hurt corporate earnings.  Two of the comfort index’s three components declined. The
barometer of the state of the  economy  dropped to a four-week low
of minus 71.4 from minus 68.7 the previous week. The index
measuring Americans’ views on their  personal finances  declined
to minus 3 from minus 0.4. The buying climate gauge was little
changed at minus 41 from after minus 41.4 the previous week.  The share of respondents who had a “negative” rating of
the economy was 21 percentage points above the long-term
average. Less than half a percentage point, the fewest this
year, said the economy is in “excellent shape.”  ‘Long Road’  “There’s a long road ahead,” said  Gary Langer , president
of New-York based Langer Research Associates, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg. “While it remains to be seen whether this
late-year charge can sustain itself, gains in jobs are key.”  The Labor Department reported Oct. 5 that the  unemployment
rate  dropped after holding above 8 percent for 43 straight
months. Employers added 114,000 workers in September after a
revised 142,000 gain in August that was more than initially
estimated.  Thirty percent of respondents said it is a good time to buy
things they want and need, the most since late June and 6 points
below the long-term average. A stabilization of fuel prices may
be helping.  Regular-grade  gasoline  was $3.81 on Oct. 9, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization. It reached a
high in September of $3.87 a gallon.  Partisanship continues to shape Americans’ economic outlook
less than one month before people head to the polls to elect
either President  Barack Obama  or Republican  Mitt Romney .  Consumer Sentiment  “It’s gone up and down, and I think that that’s going to
continue in terms of the consumer sentiment for the next couple
of months, certainly as we get through the election,” said
Nigel Travis, chief executive officer of Canton, Massachusetts-
based Dunkin Brands Group Inc., during a conference call on Oct.
2. “I think it all comes down to the election, what’s going to
happen and certainty being something that the consumer is
looking for.”  The confidence index among Democrats was higher than that
of Republicans for the 29th straight week, a  record  in available
data back to 1990. The index among Democrats declined to minus
28.6 from 25.9 the previous week. Republican sentiment fell to
minus 36.5 from minus 34. Independents remain the most
pessimistic, as a gauge of their sentiment held at minus 44.5.  Confidence among  men  rose to minus 34.2, the highest level
since July. The gauge measuring sentiment of college graduates
rose for a sixth week, to minus 23.9.  Telephone Interviews  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  