-- Consumer Groups Ask CFPB to Scrap Mortgage Rules as Inadequate
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/consumer-groups-ask-cfpb-to-scrap-mortgage-rules-as-inadequate.html
A coalition of groups supporting
tougher financial regulations has asked the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to scrap its proposed revamping of mortgage
rules over what it called inadequate safeguards for borrowers.  “Major improvements in these areas are needed -- including
withdrawing and re-issuing a proposal if that is necessary in
order to make the major changes required,”  Americans for
Financial Reform  wrote in a letter to the agency on Oct. 9, the
last day of a public comment period on the proposal.  The bureau plans to issue final regulations in January.
Richard Cordray, the CFPB’s director, on Aug. 10 proposed the
rules for mortgage servicing that he summed up as “no surprises
and no runarounds.”  One set of rules is intended to provide homeowners with
clearer, timelier information about changes to interest rates
and options for avoiding foreclosure. A second set requires
servicers to credit payments promptly, correct errors, stay
accessible and limit foreclosures if homeowners are working on
loan modifications.  The rules would cover major bank servicers, such as
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  and San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , as well as non-depository
companies such as  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , based in West Palm
Beach,  Florida .  Americans for Financial Reform, a Washington-based umbrella
group that includes the AFL-CIO and the NAACP, faulted the CFPB
proposal for focusing on procedures to the exclusion of more
stringent consumer protections.  ‘Basic Lesson’  “The proposed foreclosure rules need to reflect the most
basic lesson from the foreclosure crisis: the rules must mandate
that before foreclosing, servicers must take specific,
enforceable steps to evaluate homeowners for affordable and
sustainable loan modifications,” Margot Saunders, an attorney
for the Boston-based National Consumer Law Center, said in a
statement.  Elizabeth Warren, the Obama administration adviser who set
up the bureau, promoted the new agency by stressing its role in
promoting transparency and disclosure in financial services.  The objections of consumer groups to the mortgage rules
highlight the tension over whether the CFPB should go further
and impose substantive obligations on financial service
providers, said Ronald Rubin, a former CFPB enforcement
attorney.  There is “a tug-of-war over whether the bureau’s mission
should be to ensure that consumers are fully informed when
making important financial decisions, or to force financial
service providers to give consumers a better deal,” Rubin, now
a partner at the Hunton & Williams LLP law firm in  Washington ,
said in an e-mail. “Elizabeth Warren promoted the agency as the
former, but most of the people who work there want it to be the
latter.”  Dual-Tracking  The consumer law center, a part of the coalition, said it
objects to the permission given in the proposal for “dual-
tracking,” the process of pursuing foreclosure while evaluating
a homeowner for a loan modification.  The American Bankers Association called on the agency to
move in the opposite direction, eliminating any requirement not
specifically authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. It also
asked the bureau not to codify into regulation a $25 billion
agreement concluded between the largest bank servicers and state
attorneys general in February.  The Washington-based association said that the agency’s
plan should be studied for its “cumulative impact” on the
mortgage market.  Bankers ‘Re-evaluating’  “Due to the potential costs and sweeping nature of the
CFPB’s proposals, many banks are re-evaluating their business
models, assessing costs and risks that may result from the new
regulations, and are considering how they may need to change
their business plan, including whether they will continue to
offer certain products and services,” the ABA wrote in an Aug.
9 letter.  The Dodd-Frank financial-regulation overhaul that created
the agency allows it to provide a transition period of as much
as a year before implementing the rules. The bureau has made no
decision on that, according to its website.  The Small Business Association asked the CFPB to expand a
proposed exemption from the rules for servicers that handle
fewer than 1,000 loans per year. And it asked the agency to make
the implementation period “as long as possible.”  “If the small servicers leave the market due to these
regulations, the price of services will go up due to the reduced
pool of providers,” the SBA’s chief counsel for advocacy,
Winslow Sargent, wrote in an Oct. 5 letter. “This could result
in more business for the larger providers that caused the
underlying problem” of the financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  