-- Copper Traders Most Bearish Since June on Economies: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-12T16:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/copper-traders-most-bearish-since-june-on-economies-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bearish
in four months on mounting concern that demand for industrial
metals will weaken as growth slows from  China  to Europe.  Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
prices to drop next week and seven were bullish. A further 10
were neutral, making the proportion of bears the highest since
June 1. Copper supply will outpace demand by 458,000 metric tons
in 2013, the first glut in four years and the biggest in more
than a decade, according to the Lisbon-based International
Copper Study Group, whose members include 23 nations.  The surge in copper demand from China’s housing market
probably will “crash” by 2014 as projects are completed,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Oct. 10. Manufacturing
in the country, which consumes about 40 percent of the world’s
copper, contracted for a second month in September. The
International Monetary Fund cut global growth forecasts this
week, even after central banks from the U.S. to  Japan  pledged
more action to bolster economies.  “What it needs from here for another rally is to see
quantitative easing translate into demand for copper and I don’t
think that demand will come through until we see restocking in
China in February or March,” said Angus Staines, an analyst at
UBS AG in London. “As long as China’s data is a bit
disappointing, then that’s bad for copper.”  Copper Prices  The metal rose 6.9 percent to $8,125 a ton this year on the
London Metal Exchange and averaged $7,976, the second-highest on
record. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained 10
percent and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
added 3.1 percent. Treasuries returned 2.1 percent, a Bank of
America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  The analysts were surveyed before the start of LME week on
Oct. 15. The annual event attracts thousands of miners, refiners
and traders for talks on metals markets and supply contracts.
Shareholders in the 135-year-old LME approved a $2.2 billion
takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in July.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, compared
with a July prediction of 3.5 percent, the IMF said in a report
Oct. 9. The Washington-based group also cut its 2013 estimate to
3.6 percent from 3.9 percent. The 17-country euro area’s economy
will contract 0.4 percent this year, the IMF said. Standard &
Poor’s lowered Spain’s credit rating on Oct. 10 amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening. Europe accounts for 18
percent of global copper demand, Barclays Plc estimates.  Chinese Construction  China’s construction and housing boom that started in 2009
is in its later stages and there are “significant downside
risks” to copper prices in late 2013 and in 2014, Goldman said,
citing a slowdown in construction completions and rising mine
supply. A 164,000-ton supply surplus this quarter will reduce
the annual shortage to 51,000 tons, according to Barclays.  Refined copper  imports  into China slumped 38 percent since
December and reached a 10-month low in June, customs data show.
Net imports probably will fall for the rest of the year,
according to Ana Rebelo, the ICSG’s chief statistician. The 2.39
million tons imported so far this year is still 58 percent more
than a year earlier. China’s growth of 8.2 percent next year
will be more than double the global pace, the IMF predicts.  The traders’ bearish outlook has yet to be reflected in
bets by hedge funds. Speculators’ wagers on a rally were the
highest since August 2011 in the week ended Oct. 2, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. They had bet on
price declines from May to August. Inventories in warehouses
monitored by the LME slumped 42 percent this year and fell to
the lowest since October 2008 on Sept. 19, exchange data show.  U.S. Economy  There are signs the economy is improving in the U.S. The
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in September from
8.1 percent the prior month, the Labor Department said Oct. 5.
American service industries expanded by the most in six months.
North America accounts for 11 percent of copper consumption,
Barclays estimates.  Copper will average $7,850 in the fourth quarter of 2013,
3.4 percent lower than now and the worst performance among the
six main industrial metals traded on the LME, a Bloomberg survey
of 10 analysts showed.  In other commodities, 12 of 27 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg said gold would climb next week and seven
were bearish. Bullion rose 13 percent to $1,761.05 an ounce in
 London  since the start of January, heading for a 12th annual
gain. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products reached a
record 2,583 tons yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sugar Survey  Seven of 14 people surveyed expect raw sugar to increase
next week and six predicted losses. The commodity slid 14
percent to 19.95 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
this year.  Fourteen of 25 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and 10 said the grain will decline, while 14 of
26 said soybeans will fall and nine expect higher prices. Corn
rose 17 percent to $7.555 a bushel this year as soybeans
advanced 26 percent to $15.1675 a bushel in  Chicago . Both crops
surged to records since August as the U.S. endured its worst
drought in more than 50 years.  The Federal Reserve said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion
of mortgage debt a month and the European Central Bank said
earlier this month it is ready to buy bonds of indebted
governments that comply with rescue conditions. The Bank of
Japan has said it will add to a fund that buys assets and China
approved a $158 billion subways-to-roads construction plan.  “Recent easing measures in the U.S. and Europe limit the
downside risks to growth, but we are not of the view that it
will materially improve growth,” said  Hussein Allidina , head of
commodities research at Morgan Stanley. “Easing actions, as a
result, have not prompted us to revise our commodity forecasts,
save gold, which we see benefiting from growing fiat supply and
a continued depressed real-rate environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  