-- Copper Rises on Interest-Rate Cuts, Drop in U.S. Jobless Claims
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-11T15:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/copper-rises-on-interest-rate-cuts-u-s-jobless-data.html
Copper rose the most in almost four
weeks on brightening demand prospects after central banks in
 South Korea  and  Brazil  cut  interest rates  and U.S. unemployment
claims slid to a four-year low.  South Korea lowered borrowing costs hours after Brazil to
stem risks of a deeper slowdown driven by weakness in China and
Europe. Central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan added to
stimulus last month, lifting copper to the biggest monthly gain
since January. U.S.  applications  for jobless benefits fell to
339,000, the fewest since February 2008, Labor Department
figures showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
was 370,000.  “Markets may be steadier today on account of developments
out of Brazil and South Korea,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL
FCStone Inc. in New York, said in a note. U.S. unemployment
claims were “much better than” expected, he said.  Copper futures for delivery in December gained 1.3 percent
to $3.767 a pound at 11:06 a.m. on the Comex in New York. A
close at that price would mark the biggest increase since Sept.
14.  Growth in Chinese exports may have doubled last month and
imports probably rose after declining in August, according to
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The figures are due Oct.
13. The Asian country is the world’s biggest metals consumer.  “We have some very important data coming out of China,
which could begin to indicate an improvement in the outlook
after the particularly weak numbers over the summer months,”
Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis SA in  London ,
said by e-mail.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 1.2 percent to $8,261.25 a metric ton ($3.75 a
pound).  Lead, zinc, nickel, aluminum and tin also gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  