-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall Most in 6 Days; Momentive Plans Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-11T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-most-in-6-days-momentive-plans-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell the most in six days after first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  in the U.S. unexpectedly decreased last
week.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1.7
basis points to a mid-price of 97.3 basis points at 4:56 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  declined to the lowest in more than
a year amid reports of a partial takeover.  The swaps measure plunged as  applications  for jobless
benefits fell 30,000 to 339,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, Labor
Department figures showed today, reassuring investors that the
economy is improving, which would give a boost to corporate
creditworthiness. That’s the fewest first-time claims since
February 2008.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered  Spain ’s debt rating
yesterday two levels to BBB-, one step above junk.  Investors think that because of the downgrade “maybe now
Spain won’t have a choice and maybe they will be forced into
requesting a bailout,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “And when you tack on the jobs
numbers today” credit risk is seen to lessen, he said.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Momentive Bonds  Momentive Performance Materials Holdings LLC (MPM) , the silicone
production unit of  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , may issue $1.1
billion of eight-year bonds to yield from 8.75 percent to 9
percent, according to a person familiar with the transaction,
who asked not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  The proceeds will be used to repay the company’s senior
secured credit facilities, to purchase, redeem or discharge its
$200 million of 12.5 percent, second-lien notes and for general
corporate purposes, Columbus, Ohio-based Momentive said in a
statement today.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
narrowed 2 basis points, led by spreads on the bonds of
communications companies, which fell 15 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. Average spreads on investment-grade debt narrowed 1
basis point, the data show.  Sprint Swaps  Contracts protecting against Sprint’s default plummeted
137.2 basis points to 358.3 basis points, the lowest since July
2011, as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That means
investors would pay $358,300 annually to protect $10 million of
the company’s debt for five years.  Sprint said it’s in talks with  Softbank Corp. (9984)  for a
“substantial investment” from  Japan ’s third-largest mobile-
phone company. The deal may involve Softbank taking a stake of
as much as 75 percent of Sprint, according to a person familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  