-- Dangote Sugar Rises to a Year-High on Incentives: Lagos Mover
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-10-11T15:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/dangote-sugar-rises-to-a-year-high-on-incentives-lagos-mover.html
Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc (DANGSUGA) ,
Nigeria’s biggest grower of the sweetener, rose to the highest
in a year after the government announced incentives to boost
domestic production.  The stock gained 8.7 percent to 6.75 naira by the close in
Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, its highest since Oct. 12,
2011. About 15 million shares, or more than four times the
three-month moving average, traded, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The government next year will remove import duties on
machinery and spare parts brought in for domestic sugar
processing companies, President Goodluck Jonathan said yesterday
in his budget proposal for 2013. It also plans to grant a five-
year tax holiday for “sugarcane to sugar” investors, he said.
Nigeria will charge import taxes of 60 percent on raw sugar, and
of 80 percent on the refined variety, Jonathan said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer, wants to revive its
agricultural industry to increase domestic production and reduce
food imports. The continent’s most populous nation, with a
population of over 160 million people, spends at least $10
billion annually to import fish, sugar, rice and wheat,
according to government figures.  Higher Prices  “This is a good policy that should be able to attract
investment in raw sugar production,” Pabina Yinkere, head of
Research at  Vetiva Capital Management Ltd. , said by phone from
Lagos today. “It will require a lot of effort on the part of
the government and the private sector to achieve the capacity
which will serve as feedstock to the refineries, such as
Dangote.”  The measures will lead to higher prices for refined sugar
in Nigeria in the short term, as the refiners, who depend mainly
on imported raw sugar, pass the increased costs to consumers,
Yinkere said.  Nigerian demand for refined sugar is 1.4 million metric
tons a year while production is about 1 million metric tons, so
about 400,000 tons must be imported, according to Yinkere.  Dangote Sugar shares have risen 43.6 percent this year,
compared with a 32 percent increase in the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  