-- Death or Debt Confound Egyptians Awaiting Good Life
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-10-11T06:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/death-or-debt-confound-egyptians-awaiting-good-life.html
On a warm September morning as
 Egypt ’s President Mohamed Mursi began his 74th day in office,
Heba Ibrahim’s mother took her last breath.  Five weeks of treatment for  kidney failure  at a Cairo
hospital had left the 56-year-old mother of four emaciated. Her
normally bronze complexion was sallow and the smile that had
shepherded her children from infancy to adulthood disappeared
behind the mask of a coma. The final breath was drawn on the day
the last of Ibrahim’s savings ran out.  “It was as if she knew -- knew that while she was worth
the world to me, we had nothing left to pay to save her life,”
Ibrahim said in a recent interview, blaming what she said was a
health care system that helps only those with means. “Is this
the new Egypt we were promised? A miserable country where the
only thing left is to sell myself to raise money?”  Her experience highlights the difficulties facing Mursi as
he passed 100 days in office this week, a date by which the
Islamist had pledged to cure 64 of the ills that beset everyday
life under President  Hosni Mubarak . Sworn into office in June,
he squeezed past his rival Ahmed Shafik with promises of
immediate action to clean the streets, improve security and ease
traffic congestion, along with longer-term goals of greater
social justice and lower poverty.  He’s accomplished only four of the short-term pledges,
according to the  Mursi Meter , a website launched by Zabatak, a
nonprofit organization run by politically unaffiliated young
people that says it seeks an Egypt “free and safe.”  ‘Losing Hope’  Several activist groups have called for a protest tomorrow
against what they say is the overwhelming influence the
Islamists are wielding in the writing of a new constitution and
the government’s lack of progress so far. Parts of the draft
were unveiled yesterday.  “Change hasn’t brought any real benefits on the ground
yet,” Said Hirsh, Middle East economist with  Capital Economics ,
said by phone. “People’s expectations are higher” than the
government’s “ability to deliver with speed. That risks people
losing hope that things will change.”  The economy has shown few signs of emerging quickly from
its worst economic crisis in a decade, while a $4.8 billion loan
application from the  International Monetary Fund  has yet to be
agreed. This leaves the government struggling to find money for
the social projects that are a priority for Mursi.  Unemployment has climbed to 12.6 percent and the country
needs growth of 7.5 percent to bring that down, the government
said on Oct. 9. That’s a distant goal for now -- Prime Minister
Hisham Qandil says he’s targeting economic expansion of as much
as 4.5 percent this year. The country’s economic growth fell to
1.8 percent last year, a 19-year low.  Parliament Dissolved  There are other uncertainties -- the courts dissolved
parliament, there’s no constitution and arrests on blasphemy
charges have fueled criticism that Mursi, 61, hasn’t matched his
rhetoric of freedom and dignity with action. There’s no date for
fresh elections, which will only come after the constitution is
drafted and ratified.  “There’s been a desire to garner enough political goodwill
before the right economic decisions -- or before the
controversial economic decisions -- are taken,” according to
Wael Ziada of EFG Hermes Holding SAE.  While analysts and economists are eying macroeconomic
barometers, Egyptians, of whom nearly half live on or below the
poverty line, focus on the tangible changes.  ‘Second Revolution’  In an Oct. 6 speech commemorating the 1973 war with  Israel ,
having prefaced his remarks with a victory lap in an open-top
vehicle driven around a Cairo stadium track, Mursi dismissed
criticism that he had wasted public money by taking at least
nine overseas trips. The visits were aimed at winning
investments.  “I still live in a rented apartment,” he said.  He has had successes, for example ending a tug-of-war with
the military council that inherited power from Mubarak and
forcibly retiring the two most powerful generals. Mahmoud
Ghozlan, a spokesman for the Brotherhood, described it in a
recent interview as “the second revolution.” Mursi, a U.S.-
trained engineer, says he inherited a nation mired in debt and a
legacy of corruption.  The president buttressed his accomplishments with
statistics, though did not say from where they came. He said in
his Oct. 6 speech that 70 percent of his 100-day plan’s security
goals were realized together with a majority of targets on
bread, traffic and fuel shortages.  “Really?” bus driver Abdel-Halim Arafa said when asked
about the president’s comments in a recent interview. Arafa’s
wait at a Cairo gasoline station was in its second hour, the
view from his driver-side window one of a mountain of garbage
uncollected on the side of the road. “I hadn’t noticed.”  Medical Costs  Ibrahim’s near-bankruptcy from medical costs is just
another example of the challenges the Muslim Brotherhood-backed
Islamist faces. Striking doctors seeking a bigger health budget
said yesterday that Egypt was headed for a “health care
collapse” and that 20 million Egyptians, about one in four,
have  Hepatitis C .  As doctors unplugged the respirator, Ibrahim, a divorced
mother of a three-year-old boy living with two of her three
siblings, took stock. A mother dead, friends owed more than
4,000 Egyptian pounds, almost every bit of furniture that held
some value sold and a lost 5,000 pound security deposit on the
apartment they all shared. In debt and without a steady income,
they now faced eviction after having paid more than 10,000
pounds for the roughly five-week hospital stay.  Ibrahim said she was met with bureaucratic intransigence
when she applied to have the state cover her mother’s medical
costs -- something she says was much easier under Mubarak.  “I can’t see any change,” Wael Khalil, an activist and
member of the National Front of secularist groups that had
rallied behind Mursi in his race against Shafiq, Mubarak’s last
premier. “Decisions are still made with the same authoritarian
attitude.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  