-- Deutsche Bank’s RREEF Likes Hong Kong Builders, Australia Retail
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-11T02:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/deutsche-bank-s-rreef-likes-hong-kong-builders-australia-retail.html
Deutsche Bank AG’s (DB)  RREEF real estate
unit favors Hong Kong developers and Australian retail property
trusts because low  interest rates  will fuel demand.  RREEF also likes Japanese developers of commercial
properties, which will benefit from declining office vacancies.
Tokyo office vacancies fell in September to 8.9 percent from 9.2
percent a month earlier, according to figures released today by
Miki Shoji, a closely held office brokerage company.  “We like  Japan  developers, particularly the second-tier
names, and in  Australia , we like what we call retail defensive
stocks, and are underweight the office names,” Daniel Ekins,
who oversees $1.75 billion of real estate securities in the
Asia-Pacific region, said in an interview in Sydney on Oct. 9,
declining to specify names. “In  Hong Kong , we’re overweight the
developers and underweight REITs.”  Hong Kong developers will benefit as a third round of
quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve keeps a lid on
interest rates in the city, he said. The Australian central
bank’s 150 basis points of interest rate cuts since November
will help boost retail demand, Ekins said.  The Asia-Pacific region is expected to outperform the rest
of the world, Chicago-based broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said
in its second-quarter  Asia-Pacific Property Digest . Rents and
capital values continued to rise in most parts of the region,
although momentum slowed, it said.  Underweight Singapore  RREEF is underweight Singapore residential developers
because of policy concerns. Singapore, which has been trying to
rein in  home prices  since 2009, last week said it was
restricting residential home-loan maturities. The island-state
also has introduced additional taxes, barred interest-only loans,
and stopped developers from absorbing interest payments.  In the Asia-Pacific region, RREEF invests about 27 percent
of funds in Japan, 25 percent in Australia and 48 percent in
Asia ex-Japan, primarily in Singapore and Hong Kong, Ekins said.
The group manages $10 billion of real estate securities globally.  Hong Kong developers are this month preparing to sell the
most homes in six years as expectations for prolonged low
interest rates fuel demand. The Fed’s third round of asset
purchases is expected to keep borrowing costs low in Hong Kong,
which tracks U.S. rate decisions because of the currency’s peg
to the  U.S. dollar .  Office rents in Singapore and Hong Kong fell 1.2 percent in
the second quarter as companies cut back on expansion plans,
 Jones Lang  said in its report.  In Australia, office demand will be weaker this year
compared with last, because of slower economic growth and hiring,
Jones Lang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  