-- Dollar Slides on Europe Bets, Drop in Jobless Claims; Peso Gains
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-10-11T21:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/dollar-weakens-before-jobless-data-amid-spanish-aid-speculation.html
The dollar dropped versus 13 of its
16 most-traded counterparts as speculation  Europe ’s debt crisis
will ease and a report showing that U.S. unemployment-benefit
applications fell spurred appetite for higher-yielding assets.  Mexico ’s peso climbed from the lowest level against the
greenback in almost a month after the jobless-claims report
spurred bets the economy of its biggest trade partner is
improving. The euro snapped a three-day losing streak versus the
dollar as speculation grew that  Spain  will seek a bailout and
demand increased at an Italian bond sale. Standard & Poor’s
downgraded Spain yesterday to one level above junk.  “Risk is generally firmer,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer
at FX Solutions LLC, an online currency-trading company in
Saddle River,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview. “In a
perverse way, the downgrade of Spain is seen by some as the
final precipitating factor for Spanish authorities to ask for a
bailout.”  The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2928 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York after appreciating 0.4 percent earlier to
$1.2826, the strongest level since Oct. 1. It approached its
200-day moving average, $1.2824, before erasing gains. The
greenback rose 0.2 percent against the Japanese currency, to
78.34 yen. The euro climbed 0.6 percent to 101.27 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, fell 0.2 percent to 79.786. It rose earlier to
80.205, the highest since Sept. 11.  Commodities gained, with the  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index
of raw materials rallying as much as 1.5 percent.  Peso Climbs  The Mexican peso strengthened for the first time in five
days, gaining 0.5 percent to 12.9128 per dollar after touching
13.0019, the weakest level since Sept. 13.  U.S. Labor Department figures showed applications for
jobless benefits in the U.S. decreased 30,000 to total 339,000
in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest since February 2008. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast 370,000 claims.  The rand rose against all of its most-traded peers,
appreciating for a third day against the dollar amid signs labor
unrest that shut gold and platinum mines and spread to the
transport industry is easing. The currency climbed 1 percent to
8.6625 per dollar. It had weakened 6 percent in the four days
through Oct. 8 amid the turmoil.  The yen fell against all of its major peers. Japanese
Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said he told a short meeting in
 Tokyo  of his Group of Seven counterparts that the strength of
the yen is hurting the nation’s economy and that countries
should cooperate on foreign exchange if necessary.  Postwar High  The Japanese currency is trading closer to the postwar high
of 75.35 yen per dollar reached last October, before the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  sold a record 8.07 trillion yen ($103 billion) to stem its
appreciation. It weakened to 84.18 in March before starting to
advance again. The yen touched 77.95 per dollar today, the
strongest level since Oct. 1.  Unless the Japanese currency appreciates to 76 against the
dollar or 95 to the euro, “Jojima would have a hard time
convincing anyone that there has been either ‘excess volatility’
or ‘disorderly movement’ that would suddenly justify
intervention,”  Greg Anderson , the North American head of Group-
of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, wrote in
a research note.  September High  The euro may rise versus the yen to the highest in more
than three weeks as a corrective pattern reverses, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG, which cited technical indicators.  The shared currency entered a corrective period after
reaching a four-month high of 103.86 versus the yen on Sept. 17,
Cilline Bain, a London-based technical analyst at Credit Suisse,
wrote today in a client note. The correction is beginning to
tire, and the euro may initially rebound to 101.87 before
returning to the September high, Bain wrote.  The U.S. currency is “trading primarily on what’s going on
Europe,”  Joseph Trevisani , chief market strategist at
WorldWideMarkets in  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey, said in a
telephone interview. “The Italians had a bond auction that went
reasonably well.”  Italy sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8 billion) of its
benchmark three-year bond to yield 2.86 percent, more than the
2.75 percent at the last auction of the same securities on Sept.
13. Investors bid for 1.67 times the amount offered, up from
1.49 times last month.  Spain Pressured  S&P lowered Spain’s sovereign credit rating by two levels
to BBB- from BBB+ and assigned a negative outlook to its debt.
The country’s deepening recession is limiting government policy
options, the New York-based ratings company said in a statement.  The euro climbed against the greenback as the downgrade
added to pressure on the Spanish government to seek assistance.
The move would make it possible for the  European Central Bank  to
buy Spain’s bonds to contain borrowing costs under a new program
to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Spanish 10-year  bond yields  rose to 5.93 percent today
before falling to 5.75 percent. They have dropped from the euro-
era record of 7.75 percent reached in July to as low as 5.55
percent since ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank
is ready to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro.  While the ECB unveiled an unlimited debt-purchase program
on Sept. 6, Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has held off on
a decision about whether to request aid, a condition the ECB
insists on.  European Union leaders will hold a two-day  summit  in
Brussels starting Oct. 18.  Periphery ‘Stabilized’  Currencies sought by investors as a haven during recent
turmoil, including the British pound, Danish krone, Australian
dollar and Swedish krona, will probably come under selling
pressure as the “euro-zone periphery has stabilized,”
according to Morgan Stanley.  Improved prospects for growth in the  U.S. economy  and
easing tension between Iran and  Israel  are also reducing
investors’ appetite for the currencies, the firm said today in a
research report.  Sweden’s krona declined to the weakest level in three
months against the euro as inflation abated more than estimated,
raising the likelihood of an interest-rate cut before year-end.
Statistics Sweden data showed consumer price growth slowed to an
annual 0.4 percent in September, compared with 0.7 percent the
prior month and a 0.6 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The krona depreciated 0.4 percent to 8.6641 per euro and
reached 8.6735, its lowest level since July 4.  The euro gained 2.1 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar fell 4.3 percent and
the yen lost 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  