-- The Derivatives Revolution Begins (Tomorrow)
-- B y   P a u l a   D w y e r
-- 2012-10-11T16:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/the-derivatives-revolution-begins-tomorrow-.html
For friends and foes of the 2010
 Dodd-Frank financial reform law , tomorrow is a big day.
Regulations covering the $648 trillion swaps market finally
start to take effect. In historical terms, that’s as important
as when the 1930s securities laws went into force.  Banks and other trading outfits must begin tallying their
trades to determine whether they will be deemed “swaps dealers”
subject to the strict capital and collateral standards Dodd-
Frank allows. The rules will bring a new era of transparency to
a business that thrives off opacity.  They have been in the making for  more than two years  at the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Banks and other
corners of the financial industry that make billions in profit
off derivatives are, um, less enthused. They are seeking all
kinds of exclusions and exemptions.  Many derivatives trades are done over the phone and aren’t
reported to a central clearinghouse, giving dealers an advantage
in determining prices. The new transparency could mean lower
profits at the dominant banks: JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs,
Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America.  The CFTC is  deluged with requests  from lobbying groups to
ease or delay portions of the rules. Agribusiness firms hope to
stall provisions aimed at non-bank traders. Banks and asset
managers want to exempt currency derivatives, as does the U.S.
Treasury. Auto companies and banks that securitize consumer
credit want to exempt their financial entities.  Gary Gensler, the CFTC chairman, said  in a speech  yesterday
that he may fine-tune the rules before tomorrow. Expect
additional guidance, no-action letters and interpretations from
the agency, but don’t expect Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs
executive, to back down on anything major.  (Paula Dwyer is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial
board. Follow her on  Twitter .)
 