-- The Truth About Facts
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-10-11T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/the-truth-about-facts.html
Among the sillier aspects of the
current electoral season is the way that each side tortures the
other for supposed lies and distortions, often on the basis of
partisan talking points or factoids drawn from a favorite
ideological commentator or website. What is true, in the sense
of being verifiable and well-founded, seems less important than
what is helpful to the campaign.  A useful tonic at so depressing a moment is the
mathematician Samuel Arbesman’s  lively new book , “The Half-Life
of Facts: Why Everything We Know Has an Expiration Date.”
Arbesman’s subject is science, not politics; but candidates and
their ardent supporters could learn much from his fascinating
account of how both knowledge and errors spread.  Arbesman opens the book with an anecdote I first heard from
one of my undergraduate physics professors: Until the 1950s, the
scientific world was convinced that the human cell contained 48
chromosomes. Then researchers made a careful recount and
discovered that the actual number was (as we now know) 46.  Or consider the following example: In February 1994, the
journal Diabetes Care published  an article  carefully describing
a mathematical model for determining glucose tolerance and other
metabolic issues in diabetes patients. What neither the editors
nor the author seemed to realize was that the newly discovered
model was actually something very old: differential calculus.  Factual Citations  The paper derived, and announced as new, what Newton and
Leibniz had discovered 300 years earlier. Yet it has received
hundreds of citations in other scholarly publications and is
still cited today.  Arbesman urges us not to be too hard on the author of the
diabetes article. “Despite our technological advancement,” he
writes, “knowledge can spread far slower than we might realize.”
Even well-read scientists may end up replicating what has
already been invented or discovered.  Arbesman isn’t offering some vulgar argument about
skepticism; he’s hardly anti-science. His point, rather, is that
not even the smartest people can know everything that is
important; and even when they think they do, much of their
“knowledge” is probably obsolete.  The dilemma is familiar to us from everyday life: one day
red meat is good for us, the next day it’s bad, the next day
it’s neutral. It isn’t unusual for nonexperts to throw up our
hands, wishing we could get a clear answer. Arbesman doesn’t, as
he could, blame the news media for rushing studies into the
headlines without pausing to ask independent experts whether the
studies are any good. Blame the nature of knowledge, he says:
Scientific understandings change constantly, and the rapid
spread of information is haphazard and full of mistakes.  That nobody can keep up with everything can lead to serious
information failure. Arbesman points to a 1992 Harvard
University examination of the literature on streptokinase, a
protein that is still one of the leading treatments after a
heart attack. The major study showing the effectiveness of the
drug was published in 1988. The Harvard research discovered that
had each of the many streptokinase studies (all the way back to
1959) taken into account the results of all the other studies of
the drug, its effectiveness would have been conclusively
demonstrated 15 years earlier.  The speed of change is part of the problem: “In addition to
all of the cognitive biases we are saddled with, it is difficult
for us to keep abreast of all the information around us.” We
were generalists when young, he says, but later learned to
specialize. Thus, curiously, the longer we live and the more we
learn, the more “old” knowledge sits unexamined.  Factual Immaturity  The result? With respect to much if not most of what we
think we know, “we remain stuck at the factual level of our
grade-school selves.”  This is where our political classes should pause to take
note of Arbesman’s thesis. Given the speed at which information
propagates, errors spread just as quickly as truths. The errors,
in turn, often go undetected by the recipients, who think they
know the facts but are wrong.  “Luckily,” he writes, “there is a simple remedy: Be
critical before spreading information and examine it to see what
is true. Too often not knowing where one’s facts came from and
whether it is well-founded at all is the source of an error.”  This kind of humility, to be sure, is no more common in
politics than in science. Arbesman simply urges us to double-
check our truths before we go about spreading them. Indeed, he
approves of a trend many of us have tut-tutted: the way people
are relying on their own memories less and  search engines  more:
“The more we look things up, the more likely we are not to be
caught unaware when we encounter a startling idea.”  Part of what we should inform ourselves about is what other
people are looking into. Arbesman cites studies suggesting that
collaborators make more progress when they are in close physical
proximity than when they work at a distance.  As recently as 100 years ago, information traveled so
slowly that researchers on different continents were unaware
that they were duplicating one another’s work. Denied
opportunities to collaborate, they discovered a good deal less
than they could have.  In the past, Arbesman reminds us, significant discoveries
were made by generalists without formal scientific training,
working in environments that were anything but hospitable -- a
point he illustrates using the cleverly chosen example of the
debate over whether a man in Shakespeare’s position could have
written his plays.  But discovery is getting harder. Arbesman borrows a phrase
 used by  the economist  Tyler Cowen : We have picked the low-
hanging fruit. Much future learning will come only at great
expense, in both money and time. For a nation (and a world) in
financial crisis, the challenge of continuing to press the
boundaries of knowledge is considerable.  Factual Advancement  Yet the journey is worth taking. Here again is a lesson for
our politics. Partisans have an embarrassing tendency to rest
comfortably on the certainties that have brought their movements
this far. Arbesman reminds us that science advances precisely
because researchers constantly challenge old truths, discarding
them when the evidence points elsewhere. Our politicians and
their acolytes might usefully learn from the example.  “The Half-Life of Facts” is easily one of the best books of
the year on science. It would be a lovely irony were it to prove
one of the best books on politics, too.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving U.S. food safety ;
William Pesek on  economist Raghuram Rajan’s return to India ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  funny numbers companies use  to burnish their
earnings; Richard Vedder on  what colleges aren’t telling 
prospective students.  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 