-- Lead Tops Metal Returns as Shortages Set to Emerge: Commodities
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-11T14:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/lead-tops-metal-returns-as-shortages-set-to-emerge-commodities.html
Lead, the best-performing industrial
metal last quarter, is headed for the biggest shortages in seven
years as mine expansions slow at a time of record consumption.  Supply will fall 47,000 metric tons short of demand next
year as mine  production  grows 5.7 percent, the least since the
global recession in 2009, Morgan Stanley estimates. Prices will
average $2,425 a ton in the fourth quarter next year, 22 percent
higher than the past three months and more than the anticipated
gains in copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc and tin, the median of
forecasts from 10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The shortages, which Morgan Stanley anticipates will keep
growing until 2015, are partly the result of surging demand for
the batteries used in everything from mobile-phone towers to
cars. Lead usage in industrial batteries will advance at least
10 percent this year, BNP Paribas SA estimates. The prospects
for lead contrast with narrowing deficits in copper and tin and
gluts in aluminum, nickel and zinc, making analysts bullish on
prices even as global growth slows.  “We’re now at the inflection point where lead moves from
surplus to deficit,” said Stephen Briggs, an analyst at BNP
Paribas in  London  who has followed metals for three decades.
“There’s been virtually no investment in lead for lead’s sake
for 30 years. We haven’t yet seen the real tightness.”  Annual Event  Lead rose 8.2 percent to $2,201 on the London Metal
Exchange this year, beating the 4.9 percent advance in the LMEX
index of six industrial metals. It jumped 23 percent in the
third quarter. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 materials
added 3.8 percent since the start of January and the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities jumped 11 percent. Treasuries
returned 2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The analysts were surveyed before the start of LME week on
Oct. 15. The annual event attracts thousands of miners, refiners
and traders for talks on metals markets and supply contracts.
Shareholders in the 135-year-old LME approved a $2.2 billion
takeover by Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. in July.  Supply of refined lead, which includes recycled metal, will
gain 3.7 percent to 10.89 million tons next year, lagging behind
demand of 10.94 million tons, Morgan Stanley estimates.
Shortages are forecast for the next four years, it says.  The last dedicated lead mine was opened in 2005, according
to the International Lead & Zinc Study Group in Lisbon. The
Magellan mine in  Australia  owned by Toronto-based Ivernia Inc.
was  halted  in 2011 after unacceptable levels of lead were found
in dried mud at the bottom of a shipping container transported
from its mine.  Metal Premiums  The shortages may already be appearing based on the
premiums being paid for physical supply. Inventories monitored
by the LME slumped 20 percent this year and on Oct. 9 were the
lowest since January 2011. Those tracked by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange tumbled 25 percent. Buyers are paying $95 a ton more
than the LME’s cash contract to obtain metal stored in Singapore
warehouses, more than twice the average over the past decade,
according to Metal Bulletin Plc data.  Consumption was little changed in 2009 as nations endured
the worst recession since World War II. LME stockpiles more than
tripled that year after prices fell 61 percent in 2008. Demand
has climbed every year since 2010, and will advance 4.5 percent
next year and 2.4 percent this year, Morgan Stanley says.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for next
year’s global economic growth to 3.6 percent from 3.9 percent in
a report Oct. 9, saying it sees “alarmingly high” risks of a
steeper slowdown. Gross domestic product in  China , the biggest
lead buyer, expanded at a lesser  pace  for six quarters in a row.  Northern Hemisphere  Higher prices may spur more supply. Mine production surged
9.5 percent in 2010 and 11 percent in 2011 after lead more than
doubled in 2009, according to the lead and zinc study group.
Output of  recycled  metal jumped 6.7 percent to 5.42 million tons
in 2010, according to Morgan Stanley. The bank anticipates 5.06
million tons this year, the least since 2008, because a warmer-
than-average winter in the Northern Hemisphere reduced demand
for replacement batteries in cars.  About 80 percent of lead is used in batteries, according to
the study group, which has 30 member nations. Global sales of
light commercial vehicles and cars, whose batteries contain
about 20 pounds of the metal, will climb 5.2 percent to a record
85.1 million units next year, based on projections by LMC
Automotive Ltd., a research company based in Oxford,  England .  E-Bikes  Battery demand has also been boosted by sales of so-called
e-bikes, each one requiring 12 kilograms to 55 kilograms (26 to
121 pounds) of lead for its batteries, according to CHR Metals
Ltd., a Godalming, England-based lead and zinc research company.  Chinese production rose 4.8 percent to 30.96 million units
in 2011 and output this year and next should expand at a similar
pace, the China Bicycle Association estimates. About 39 percent
of Chinese lead consumption goes into e-bikes, compared with 22
percent for cars and trucks, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Mining companies are struggling to keep up, in part because
yields are dropping. The average ton of ore now contains about
20 kilograms of lead, from almost 30 kilograms in 2000,
Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates.  Lead Investments  Lead will account for 0.7 percent of the $521.2 billion
that producers will spend on mining expansions from 2013 to
2016, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd. That’s equal to $3.5
billion compared with $160.9 billion planned for copper spending
and $118.8 billion for coal, the Edinburgh-based research
company estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest lead miner, said Aug. 22
that it put approvals for about $68 billion of projects on hold
after second-half profit plunged 58 percent. Its industrial
metals unit accounted for 16 percent of revenue in the fiscal
year that ended in June,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The decline in supplies of scrap from old batteries is
leaving consumers more dependent on metal from mines. Primary
lead smelters in the U.S., which process ore, are fully booked
for the next several months, and some buyers may have to resort
to imports to meet their needs, according to CRU, a London-based
research company. Inventories in LME-monitored warehouses in the
U.S. are at the lowest since June 2009.  Colder Winter  Battery makers in the U.S. are stocking up on lead in
anticipation of a colder winter, according to CRU. The average
temperature in  New York City  in December through February will
be 0.5 degree Fahrenheit below normal, compared with 5.2 degrees
above normal last year, AccuWeather.com says.  “Refined stocks are being run down aggressively, you see
some very strong battery production and e-bike production and at
the same time, up until the last couple of months, relatively
constrained refined production levels,” said Nicholas Snowdon,
an analyst at Barclays Plc in  New York . “We see prices
continuing to trend higher over the next couple of years.”  The following table shows the median estimates of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for the average price of six
metals in the fourth quarter next year, compared with the actual
average in the third quarter of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  