-- EADS-BAE Deal’s Collapse Damps Bankers’ Fee Prospects
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-11T10:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/eads-bae-deal-s-collapse-dampens-bankers-fee-prospects.html
Investment banks advising European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  on their
failed merger face another blow in a year that hasn’t been kind.  Firms including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Perella Weinberg 
Partners LP may earn just $8 million to $12 million in total
from the canceled transaction, compared with as much as $150
million had it succeeded, according to figures from New York-
based research firm Freeman & Co.  The two companies terminated talks yesterday after the
governments of  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. failed to reach
agreements on a deal that would have created the world’s largest
aerospace and defense company. It is the biggest takeover to
collapse since AT&T failed to buy T-Mobile USA last year.  The collapse of the EADS-BAE combination shows how the
global financial crisis has created “an increase in scrutiny of
deals,” said Peter Hahn, a lecturer at London’s Cass Business
School, with mega-mergers less likely to be completed.  Europe ’s investment banks are struggling as the region’s
economic turmoil holds big companies back from mergers and share
listings. So far this year, $572 billion in deals involving
European companies have been announced, compared to $660 billion
for the same period last year. Apart from the $36 billion
proposed merger of mining giants  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , just two other deals in the region have exceeded
$10 billion:  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA’s buyout of the U.K.’s International
Power Plc, and Deutsche Telekom AG’s plan to merge T-Mobile USA
with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   EADS drew on  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ,  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , Perella
Weinberg,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and Deutsche Bank AG for advice. BAE tapped Morgan Stanley,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Gleacher Shacklock LLP, and  UBS AG. (UBSN)   European banks have cut about 172,000 positions since 2009,
Bloomberg data show, and are continuing to scale back their
operations along with overseas firms that have significant
operations in the region.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage, was one of the most recent examples, cutting about
100 investment banking jobs in Europe beginning last month,
according to people with knowledge of its plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  