-- EADS CEO Faces Terminator Torment After Merger Judgment
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-11T22:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/eads-ceo-faces-terminator-torment-after-bae-merger-judgment-day.html
Hours before announcing plans for
the biggest merger in aerospace history, Tom Enders stood on a
Berlin airfield and poked fun at the title of German aviation
coordinator Peter Hintze by calling him ``the Terminator.''  Hintze, a bespectacled former priest and a key ally of
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , had the last laugh. A month after
their encounter on Sept. 12, Enders, the chief executive officer
of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , saw his aspiration
to combine with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  crumble amid German opposition.
Hintze said the breakdown was in Germany’s best interest.  By publicly blaming the German government for the collapse
of the negotiations, Enders risks further straining relations as
he draws up an alternative plan to boost EADS’s defense
business. The German military is the biggest customer of that
unit and the two sides also need to agree on cuts to Tiger and
NH90 helicopter purchases, built by EADS unit Eurocopter, with
more than $5 billion on the line.  “Enders will arguably not see the German government as a
naturally constructive partner for the further development of
EADS,” said Henrik Heidenkamp, a German defense industry
analyst at the  Royal United Services Institute  in  London .  German lawmakers pushed back on Enders’s assessment that
their government was to blame. Enders had written in a letter to
employees that he underestimated opposition from Berlin. Merkel
ultimately buried the merger in a phone call to French President
 Francois Hollande  in which she voiced her veto, people familiar
with the conversation said.  Merkel’s Call  “Most of my colleagues weren’t against it, it’s just that
it wasn’t well prepared,” said Martin Lindner, economic
spokesman for the Free Democratic Party, Merkel’s coalition
partner. “I understand that Tom Enders and his crew are not
keen on involving politicians in a merger, even when he’s the
CEO of a very political company. Many of the products they make
have governments as their clients.”  Optimism about winning more time and getting all
governments on board evaporated on the morning of Oct. 9, a day
before a deadline to file a merger document, one person said.
That morning, Hollande took a phone call from Merkel, informing
him that she opposed the deal, the person said. Hollande, who
favored the combination, didn’t want to overrule the German
chancellor, the person said.  “We were informed by the German chancellery that the
chancellor had called the deal off,” said  Rainer Ohler , a
spokesman for EADS. “We offered dialog on a constant basis,
conversations and negotiations, none of which was taken up.”  Defense Review  The EADS CEO encountered a frosty reception from lawmakers
when he presented the deal to a parliamentary hearing. After the
session ended, Enders said he’d gladly go on discussing the
merits of the merger with lawmakers. Merkel’s spokesman said the
chancellor saw no need to meet Enders in Berlin.  Now Enders will need to rebuild political support for his
efforts to revamp the faltering Cassidian defense business,
largely centered in Germany. Before merger talks with BAE
surfaced Enders, as one of his first actions as CEO, ousted the
unit’s long-time head and put in place a new management team.  Enders told staff he would review group strategy “and
defense activities in particular” after the talks ended.
Cassidian had about 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) in sales
last year, or 11 percent of EADS’s total. The Airbus SAS civil
aircraft unit, which Enders led until June, is the biggest.  EADS is working toward an agreement with  Germany  over how
many Tigers and NH90s the armed forces will buy before year-end.
German said it may halve the Tiger purchase to 40 attack
helicopters and cut 42 units from a planned buy of 122 NH90
troop transport rotorcraft.  Ministerial Snub  While Germany said it supports EADS management “an acid
test of that will come with the restructuring of Cassidian,”
said Olivier Brochet, Paris-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  “The need to reshuffle that activity, which lacks critical
size, has grown with the calling off of the BAE consolidation,”
he said. “Enders’s ability to slash costs to restore its
competitiveness will indicate the level of control he still has
over the group.”  Contractual negotiations have been a source of friction
between Enders and the German government in the past. In 2010,
months-long negotiations over the A400M military airlifter so
alienated then-German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu
Guttenberg that he publicly snubbed the aircraft’s German maiden
flight at the Berlin Air Show.  Tensions between the government and Enders over additional
financing escalated to the point that EADS Finance Chief Hans Peter Ring, who was a popular figure with lawmakers and based in
Munich, took over negotiations on the German side, and the
government also replacing Guttenberg as its interlocutor.  Away From Munich  Discontent also flared on the civil aviation side. In the
early development phase of Airbus’s A350 wide-body plane,  France 
got 40 percent of the work-share compared with just 30 percent
for Germany, breaking a quarter century tradition of allotting
work in proportion to countries’ shareholders in the planemaker.  Enders argued that France boasted deeper engineering
resources, and that it was Germany’s fault for not promoting
aerospace more. Germany threatened to withhold development
loans. The tone got shriller when Enders consolidated EADS
headquarters in Toulouse, France, this year. The company had
previously operated a dual-structure with Munich and Paris as
co-equal centers of power. Hintze wrote Enders a letter
complaining that the shift from Germany was unacceptable.  “You have to knuckle down to business as usual,” said
 Sandy Morris , London-based analyst at Jefferies International.
“If commercial negotiations become embroiled in politics,
heaven help us.”  One area the government and EADS may need to pool resources
is to assure support in the effort to catch the U.S. and  Israel 
in the growing field of unmanned aircraft. The U.K. and France
have awarded contracts for BAE and  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  to
jointly work on future unmanned combat aircraft, leaving EADS in
the cold.  Shareholder Squabbles  Hintze made support of German unmanned aircraft technology
a centerpiece of an aerospace policy document three years ago.
At the time, the German-arm of EADS was pushing the Talarion
unmanned aircraft program, but it failed to get backing in other
European states. EADS abandoned the project this year.  A major driving force behind Enders’s push for a merger
with BAE had been his wish to throw out a shareholder agreement
that gave governments more sway over his company than he wanted.
In the end, his quest to marginalize governments had the
opposite reaction, with Germany demanding an equal stake to
France and a center of command, contributing to the negotiations
unraveling.  As to who perseveres in the Teutonic battle between Enders
and Hintze “a lot depends on the German public debate over the
next days and weeks,” Heidenkamp said.  “If the reasoning is that this decision was wrong and
short-sighted then Hintze may find himself under significant
pressure,” he said. “There is no obvious alternative to  Tom
Enders , at least in the short term. Therefore, his position,
although weakened, is arguably stronger than Hintze’s.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  