-- ECB Says It Will Only Buy Bonds If Governments Sign Up to Terms
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-10-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ecb-says-it-will-only-buy-bonds-if-governments-sign-up-to-terms.html
The European Central Bank reiterated
it will only buy bonds if governments agree to certain
conditions.  “We are ready to undertake” bond purchases “once all the
prerequisites are in place,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in
its monthly bulletin today, echoing President Mario Draghi’s
Oct. 4 policy statement. The ECB will consider government bond
purchases on the secondary market “to the extent that they are
warranted from a monetary policy perspective as long as program
conditionality is fully respected,” it said.  Draghi last month unveiled details of the so-called
Outright Monetary Transactions program, under which the ECB may
buy bonds in tandem with  Europe ’s bailout fund if a country asks
for aid. So far neither Spain nor  Italy , the nations that pushed
hardest for the program, have requested assistance because of
uncertainty over the conditions that would be attached.  The ECB would stop buying bonds if a government fails to
comply with the conditions.  The announcement of the OMT program has helped to alleviate
financial-market tensions over the past few weeks, “thereby
reducing concerns about the materialization of destructive
scenarios,” the ECB said. “It is now essential that
governments continue to implement the necessary steps to reduce
both fiscal and structural imbalances and proceed with financial
sector restructuring measures.”  The euro-area economy will “remain weak in the near term”
and “recover only gradually thereafter,” with risks to the
outlook on the downside, the ECB said. Inflation will drop below
2 percent next year and price risks are broadly balanced, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  