-- Egypt Islamists, Secularists Clash at Tahrir Square Protests
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2012-10-12T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/egypt-brotherhood-calls-for-protests-at-camel-battle-acquittal.html
Islamist supporters of President
Mohamed Mursi clashed with secular activists in Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square , in a showdown highlighting the tensions that have built
up since he took office in June.  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood organized protests to demand the
retrial of those acquitted this week of responsibility for the
deaths of demonstrators in last year’s uprising. Secular groups,
who also denounced that verdict, had earlier called for a rally
today to criticize Mursi’s presidency and the growing influence
of Islamism.  Scuffles broke out during today’s demonstrations after
secularists chanted slogans against Mursi, with the two sides
lobbing stones at each other. Mursi’s supporters carried banners
that read “No to a prosecutor who took part in shedding the
blood of martyrs.” Shopkeepers rolled down their shutters and
fled as tensions mounted in the area, and at least 30 people
were injured in the clashes.  Hisham Abu Eisha, manager of Qasr el-Aini hospital’s
admissions and emergency unit, told state-run Middle East  News
Agency  that 50 people injured in the clashes had been treated at
the hospital so far. Mohamed Shawki, manager of the Mounira
hospital, said that facility had treated 41, MENA reported.  The court ruling on Oct. 10 concerned the “Battle of the
Camel,” one of the most notorious incidents of the revolt
against  Hosni Mubarak . Several of those exonerated were senior
officials under Mubarak or members of his ruling party.  Clash With Prosecutor  Mursi late yesterday announced he was removing the
country’s top public prosecutor, Abdel-Meguid Mahmoud, following
the acquittals. He was to be named as ambassador to the Vatican,
the official Middle East News Agency reported.  Mahmoud refused to depart, saying the president doesn’t
have the right to remove him and setting the stage for a clash
between the executive and judiciary as a group of judges called
an emergency meeting over the order.  Secular parties had called for rallies partly to protest
what they say is an effort by the Brotherhood to dominate the
process of writing a new constitution. Mursi earlier this year
granted himself expanded powers, potentially including the right
to nominate members of a committee that will write the charter.  Mohamed el-Beltagi, a senior Brotherhood and Freedom and
Justice official, called on supporters to withdraw and
head back to their homes to “safeguard the nation,” according to
a post on the party’s Facebook page.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed Khalilelsayed in Cairo at 
 akhalilelsay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  