-- Telefonica Said to Get $5.5 Billion Germany Dividend
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-10-11T15:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/telefonica-said-to-get-5-5-billion-dividend-before-german-ipo.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish phone
company battling with growing debt and a potential rating cut,
received a dividend of 4.3 billion euros ($5.5 billion) from its
German business weeks before kicking off the unit’s initial
public offering, according to documents seen by  Bloomberg News .  The cash  dividend  was paid to Telefonica on Sept. 14,
presentations prepared by banks to gauge demand for the IPO
show. Telefonica at the same time canceled a “capital promise”
of 2.9 billion euros to Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG, which
will have net debt of 1.2 billion euros at the end of this year,
according to the documents.  The maneuver will help shore up the finances of Madrid-
based Telefonica as it seeks to avert another  rating  cut after
 Spain ’s debt was reduced to one level above junk by Standard &
Poor’s yesterday. Stripping the German mobile-phone unit of its
cash and increasing its net debt before the IPO could help lower
the unit’s average cost of capital, said Carlos Winzer, a senior
vice president at Moody’s Investors Service.  “Telefonica Deutschland had a very strong cash position
and no debt, so this move will allow the German unit to have a
more efficient balance sheet structure,” said Winzer, who has
covered Telefonica for 20 years.  The cost of insuring Telefonica bonds using credit-default
swaps fell by 10 basis points, or 3 percent, to 318 basis points
from an intraday high after Bloomberg’s report. That insurance
cost has declined 44 percent since reaching a record on June 27,
according to Bloomberg data.  Paring Losses  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Telefonica  shares  pared earlier losses of as much as 1.7
percent and closed 0.5 percent higher at 10.21 euros in  Madrid .
The stock has fallen 24 percent this year, valuing the company
at 46.4 billion euros.  A Telefonica official declined to comment, as did Roland
Kuntze, a spokesman for Munich-based Telefonica Deutschland.  Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is reversing
Telefonica’s decade-long expansion strategy based on
acquisitions and is selling assets from Germany, Latin America
to China to help pare more than 58 billion euros in net debt.  Since 2007  Telefonica plans to sell a stake of 20 percent to 30
percent in Telefonica Deutschland, the documents show. The
shares will start trading in Frankfurt this quarter, the company
said last week.  A 20 percent stake for as much as 1.5 billion euros would
value Telefonica Deutschland’s equity at 7.5 billion euros,
people familiar with the matter have said. A 1.5 billion-euro
IPO would be the biggest in Germany since engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM) 
raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  Of the 4.3 billion-euro cash dividend Telefonica received
last month, 1.3 billion euros came from Telefonica Deutschland’s
cash reserves, according to the documents. The dividend also
includes a 1.25 billion-euro inter-company loan and 1.05 billion
euros from operational free  cash flow  plus cash from transfer
agreements, with the remaining 700 million euros from proceeds
from carve-out assets, the documents show.  Telefonica Deutschland, with 18.8 million mobile-phone
customers at the end of June, vies for the position of the
third-largest wireless company in Germany, where  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the leaders.  The Telefonica unit’s revenue will climb by 3 percent
annually between 2012 and 2015 as the mobile-phone business will
offset weaker growth from fixed-line and cable, according to the
documents. Operating income before depreciation and amortization
may increase 5 percent annually in the period, the documents
show.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are managing the IPO, with
help from  Bank of America  Corp.,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  