-- Emanuel Says Obama Will Sink Shot He Needs After Debate Loss
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-11T16:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/emanuel-says-obama-always-sinks-the-shot-he-needs-in-politics.html
Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said his
former boss, President  Barack Obama , always scores the political
points he needs to win when he needs them.  Emanuel, who was Obama’s first White House chief of staff,
used a basketball metaphor to describe his confidence that Obama
will regain momentum in the presidential race.  “He is the ultimate three-point shooter with three seconds
left on the clock,” Emanuel, 52, said at a Bloomberg Breakfast
in Chicago. “That’s when he performs better. He has throughout
his career.”  Emanuel made his comments in Bloomberg’s Chicago bureau
when asked to assess the political landscape after Obama’s
lopsided loss in the first presidential debate against
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney . Since that Oct. 3 encounter,
Romney has gained ground on the incumbent in national and
battleground state polls.  The mayor declined to say whether he has given Obama any
advice for his next debate, on Oct. 16 in  Hempstead, New York .  “He doesn’t need my advice to say we can’t have another
debate like that,” he said.  Jobs Numbers  While acknowledging Romney “did better” than Obama in the
first debate, he said a report last week showing the national
 unemployment rate  declining to 7.8 percent in September
“recalibrated” the race after the first debate.  He called the jobs report a “circuit breaker kind of
event” that stopped the negative story line for Obama after his
debate performance.  In a close race such as this one, Emanuel said “every day,
every hour counts” and Democrats must stay focused.  Emanuel said he expects to campaign on Obama’s behalf in
the coming weeks. He’s not yet certain of his state assignments,
although they may be Florida and Ohio.  “I will do whatever it takes to get President Obama re-
elected,” he said.  After taking a respite from fundraising, Emanuel said he’s
again working to raise money for Priorities USA Action, a super-
political action committee founded by former White House
officials. The mayor said he’s doing his part to “help them stay
on the air” with  television advertising  against Romney.  Biden-Ryan Debate  Vice President  Joe Biden  and Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, face off tonight in  Kentucky  in what will
be the only vice presidential debate this year.  Biden and Obama have to have “strong performances to
explain to people their vision of the future and what they’re
going to do to help the middle class,” Emanuel said.  While vice presidential debates typically don’t matter much
in presidential races, Emanuel said he expects a large TV-
viewing audience tonight as he pointed to the shrinking pool of
undecided voters in a half-dozen states that have a history of
voting for either major party candidate.  “That 6 percent in six states is going to decide
something,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  