-- Emerging Market Stocks Snap Three Days of Declines
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-11T21:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/emerging-stocks-drop-to-four-week-low-on-spain-rating-cut.html
Emerging-market stocks increased for
the first time in four days as central banks in Brazil and South
Korea cut rates to bolster growth and a unit of China’s
sovereign wealth fund vowed to support banking shares.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.4 percent to 995.95.
Brazil’s Bovespa index gained with oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  fueling the advance. Turkey’s benchmark stock
index jumped to the highest level since May 2011, while equity
gauges in India, Hungary, Mexico and  South Africa  also surged.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest
lender by market value, climbed to a five-month high in  Hong
Kong .  South Korea cut interest rates hours after Brazil as
economies around the world shield themselves from the risk of a
deeper slowdown driven by weakness in China and austerity
measures in Europe. First-time jobless claims in the U.S.
dropped to the least since February 2008, adding to signs of
improvement in the labor market.  “Investors tend to perceive the rate cut as a positive in
the short term,”  Michael Henderson , an economist at  Capital
Economics , said in a phone interview from London. “A lot of
people were expecting a little more easing to happen and this
move has been welcomed.”  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.9
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 4.9 percent.  ICBC Gains  ICBC, as China’s largest bank is known, advanced 4.3
percent. Central Huijin Investment Ltd., a unit of China’s
sovereign wealth fund, started acquiring shares in the nation’s
four largest banks including ICBC yesterday, the Beijing-based
fund said in a statement on its website. The fund will continue
“related market operations,” it said.  The Bovespa  index (VXEEM)  increased for the first time in three
days, climbing 1.2 percent. Brazil’s central bank cut the
benchmark lending rate to boost the recovery in the world’s
second-largest emerging economy. The bank’s board reduced the
target lending rate by a quarter-percentage point to a record
low 7.25 percent yesterday.  Petrobras surged the most since Sept. 14, climbing 1.7
percent. Oil gained 1.3 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on concern tensions between Syria and Turkey will
disrupt supplies.  Job Market  Applications for  jobless benefits  dropped 30,000 to 339,000
in the week ended Oct. 6, Labor Department figures showed today.
Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. One state accounted for most of
the plunge in claims, a Labor Department spokesman said as the
data were issued to the press.  “The key data in the U.S. is the job market,”  Sebastien Barbe , the head of emerging markets research and strategy at
Credit Agricole CIB, said by phone from Paris today. “And the
fact that it is improving means we could see reacceleration of
exports.”  A gauge of  financial stocks  led the advance in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index with a 1.2 percent increase. The broader
measure has climbed 8.7 percent this year, trailing an 11
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries.
The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 13.1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  index dropped 1.8 percent, the most since
July 23, leading declines among gauges in Asia. South Korea’s
Kospi index sank 0.8 percent as the central bank cut the
country’s growth forecast.  Commodities Gain  Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index rose 1.6 percent after a
report showed the current-account deficit narrowed to a three-
year low in August.  The S&P GSCI  gauge  of 24 raw materials climbed to the
highest since Sept. 17 as copper and aluminum advanced.  Indian stocks climbed the most in a week after Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said there’s no serious threat
of a credit rating downgrade and more policy measures would be
implemented to revive growth.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which sells more than 25 percent of its
vehicles in South Korea and Europe, dropped 1.7 percent to a
one-month low in Seoul.  HTC Corp. (2498)  slumped 6.9 percent in Taipei
after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. downgraded the stock.  The Bank of Korea lowered its forecast for the nation’s
growth in 2012 to 2.4 percent from a July estimate of 3 percent
as it cut the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to 2.75
percent from 3 percent, a decision predicted by 13 of 16
economists.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 296, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  