-- Merkel Curbs Renewables to Limit Voter Anger on Power Bills
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-10-12T09:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/merkel-curbs-renewables-to-limit-voter-backlash-on-power-bills.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
decision to cap taxpayer subsidies for renewable energy is aimed
at limiting the political fallout among voters from a surge in
electricity bills due next week.  With the grid operators planning to announce an increase in
the surcharge consumers pay for clean energy on Oct. 15, the
government said it will extend caps on subsides for solar energy
to more technologies including wind and biomass. The plan is
designed to contain the rising costs of scrapping nuclear power.  Consumers in  Europe ’s biggest economy face an extra 59
euros ($77) on their power bills next year as the annual
adjustment to the surcharge probably will climb 47 percent, the
nation’s BWE wind lobby said today. Rising energy costs are
adding to pressure on Merkel’s coalition to cushion the blow by
reining in public support for renewables before elections
scheduled for the autumn of 2013.  “This is the stick the opposition will try to beat Merkel
with,” William Pearson, an energy analyst at the Eurasia Group,
said in an interview. “I expect rising power prices to be an
issue for the next five years. They could turn into a real
political problem if the economy stops growing.”  The proposals announced yesterday to reform the clean-
energy subsidy system mark the most sweeping changes to
 Germany ’s support mechanisms for renewables since the country
adopted feed-in tariffs in 2004. Those rules granted renewable
generators above-market prices for the power they produce and
made Germany the world’s biggest market for solar panels.  ‘Bothering’ Voters  Outlining his plans for a draft bill due next year,
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier said the rise in power
prices “bothers me, because it’s bothering the people.” He
pledged help from the government.  “We knew from the start that the energy switch can’t be
realized for free,” Altmaier told reporters. “However, I want
to prevent costs that can be prevented.”  Merkel’s government, already preoccupied with tackling the
debt crisis in the euro area, is struggling to justify the
rising costs for consumers from her decision to phase out
nuclear power and replace it with more expensive wind and solar
plants. Merkel, seeking a third term, has signaled that the euro
crisis and the energy overhaul will be her main campaign themes.  Support for shutting nuclear plants remains high, a TNS
Emnid poll for N24 television showed yesterday. While 69 percent
of voters said they’re behind the plan even with power prices
rising, 81 percent said they expect the government to help
alleviate the rising costs. TNS Emnid surveyed 1,000 people on
Oct. 10. No margin of error was given.  Fukushima Overturn  For all the public backing, the original decision to
abandon nuclear power was pioneered by the opposition Social
Democratic Party and their Green allies under SPD Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder. Both parties, whose plan was overturned by
Merkel in 2010 then reinstated six months later after Fukushima,
accuse Altmaier of mismanaging the task.  Merkel’s SPD challenger,  Peer Steinbrueck , has meanwhile
boosted the SPD’s approval rates since his nomination on Oct. 1,
narrowing the lead held by Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc to
between 4 percentage points and 9 points in polls.  Germany, which gets about a quarter of its power from
renewables, spent about 16 billion euros on clean energy
technologies in 2011, according to the country’s four grid
operators. The economic crisis is hurting developers by
hampering access to financing and has prompted Spain,  France ,
 Italy  and the U.K. to curb incentives for the industry.  Industry Cost  The German economy is at a disadvantage because subsidy
costs are spiralling out of control, said the country’s BDI
industry association. Companies will probably have to pay 4
billion euros to help finance the subsidies next year, said
Markus Kerber, the head of the group.  The industry’s complaints are unfair, Hermann Albers, the
president of the BWE wind lobby, said today. Exemptions for
energy-intensive companies, low prices on power exchanges and
leftover costs from 2012 are responsible for more than half of
the new fee, he told reporters in Berlin.  Without reform of the subsidy system, another 175 euros
would be added to domestic power bills by 2022, according to
Frauke Rogalla, who is responsible for energy policy at the
Federation of German Consumer Organizations, a consumer advocacy
group.  “Costs will go up in the coming years because Germany bets
on expensive offshore wind and is modernizing its power
transmission system,” said Pearson at the Eurasia Group. “The
problem is Germany has limited options as gas is expensive and
coal unpopular. Under any government, prices would rise.”  The debate over power prices is short-sighted because
Germany will save 570 billion euros by 2050 if it scraps nuclear
plants, the Renewable Energy Research Association, a group of
clean-energy research institutes, said on Oct. 10.  “The investments made now, at the beginning, will pay off
within a foreseeable time frame and have a positive economic
impact,” the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  