-- Tesoro California Plant Swap Proposed as Antitrust Antidote
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-10-11T20:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/tesoro-california-plant-swap-proposed-as-antitrust-antidote-1-.html
Intensifying regulatory scrutiny of
record gasoline prices in  California  may force  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  to
sell its Los Angeles-area refinery to complete a $1.18 billion
purchase of a larger  BP Plc (BP/)  plant in the state.  Tesoro proposed selling its 97,000 barrel-a-day Wilmington
refinery to overcome any government antitrust opposition to the
acquisition, according to a company filing. Adding BP’s 266,000
barrel-a-day Carson refinery would double Tesoro’s California
market share, making it the state’s largest crude processor with
control of 25 percent of refining capacity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  As gasoline prices in the state soared amid refinery and
pipeline outages, both of California’s U.S. senators requested
federal investigations yesterday, a state senator called for
hearings and a consumer watchdog group asked state Attorney
General  Kamala Harris  to block Tesoro’s deal with BP. Harris is
reviewing the acquisition for its potential market impact.  “Adequate competition is crucial to keep gasoline prices
as low as possible,” Harris said in an e-mail message
yesterday.  “Tesoro remains confident that once all the facts are in,
the data will support regulatory approval of the transaction,”
Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman for Tesoro, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  “We believe the transaction is pro-competitive,” said
 Scott Dean , a BP spokesman. The deal is expected to close by the
middle of 2013, according to the companies.  Tesoro, based in San Antonio, is buying BP’s Carson
refinery along with an import-export terminal and 800 retail
stations across the Southwest. The purchase would put 63 percent
of the state’s refinery capacity under the control of Tesoro,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Antitrust Solution  In anticipation of antitrust concerns around its Carson
purchase, Tesoro agreed to sell or otherwise dispose of the
Wilmington refinery if regulators tried to block the deal,
according to the purchase and sale agreement between BP and
Tesoro filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on
Aug. 13.  If Tesoro sold the Wilmington plant to keep Carson, the
company would sacrifice its plans to integrate the two
refineries. Combining the plants’ operations would cut costs and
reduce  carbon emissions  at Wilmington by at least 30 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Gregory Goff said Aug. 18 when the deal
was announced.  California has forced a refinery divestiture in the past as
a condition of approving an acquisition. In 1999, Exxon Corp.
 agreed to sell  its Benicia refinery to Valero in order to win
approval from then-California Attorney General Bill Lockyer of
its $79.9 billion merger with Mobil Corp.  Price Trigger  “There was a concern that the new entity would have too
much market influence by having a refinery in  San Francisco  and
Benicia, so they had to divest of Benicia and sell several
hundred service stations,” Harold York, principal analyst for
oil research at Wood Mackenzie Ltd. in Houston, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The recent rise in gasoline
prices illustrates why the attorney general looks at these sorts
of issues.”  The Federal Trade Commission will have the final say on
whether Tesoro’s Carson purchase is approved. The agency will
look “very seriously” at the California attorney general’s
concerns, York said.  Peter Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment.  Tesoro, which rose to the highest level in more than four
years on the day the purchase was announced, may have to pay
London-based BP a $150 million penalty if the transaction
doesn’t close, according to the purchase agreement. Tesoro fell
0.3 percent to $38.59 at the close in  New York .  Consumer Opposition  Consumer Watchdog , a California advocacy group that calls
for lower gasoline prices, asked Harris to reject the
transaction.  “California’s drivers and the state economy will pay the
price for this merger at the pump,” Consumer Watchdog wrote
Harris in a letter yesterday. “We ask you to halt it on
antitrust grounds.”  California gasoline prices leaped to an all-time high of
$4.671 a gallon Oct. 9, according to data from AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring organization. Prices rose 50 cents last week
after an Exxon Mobil Los-Angeles area refinery reduced
production Oct. 1 because of a  power failure .  That followed the September shutdown of a Chevron pipeline
and an August fire at Chevron’s Richmond, California refinery.
Chevron fell 4.2 percent, the most in almost a year, to $112.45
at the close in New York yesterday after announcing that a crude
unit in the 240,000 barrel-a-day refinery will remain offline
until the end of the year.  Investigations Multiply  U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein  asked the Federal Trade
Commission to investigate the price spikes and U.S. Senator
 Barbara Boxer  asked the  Department of Justice  to do the same.
Both senators are California Democrats. State Senator Mark Leno
said he intended to hold a legislative hearing on the matter.  The state’s “price squeeze” will lead regulators to
scrutinize the deal more thoroughly,  David Hackett , president of
Stillwater Associates LLC, an  Irvine , California-based energy
consulting firm, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Tesoro would probably struggle to find a buyer for its
Wilmington plant, which shares a fenceline with BP’s larger
Carson refinery, in the event regulators block the deal, Hackett
said.  “I don’t know anybody who would buy Tesoro Wilmington,”
Hackett said.  Cutting Emissions  California is aiming to cut the state’s greenhouse-gas
emissions by implementing a cap-and-trade system and requiring a
10 percent reduction of the carbon intensity of transportation
fuels sold by 2020.  The latter law, dubbed a “low-carbon fuel standard,”
would raise costs for refiners and could force four to six
refineries in the state to close, erasing as much as 30 percent
of the state’s refining capacity and triggering gasoline
shortages as early as 2015, according to a June industry-funded
study by the  Boston Consulting Group .  “This market is not for everyone,” Amy Myers Jaffe,
executive director of energy and sustainability at the
 University of California , Davis, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Californians are going to have to choose between
the ideal environmental regulations and prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  