-- Metal Pages Plans Online Exchange for Stainless-Steel Metals
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-10-11T13:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/metal-pages-plans-online-exchange-for-stainless-steel-metals-1-.html
Metal Pages , a U.K. provider of
commodity prices and information, plans to introduce an online
exchange that will start with trading of metals connected to
stainless steel and may expand into tin and zinc.  Metal-Lynx is scheduled to begin operating early next year,
Metal Pages said today in an e-mailed statement. Initial trading
will include chromium and manganese, it showed. The exchange
will have professional-networking features similar to those on
LinkedIn Corp.’s website enabling users to form their own
trading groups, according to the statement.  “Bringing ferroalloys trading onto an exchange will aid
price discovery and increase market efficiency,”  Mark Wilson ,
chief commercial officer at Thompson Creek Metals Co., said in
the statement. The Littleton, Colorado-based company is the
world’s sixth-biggest molybdenum supplier, according to
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Steel producers and mining companies have offered
“considerable industry support,” according to the statement.
At least one has committed to trade on the exchange, it showed.  Nigel Tunna, managing director of Teddington, England-based
Metal Pages, will be co-managing director of Metal-Lynx with
Norman Shapiro, who runs trading company Barex Resources, the
statement showed.  Global stainless-steel production fell 0.2 percent to 17.2
million metric tons in this year’s first six months, according
to the International Stainless Steel Forum. World leader  China 
increased output by 1.1 percent to 7.1 million tons. Molybdenum
for delivery in three months dropped 19 percent over the past
year on the London Metal Exchange, which introduced a futures
contract in 2010. Six contracts were traded last month in total.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  