-- MetroPCS, Board Sued by Investor Over T-Mobile Combination
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-11T22:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/metropcs-board-sued-by-investor-over-t-mobile-combination.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. and its
board were sued by an investor claiming the company’s proposed
combination with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA fails to
provide stockholders with adequate compensation.  Paul Benn, a shareholder in the mobile-phone company,
argued the deal would give Deutsche Telekom an “unfair and
unjustified windfall” and the directors failed their duty to
get the best deal, according to a complaint filed today in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Benn seeks to represent
all investors as a group.  Drew Crowell, a spokesman for MetroPCS, wasn’t immediately
available to respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment
on the lawsuit. T-Mobile USA media relations also wasn’t
immediately able to provide comment.  After the proposed transaction is completed, Deutsche
Telekom,  Germany ’s largest phone company, would own 74 percent
of the combined company. MetroPCS shareholders would get the
remaining 26 percent and a $1.5 billion cash payment, the
companies said in an Oct. 3 statement announcing the deal.  The combined entity would keep the T-Mobile name and be run
by John Legere, chief executive officer of  T-Mobile USA , who
took control last month.  Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS  jumped  18 percent the day
before the deal was made public after Bloomberg first reported
that the companies were close to a deal.  ‘Negative Perception’  The company’s shares dropped 9.8 percent to $12.24 the next
day after the transaction’s details were disclosed, “reflecting
the markets negative perception of the grossly unfair terms” of
the proposed deal, Benn said in court papers. Benn contends
analysts were anticipating MetroPCS to get from 30 percent to as
much as 38 percent of the combined entity.  T-Mobile, which had about 33 million customers at the end
of June, will gain about 9.3 million MetroPCS customers, giving
it about 42.5 million. That still leaves the company as the
fourth largest U.S. carrier behind Sprint, which has about 57
million customers and  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T which have about
100 million apiece.  The case is Benn v.  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , CA7938,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  