-- EU Said to Consider Delay in Basel Rules for Up to a Year
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-12T08:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/eu-said-to-weigh-delaying-basel-bank-rules-for-up-to-a-year.html
The European Union may consider
pushing back when lenders need to start phasing in tougher Basel
bank-capital rules by as much as a year after warnings that
pressing ahead with the original timetable may drive up costs,
according to three people familiar with the talks.  EU lawmakers and officials, facing a Jan. 1 international
deadline for incorporating the rules, held the latest in a
series of meetings yesterday on how the bloc should implement
the Basel measures, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Representatives of Cyprus, which holds the rotating EU
presidency, and legislators from the European Parliament,
discussed whether the start date for phasing in the measures
within the bloc could be delayed beyond the beginning of next
year, said the people. Possible alternative dates might include
July 1, 2013, or Jan. 1, 2014, one of the people said.  “A delay would give more oxygen to banks to solve their
capital problems,” said Marco Elser, a partner at investment
bank Advicorp Plc in  Rome . “The oxygen is the time, which will
give banks more options.”  The implementation date was on the agenda for yesterday’s
meeting, which also included draft liquidity rules for lenders
and capital requirements for when banks finance international
trade, four people said.  Othmar Karas , the lawmaker leading work on the draft rules
in the European Parliament, denied that any discussion took
place at the meeting on a change of dates for when the rules
might enter into force.  ‘Time Schedule’  “A change of the dates of entry-into-force of the new
capital requirements for European banks has never been
discussed,” Karas said in an e-mail. “The time schedule of the
implementation will be discussed in the last round of
negotiations and not a moment before.”  Karas has requested written comments on the issue of when
the legislation should enter into force, a person said.  “The question of timing hasn’t been discussed and Mr.
Karas has not asked for written comments,” Daniel Koster, a
spokesman for the parliament’s EPP group, of which Karas is a
member, said by phone.  Delaying the official deadlines for complying with the
Basel measures “will still not prevent some institutions from
seeking to meet the new requirements ahead of their competition
in order to enhance their market position,”  Richard Reid ,
research director for the International Centre for Financial
Regulation in London, said in an e-mail.  ‘Wholly Unreasonable’  European banks have said the original start date is
“wholly unreasonable” given that the final details of the EU’s
implementation of the measures is still unknown. Trying to
prepare for rules that are still in flux could drive up their
costs, the lenders said.  Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, cites the
implementation date as one of 17 outstanding issues to be
resolved during negotiations with the parliament on the law,
according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Other matters to be settled include the scope for curbs on
bankers’ bonuses and how far national bank regulators can exceed
 capital requirements  set by the EU, according to the document,
which was prepared to update governments on the state of play in
the talks ahead of this week’s meeting.  Bonus Curbs  The Group of 20 nations agreed in 2010 that the Basel rules
should be phased in from next January and should be fully
applied by 2019.  The EU has struggled to agree on how to apply the Basel
rulebook for banks as legislators and officials spar over curbs
on bonuses and how to ensure lenders can weather funding
squeezes. The measures would more than triple the core capital
that banks must hold as a buffer against insolvency.  No decision on any delay was made at yesterday’s meeting
and further discussions on the draft law will take place later
this month, the people said. Further negotiation meetings are
scheduled for Oct. 23 and Oct. 24 in an attempt to make headway.
The possible delay to the start of the phase-in process was on
the agenda of yesterday’s meeting in Brussels.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said this week that it may be possible to reach a
political deal on the draft law later this month.  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman Barnier, declined to
immediately comment.  Start Date  This week the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the
global standard-setting body that prepared the rules, admitted
not all nations will meet the 2013 start date.  “Policy makers are increasingly looking to address the
weaknesses in a broken credit transmission system as the
economic outlook deteriorates,” Huw Van Steenis, head of
European banking analysis at Morgan Stanley, said in an e-mail.  “We also see regulators trying to avoid the mistakes of
last year of accelerating deleveraging through overly swift
implementation of new more onerous rules, although the markets
will nonetheless keep the pressure up given the rules have been
announced,” Van Steenis said.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
yesterday surged as much as 2.2 percent, the most since Oct. 1.
The index advanced 0.7 percent at 8:55 a.m.  London  time.  Open Recognition  “What we’re seeing here is an open recognition by the EU
that there is a combination of forces at work making it
unrealistic to expect full compliance with the Basel rules on
the original timescale,” Reid said. “Some jurisdictions have
already made it clear that this is no longer feasible or perhaps
even desirable.”  The possible European delay in the start of the phase-in
process comes as global regulators seek to bolster their
defenses against too-big-to-fail banks.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together G-20
finance ministry officials, central bankers and regulators,
yesterday announced additional capital rules for lenders whose
failure could roil national economies, and updated a list of
banks whose collapse could bring down the global financial
system.  The Basel committee this week published a progress report
on nations’ implementation of the Basel III rules, identifying
Argentina and  Turkey  as those countries that are  furthest behind 
with their rule-making.  China, Japan and  Singapore  have already published final
rules, the report said, while the European Union and U.S. are
still working on draft regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  