-- Europe Wins Praise From Geithner, Cohn as IMF, Germany Spar
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-11T21:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/europe-wins-praise-from-geithner-cohn-as-imf-germany-spar-1-.html
Europe’s efforts to counter the
fiscal crisis won praise from international finance chiefs and
bankers even as  Germany  and the International Monetary Fund
clashed over the next measure in the fight.  As the IMF hosts its annual meeting in Tokyo, U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said yesterday that the euro area
is now on a “much more powerful, promising path.”  Bank of
America  Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told
Bloomberg Television that although the turmoil will “ebb and
flow,” it is now in a “pretty good equilibrium.”  The sentiment has shifted from a year ago, when Geithner
used the IMF talks to say Europe’s lackluster policy response
left the region prone to “catastrophic risk.” What’s changed
is euro-area governments now have a permanent 500 billion-euro
($646 billion) rescue fund and the European Central Bank stands
ready to buy bonds from stressed sovereigns.  The ECB “removed a lot of the risk off the table,”
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President and Chief Operating Officer
Gary Cohn said in an interview.  Europe’s strains are again the central challenge facing the
IMF’s 188 member nations. The Washington-based lender said this
week that failure to remedy them was helping to generate an
“alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown in the world
economy, already on course to expand this year by the least
since the 2009 recession.  ‘Bad News’  Noting there is always “good news and bad news” with the
euro region, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde proposed
allowing countries such as  Greece  and Spain more time to reduce
their budget deficits. She also suggested debt reductions may be
needed in Greece before a 130 billion-euro bailout can proceed.  “It’s sometimes better to have a bit more time,” she told
reporters, two days after an IMF study concluded worldwide
budget cuts are having a bigger impact on economic output than
previously reckoned.  The proposals were pushed back by German Finance Wolfgang Schaeuble, who said that European governments cannot accept
losses on their Greek debt holdings and that when there is a
“medium-term goal, it doesn’t build confidence when one starts
going in a different direction.”  Global Drag  All the warm words toward  Europe ’s reinvigorated strategy
were couched with concern that it could still backslide and will
remain a drag on expansion worldwide.  Three years to the month since Greece’s budget woes sparked
the biggest threat to the euro’s existence and with the 17-
nation economy set for recession, Spain now sits in the sights
of investors. As it mulls whether to ask for a bailout and
accept the conditions required for the ECB to start buying its
bonds, the country’s debt rating was cut this week to one level
above junk by Standard & Poor’s.  Having fallen from a peak of 7.75 percent in July, the
Spanish 10-year bond yield is creeping back up after Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy last week pushed back expectations of
aid, telling reporters no request was imminent.  “The debt and financial-sector problems in Europe pose the
biggest downside risk to the global economy,” Japanese Finance
Minister Koriki Jojima told reporters.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said in an interview
that although there is “cautious optimism,” Europe’s banks are
weak, and some need recapitalizing.  ‘Spectacular Job’  While ECB President Mario Draghi is doing a “spectacular
job,” the central bank cannot address Europe’s long-term growth
flaws and it’s likely a euro-area member will leave at some
point, Goldman Sachs’s Cohn said.  The euro-area’s success in implementing reforms is still
being underestimated, said Schaeuble, citing declines in budget
deficits and improvements in competitiveness.  “We have made more progress than one would think” when
looking at the headlines, he said.  Beyond the headache of Europe, Geithner said U.S. lawmakers
should not delay dealing with the $600 billion in government
spending cuts and tax increases which are set to take effect at
the beginning of next year unless Congress acts.  A pact that allows for deficit reduction over time and
opens up room for investment in the shorter-term would leave the
U.S. with “the potential to grow significantly faster” he
said. “We’re going to take a run at it.”  Japan ’s Jojima said he told a short meeting of Group of
Seven central bankers and finance ministers that the yen is
hurting his economy as it trades close to the postwar high of
75.35 per dollar reached last October.  Emerging Markets  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the so-called
BRICS nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa
are working to create a pool of reserves to provide a
“rearguard” of financial support.  “The best moment to do this is now when we, the BRICS,
don’t need this help,” he said.  Still, officials including Lagarde warned that such
 emerging markets  are now slowing alongside developed
counterparts in a change from recent years.  “We are seriously concerned about the fragility of the
global economic and financial situation,” the Group of 24
developing nations said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  Tokyo  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Tokyo at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  