-- European Stocks Rise First Day in Four; Burberry Gains
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-11T16:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/europe-stock-index-futures-drop-as-s-p-downgrades-spain.html
European stocks  advanced for the
first time in four days as U.S. jobless claims fell to a four-
year low and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  led luxury-goods makers higher.  Burberry jumped the most in more than 10 years as it
reported second-quarter same-store sales that topped analyst
estimates.  Carrefour SA (CA)  climbed 3.7 percent after the world’s
second-largest retailer posted third-quarter sales that beat
estimates.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  led Spanish banks lower
after Standard & Poor’s downgraded the country’s debt to one
level above junk.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.8 percent to 270.84 at
the close of trading. The measure has still lost 1.2 percent so
far this week as the International Monetary Fund cut its global
growth forecasts and European Union leaders met to discuss the
region’s debt crisis.  “The U.S. jobless report was very positive,” said Pierre Mouton, a portfolio manager who helps oversee $6 billion at Notz
Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “These numbers are encouraging and
should help the market recover.”  Jobless claims in the world’s biggest economy fell
unexpectedly to the lowest since February 2008. Applications for
unemployment benefits dropped 30,000 to 339,000 in the week
ended Oct. 6 from 367,000 for the prior period, Labor Department
data showed. Economists forecast 370,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. Economy  Last week, a Labor Department release showed the jobless
rate unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in September, the lowest
since January 2009.  The U.S.  trade deficit  widened in August to $44.2 billion
from a revised $42.5 billion in July, a Commerce Department
report showed. Economists had projected an increase to $44
billion.  The U.S. economy expanded “modestly” last month and
conditions in manufacturing were “somewhat improved,” the
Federal Reserve said yesterday in its Beige Book business
survey, based on accounts from the 12 district Fed banks.  Demand rose at an Italian debt auction today. The Rome-
based Treasury sold 3.75 billion euros of its benchmark three-
year debt to yield 2.86 percent at an auction today, as
investors bid for 1.67 times the amount offered, up from 1.49
times last month.  Spain Downgrade  S&P lowered Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk,
citing increasing economic and political risks. The country’s
worsening recession is “limiting the Spanish government’s
policy options,” S&P said in a statement late yesterday,
lowering its rating by two levels to BBB- from BBB+. S&P
assigned a negative outlook to Spain’s long-term rating and cut
the short-term sovereign level to A-3 from A-2.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said today at a
press conference in  Tokyo  that  Greece  should get two years to
meet fiscal targets and suggested debt reductions are needed
before a 130 billion-euro ($167 billion) bailout can proceed.  Separately, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said
today euro-area governments agree that any decision on Greece
will be taken after the IMF, the European Commission and the ECB
publish their review.  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 16 percent from a June 4 low as
the ECB agreed on an unlimited bond-buying plan and the Fed
announced a third round of quantitative easing.  “Substantial monetary stimulus from global central banks
is likely to provide support for financial markets over the near
term,” Luca Paolini, chief strategist at Pictet Asset
Management in  London , said in e-mailed comments. “We remain
overweight in European stocks mainly on valuation grounds.”  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.9 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 gained 1.4 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX rose 1.1
percent.  Burberry surged 13 percent to 1,136 pence, the biggest gain
since at least July 2002, after the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods
maker said sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent
in the second-quarter, beating the average analyst estimate
calling for a 1 percent drop.  That’s an improvement on the unchanged performance Burberry
reported on Sept. 11 for the first 10 weeks of the period.
Burberry raised its outlook for retail and wholesale operating
margins in the first half to be “at least in line” with last
year, rather than lower as previously forecast.  Louis Vuitton  A gauge of personal and household-goods companies was the
second-biggest gainer among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  climbed 3.8 percent to
122.95 euros, Cie. Financiere Richemont SA added 4.5 percent to
59.90 Swiss francs and  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  advanced 3.6 percent to
108.30 euros.  Carrefour advanced 3.7 percent to 16.58 euros after the
French retailer said third-quarter revenue rose 2.1 percent to
22.6 billion euros, topping the average analyst estimate of 22.4
billion euros.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  rose 2.4 percent to 328.5 pence after Chief
Executive Officer Ian King said the company is “strong and
financially robust.” Adjusted earnings per share will show
“modest growth” this year if price negotiations with Saudi
Arabia over a fighter-jet order are concluded on time, the
London-based company said today.  BAE and European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. said
yesterday they terminated their planned merger because of
government resistance.  Bumi Jumps  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  soared 39 percent to 259 pence, the most since its
London listing in July 2010, after PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk
proposed an asset swap. The Bakrie Group offered to exchange a
23.8 percent stake in Bumi for 10.3 percent of PT Bumi
Resources, Bumi said in a statement.  The proposal comes after Bumi said last month it began
investigating “potential financial and other irregularities”
at Bumi Resources and hired lawyers to look into a $637 million
writedown of development funds and exploration assets.  Banco Popular slid 4.9 percent to 1.30 euros.  Bankia SA (BKIA) 
dropped 0.3 percent to 1.02 euros, paring earlier losses of as
much as 3.8 percent.  Siemens AG (SIE)  retreated 1.3 percent to 77.05 euros after
Deutsche Bank AG cut its recommendation on the shares to hold
from buy.  Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling SA dropped 4.9 percent to 15.66
euros as Greece’s largest company by market value plans to
transfer its main stock listing from  Athens  to London.  Coca-Cola HBC AG, a new company established in Switzerland
by one of the bottler’s main shareholders will make a share-
exchange offer for Coca-Cola Hellenic and seek a primary listing
in the U.K., according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  