-- Teva to Test MS Pill Laquinimod in Combination Therapy
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-11T12:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/teva-to-test-ms-pill-laquinimod-in-combination-therapy.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
will test its experimental multiple-sclerosis pill in
combination therapies as the company mounts a response to oral
competitors to its best-selling injection Copaxone.  The Israeli company is likely to start two clinical trials
next year combining laquinimod with other drugs, President of
Global Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer
Michael Hayden said in an interview at an MS conference in Lyon,
 France . One of the trials may seek to combine laquinimod with
Copaxone, Hayden said.  “We haven’t pulled the trigger on it but we are getting
very close,” Hayden said, referring to the possible combination
with Copaxone. In multiple sclerosis, “nobody uses combination
therapy. It’s really strange.” Combining another treatment to
laquinimod would mean a “paradigm change” in the the care of
multiple sclerosis, Hayden said.  “With the dual mechanisms, we have a chance to do that,”
he said.  Teva is searching for a new approach to MS treatments as
Copaxone’s dominance begins to be threatened by pills such as
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s BG-12, which is
awaiting a decision from U.S. regulators. Teva also said today
that it’s submitting its three-times weekly version of Copaxone
for approval in the beginning of 2013.  Slowing Deterioration  While laquinimod failed to beat competing products in
clinical trials on reducing the rates at which patients
experience relapses, Teva is continuing development because
studies suggest it slows the deterioration in physical ability
caused by the disease. Teva is separately testing the pill in a
final round of human trials at a higher dose as it seeks to
verify that the drug effectively delays loss of muscle control
and balance.  A U.S. federal judge in New York handed Teva a ruling in
June that may keep generic versions of Copaxone off the market
until 2015. The victory may give Teva more time to switch
patients to a new, higher-dose version of the drug. Teva said
yesterday that a late-stage trial of a longer-acting formulation
reduced MS relapses more than a placebo and showed a
‘‘favorable” safety profile.  With a three times a week dose, patients on Copaxone “can
focus on having the week-end without it,” Hayden said.
“Weekends are times for different things, to be able to put
your medication away, have a weekend without having to worry
about it. For me, that would be an advantage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  