-- Ex-Armstrong Teammates Get Six-Month Bans After Drug Testimony
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-11T17:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ex-armstrong-teammates-get-six-month-bans-after-drug-testimony.html
Five American cyclists who testified
against  Lance Armstrong  to the  U.S. Anti-Doping Agency  will
receive six-month suspensions from the sport as a result of
their own admissions of drug use.  George Hincapie, Tom Danielson, Levi Leipheimer, Christian Vande Velde and David Zabriskie each acknowledged doping while a
teammate of Armstrong’s and accepted the six-month suspensions
as part of USADA’s investigation into the 41-year-old Texan’s
use of banned substances, which it released yesterday.  USA Cycling , the governing body for the sport in America,
said today in a statement that it would enforce the suspensions
retroactive to Sept. 1, and was reviewing their possible impact
on results. Other U.S. riders who testified against Armstrong
have left the sport.  “I would like to personally acknowledge the extraordinary
courage of these riders who placed their careers on the line in
order to come forward with their experiences of past doping
practices,” USA Cycling President and Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Johnson  said in the statement. “While this is an
extremely difficult time for the sport, I believe that riders of
today understand that doping is intolerable, that it will be
discovered, and that a decision to engage in doping in any form
is senseless.”  USADA yesterday released its doping case against Armstrong,
which presents the evidence it used two months ago to strip him
of his record seven  Tour de France  titles and ban him for life
from Olympic-related sports.  Documents released with the report include testimony from
former teammates and acquaintances, and e-mails that claim
Armstrong used banned substances, administered them to
teammates, tried to procure false affidavits and attempted to
prevent witnesses from testifying.  Armstrong, who survived testicular cancer that spread to
his lungs and brain before winning his first Tour de  France  in
1999, has repeatedly denied doping, saying he has never failed a
drug test.  Hincapie was Armstrong’s teammate for each of his seven
consecutive Tour de France victories through 2005. The other
four were teammates of Armstrong’s at various points throughout
his career.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  