-- Ex-UBS Client Roessel Avoids Prison in Offshore Tax Case
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-10-11T17:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ex-ubs-client-roessel-avoids-prison-in-offshore-tax-case.html
Wolfgang Roessel, a former client of
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and Wegelin & Co., avoided prison for failing to report
more than $11 million in Swiss accounts to U.S. tax authorities.  Roessel, 71, was sentenced today in federal court in Miami
to eight months of home confinement and three years of
supervised release. He was also fined $10,000. He pleaded guilty
on May 30, admitting he filed a false tax return for 2007 and
didn’t file Reports of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or
FBARs, from 2002 to 2007. He has paid $6.5 million in a civil
FBAR penalty and back taxes.  Roessel cooperated with prosecutors in a crackdown on
offshore tax evasion. The U.S. charged at least 50 taxpayers
with tax crimes since 2009, when UBS avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it helped thousands of Americans
evade taxes and turning over the names of 250 American clients
to U.S. authorities. UBS, based in Zurich, later revealed
another 4,450 accounts.  “Mr. Roessel does not claim to be an innocent victim,”
his attorney, Lee Stapleton, wrote in an Oct. 9 court filing
urging leniency. “While he relied on the advice of Swiss
professional bankers, he chose to keep the accounts secret and
for many years did not advise his accountant that he had a
foreign bank account.”  In a telephone interview today, Stapleton said her client
“is glad to put this behind him.”  Patent Holder  Roessel, a naturalized U.S. citizen, came from  Germany ,
where he stopped school at age 16 and worked as a welder in the
same factory as a grandfather, who helped raise him, Stapleton
wrote in the filing. In the U.S., he ran a successful business
that rented and serviced motion picture equipment, and he holds
patents on motion picture lenses, according to his attorney.  Roessel’s mother had little money until she spent many
years with a man who died in 1997 and left his “considerable
estate” to her, Stapleton wrote. She died two years later and
left her estate to her son in a numbered account at UBS.  “The funds sat and continued to grow,” Stapleton wrote.
“The account was not part of Mr. Roessel’s life either as a
place to hide U.S. income or as a foreign based piggy bank. It
was an account that held a substantial inheritance.”  In 2002, Roessel’s banker at UBS, the largest Swiss bank,
told him that anonymous Swiss accounts were no longer available
to U.S. clients, Stapleton said. He then opened a trust that
included the proceeds of his inherited money.  Numbered Account  He opened another UBS account in 2004, in the name of Cyan
United SA, that invested in U.S.-based securities, according to
Stapleton. He deposited money into it from a numbered account at
Wegelin for foreign proceeds that he set up in 1980s and that
received proceeds from equipment sales in Germany, she wrote.
Roessel’s UBS banker visited him several times a year to update
him on the account, according to his lawyer.  The Cyan account has been a “cataclysmic investment”
because “he is now a convicted felon who has paid much of his
inheritance and life savings to the U.S. government in the form
of penalties and back taxes,” Stapleton wrote.  Wegelin was indicted Feb. 2, charged with helping U.S.
taxpayers hide more than $1.2 billion from the Internal Revenue
Service. It was first Swiss lender charged in the U.S.
crackdown.  The case is U.S. v. Roessel, 12-cr-60074, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  