-- Texas County Accused of Bias Against Black, Latino Voters
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-12T01:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/texas-county-accused-of-bias-against-black-latino-voters.html
Harris County in Texas was sued in
federal court in Houston by the  League of United Latin American
Citizens  over claims it discriminates against blacks and Latinos
by disproportionately challenging their voter registration.  The county, which includes Houston, rejects voter-
registration applications from zip codes dominated by Latino and
black residents at a higher rate than it does applications from
zip codes with predominantly white residents, the activists said
in the complaint.  LULAC also seeks assurances that 9,018 local voters who
were incorrectly notified in September that they would be
removed from election rolls in a state-ordered purge of
possibly-deceased voters will be notified by Don Sumners, the
county’s voting registrar, that they may still vote in the
upcoming election.  “Voters who received the letter and who are alive but have
not confirmed that fact to defendant Sumners’ office may not
vote in the general election because they mistakenly believe
that they have been removed from the voter registration rolls,”
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., LULAC’s national general counsel, said in
the complaint.  The minority-rights group also contends that Sumners hasn’t
processed voter registration applications in a timely fashion,
and that his backlog of unprocessed applications is
disproportionately black and Hispanic.  Provisional Ballot  Individuals whose applications weren’t processed in time
“will not appear on the books at the polls and will likely be
forced to vote a provisional ballot, if permitted to vote at
all,” Vera said in the complaint.  Sumners, in an e-mailed statement, called LULAC’s challenge
“another unwarranted political lawsuit” similar to one filed
in 2008 by the Texas  Democratic Party . That case was resolved
“when the Democratic Party was unable to produce a single
person who had been illegally denied the right to register and
vote,” he said.  Sumners, a Republican, said he’s already refused to remove
any voters from election rolls as part of the state’s dead-voter
purge program, a campaign he urged state officials to alter to
keep from improperly deleting voters close to a presidential
election.  “I have publicly promised that none will be removed until
after the Nov. 6 election and a thorough screening by my
office,” Sumners said.  LULAC also said that in 2010, Sumners stopped sending
county election personnel to collect voter registration
applications at Houston naturalization ceremonies.  “Prior to 2010, at a typical naturalization ceremony,
approximately 1,500 persons would become U.S. citizens, and of
this number, around 80 percent would register to vote on-site,
within minutes of taking their citizenship oath,” Vera said.  The case is LULAC v. Harris County, 12-cv-03035, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  