-- Hezbollah Sent Drone Over Israel, Leader Nasrallah Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-11T19:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/hezbollah-sent-drone-over-israel-leader-nasrallah-says-2-.html
Lebanon’s Hezbollah launched the
drone that was shot down over Israeli territory last week, said
 Hassan Nasrallah , the chief of the militant Shiite Muslim group.  Nasrallah, speaking on the party’s Manar television station
today, said the drone was Iranian-made and assembled by
Hezbollah. He said it passed over “sensitive and important”
locations, describing it as an “achievement” for the aircraft
to fly for so long before it was downed.  “We are revealing here just a part of our capabilities and
we’re hiding lots of other parts,” Nasrallah said. “We have
the full right to launch as many reconnaissance flights as we
like.”  Israel’s forces shot down the unmanned aircraft after it
entered Israeli airspace from the  Mediterranean Sea . Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  confirmed today that the
aerial vehicle was launched by Hezbollah, after  Israel  Radio on
Oct. 7 cited unidentified army officials as saying that the
Shiite group was responsible.  Nasrallah “wants to provoke Israel and play on Arab
feelings that he is still holding the flag of the Arab
resistance against Israel,” as well as distract attention from
the uprising against his ally Bashar al-Assad in  Syria , said
Sami Nader, professor of international relations at St. Joseph
University in  Beirut .  ‘Terrorists and Infiltrators’  “We will act with determination to defend our borders by
sea, as we do on land with this fence that stops terrorists and
infiltrators, and in the air, as we did when we frustrated the
attempt by Hezbollah last weekend,” Netanyahu said today, while
touring the barrier under construction at the border between
Israel and Egypt, according to a text message from his office.  Netanyahu’s spokesman  Mark Regev  said the prime minister
was referring to the downed drone, and declined to give further
details. Israel, which like the U.S. classifies Hezbollah as a
terrorist organization, fought a monthlong war against the group
in 2006.  Nasrallah also said that Hezbollah hasn’t sent fighters to
help combat the uprising in Syria, though he didn’t rule out
doing so in the future. Syrian opposition groups have said
Hezbollah members are fighting alongside Assad’s army.  “The regime in Syria doesn’t need us or anyone else to
fight alongside it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  