-- MF Global Approved to Settle Claims of Less Than $50,000
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-11T14:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/mf-global-approved-to-settle-claims-of-less-than-50-000-1-.html
MF Global (MFGLQ)  Inc. won bankruptcy court
approval of procedures that will help it sort through $22.7
billion worth of claims from 6,669 general creditors.  MF Global’s trustee, James Giddens, had asked the court to
repay general creditor claims under certain procedures for
settlements and objections. The motion gives him the authority
to settle claims without court permission where the amount is
less than $50,000.  “I think it’s clearly a sensible procedure,” said U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn, approving the request after
hearing from lawyers that the settlement protocols would cover
about 80 percent of the remaining claims.  MF Global filed the eight-largest bankruptcy on Oct. 31
after a $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations led to margin calls. Its
bankruptcy filing listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7
billion.  A trustee for parent company MF Global Holdings Ltd. has
been unwinding the parent company under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in an effort to repay creditors. A separate
trustee for the failed brokerage, MF Global Inc., is liquidating
assets to repay customers under the Securities Investor
Protection Act to repay customers. Each trustee has conducted
his own probe into how the company failed and they have been at
odds over whether certain sums belong to creditors or customers.  Corzine Suits  Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-Chairman Jon Corzine,
who ran MF Global until his Nov. 4 resignation, is the subject
of class-action lawsuits along with other executives. An
agreement between the trustees and customers provides for the
sharing of information as well as any proceeds from lawsuit
winnings.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  