-- FDA Considers Faster Approval Process for Obesity Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-11T15:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/fda-considers-faster-approval-process-for-obesity-drugs.html
Obesity treatments, life-saving
antibiotics and other drugs deemed to offer societal benefit
despite their risks may get speedier U.S. approvals under plans
being discussed to better balance innovation and safety.  Food and Drug Administration Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg 
told scientific advisers the agency is considering letting
makers of such treatments conduct faster clinical trials with a
smaller group of patients than now required. A “special medical
use” label could be used, allowing doctors to administer the
drugs to patients in most dire need, she said.  “This is an issue of having the right science and data to
assess risks and benefits but also a broader societal discussion
about risks and benefits that individuals and communities are
willing to take on and under what circumstances,” Hamburg said
in a recording of a meeting released by her agency.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) ’s Belviq weight-loss pill and
 Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ’s Qsymia may have been approved earlier for use by
morbidly obese people had such a path existed. The FDA at first
rejected both drugs in 2010 because of safety risks that took
the companies another two years of research to justify. The FDA
needs to better account for the needs of patients with deadly or
debilitating diseases who may be willing to accept the
additional perils of unproven drugs, Hamburg said.  “A pathway that would allow products to come to market
faster but would ensure they were used only in patients where
there was an applicable risk-benefit situation would be good,”
said Allan Coukell, deputy director of medical programs for the
Pew Health Group in  Washington , who has been involved in the FDA
discussions. “It would be good for developers, for companies
and it would be good for public health.”  Infectious Diseases  Details are still being worked out, Coukell said in a
telephone interview. How much evidence would be required and how
does a company generate the data to expand a limited approval
later are still unknown, he said.  The accelerated pathway might be used for drugs to treat
infectious diseases, antibiotics to combat drug-resistant
bacteria and weight-loss treatments, Hamburg said at the Oct. 3
meeting with advisers without identifying any specific
medicines. Drugmakers may have a chance to prove the benefits
outweigh the risks, removing the restrictive designation and
allowing sales to a broader population, Hamburg said.  Scientific advisers to President  Barack Obama  had also
discussed the approach in a report last month as a way to propel
drug innovation.  Obesity Pills  The FDA first brought the idea up during debate earlier
this year over reauthorization of fee programs that fund new
drug and medical-device reviews, said  Karen Riley , an FDA
spokeswoman. One more program that funds animal drug reviews
must be reauthorized next year and would open a window to create
the special medical use pathway.  The  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
the Washington-based lobby group for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and other drugmakers, wouldn’t comment. When the report from the
president’s advisers came out, the organization said it would
work with the administration to explore ideas in the report.  Arena’s Belviq became in June the first obesity pill
approved in 13 years, followed less than a month later by
Qsymia. Vivus’s Qsymia will carry a warning on its label about
the possibility the drug may increase heart rates, while Arena
and partner Eisai Co., which is licensed to sell Belviq in the
U.S., agreed to conduct six post-market studies, including a
long-term cardiovascular outcomes trial.  Belviq and Qsymia are still restricted to those who are
obese or more than 59 pounds overweight and have at least
another condition such as high blood pressure or diabetes yet
each company had to conduct clinical trials in at least a few
thousand patients. Doctors can use the drugs off-label in
patients who want to lose less weight.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  is developing a weight-loss pill
called Contrave with  Osaka , Japan-based  Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co. (4502)  Orexigen, based in  La Jolla ,  California , agreed a year ago
to conduct a two-year study of the medicine’s heart risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  