-- Fed’s Stein Says Benefits of Third QE Plan Outweigh Risks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-10-11T15:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/fed-s-stein-says-benefits-of-mortgage-debt-buying-outweigh-risks.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said diminishing returns from Fed purchases of Treasury
securities indicate the central bank should instead buy
mortgage-backed debt.  “MBS purchases may offer a better cost-benefit profile
than Treasury purchases in the current environment,” Stein said
today in  a speech  at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .
Because corporate borrowers can already secure inexpensive
credit, “it is natural to focus on a sector that is more
sensitive to financing costs,” he said. “The housing market
would seem to fit this bill.”  Stein used the remarks, his first monetary policy speech
since joining the central bank in May, to defend the Fed’s
decision last month to begin purchasing $40 billion of mortgage-
backed securities each month until the labor market improves.
Still, he presented a detailed outline of the costs and risks
from the central bank’s bond purchasing programs, including a
concern the Fed may trigger financial instability.  “Our recently announced policy of MBS purchases, coupled
with the change in our forward guidance, are strong positive
steps,” Stein said. At the same time, the Fed’s asset purchase
programs “are a different animal, and it is important for us to
try to better understand these differences.”  A strategy by the central bank of deliberately seeking
higher inflation in order to spur economic growth probably
wouldn’t work, Stein said.  ‘A Mistake’  “It would be a mistake to seek higher inflation,” Stein
said in response to audience questions. Such a strategy would
take the Fed away from one leg of its dual congressional mandate
to maintain stable prices and ensure full employment, he said.
Also, consumers and businesses may not react to higher inflation
the way that they do in economic models, he said.  The possibility that Fed policies are causing banks,
insurance companies and pension funds to take on more risk as
they reach for higher yield “should be taken very seriously,”
he said.  “A short summary would be that there is some qualitative
evidence of reaching-for-yield behavior in certain segments of
the market, but that we are not seeing anything quantitatively
alarming at this point,” Stein said. “The worry is that one
often sees only the tip of the iceberg in these kinds of
situations, so one needs to be cautious in interpreting the
data.”  Regulatory Tools  The Fed should be ready to “intervene” with supervisory
and regulatory tools, Stein said, dismissing arguments the
 central bank  should raise rates to ensure financial stability.  “The potential damage that could be caused by choking off
the recovery is too great,” he said, noting that long-term
asset purchases can benefit financial stability by encouraging
companies to issue long-term debt to replace short-term debt.  Quantitative easing programs pose another risk of possible
disruption to “various aspects of market functioning, including
bid-ask spreads and market depth,” Stein said.  “It would indeed be a concern if large Fed ownership of
some segments of the Treasury or MBS market were to cause market
liquidity to deteriorate significantly,” Stein said. “We have
seen little evidence of such problems so far, and we continue to
closely monitor market conditions.”  The central bank has undertaken three rounds of large scale
asset purchases, or quantitative easing. In the first round,
beginning in late 2008, the Fed began buying $1.25 trillion of
mortgage bonds, $300 billion of Treasuries and $175 billion of
Federal agency debt.  Second Round  In the second round from November 2010 to June 2011 the Fed
purchased $600 billion of  Treasury securities . In the current
round, the central bank is purchasing $40 billion of mortgage
bonds.  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index higher for the first time in five days, as American
jobless claims slid to a four-year low. The  S&P 500  added 0.4
percent to 1,438.57 at 11:48 a.m. in  New York .  An unresolved question for the Fed is what to do once its
current Operation Twist program expires in December. In
Operation Twist, the Fed is swapping about $45 billion a month
of short-term Treasuries for longer-term government debt.  Stein, 51, a former Harvard University professor, was
nominated by President  Barack Obama  in December to a term at the
Fed lasting through January of 2018. Stein and Jerome Powell, an
attorney and private equity investor, were confirmed by the  U.S.
Senate  on May 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  