-- Fed Presidents Dismiss Allegation of Job Data Tampering
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-11T21:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/fed-presidents-dismiss-allegation-of-job-data-tampering.html
Presidents of two Federal Reserve
district banks dismissed a suggestion that the Bureau of Labor
Statistics manipulated the September employment report to aid
the re-election campaign by President  Barack Obama .  “I can’t imagine that’s the case,”  Charles Plosser ,
president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia , told
reporters after a speech today in Avondale, Pennsylvania. “I
don’t think there is a conspiracy,”  St. Louis  Fed President
 James Bullard  said to reporters in St. Louis.  The two regional Fed bank chiefs commented on suggestions
by  Jack Welch , the former chief executive officer of General
Electric Co., that an Oct. 5 report from the bureau showing an
unexpected decline in the jobless rate had been altered.  The report showed the jobless rate fell in September to 7.8
percent, the lowest level since President Barack Obama took
office in January 2009, from 8.1 percent in August. The rate was
forecast to rise to 8.2 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The statisticians and the people that work on this stuff
have a lot of integrity,” Plosser said.  Bullard said that while unemployment and other economic
reports can have “measurement error,” it’s wrong to suspect
anything improper.  “There are lots of people involved,” he said. “They have
done it the same way for years and years.”  Welch, 76, in a Twitter message immediately after the
report, suggested the numbers were phony. “Unbelievable jobs
numbers ... these Chicago guys will do anything ... can’t debate
so change numbers,” he wrote. Obama administration officials
denounced Welch’s claims as baseless.  Welch revisited his criticism later in a column in the Wall
Street Journal.  “The coming election is too important to be decided on a
number,” Welch wrote. “Especially when that number seems so
wrong.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  