-- Ford Board Said to Deliberate on Successor to CEO Mulally
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-10-11T22:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ford-directors-said-to-deliberate-on-successor-for-ceo-mulally.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s board discussed a
succession plan for Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  at its
monthly meeting today, according to a person familiar with the
discussions.  The board is preparing to promote Mark Fields to chief
operating officer from president of the Americas as part of a
plan to have him eventually succeed Mulally, said the person,
who asked not to be named revealing board deliberations. Such a
move would make clear the succession plan at the second-largest
U.S. automaker, that person said. The meeting ended without
directors announcing a resolution, said another person familiar
with the gathering.  Investors are eager to learn the timetable and details of
Ford’s plan to replace Mulally, who has won acclaim for saving
the automaker without a federal bailout or bankruptcy, said Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan Stanley in New York. Mulally, 67,
has declined to say when he will retire. The uncertainty over
the transition of power is weighing on Ford’s stock, Jonas said.  “I don’t think it’s helping,” Jonas said in an interview.
“People just generally expect that because Mulally is at
 retirement age  that he will leave soon.  Mark Fields  is
overwhelmingly seen as the successor.”  Ford rose 1.6 percent to $10.14 at the close in New York.
The shares have declined 9.8 percent the past 12 months and are
trading around their December 2009 price, when the U.S. auto
market hit a 40-year low, Jonas said.  “We do not comment on speculation about personnel
actions,” Jay Cooney, a Ford spokesman, said in an e-mail.
“Ford Motor Co. takes succession planning very seriously, and
we have succession plans in place for each of our key leadership
positions.”  Mulally’s Plea  “Ford has been one of the poorest-performing auto stocks
in the world this year,” Jonas wrote in a report, in which he
made Ford his top automotive pick and predicted the shares would
reach $17 within the next year. He believes investors are
undervaluing Ford’s “radically improved product offering.”  Mulally hasn’t made it clear to the board when he plans to
step down, though his departure is expected around the end of
2013, the person said. Pressed by reporters in  New York  last
month for a departure date, Mulally said he had no plans to
retire from the job leading Ford that he took in September 2006.  “Please don’t write me off yet,” Mulally said Sept. 18
following a press conference in Times Square to discuss the
redesigned Fusion’s fuel economy. “I mean, I love it here.”  Investors are worried about whether Mulally’s cultural and
operational changes at Ford will be carried on by his successor,
Jonas said. The changes Mulally made, such as globalizing
product development and holding management accountable in weekly
meetings, will not be easily dismantled, Jonas said.  One Ford  “Mulally’s One Ford strategy has left a permanent mark on
the company,” Jonas wrote. “The boats have been burned.
There’s no turning back from Ford as a globally integrated
machine.”  Ford avoided bankruptcy because it borrowed $23.4 billion
in late 2006, less than four months after Mulally arrived from
 Boeing Co. (BA)  The automaker put up all major assets, including its
blue oval logo, as collateral. It recovered control of those
assets in May after Moody’s Investors Service followed  Fitch
Ratings  in upgrading Ford’s debt to an investment-grade  credit
rating.   Mulally revived the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker by
focusing on quality, fuel economy and technology. He also cut
jobs and sold off European luxury brands Jaguar,  Land Rover ,
 Aston Martin  and Volvo. Ford lost $30.1 billion from 2006
through 2008 and earned $29.5 billion in the last three years,
mostly in Fields’s  North American operations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  