-- Forty Percent of Student Loan Borrowers Don't Get Advice
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-10-11T13:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/forty-percent-of-student-loan-borrowers-don-t-get-advice.html
More than 40 percent of high-debt
student-loan borrowers didn’t receive in-person or online
counseling for U.S. government loans, even though it’s a
mandatory requirement, a survey showed.  Almost 92 percent of borrowers said standardizing the
format, terminology and content of aid-award letters could ease
confusion, the survey also showed, according to a report
released today by  Young Invincibles . The Washington-based
nonprofit group, which represents the interests of 18-to-34
year-olds, designed and conducted the  survey  with  NERA Economic
Consulting .  More than one in 10 borrowers defaulted on their federal
loans in the first three years they are required to make
payments, the Education Department said last month, intensifying
concern about student debt levels. Part of the problem is that
colleges are failing to inform students about the basics of the
loans, including repayment terms and  interest rates , said Rory
O’Sullivan, co-author of the report and policy director for
Young Invincibles.  “It’s pretty clear that colleges need to do more when such
a high percentage of students report never receiving
counseling,” O’Sullivan said in an interview. “Some counseling
is of such low quality that students don’t consider it help.”  The  federal government requires  entrance counseling before
a federal loan is disbursed and  exit counseling  before a student
withdraws, graduates or drops below half-time attendance.  Educational Loans  Outstanding educational loans, both private and federal,
taken out by students and their parents, total more than $1
trillion, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said in
March.  The survey respondents’ debt, at $61,484 for recent
bachelor’s degree recipients and $161,000 for those who
completed graduate programs within five years, is higher than
average. According to  The Institute for College Access &
Success , the average debt for those who took out loans and
graduated in 2010 was $25,250.  While 27,204 participated in the Internet survey, the
results are based on a subset of 12,953 respondents. Of those,
96 percent said they received federal loans and almost one-third
also had private loans.  Harris Interactive Inc. (HPOL)  assisted with
the survey, which was carried out from Sept. 21 to 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York    jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 