-- FSB Extends Too-Big-to-Fail to National Banks, Insurers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-11T14:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/fsb-to-bolster-defenses-against-too-big-to-fail-financial-firms.html
International regulators backed
tougher rules for banks whose collapse might roil national
economies and for globally systemic insurers as they agreed to
bolster defenses against too-big-to-fail financial institutions.  Authorities are committed to boosting the “intensity and
effectiveness” of how systemic institutions are supervised, the
Financial Stability Board said after a meeting today in  Tokyo .
Global efforts to prevent any repeat of the scandal engulfing
Libor and other interbank lending rates should be coordinated,
the FSB said.  The financial system is afflicted by “vulnerabilities,”
the group said. Progress is needed in “authorities’ ongoing
work to strengthen global financial regulation.”  The FSB is extending its push against companies deemed too
big to fail beyond last year’s decision to list 29 so-called
globally systemic banks that should hold more capital.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were provisionally
earmarked to face the top level of capital surcharges, set at
2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets.  An updated version of that list was discussed by the FSB
and will be published in November,  Mark Carney , the board’s
chairman, told reporters after today’s meeting. The revised
document is based on end-2011 data, the FSB said.  Updated List  One bank almost certain to drop off the updated list is
 Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Franco-Belgian lender that is being broken up
after losing access to unsecured funding,  Karel Lannoo , chief
executive officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies in
Brussels, said last week.  The FSB-endorsed rules for nationally systemic banks were
 published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision today .
The measures call for capital surcharges while leaving it up to
local regulators to set their precise level.  National regulators should even be allowed to impose extra
capital rules on subsidiaries of global banks if they play an
important role in that national market, the Basel group said in
a statement.  “The impact of the failure of a domestic systemically
important bank could be significantly greater than that of a
non-systemic institution,”  Stefan Ingves , chairman of the Basel
committee, said in its statement.  Interbank Lending  On Libor, the FSB said today it would act as
“coordinator” of national and international work to review
interbank lending rates. The group is also weighing the need for
global principles on how these rates and other so-called market
benchmarks are set.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $360 trillion of securities, was shaken following  Barclays
Plc’s (BARC)  admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
Libor and other interbank lending rates, such as Euribor, to the
top of the political agenda.  The FSB also set deadlines for other work. The board plans
to publish draft rules for so-called shadow banks, as well as
steps to reduce regulators’ reliance on credit-ratings
companies, following a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers
in November.  ‘Conflicts, Inconsistencies’  Separately, the FSB said it was concerned about unresolved
“conflicts, inconsistencies and gaps” in rules nations have
put in place to regulate over-the-counter derivatives.  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, earlier this year urged the U.S. to delay enforcing OTC
derivatives rules on EU banks amid concerns that the measures
were unclear and may create unnecessary costs.  The FSB also reviewed how far banks have retreated from
overseas business in response to the financial crises that have
rocked the global economy since 2008.  “While there is evidence that some banks are withdrawing
from international activity, this trend is so far mainly limited
to the euro area,” the FSB said.  “Part of this retrenchment reflects a normalization
process after a period in which international activities by
banks became overextended in the previous decade,” it said.  The group also called on the euro area to press ahead with
measures to boost confidence in its banks.  “There are signs that reforms in peripheral euro-zone
countries are beginning to bear fruit,” the board said.  “It is important that this momentum is not lost and that
trust in the health of some financial institutions is fully
restored,” it said. “Financial repair should proceed
expeditiously, as delays would increase the capital need.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Tokyo at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  