-- Geithner Backs Europe Crisis Strategy as Powerful, Promising
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-11T07:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/geithner-backs-europe-crisis-strategy-as-powerful-promising-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe has finally crafted a policy armory that’s
robust enough to beat back the sovereign debt turmoil hampering
global economic growth.  The region has a “much more viable strategy to hold the
system together,” Geithner said at a banking conference today
in Tokyo, where he is attending the annual meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank . “It’s a much more
powerful, promising path.”  Even as he warned the euro area faces a “multi-year
challenge,” calling it the chief threat to the world economy,
Geithner’s comments mark a reversal from last year’s IMF talks
at which he warned Europe’s lackluster policy response left it
prone to “catastrophic risk.”  Three years to the month since  Greece ’s budget woes set off
a crisis now engulfing  Spain , euro-area governments have a 500
billion-euro ($643 billion) permanent rescue fund and a vow from
the  European Central Bank  to help purchase bonds from stressed
sovereigns. They are also working on a banking union and closer
fiscal ties.  “They are better off today than they were before they
reached agreement,” Geithner said at the Institute of
International Finance conference. “The basic strategy is right
and good.”  Global Slowdown  Europe’s financial strains are again the central challenge
facing the IMF’s 188 members, two days after the Washington-
based lender said failure to remedy them was helping create an
“alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown in the world
economy.  “The debt and financial sector problems in Europe pose the
biggest downside risk to the global economy” Japanese Finance
Minister Koriki Jojima  said  today. “ Europe  must make its own
efforts to prevent the spread of the crisis and to stabilize the
market.”  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said two days ago, compared with July predictions of 3.5
percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  More Time  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today said Greece
should get two more years to meet fiscal targets and suggested
debt reductions are needed before a 130 billion-euro bailout can
proceed.  “It’s sometimes better to have a bit more time,” she told
reporters. “This is what we advocated for  Portugal , this is
what we advocated for Spain and this is what we are advocating
for Greece.”  Arriving in Tokyo, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  declined to comment on Lagarde’s call before the
review of the Greek situation is published by the IMF, European
Commission and ECB. Still, he said suggestions the official
sector restructure its Greek debts are not a solution.  The euro-area’s success in implementing reforms is being
underestimated, he said, citing declines in budget deficits and
improvements in competitiveness.  “We have made more progress than one would think” when
looking at the headlines, Schaeuble said.  Spain Concerns  Spain now sits in the sights of investors as the fourth-
largest euro economy mulls whether to accept the conditions that
will trigger a bailout and the ECB’s bond buying. The country’s
debt rating was cut yesterday to one level above junk by
 Standard & Poor’s , which cited mounting economic and political
risks as the government considers a second bailout.  In Tokyo today, Geithner said it was for Europe to decide
on the IMF’s role. Lagarde indicated to Bloomberg Television
yesterday that the fund doesn’t need to lend money to Spain to
help the country.  “Some people say unless you have skin in the game, meaning
money, you are not really respected, you are not heard,”
Lagarde said. “I am not so focused on that as I am on the
monitoring.”  As he prepares to step down as Treasury chief, Geithner
said it was not a “responsible” strategy for U.S. policy
makers to delay a decision on how to deal with the $600 billion
in government spending cuts and tax increases which loom at year
end unless the law is changed.  A pact that allows for deficit reduction over time and
opens up room for investment in the shorter-term would leave the
U.S. with “the potential to grow significantly faster,” he
said. “We’re going to take a run at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Tokyo  at  srastello@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins in Tokyo at  chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  