-- Genworth Nears Junk at S&P as Economic Slump Hurts Firm
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-11T20:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/genworth-cut-by-s-p-as-econmic-slump-pressures-earnings.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the insurer
seeking a chief executive officer, was  downgraded  by  Standard &
Poor’s  as the economic slump pressures earnings.  The rating was cut one step to BBB-, the lowest investment-
grade level, as Genworth faces difficulty “expanding margins
globally in the weak economy,” the ratings firm said today in a
statement. The outlook is negative, stemming from losses at the
mortgage-insurance unit, S&P said.  Acting CEO Martin Klein is raising prices for long-term-
care coverage and weighing changes in strategy amid losses at
the U.S. unit backing home loans. Genworth said it will discuss
“strategy and action plans” in an Oct. 31 conference call
after announcing third-quarter results.  “Until management can execute its plans, we believe there
are still downward rating scenarios given the volatility in
operating performance,” S&P said. “Earnings have not met our
expectations for the rating level and financial flexibility
continues to be strained.”  The downgrade won’t have a material impact, and liquidity
at the holding company remains strong, Al Orendorff, a Genworth
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are disappointed that S&P took this action,”
Orendorff said. “We remain sharply focused on building
shareholder value by pursuing a number of strategic and
financial actions.”  Moody’s Decision  Moody’s Investors Service has been considering whether to
cut Genworth to junk status since June. The ratings firm has
said separating the mortgage-insurance unit from the rest of the
firm, which sells  life insurance  and long-term-care coverage in
the U.S., could support the credit grade.  Klein said defending Genworth’s investment-grade status at
Moody’s may be more harmful than a cut to junk,  Mark Palmer , an
analyst at BTIG LLC, wrote in a research note last month.  Genworth pared an advance of as much as 3.1 percent,
gaining 2 cents to $5.49 at 4 p.m. in  New York . It has dropped
16 percent this year, the worst performance in the 22-company
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance Index. (S5INSU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  