-- Germany Plans Cap for Renewable Energy Subsidies
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-10-11T15:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/germany-seeks-to-increase-renewable-target-to-40-by-2020.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government plans to cap renewable-energy subsidies when capacity
reaches national targets as the administration seeks to cut the
cost to consumers of its decision to phase out nuclear power.  The state would end payments to wind and biomass as limits
are reached, Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said of plans
that lawmakers will debate next year, without giving the limits.  “The energy switch is the biggest economic project of the
post-World War II era,” Altmaier, who is responsible for the
legislation, told reporters today in Berlin. The government will
“fundamentally” reform the system to make renewables compete
at market prices “as quickly as possible,” he said.  The proposals mark the most sweeping changes to  Germany ’s
support mechanisms for renewables since the country adopted
feed-in tariffs in 2004. The guarantees of above-market prices
for clean energy in Germany have helped make the country the
biggest market for solar and been emulated around the world,
spurring renewables booms in nations including  Italy  and  Spain .  Capping subsidies will create a rush to install renewable
projects and deter industry investment in the long run, Dietmar
Schuetz, president of German renewable lobby BEE, said today in
a  statement . “Such steps increase costs,” he said.  Solar Target  The planned changes build on a target announced in June to
cap solar payments when capacity reaches 52 gigawatts, up from
about 30 gigawatts of facilities now. Germany gets about a
quarter of its power from renewable generation totaling 70
gigawatts, including about 30 gigawatts from wind, 5.5 gigawatts
from biomass and 4.4 gigawatts from hydroelectric plants.  At the same time as capping subsidies, Merkel plans to lift
the target for renewable power to 40 percent of total generation
by 2020, from 35 percent previously. Altmaier said Germany,
which plans to shut all its nuclear reactors by 2022, will
certainly surpass the earlier renewables forecast. The country
aims to bridge the gap from abandoning nuclear with clean
energy, as well as more efficient gas and coal power stations.  The fee German consumers are paying through their power
bills to finance renewable subsidies is set to rise by about 50
percent next year,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported Oct. 9, citing
Jochen Homann, head of the Bundesnetzagentur grid regulator.
That would push up the yearly power bill of the average German
consumer by at least 50 euros, the newspaper said.  Strain on Consumers  Ministers are also concerned that an uncontrolled renewable
expansion strains power networks as it may leave consumers
without energy when the wind doesn’t blow or the sun doesn’t
shine. The economic crisis, which is hurting developers by
hampering access to financing, has prompted Spain,  France , Italy
and the U.K. to curb incentives for the industry.  A new law would have to provide tools so that the expansion
is “constant and predictable,” Altmaier said.  It should also allow for the expansion of all clean-energy
technologies, enable greater coordination where generators and
power lines are built and include incentives for  energy storage ,
he said. Politicians need to help people with power prices that
rise as a result of the energy overhaul, Altmaier said.  “We knew from the start that the energy switch can’t be
realized for free,” he said. “However, I want to prevent costs
that can be prevented.” The minister said he will seek to draft
the bill after consultations due to start next month and last
through May. He didn’t say if a final decision on the law would
be made before or after a national election in September 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  