-- Gillard Heads to Bali After Terror Warning on Bomb Anniversary
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-10-11T04:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/gillard-heads-to-bali-after-terror-warning-on-bomb-anniversary.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard will attend a ceremony in Bali tomorrow to mark the 10th
anniversary of bombings that killed 202 people, after Indonesian
police said terrorists may be plotting new attacks.  “I am intending to go to Bali,” Gillard told reporters in
Canberra today, adding that she wouldn’t comment on security
arrangements. “I want to be in Bali. This is a moment of real
significance for our nation. Ten years ago I think we would all
remember where we were and how we felt, how shocked we were. I
want to spend some time with the families who have really had to
absorb such grief.”  Bali’s police chief Ketut Untung Yoga said late yesterday
that intelligence “indicates that a terrorist group wants to
use the occasion as their target.” National police spokesman
Boy Rafli Amar downplayed that warning today, saying no direct
threat had been received.  The October 2002 Bali nightclub attacks, which killed 88
Australians, are blamed on Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda linked
group. The two alleged masterminds, Noordin Top and Dulmatin,
were killed during police raids in 2009 and 2010. Gillard,
Opposition Leader Tony Abbott and former prime minister John
Howard are among the leaders attending tomorrow’s ceremony.  Indonesia , a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against terror
suspects since bombings in 2009 at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and
Ritz-Carlton hotels killed nine people, including the two
attackers. They were the first terrorist attacks in the country
by Islamic militants in almost four years.  Security Tightened  “The situation is secure and tomorrow we will secure the
Bali 2012 memorial service,” Yoga said today by phone, adding
that about 1,100 police officers will be deployed to safeguard
the event.  “We haven’t received any threats,” Amar, the national
police spokesman, said by phone. “No threats, but indications
are something that we monitor.”  Indonesia executed three men convicted of the Bali attacks
in 2008. Another militant, Umar Patek, was convicted of murder
and sentenced to 20 years in prison in June for his role in
making the explosives used in the bombings. The U.S. had offered
a reward of $1 million for Patek, who was arrested last year in
the Pakistani town of Abbottabad, where U.S. commandos killed
Osama bin Laden.  In September 2009, police killed Top, who was suspected of
involvement in every major anti-Western attack in Indonesia
since 2002. In March of the following year they killed Dulmatin
and two others. In March this year, Indonesia’s Detachment-88
anti-terrorism squad killed five suspected terrorists in Bali.
The men had literature about jihad, weapons and ammunition, and
were planning robberies to fund attacks, police said.  ‘Terror Groups’  “Old terror groups have already been captured,” Amar said
Amar. “What’s being looked into is the possibility of any
movements” and potential new terrorist groups that “need to be
watched out for,” he said.  At 153 kilometers (95 miles) by 112 kilometers, Bali is a
little larger than Rhode Island and attracts more than a third
of all visitors to Indonesia with a mix of nightlife and surfing
in the southern beach resorts, and rice terraces and temples
around Ubud in the volcanic, mountainous center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  