-- Glasgow Rangers Seeks to Raise 20 Million Pounds From Share Sale
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-10-11T09:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/glasgow-rangers-seeks-to-raise-20-million-pounds-from-share-sale.html
Rangers Football Club, forced into
administration in February over claims for non-payment of tax,
plans to raise 20 million pounds ($32 million) from a share sale
to buy players and improve its facilities.  The money will be raised through an institutional placing
and a limited public offering of stock, the Glasgow soccer club
said in a statement on the Regulatory News Service today.
Rangers will seek admission to  London ’s Alternative Investment
Market before the end of the year. Fans wanting to invest have
been invited to register their interest, it said.  Formed in 1872,  Rangers  was brought out of liquidation for
5.5 million pounds in June by a group led by businessman Charles
Green. The club, which won a record 54 Scottish titles, was
ordered to start again in  Scotland ’s basement division. Rangers,
which won the European Cup Winners’ Cup in 1972 and four years
ago was a UEFA Cup finalist, will need at least another three
seasons before it can qualify for European competition again.  “Rangers is debt-free and a huge club with enormous
support and a 140-year track record of success on the domestic
and international arenas,” Green said in the statement today.
“Our aim is to return the club to its glory days whilst
ensuring it is run efficiently and profitably.”  The club’s administrators estimated in April that Rangers’
debts may reach 134 million pounds, including more than 93
million pounds claimed by the tax authorities. In the meantime,
players including Steven Whittaker and Steven Naismith signed
for clubs in the English Premier League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  