-- Goldman’s Cohn Sees ‘Small’ Chance Euro Area Will Stick Together
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-10-11T06:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/goldman-s-cohn-sees-small-chance-euro-area-will-stick-together.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President
and Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn sees a “small”
probability that the euro area will stick together, saying it’s
more likely that some countries will exit to pursue growth.  “In federalism, you create a unified  Europe , where the
countries that are thriving because of the currency subsidize
the countries that are contracting because of the currency,”
Cohn said in an interview in  Tokyo  today. “I would put a
relatively small probability of that happening.”  The European Central Bank program pledging unlimited
support to debt-burdened nations if they sign up for economic
reforms deals with the “pre-existing condition” but hasn’t
addressed the lack of growth, Cohn said. ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to “do whatever it takes” to defend the euro as
officials seek to stem the debt crisis.  Europe still needs a “moment” similar to Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy, Cohn said, reiterating comments
made in June. The 17 countries that share the euro must find
ways to support economic growth in the weaker members, he had
said at that time, adding that austerity programs don’t support
expansion.  “Southern Europe has no ability to grow the economy with
the fixed exchange-rate environment they’re in,” he said today.  Policy makers from around the world who are in Tokyo for
the annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  this week
bemoaned the economic threat of strong exchange rates.  ‘Thriving, Booming’  Such worries across both industrial and developing nations
are being heightened by an IMF warning that global growth and
trade are slowing, leaving countries at risk of losing an export
edge if their exchange rates climb. The  Federal Reserve  drew
fire from  emerging markets  for propelling their currencies
higher.  Greece  may be better off outside the euro, Cohn said.  “It would be hard for me to not think that if the Greeks
dropped out of the euro, brought back the drachma, devalued it
10 to 1, that within three to five years they wouldn’t have a
thriving, booming economy based on tourism,” Cohn said. In the
meantime, further debt relief may be “helpful,” he said.  Greek government bond prices have doubled during the past
three months as investors, including the $9 billion hedge fund
Third Point LLC, bet the likelihood of the nation leaving the
euro-region has diminished.  While flagging concern that not enough is being done to
bolster global economic growth, Cohn also said that the U.S.
Federal Reserve may struggle to end its quantitative easing
program.  Stopping Pains  “I understand what they’re trying to do and I will tell
you this, this is going to be difficult to stop or to exit,”
Cohn told Bloomberg Television today in Tokyo. “At the end of
this -- there will be an end to quantitative easing -- we will
have to go through the pains of stopping quantitative easing.”  The Fed last month announced its third round of large-scale
asset purchases since 2008, with no limit this time on the
ultimate amount it would buy or the duration of the program. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says stimulus will be expanded until
there’s a “sustained improvement” in the labor market.  Goldman Sachs sees opportunity in Europe to advise clients
on purchases of banking assets, Cohn said. The New York-based
lender doesn’t plan to be a buyer.  “It’s more of an opportunity for our clients,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Tokyo at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  