-- Google, Bridgestone, Cheesesteaks: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-11T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/google-bridgestone-cheesesteaks-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
asked a judge to seal “highly confidential” records of its
patent-licensing talks with Samsung Electronics Co. that
appeared in the South Korean company’s intellectual property
lawsuit against Apple Inc. in  California .  The document at issue in a hearing yesterday before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal in  San Jose , California, is a
summary of a licensing negotiation between Motorola and Samsung
that took place several weeks before the two companies reached a
2000 agreement, according to a court filing by Motorola
Mobility. It was filed as an exhibit supporting Apple’s attempt
to depose Samsung witnesses, according to the filing.  The document reveals a “pattern of financial offers” in
the cellular cross-licensing negotiations and may reveal
monetary terms, license rates, the direction of payments, names
of licensed products and technologies, and the geographic scope
of the deal, according to the filing. The information is
“highly sensitive” because other firms could use it unfairly
to gain leverage in their own negotiations with Motorola
Mobility, the company said.  During negotiations for patent licenses, competitors
“negotiate concerning the relative values of their respective
patent portfolios as well as the values of other terms in the
agreement,” according to the filing.  An Aug. 24 jury verdict in San Jose federal court in which
Cupertino, California-based Apple won $1.05 billion in damages
from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is part of a global fight
for dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market. The
world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have accused each
other of copying designs and technology for mobile devices and
are waging patent battles on four continents.  Google is based in Mountain View, California.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  ‘Patent Monetizers’ Now File 40 Percent of All Patent Suits  A  study  commissioned by the U.S. Government Accountability
Office has found that almost 40 percent of the patent-
infringement suits in the past five years were filed by
companies or individuals known as non-practicing entities. They
are also sometimes known pejoratively as “patent trolls.”  These plaintiffs don’t make products or perform services
that are covered by the patents they seek to enforce. The study
deems these “patent monetizers,” and states that the
percentage of cases they file has risen from about 22 percent
five years ago.  Most of the patent monetizer cases don’t go very far in the
trial process, according to the study. They generally settle
before the court makes a summary judgment decision.  Results of the study are to be published in Duke Law and
Technology Journal.  Apple Gets Patent on Location-Sharing Group Creation Method  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the maker of the iPhone and iPod, received a
patent related to its “Find My Friends” application.  Patent 8,284,748, which was issued Oct. 9, covers a method
of creating a location-sharing group without the assistance of a
central server. This would involve creating a “geofence”
enclosing all the participating devices -- such as a mobile
phone -- in the location-sharing group.  Devices’ entry into or departure from the defined area
could be monitored, according to the patent. Devices can be set
up to display and track the ad hoc location of the location-
sharing group as a whole, or the individuals within the group.  Apple applied for this patent in July 2012, with the
assistance of  Boston ’s Fish & Richardson PC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  USDOTS Warns of Dangers of Counterfeit Automobile Air Bags  The U.S. Department of Transportation’s National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration issued a consumer safety advisory
about counterfeit air bags.  The fake safety devices, which are supposed to inflate at
the time of a collision, may not deploy, or may expel dangerous
metal shrapnel at the time of inflation, the agency said in a
 statement  yesterday.  The problem is believed to affect less than 0.1 percent of
the U.S. vehicle fleet, and the only cars at risk are those that
have had an air bag replaced by a repair shop that isn’t
affiliated with an auto dealership, according to the statement.  The agency said it has been working with the U.S. Justice
Department, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and  U.S.
Customs  and  Border Protection  to halt the importation and
installation of counterfeit air bags.  John Morton , who directs ICE, said organized crime is
involved in the sale of the fakes, and that an aggressive
investigation is being conducted of “criminal supply chains”
to “bring these criminals to justice.”  Customers who have had air bags replaced in the past three
years by shops not affiliated with dealerships are urged to get
additional information at  www.SaferCar.gov . The agency warns
that salvaged and rebuilt used cars also may have the fakes.  Bridgestone Says Actor in Commercial Isn’t Sony’s ‘Kevin Butler’  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s largest tire manufacturer,
has responded to a trademark-infringement suit brought by  Sony
Corp. (6758)  over the Japanese tire company’s television commercial.  In an Oct. 4 filing, Bridgestone said that while the actor
in its commercials is the same one that Sony Corp. employed in
commercials for its PlayStation products, the actor plays a tire
engineer in Bridgestone’s ads rather than a computer-game
promoter.  Tokyo-based Bridgestone said that the actor doesn’t appear
as “Kevin Butler,” the persona in which he promotes the
PlayStation in the Sony commercials. It asked the court to deny
any request for relief or damages Sony has requested.  Sony filed the suit in federal court in  San Francisco  Sept.
11, accusing Bridgestone of trying to trade on the fame
associated with the “Kevin Butler” character. The game company
also claimed that in one of the tire company’s commercials, the
actor seems to be “testing” a computer game made by Sony
competitor  Nintendo Co. (7974) , which is a breach of contract its ad
agency made with the commercial’s producer.  In addition to seeking money damages, Sony asked the court
to bar what it said was unfair competition and violation of its
trademark rights.  The case is Sony Computer Entertainment America LLC v.
Bridgestone Americas Inc., 3:12-cv-04753-CRB, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  ‘Philadelphia’s Cheesesteak’ Trademark Ruling Challenged  A ruling by a board at the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
is being challenged in federal court in Philadelphia by a small
family-owned restaurant.  Campo’s Deli at Market Inc.  is unhappy with the Trademark
Trial and Appeal Board’s Aug. 7 denial of its application to
register “Philadelphia’s Cheesesteak” as a trademark.  According to court papers filed Oct. 4, registration was
denied because the board deemed it too similar to three
previously registered trademarks, “Philadelphia’s Cheesesteak
Co.,” “Philadelphia Cheesesteak Co.,” and “The Original
Philadelphia Cheesesteak Co.  A cheesesteak is a sandwich comprised of thin-sliced
sauteed beef, cheese and, optionally, onions or peppers. It was
invented in Philadelphia in the 1930s,  according to  the Los
Angeles Times.  Campo’s argues that its proposed trademark is distinctive
and wouldn’t cause consumer confusion. The description of “a
particular kind of sandwich” is “so superlative that it could
only be called ‘Philadelphia’s Cheesesteak,”’ the company said
in its filing.  Without a registered trademark, Campo’s said it will be
hampered in pursuing franchising opportunities. The company
claims it has no desire to exert improper control over
“Philadelphia Cheesesteak,” which it claims is a generic term
used to describe a generic kind of sandwich.  Campo’s asked for a  jury trial  on the issue of whether
“Philadelphia’s Cheesesteak” is valid and enforceable and if
the patent office should be required to register the mark.  The case is Campo’s Deli at Market Inc., v. Kappos, 2:12-
cv-05685-ER, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  Chicken Cock Distilling Says It Doesn’t Infringe Trademark  Heaven Hill Distilleries Inc. was sued in a trademark
dispute over its “Fighting Cock” trademark.  Chicken Cock Distilling LLC of Palm Beach,  Florida , filed
suit in federal court in West Palm Beach Oct. 9, seeking a
declaration its “Chicken Cock” mark doesn’t infringe Heaven
Hill’s “Fighting Cock.”  Heaven Hill, based in Bardstown,  Kentucky , sent a cease-
and-desist letter to Chicken Cock in September, demanding the
Florida distiller stop distributing, marketing and selling
distilled spirits under the “Chicken Cock” name.  Chicken Cock, which said it had already registered the mark
and received approval from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade
Bureau for the name, claims the infringement allegations from
Heaven Hill potentially threaten its business operations.  The case is Chicken Cock Distilling v. Heaven Hill
Distilleries Inc., 9:12-cv-81102-DMM, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (West Palm Beach).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pakistan Passes New Law to Curb Copyright Infringement, Piracy  Pakistan ’s National Assembly passed litigation aimed at
curbing copyright infringement, News International  reported .  Among the bill’s provisions are the establishment of
regional officers for the country’s  intellectual property  office
to provide “speedy justice and trial” of IP-related cases,
according to News International.  One of the aims of the bill is to help Pakistan get off the
“Watch List” of the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
with respect to enforcement and protection of IP rights,
according to the newspaper.  The USTR has been informed about the new legislation, and
“we hope that Pakistan will come out of this red zone (priority
watch list),” Hameed Ullah Jan Afridi of Pakistan’s
Intellectual Property Office said, and News International
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 