-- Greece’s Unemployment Reaches More Than Quarter of Workforce
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-10-11T10:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/greece-s-unemployment-reaches-more-than-quarter-of-workforce-1-.html
Greece ’s unemployment rate climbed
to more than a quarter of the workforce in July, extending its
record high as the country’s five-year recession deepened.  The jobless rate rose to 25.1 percent from a revised 24.8
percent in June, the Athens-based Hellenic Statistical Authority
said in an e-mailed statement from today. That’s the highest
since the agency began publishing monthly data in 2004.  Greece’s recession and deepening labor slump has been
exacerbated by austerity measures imposed to trim a  budget
deficit  that was more than five times the euro-area limit in
2009. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition government is
hashing out a 13.5 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) package of
budget cuts for 2013 and 2014 needed to keep rescue loans from
the euro area and the  International Monetary Fund  flowing.  “The unemployment rate is a lagging indicator of domestic
economic activity,” said Platon Monokroussos, head of financial
market research at Eurobank Ergasias SA in  Athens . “One should
expect a further increase in the jobless rate for as long as
domestic economic conditions remain depressed.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2885 at 1:24 p.m. in
Athens. The single currency has gained 5.8 percent against the
dollar since Aug. 2, when the  European Central Bank  first
announced plans to purchase government bonds of distressed
nations along with Europe’s rescue fund.  Athens Protests  Greece’s unexpected budget blowout in 2009 triggered a
financial crisis that has stunted the region’s economy and
threatened a currency seen by its founders as permanent.  Spain 
is considering asking for help and Cyprus is in talks for a
lifeline, following Ireland, Portugal and Spanish lenders.  Central Athens was the scene of protests earlier this week
when German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the Greek capital
as thousands of citizens vented frustration over her perceived
role in the country’s economic misery. Some 7,000 police were
deployed in the capital, with Merkel’s destinations cordoned
off. Police said they detained 217 people and arrested 24.  European leaders are struggling to restore investor
confidence as austerity measures across the 17-member currency
region threaten to deepen an economic slump. At least five euro-
member states are already in recession and  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, is also cooling.  ‘Major Risk’  The IMF earlier this week cut its euro-area economic
forecasts for this year and next, saying a further escalation of
the region’s turmoil remains “a major downside risk.”  Economists are also growing more pessimistic on the Greek
economic outlook, according to a regular Bloomberg survey
released today. Greek gross domestic product may drop 3.1
percent in 2013 and 0.3 percent in 2014, it showed. Economists
had previously forecast a contraction of 2.2 percent next year,
followed by an expansion of 0.9 percent.  With the economy mired in recession, companies may continue
to eliminate jobs. A breakdown of today’s release showed the
female  unemployment rate  was 29 percent, while the jobless rate
for Greeks aged 15 to 24 was 54.2 percent. That’s more than
double the youth unemployment rate of 24.3 percent in July 2009,
before the extent of Greece’s deficit became known, sparking the
debt crisis.  The highest regional jobless rate was in Epirus and part of
Macedonia in northern Greece, with 27.1 percent, up from 26.5
percent in June, the statistical authority said.  Greek Aid  Samaras is seeking extra budget savings to qualify for more
disbursements of emergency aid from the euro area and the
Washington-based IMF. Their loan pledges to the country have
amounted to 240 billion euros since 2010.  “What Greece has been doing in terms of budgetary
adjustment is of a historic nature,” European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said today in Brussels. “To have Greece
in the euro, I think, is critically important, not only for
Greece but also for the euro area.”  The statistics agency last week revised Greece’s 2011
contraction to 7.1 percent of gross domestic product, instead of
the previously reported 6.9 percent. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras on Sept. 18 said that by 2014 the economy will have
cumulatively shrunk by a quarter since the recession started in
2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  