-- In Greece, ‘Hello Pragmatism, Goodbye Austerity’
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-11T16:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/in-greece-hello-pragmatism-goodbye-austerity-.html
Christine Lagarde , head of the
 International Monetary Fund , says  Greece  should be given another
two years to meet its fiscal  targets , and is calling for more
debt reduction before it chips in new money of its own.  We drew attention a few days back to the IMF’s new
 pragmatism . It used to stand for austerity first. Lately, it’s
sounded more moderate than many of the governments it advises.  The IMF’s latest  World Economic Outlook  cautions  Europe  in
general, not just Greece -- and the U.S. as well -- against
tightening fiscal policy too much too soon. It worries about the
vicious circle of slowing growth, worsening public finances and
further budget stringency.  It’s a new line -- but mostly consistent, if you think
about it, with what it used to say. As Keynes advised (or is
 said to have  advised), when the facts change, sensible people
change their minds. Too much fiscal stringency is far riskier
today than in previous recessions because the slump is
internationally synchronized and demand is suppressed almost
everywhere.  Monetary stimulus is harder to do with  interest rates  close
to zero. It is twice as hard in Europe’s case, where the worst-
hit countries also suffer from an acute loss of competitiveness,
which they can’t reverse with a  currency devaluation . Usually,
the contractionary effects of fiscal tightening can be partly
offset with monetary accommodation and export demand. Today, not
so much.  What’s especially vexing -- and I think Lagarde and the IMF
are voicing this frustration -- is that Europe has an
alternative. Collective action to reduce debt, strengthen banks,
underwrite the finances of distressed governments and bolster
confidence is perfectly feasible. Spain, Italy, Greece and the
others have all made strenuous efforts to improve their public
finances.  Sure, these need to be sustained, but not, as now, beyond
the point where they become self-defeating. The euro area as a
whole needs to meet these countries halfway, or the game will be
up. It has the resources and the institutions, but it seems
incapable of using them. Lagarde is right to be frustrated.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
 Twitter .)  Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the
Ticker.  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  