-- Inconsistent Genome Privacy Laws Need Toughening, Panel Says
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/inconsistent-genome-privacy-laws-need-toughening-panel-says.html
Many U.S. states lack laws to
protect people from harmful use of their whole DNA transcripts,
or genomes, and should work with the federal government to
provide consistent protection, presidential advisers said.  About half of states don’t have legislation that would
prevent someone from secretly analyzing another person’s genome
with the saliva from a used coffee cup, said  Amy Gutmann , who
led the  Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical
Issues  panel that released a report today.  Variations in the human genome can spell the difference
between health and disease for individuals, and the cost of a
complete analysis has dropped from more than $1 million to about
$4,500 in less than eight years. As genome sequencing becomes
cheaper and more routine, the stakes are rising to keep vital
information about a person’s health private, Gutman said.  “To make full use of whole genome sequencing, which holds
out enormous promise for human health and medicine, we’re going
to have to figure out how to protect people’s privacy and avoid
the harm that come from misuse of this data,” said Gutmann, who
is also president of the Philadelphia-based  University of
Pennsylvania , in a telephone conference with reporters.  Existing federal laws, such as the  Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act , the  Genetic Information
Nondiscrimination Act , and the  Common Rule  that protects
research subjects, offer some protections against unauthorized
use of medical data, the panel said. Rewriting those rules might
ensure that patients have some needed protections, said Anita
Allen, a University of Pennsylvania law professor and a member
of the commission.  Useful Reform  Such a reform “might be a very useful thing to do,” and
is likely to be taken up by Congress, Allen said.  As cost of sequencing falls, doctors may begin using whole
genomes to assess patients’ risk of cancer, diabetes,  heart
disease , or other conditions, the report said. Scientists are
clamoring for more genomes to add to data sets that can help
clarify the impact of variations in the genome, it said.  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , based in  San Diego , and  Life Technologies
Corp. (LIFE) , based in Carlsbad,  California , are the two biggest makers
of DNA sequencers.  Many hospitals and medical centers are asking patients
whether some of their genetic data, if not their whole genomes,
can be used for such research, the report said.  “Those who are willing to share some of the most intimate
information about themselves for the sake of medical progress
should be assured appropriate confidentiality,” Gutmann said in
a statement released by the commission.  Chemical Letters  The genome is a code of chemical letters, called bases,
which instruct cells in making proteins and building tissues.
The genome copied out in each human cell contains about 6
billion such bases, an information set so huge that, once
deciphered by sequencers, it’s often stored on networked,
“cloud” databases. The privacy of these computer storehouses
must also be assured, said Lisa Lee, the commission’s executive
director, on the conference call.  “The most important piece is there be consistent privacy
protections across states and the country,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  