-- Indonesia Holds Benchmark Rate to Shield Weakening Currency
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-10-11T06:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/indonesia-holds-benchmark-rate-to-shield-weakening-currency.html
Indonesia  held its benchmark
interest rate for an eighth month in October as a declining
currency reduced scope for the central bank to ease monetary
policy even after inflation slowed.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board kept
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in a statement in Jakarta today. The decision was
predicted by all 23 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Central banks are stepping up efforts to protect the global
recovery, with the U.S. expanding monetary easing, the  Bank of
Japan  boosting its asset purchases and Brazil and the  Bank of
Korea  cutting  borrowing costs . Indonesian policy makers have
avoided adding to a February  interest-rate  cut to prevent
further capital outflows that have weakened the rupiah.  ”As inflation is benign, holding the rate is the right
choice at this current condition,” Felix Sindhunata, an
economist at PT Henan Putihrai in Jakarta, said before the
decision. “The BI also wants to guard the rupiah.”  The rupiah fell 0.4 percent to 9,636 rupiah per dollar as
of 1:28 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost about 6 percent this year,
the worst performance among Asia’s 11 most-actively traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Consumer price gains  unexpectedly eased 4.31 percent in
September from a year earlier, the slowest pace in six months.
 Bank Indonesia  has an inflation target rate of about 3.5 percent
to 5.5 percent this year and next.  Exports Fall  Indonesian  exports  fell 24.3 percent in August from a year
earlier, after a revised 7.6 percent decline the previous month,
the worst contraction since at least June 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Imports slid 8 percent for a trade
balance of $249 million, the first surplus since March.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.37 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, more than a revised
6.32 percent gain in the first quarter. The country’s growth is
the fastest among the Group of 20 nations after China, as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono boosts spending and invests
in ports, roads and railways.  The  World Bank  lowered its economic growth prediction in
developing  East Asia , which excludes Japan and India, to 7.2
percent from its forecast in May of 7.6 percent. That is the
slowest pace since 2001, according to a report on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  