-- Iraq Plans to Sign Oil, Gas Exploration Agreements in November
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-10-11T10:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/iraq-plans-to-sign-oil-gas-exploration-agreements-in-november.html
Iraq  will sign oil and gas
exploration contracts next month with Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.,
 Inpex Corp. (1605)  of  Japan , London-based  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and  Russia ’s
 OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and OAO Bashneft, an Oil Ministry official said.  The government announced two of the agreements in May, when
it last auctioned energy rights, and the third in June.  Iraq will sign an agreement on Nov. 5 with  Pakistan
Petroleum (PPL)  for natural gas exploration in Block 8 in eastern
Iraq, Sabah Abdel Kadhim, deputy head of the licensing
department, said in a telephone interview in  Baghdad  today. The
ministry will sign oil-exploration accords on Nov. 7 with Lukoil
and Inpex for Block 10 in southern Iraq, and on Nov. 8 with
Bashneft and Premier Oil for Block 12, he said.  The government awarded blocks 8, 9 and 10 when it offered
12 areas to bidders in an energy auction in May. It agreed in
June to sell rights to Block 12 to Bashneft. The nation holds
the world’s fifth-largest crude reserves, according to annual
statistical data compiled by  BP Plc (BP/)  that include Canadian  oil
sands . The country also has the Middle East’s fifth-biggest
deposits of natural gas.  Iraq still hasn’t officially approved an agreement with
Kuwait Energy Co.,  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  and Turkiye Petrolleri AO,
which together won a license to explore for oil in Block 9 along
the Iranian border, Abdel Kadhim said. He declined to give more
details.  The Block 9 approval has been delayed until the ministry
“completes procedures related to it,” Ali Al-Dabbagh, the
official government spokesman, said on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kadhim Ajrash in Baghdad at 
 kajrash@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  