-- Israel Risks Global Isolation With Attack on Iran, Terzi Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/israel-risks-global-isolation-with-attack-on-iran-terzi-says.html
Italian Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi urged continued pressure on  Iran  through sanctions and
said  Israel  risks becoming a diplomatic outcast if it follows
through on threats to carry out military strikes.  Terzi, speaking in an interview yesterday, said  Europe  was
prepared to enforce tighter trade restrictions to curb Iran’s
nuclear ambitions and disputed that an Israeli attack would
deter Iran from developing an atomic weapon.  “It would not be decisive in terms of bringing to zero the
nuclear military program,” Terzi told Bloomberg Television from
his offices in Rome. “It could also have consequences in global
terms in international diplomacy, the kind of isolation that it
could provoke for Israel itself.”  Iranians have suffered a surge in the cost of living as
Europe and the U.S. check oil output and cut off the flow of
hard currencies. Spiralling inflation has put pressure on
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who says his nuclear
program is peaceful.  “This pressure is going to increase again at the European
level if the Iranians are not coming back with substantive
willingness to engage in the negotiations,” said Terzi, who was
chosen in November for a position in Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s Cabinet. “They should provide guarantees that the
enrichment is stopped or at least contained at a level which is
compatible with the civilian uses.”  Diplomatic Effort  Italy , the third-biggest economy in the 17-nation euro
area, is pushing for greater diplomatic cooperation to help end
the civil war in  Syria . Russia, Terzi said, must be “a
constructive partner” for a solution. As the Syrian regime
continues killing civilians, Italy ruled out arming the rebels,
Terzi said.  “Italy is very active in supporting a political
solution,” Terzi said. “We are very actively supporting the
humanitarian needs of the Syrian population.”  Regional and international efforts have failed to end 19
months of bloodshed in Syria which has killed more than 30,000
people, according to estimates by the opposition Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . Syrian rebels seeking to oust
President Bashar al-Assad have moved this month to drive
government troops from the commercial hub of Aleppo.  In Europe, Italy is seeking to encourage nations to
cooperate in response to the region’s sovereign debt crisis. The
European collective bond-buying program, which Monti helped
create this year to help countries in need, hasn’t been tapped
yet. Terzi reiterated that Italy had no current need for aid and
said that Spain will make its own decision.  “We have not received a direct request to move together,”
Terzi said of the Spanish government. “They themselves have not
made the final decision at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Rotondi in  Rome  at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 