-- Mississippi Joins Lawsuit Over Obama Immigration Police
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-10-11T16:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/mississippi-joins-lawsuit-over-obama-immigration-police.html
Mississippi  joined a lawsuit opposing
the Obama administration’s policy barring deportation of many young
undocumented immigrants, adding a state government to a group of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement employees challenging the
rule.  An amended complaint filed yesterday in Dallas federal
court adds Mississippi to a group of 10 plaintiffs who sued Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  in August.  Napolitano’s June 15 directive granting temporary reprieve
from deportation to some young illegal immigrants requires ICE
employees to break federal law, according to the complaint.  Napolitano and other named defendants have not formally
answered the suit. Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the
department, today declined to comment on Mississippi’s action.  “States must protect their borders while the federal
government continues to ignore this growing problem,”
Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant said in a statement. “I
believe this action by the Obama administration is
unconstitutional and circumvents Congress’s authority.”  Bryant said the state joined the suit at no cost to
taxpayers because it is being represented by  Kris W. Kobach  and
 P. Michael Jung , the attorneys who filed the initial case.
Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state and a Republican, is a
national advocate for tougher illegal-immigration laws.  The  policy  calls for the government to stop deportations of
people 30 or younger who arrived in the U.S. before age 16; have
lived in the U.S. for at least five years; are in school, have a
high school diploma or equivalent or have been honorably
discharged from military service; have no criminal convictions;
and pose no threat to public safety or national security.  The case is Crane v. Napolitano, 3:12-cv-03247, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in  Dallas  at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 