-- Italian Yields Rise at Auction as Concern on Spain Mounts
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-11T10:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/italy-borrowing-costs-rise-at-sale-as-concerns-over-spain-mount.html
Italy ’s borrowing costs rose at an
auction of three-year debt today on concern that  Spain ’s
reluctance to request a bailout will weigh on Italian bonds.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8
billion) of its benchmark three-year bond to yield 2.86 percent,
more than the 2.75 percent at the last auction of the same
securities on Sept. 13. Investors bid for 1.67 times the amount
offered, up from 1.49 times last month.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to
attack surging borrowing costs by buying bonds of distressed
nations in tandem with the European Union helped lower Spanish
and Italian yields after a surge in July. The yields are now
creeping back up after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last
week pushed back expectations of a bailout, telling reporters no
request was imminent.  “The higher yields simply reflect the recent volatility in
the euro-region periphery’s spreads,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in London, wrote in a note to
clients after the auction. “However, today’s auction is a sign
that dealers are still willing to buy Italian paper as the
country’s fiscal progress seems to be on track”.  Bond Redemptions  Italy also sold a total of 2.25 billion of bonds due in
2016, 2018 and 2025 to yield respectively 3.42 percent, 4.06
percent and 5.24 percent. Today’s sale, probably helped by 18
billion euros in redemptions on Oct. 15, comes after Italy
auctioned 11 billion euros of bills yesterday.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 4 basis points to 5.07
percent at 11:43 a.m. in Rome, leaving the difference with
comparable maturity German bunds at 361 basis points.  International Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier
Blanchard  suggested on Oct.9 that bond yields in Spain and Italy
may reverse the recent declines if the countries hold off on
requesting bailouts. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
reiterated this month that Italy doesn’t plan to request bond
buying for now.  Standard & Poor’s  said Spain’s creditworthiness is being
constrained by “a policy-setting framework among the euro-zone
governments that still lacks predictability” in its decision
yesterday to cut the country’s rating to BBB-, one level above
junk.  Seeking Conditions  Rajoy’s deputy, Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, said last week
that the government needs to ensure a request for help from the
permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism, would
be granted before it can call for aid. A bid to the ESM is
needed to trigger support from the ECB.  “The key question going forward is whether Italy’s debt
market will come under increased strain because of growing
uncertainty about Spain,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , wrote in note after the
auction. “There’s a significant risk that  Madrid  is not going
to apply for a bond-buying programme any time soon.”  Italy’s 10-year yield remains almost 100 basis points above
its average for the past decade. Still, Italy’s sovereign debt,
currently about 120 percent of gross domestic product, is
sustainable at current yields, debt agency head Maria Cannata
said in an interview in Rome Oct. 9. Italy was forced to revise
up its gross issuance for this year by about 20 billion euros,
Cannata said.  Funding Needs  “We originally planned to issue a total of 440 billion to
450 billion euros this year,” she said. “The final amount will
be about 20 billion euros more because of the way things
developed, the weak economy influenced,” Cannata said.  Cannata said 2013 will “surely be a less stressful year”
for Italy, which is burdened by the euro-region’s  second-biggest 
debt, as bond redemptions are will be more than 40 billion less
than in 2012 and better distributed throughout the year. The
country’s net funding needs will drop by 20 billion next year,
she said.  The Treasury is considering selling a new 15-year or even
30-year benchmark bond next year should demand continue to
improve, Cannata said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net ; 