-- Lithuanians to Oust Government as Austerity Fuels Exodus
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-12T09:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/lithuanians-to-oust-government-as-austerity-fuels-worker-exodus.html
Lithuanians are set to oust their
government after austerity measures intensified the Baltic
nation’s deepest recession, sending unemployment and inequality
to record highs and prompting an exodus of workers.  Voters go to the polls Oct. 14, with the opposition  Social
Democrats  likely to lead a new coalition, a survey by Baltijos
Tyrimai shows. A Cabinet will be formed after a second round of
balloting on Oct. 28 in the single-mandate districts that
comprise half of the 141-seat parliament. Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christian Democrats poll third.  Kubilius cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of economic output in 2009 and 2010 amid the European
Union’s second-worst recession. While voters may be lured by
pledges to boost wages and trim sales levies, the state of
public finances and the breadth of the new coalition will block
deviation from Kubilius’s fiscal discipline, according to Oxford
University’s Ainius Lasas.  “The left-of-center parties won’t go through with their
rather populist promises, for objective reasons and because they
won’t have enough power to make it happen,” Lasas, a senior
research fellow focusing on media and democracy in central and
eastern  Europe , said Oct. 10 by phone. “It will all be blamed
on the coalition.”  Austerity Backlash  Kubilius is trying to avoid the fate of European leaders
who lost power in a wave of protests against austerity measures
that contributed to recessions in economies from  Romania  to
 Spain  instead of tackling the euro area’s debt crisis as
envisaged.  His government is seeking to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to close to the EU’s 3 percent of GDP limit from 9.4
percent in 2009, plans that have helped push borrowing costs to
record lows.  Lithuania’s dollar bond due 2022 traded at 3.598 percent at
11:48 a.m. in Vilnius, near the lowest since it was sold in
January. The cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was 155 basis points,
compared with 845 points in February 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark OMX Vilnius stock index, which has gained
17.1 percent in 2012, rose 0.1 percent from yesterday to 349.74,
close to this year’s high of 351.31, where it closed Aug. 10.  ‘Fantasy’ Promises  “Promises by the left-leaning parties to raise pensions
and so on are from the realm of fantasy and may just be
forgotten,”  Violeta Klyviene , an economist with Danske Bank A/S
in the capital, Vilnius, said Oct. 10 by phone. “Rising
borrowing costs would serve as a cold shower for these
politicians, simply forcing them to stick to discipline.”  The Social Democrats have 24 percent support, compared with
18 percent for Russian-born entrepreneur Viktor Uspaskich’s
 Labor Party , 12 percent for Homeland Union, 8 percent for the
Liberal Movement, part of the current coalition, and 7 percent
for impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice,
according to a Sept. 16-28 poll by Baltijos Tyrimai for the ELTA
news service.  Two more parties, the Lithuanian Polish Election Action and
the Way of Courage, have 4.7 percent and 4.5 percent backing,
just below the 5 percent parliamentary threshold, according to
the survey of 585 people, whose margin of error was 4.1
percentage points.  Twenty-three percent of registered voters, who will also
participate in a non-binding referendum on building a nuclear-
power plant backed by Kubilius, were undecided.  Unemployment, Emigration  While Lithuania’s gross domestic product will advance 2.5
percent this year and 3 percent in 2013, according to the
 Finance Ministry , output plunged almost a quarter as Kubilius
implemented austerity during the recession.  As the $43 billion economy has expanded, unemployment has
fallen from a peak of 18.3 percent in the second quarter of
2010. Still, it remains above 13 percent, driving emigration to
countries such as Norway and the U.K.  As a result, Lithuania’s population dropped below 3 million
for the first time in April, compared with 3.7 million in 1990.
About 53,900 Lithuanians left the country in 2011, while 15,700
returned, the statistics office said in March.  Spending cuts and tax increases since 2008 have also pushed
inequality to the highest level in the EU, with the proportion
of people at risk of poverty surging to the biggest among the
bloc’s 27 members, according to Eurostat.  Jobs, Taxes  The Social Democrats, who advocate euro adoption a year
later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal, have pledged to create jobs and
adjust income-tax rates to benefit those who earn least. The
Labor Party says it will raise the minimum wage to 1,509 litai
($563) a month from 800 litai and reduce the value-added tax on
basic food stuffs.  These plans contradict promises by both parties to maintain
control of fiscal affairs, Kubilius has said. President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU Budget Commissioner who must name
Lithuania’s new premier after the elections, has criticized some
parties’ spending pledges, urging fiscal responsibility.  Investors would only fret if the elections yield a
government that differs from those seen since independence from
the  Soviet Union  in 1990, according to Tomas Andrejauskas, head
of  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ’s markets unit in Lithuania.  ‘Expects Stability’  “Everyone expects stability, a coalition like we have now,
no big changes,” he said Oct. 8 by phone from Vilnius. “If
somehow the traditional parties lose in a big way -- the
conservatives who are in power now, the Social Democrats -- then
the markets might be uneasy.”  The new coalition will probably have to include Homeland
Union or the Liberal Movement, which engineered the austerity
policies of the last four years, according to Oxford
University’s Lasas.  Algirdas Butkevicius, leader of the Social Democrats, has
vowed to maintain fiscal discipline as Lithuania gears up to
assume the EU’s rotating presidency for the first time next
July.  “There will be no revolutions in the budget,” Butkevicius
said in a Sept. 18 interview in Vilnius. “ Lithuania  won’t
follow the same path  Greece ,  Italy  or  Portugal  did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Balazs Penz at
   bpenz@bloomberg.net  