-- J-Power, Itochu Said to Delay $4 Billion Indonesian Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-10-11T06:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/j-power-itochu-said-to-delay-4-billion-indonesian-power-plant.html
Electric Power Development Co. (9513) ,  PT
Adaro Energy (ADRO)  and  Itochu Corp. (8001)  will delay the start of a $4
billion coal-fired plant in Indonesia due to an extended
environmental assessment and protests by local residents, said
three people with direct knowledge of the project.  The three companies expect financing for the project will
be put back at least one year to October 2013, delaying the
start up of the plant by 12 months to the end of 2017, two of
the people said, declining to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  On Oct. 6 last year, the group said the 2,000-megawatt
coal-fired plant, one of  Asia ’s biggest, would start generating
electricity in Central Java in late 2016. The delay is a set
back for Indonesia’s government, which laid out plans to boost
power capacity to meet rising demand in Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy.  The companies are seeking about $3 billion, or 75 percent
of the project costs, from banks including Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. and the state-run  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , said the people.  The financing has been held up because of an environment
assessment and negotiations with local residents to acquire
land, Seigo Mizunuma, an executive director of Electric Power
Development or J-Power, said in a speech at a seminar on Oct. 9.
He didn’t give details.  J-Power shares pared earlier gains of as much as 3 percent
to close mostly unchanged at 2,095 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange while The TOPIX Electric Power & Gas Index rose 2.1
percent. Itochu fell 0.8 percent. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average fell 0.6 percent.  Behind Schedule  Junichiro Hoshino, a Tokyo-based J-Power spokesman,
confirmed the project is behind schedule when contacted Oct. 10
by phone. He declined to give details and said the company is in
talks with project stakeholders.  Itochu is aware of the delay and in discussions with
related parties, said a company official who declined to be
identified, citing internal policy.  J-Power,  Japan ’s biggest power wholesaler, and Indonesian
coal mining company Adaro each own 34 percent of the project
while Japanese trading company Itochu has 32 percent.  On Sept. 29, a Japanese employee of  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  and an
Indonesian driver were held for about five hours by locals on
Java island who oppose the plant,  Kyodo News   reported , citing
the police and people affiliated with the project. They were
rescued by the police unharmed, Kyodo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  