-- Japan Stock Futures Little Changed on Jobless Claims, Earnings
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-11T23:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-on-jobless-claims-earnings.html
Japanese  stock   futures  were little
changed after U.S. jobless claims dropped while Fast Retailing
Co.’s profit forecast added to concern a global economic
slowdown is weighing on earnings. Australian equities opened
little changed.  American depositary receipts of carmaker  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,
which gets 44 percent of its sales in  North America , rose 1.3
percent from the closing share price in  Tokyo . Billabong
International Ltd. may be active when it resumes trading at 11
a.m. in Sydney after TPG International LLC withdrew a bid for
the global surfwear maker. Shares of  Softbank Corp (9984) , Japan’s
third-largest mobile-phone company, may be active on its
possible investment in Sprint Nextel Corp.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,580 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,550 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,570
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
rose less than 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
added 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “The market has been directionless,” said  Shane Oliver ,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“We saw a nice rally going into September on the back of policy
action in  Europe  and the U.S. and now we are looking for the
follow through.”  Stimulus Impact  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 5.7 percent this year
through yesterday as central banks from Europe to the U.S. and
Japan took stimulus measures to counter a global economic
slowdown and the  European debt crisis . The Asian benchmark
traded at 12.7 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose 0.1 percent
today after the index closed little changed in New York
yesterday.  First-time applications for jobless benefits dropped 30,000
to 339,000 last week, the fewest since February 2008, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday. Economists forecast 370,000
claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
One state accounted for most of the plunge in claims, a Labor
Department spokesman said.  “We’ve seen that drop in jobless claims in the U.S., but
it looks largely due to one state,” Oliver at AMP Capital said.
“It’s not as reliable as it is in a normal case. The market
gave up most of the gain.”  Profit Forecast  Fast Retailing Co., which sells Uniqlo branded apparel in
Japan, forecast annual profit below analyst estimates as a
slowdown in global economic growth reduces  consumer spending .  Softbank, Japan’s third-largest mobile-phone company, is
seeking control of Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. surged 1.5 percent to 93.62
yesterday in New York.  China’s biggest banks are resisting government pressure to
lower borrowing costs amid an economic slowdown as they seek to
maintain the profitability of their lending operations,
officials at the top four lenders said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 