-- Japan Machinery Orders Slide 3.3% as Economy Risks Shrinking
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-10-11T00:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/japan-s-machinery-orders-slide-3-3-as-economy-risks-contraction.html
Japan ’s  machinery orders  fell more
than expected in August, a sign that companies will cut back
spending as global demand slows.  Orders, an indicator of capital spending in three to six
months, declined 3.3 percent after rising 4.6 percent in July,
the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo . The  median of 26
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.3 percent drop.  Today’s data follow government reports last month showing
declines in industrial output and exports, underscoring the risk
of a contraction in gross domestic product. In an interview in
Tokyo, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday called
for talks to contain economic damage from a dispute with  China 
over East China Sea islands.  “There’s a growing number of people who are pessimistic
about the economic outlook,” Jun Kawakami, an economist at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before the report. “It’s
really hard to see any signs that companies will increase
 capital spending .”  Japanese shares fell, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average
headed for an 11-week low, on the machinery order data and a cut
to  Spain ’s debt rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average dropped 0.6 percent to
8,547.99 as of 9:20 a.m. in Tokyo, its lowest since July 26. The
broader Topix Index slid 0.5 percent to 713.54, with more than
two stocks falling for each that rose.  Contraction Threat  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a report last week that the
dispute with China may knock 0.8 percentage point off Japan’s
gross domestic product in the October-December period and hasten
a slide in the current account. The brokerage joins Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Merrill Lynch in predicting Japan’s
economy will shrink for two consecutive quarters through the end
of December.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  today released minutes of a meeting last
month where policy makers unexpectedly expanded monetary easing.
During the discussions, one member advocated increasing the size
of the central bank’s purchases of “risk assets,” the record
showed. One said that the nation faces stagnant gross domestic
product or very limited growth for the time being.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  