-- JPMorgan Finance Chief Braunstein Said to Weigh New Role
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-10-11T12:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/jpmorgan-finance-chief-braunstein-said-to-weigh-new-role.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Financial
Officer Douglas Braunstein is considering leaving his position
and may seek a role in the firm’s investment bank, where he
previously led dealmaking, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Braunstein, who was promoted to CFO in June 2010, is likely
to remain in that role for at least several months, said the
person, who requested anonymity because a decision on the move
isn’t final. The finance chief had reported to Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  until July, when  Matt Zames , 41, became his
boss and co-chief operating officer amid management changes in
the wake of a $5.8 billion trading loss.  Braunstein, 51, didn’t respond to a phone call seeking
comment. The Wall Street Journal reported late yesterday that he
is expected to leave his post.  The trading loss, tied to wrong-way bets on derivatives, is
being reviewed by agencies including the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation , Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.K.
Financial Services Authority and the U.S. Senate  Permanent
Subcommittee  on Investigations. An internal probe showed traders
in  London  priced their books “aggressively” and may have tried
to hide the full extent of their losses, the company has said.  The FBI is focusing its inquiry on four former London-based
executives in the bank’s chief investment office, where the loss
occurred, and the bureau could make arrests in the next several
months, the New York Times reported late yesterday, citing
officials briefed on the case.  London Whale  The newspaper said the FBI is scrutinizing former JPMorgan
traders including Bruno Iksil, nicknamed the London Whale
because his wagers were big enough to move the market, as well
as his boss, Javier Martin-Artajo, and former Europe CIO head
Achilles Macris.  A lawyer for Macris, 51, declined to comment and an
attorney for Iksil didn’t respond to requests for comment,
according to the New York Times. Greg Campbell, a lawyer for
Martin-Artajo, said his client “is confident” that he will be
cleared of wrongdoing after a “fair reconstruction of these
complex events is completed,” the newspaper reported.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  A series of personnel changes stemmed from the botched
bets, starting with the resignation in May of Chief Investment
Officer Ina Drew, 56, less than a week after Dimon, 56,
disclosed the trading loss. Her exit was followed by that of
Iksil, Martin-Artajo and Macris.  Senate Panel  Dimon and Drew are among executives who have been
questioned by aides to the Senate panel, overseen by Chairman
 Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, people familiar with the
discussions said. Joseph Bonocore, a former CIO finance chief,
and David Olson, an ex-credit trader in the unit, also have been
interviewed, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private.  Bonocore and Olson now work at New York-based Citigroup
Inc.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for that bank, declined to
comment.  Two senior managers last week also disclosed that they
intend to leave the company. Irene Tse, 43, who ran the CIO for
 North America  under Drew, told employees that she’s resigning
and people familiar with the matter have said she plans to start
a hedge fund. Former Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow, 59, who
runs JPMorgan’s lobbying operation, announced Oct. 5 that he
will retire at year-end.  JPMorgan is scheduled to report third-quarter results
tomorrow before U.S. markets open. The lender may say  net income 
climbed 14 percent to $4.87 billion, according to the average
 estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  