-- King Faces Dilemma as U.K. Inflation Forecasts Rise: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-11T11:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/king-faces-dilemma-as-u-k-inflation-forecasts-rise-economy.html
Bank of  England  Governor Mervyn King
faces a dilemma on whether to increase stimulus again next month
to boost a flagging economy after economists raised their
forecasts for inflation.  The inflation rate will average 2.1 percent in 2013, above
the central bank’s 2 percent target, according to the median
forecast in a monthly Bloomberg News survey of economists.
That’s up from a 2 percent rate projected in September.  The Bank of England’s current round of quantitative easing
finishes next month and officials face a decision at their Nov.
7-8 meeting on whether to add to it. Policy maker Martin Weale
said in an interview published today he’s concerned whether more
QE is the right measure with inflation above target. His
comments follow similar remarks from colleagues Ben Broadbent
and Chief Economist Spencer Dale about inflation risks.  “I’m on the verge of throwing the towel in about
forecasting more QE and saying no more,” said Alan Clarke, an
economist at Scotiabank  Europe  Plc in London. “If you want to
justify stimulus on the basis of the inflation outlook, there
isn’t one. More would mean they’re turning a blind eye to
inflation and focusing on growth.”  The Bank of England will publish new forecasts for growth
and inflation next month that will inform the Monetary Policy
Committee’s November decision. In August, it forecast that the
inflation rate would fall below its target in the fourth quarter
of 2013, to about 1.9 percent.  The Bloomberg survey shows inflation averaging 2.3 percent
in the second quarter of 2013 and 2.2 percent in the third
quarter. It will slow to 2 percent in the fourth quarter before
accelerating to 2.1 percent in the next three months. In 2014,
inflation will average 2.1 percent, according to the survey.  Weale’s Concerns  “It is certainly not self-evident to me in the light of
the apparent stickiness of inflation that substantial extra
support for the economy would be compatible with the inflation
target,” Weale said in an interview with the Daily Mail
newspaper. “I am concerned about the stickiness of inflation.”  The comments signal he is reluctant to back more QE. They
follow remarks by Broadbent last month that officials’ capacity
to add to stimulus is limited by faster-than-expected inflation.
 U.K. consumer-price growth  cooled to 2.5 percent in August from
2.6 percent, data last month showed. It’s been above the Bank of
England’s 2 percent target every month since December 2009.  “The persistent worry we have is that if people get used
to the idea of high inflation, if they take the view that the
Bank of England isn’t bothered about the inflation target, it
can lead to increased inflation risks and can affect the way in
which people negotiate wages and set prices,” Weale said.  Skepticism  The Bank of England last expanded QE in July, when it
increased its bond-purchase target by 50 billion pounds to 375
billion pounds. Barclays Plc forecasts that it will increase the
target by a further 50 billion pounds next month, though the
nine-member MPC is likely to split on the decision.  “Weale has previously voiced skepticism over additional QE
at the current juncture,” Barclays economists including Chris Crowe in  London  said in an e-mailed note today. “In light of
these comments, we think it unlikely that he will support
additional easing.”  Weale said that while the economy probably rebounded in the
 third quarter  after one-time factors in the three months through
June, underlying growth is “flat.” He also said the central
bank must ensure the credibility of its monetary policy.  “You get much greater stability with inflation targeting
and for the regime to be credible, people have to think it is
taken seriously,” Weale said in the interview.  ‘Aim Off’  Speaking earlier this week, Governor Mervyn King also
highlighted the importance of inflation targeting and said the
Bank of England had built up credibility over the past two
decades. Still, he also said there are circumstances where it
may be “justified to aim off” the target for a while.  He has previously said the central bank’s decision not to
try to bring down inflation too fast after it accelerated above
5 percent in 2011 was because such action could have caused a
deeper recession.  “There may be other reasons in the future for accepting an
overshoot or indeed an undershoot” for a period, King said in
London on Oct. 9.  Elsewhere today, South  Korea  cut  interest rates  hours after
 Brazil  as economies around the world shield themselves from the
risk of a deeper slowdown driven by weakness in  China  and
austerity measures in Europe.  The Bank of Korea lowered the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 2.75 percent from 3 percent. Brazil’s central
bank cut the Selic rate fell by the same amount to a record low
7.25 percent.  Indonesia  left its benchmark unchanged.  The U.S.  trade deficit  probably widened to $44 billion in
August from $42 billion in July, according to a Bloomberg survey
before a report later today. Initial jobless claims probably
climbed 3,000 to 370,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, another
Bloomberg survey of economists showed. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index is also due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  