-- Kraft Foods Said to Seek Buyer for Breakstone’s Dairy Business
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/kraft-foods-said-to-seek-buyer-for-breakstone-s-dairy-business.html
Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  is putting
its  Breakstone’s  sour cream and cottage cheese business up for
sale, less than two weeks after its predecessor’s split, said
people with knowledge of the situation.  The business may be worth about $400 million, said two of
the people, who asked not to be named since the process is
private. The company began pursuing a sale after its century-old
forerunner’s breakup on Oct. 1, which separated the Kraft
grocery business from  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ) , the snacks
division that operates mainly overseas.  Kraft may sell a few smaller brands as the company starts
to focus on its top-selling labels following the break-up,
according to one of the people. The company, led by Chief
Executive Officer Tony Vernon, plans to boost marketing spending
on more popular banners such as Kraft Macaroni & Cheese,
Velveeta, Jell-O and Oscar Mayer.  “They will continue to focus on the power brands,” Ken Shea, an analyst with Bloomberg Industries, said in a telephone
interview. “I think there will be ongoing pruning, especially
if there is a slowdown and their leverage starts to get too
high.”  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Kraft, declined to
comment. The company wouldn’t be alone in trying to shed dairy
assets.  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. dairy processor, is
exploring a sale of its Morningstar business, which produces
 milk products  for retailers and restaurants.  Dairy producer Grupo Lala SA of Mexico is said to be
interested in Breakstone’s and Morningstar, one of the people
said. Luis Rey Delgado, a spokesman for Grupo Lala, declined to
comment on whether the company is exploring bids.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  