-- Krugman Says IMF Research Ignored; Sees Romney on Wrong Track
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-10-11T02:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/krugman-says-imf-research-ignored-sees-romney-on-wrong-track.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman  spoke about his expectations for the upcoming
 International Monetary Fund  meeting, the impact of expansionary
fiscal policy on economies, U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , and South  Korea ’s place in the global economy. He spoke
at a press conference at the World Knowledge Forum in  Seoul 
today.  On recent reports by the International Monetary Fund on the
economic outlook, and the IMF annual meeting:  “They basically make the case that we need to reverse
fiscal austerity and we need strong monetary expansion,
especially in  Europe , which is all very interesting and
obviously I agree with, and has almost no chance of being
reflected in actual policy.”  “So we have a situation in which the hard work of the
researchers at the IMF has led to the conclusion that the
policies that we are actually following are all wrong, but there
is essentially no political will to change course. So this is
going to be a frustrating meeting.”  On expansionary fiscal policy versus austerity:  “Even for the countries that are experiencing sovereign
debt problems, the evidence does not suggest that there’s a
strong impact of current fiscal policy on those problems.”  “If anything, some evidence from the IMF suggest that
fiscal austerity may actually widen the sovereign spreads,
because the negative impact on growth has a greater impact on
reducing investor confidence than any positive impact on the
fiscal balance.”  “If you try to look at the arithmetic for the  United
States  or the UK, given the extremely low  interest rates  at
which we can currently borrow, the impact of fiscal expansion on
the debt position is trivial.”  “It’s even possible, because of the effects on longer-term
growth, that it’s positive.”  On the U.S. presidential election campaign and Mitt Romney:  “Romney’s party is operating from a view of the economy
which is completely wrong.”  “Their view is that we had too much stimulus, too much
spending, too expansionary a monetary policy, all of which is
absolutely rejected by the evidence.”  “If you have a winning presidential candidate whose view
is that we must do exactly the opposite of what the evidence
suggests we should do, this is not a good prospect for the U.S.
or the world economy.”  On  South Korea ’s role in the global economy:  “Korea is still a relatively small economy, and it’s not
going to be the engine for the world.”  “Korea has done pretty well at coping with the crisis but
to think of it as an engine is unlikely.”  “My take on Korea is that it tends to get pushed around in
the short run by events in the world economy.”  “If there is a global recession, Korea will suffer
substantially but temporarily in that recession.  “But at some level it’s not that serious. This economy
does not have fundamental problems of the kind that the
Europeans have or possibly even that  China  has.”  Editor: Brett Miller  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  