-- Napa Winegrowers Win Brand Protection in China
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-10-11T22:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/napa-valley-vintners-win-geographic-indication-status-in-china.html
Napa Valley Vintners  said they have
won brand protection from  China , giving them the opportunity to
improve marketing as export sales grow.  China granted the Californian area “geographic
indication” status, Linda Reiff,  executive director  for the
vintners, said. The move follows similar recognition from
importers including the European Union, Canada, India, Thailand
and most recently Brazil, and will enable Napa vintners to
improve their targeting of one of the world’s fastest-growing
wine markets.  “We’ve been working on this for about five years behind
the scenes,” Reiff said in a telephone interview last night.
“We went directly to the Chinese government.”  A group of 40 winegrowers from the Napa region visited
China in May and producers are seeking to benefit from demand in
cities like Shanghai for imported wines from premium areas such
as Bordeaux, Burgundy and California. More than 100 of the
association’s vintners, or almost one quarter of its membership,
are already exporting to China.  Californian wineries have increased their sales effort in
China in the past four years since the Beijing  Olympic Games ,
tapping into the country’s affluent growing middle-class. The
state’s exports to China jumped more than 40 percent last year.  The agreement applies to wines sold in the Chinese mainland
for now, with  Hong Kong  and Macau subject to separate laws.  China Missions  Napa Valley Vintners has taken trade missions to China for
more than 14 years, and has now stepped up the frequency of
visits to two a year, according to Reiff.  “It’s a very good market for those of us plying those
waters,” Russ Weis, General Manager of  Silverado Vineyards ,
said by telephone.  The Napa Valley, north of  San Francisco , includes wine
areas such as  St. Helena  and Rutherford. While it accounts for
just 4 percent of Californian wine production, it has a high
profile in the export market.  “Napa has been actively seeking recognition around the
world,”  Michael Honig , president of Rutherford-based Honig
Vineyard & Winery and a member of the  Napa Valley  Vintners’
board, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It helps
protect our brand.”  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper 
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in London on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 