-- Nasdaq’s U.K. Derivatives Platform Seeks 10% Market Share
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-10-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/nasdaq-s-u-k-derivatives-platform-seeks-10-market-share.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , which is
setting up a derivatives trading system in London to compete
with Europe’s two biggest futures exchanges, will seek more than
10 percent market share in its first year of operation.  “Success is at least 10 percent,” Nasdaq Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in an interview in London
yesterday. “We don’t have an interest in being a 3 percent or 5
percent market player. We want to come in a meaningful way.”  The market for derivatives is growing as European and U.S.
regulators push over-the-counter transactions onto exchanges.
The second-largest U.S. equity exchange announced plans for the
U.K. platform, known as NLX, in June, four months after the
European Union blocked  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  amid concern the merger would stifle competition in
derivatives and clearing.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext own Europe’s largest
derivatives exchanges. NYSE Euronext’s London-based Liffe
dominates the market for short-term interest-rate derivatives
and Frankfurt-based Eurex, Europe’s largest futures exchange,
handles long-term products.  CME Group Inc. (CME)  also plans to open a
market for currency futures in London next year.  NLX, led by  Charlotte  Crosswell, will set up its interest-
rate derivatives system with six products, including futures on
the German bund, Euribor futures and short sterling. It will
also offer medium-term German government debt known as Bobl, so-
called Schatz short-term German debt, and a U.K. government
bond. Nasdaq will start the trading platform in the first
quarter of 2013.  ‘Superior Technology’  “We will come with superior technology, in close alignment
with the customers,” Greifeld said. “The market, post the
rejection of NYSE- Deutsche Boerse  is quite receptive to a
competitive dynamic.”  NYSE Euronext is spending $85 million moving clearing for
London derivatives trades to its own clearinghouse by the summer
of 2013, forming a so-called vertical silo. Deutsche Boerse
already routes all transactions through its own post-trade
systems. By contrast, NLX will use LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., the
largest clearinghouse for  interest-rate swaps , for clearing and
settlement services.  “I have yet to meet a customer who believes the vertical
silo is a good thing, we are espousing the horizontal model,”
Greifeld said. “We’ll be there using LCH as a clearer, with
strong technology, just as NYSE are forcing their customers
through the conversion.”  Nasdaq has a 3.7 percent stake in LCH.Clearnet, which is
selling a majority stake to  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   LSE Bids  Greifeld, who has tried twice to buy LSE and made a failed
hostile bid for New York-based NYSE Euronext last year, said he
isn’t currently close to a large  acquisition .  “We look at acquisitions on a regular basis and the stars
have to align perfectly,” he said. “Transactions are difficult
things. The reasons to do them have to be compelling. We look at
close to a 100 transactions a year and we pull the trigger on
two or three.”  Nasdaq shares  have fallen 4.1 percent this year as of 1:48
p.m.  New York  time yesterday. The New York-based exchange
generated criticism from its member firms in May for failing to
stop trading in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  after computer systems used to set
the opening price in the social network’s initial public
offering were overwhelmed by order cancellations and updates.
The company has set up a $62 million compensation plan for
brokers that lost money on the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  and @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter 