-- Nationwide to Pay $26 Milion in Suit Over Harleysville
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-11T20:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/nationwide-to-pay-26-milion-in-suit-over-harleysville.html
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co.
agreed to pay $26 million to settle claims that executives of a
company it acquired this year enriched themselves by diverting a
takeover premium from the firm’s customers.  Nationwide filed a tentative settlement agreement in state
court in Philadelphia, it said in a statement today. The lawsuit
stems from Columbus, Ohio-based Nationwide’s $834 million
acquisition of customer-owned Harleysville Mutual Insurance Co.
in May.  Harleysville customers had said in court that they were
short-changed because the purchase price was paid entirely to
outside shareholders of a Nasdaq-listed subsidiary. Those
shareholders, including Harleysville directors and officers, got
a 137 percent premium to the market value of their stock.  The target company’s chief executive officer, Michael Browne, testified at an April court hearing that he would
receive at least $29 million from the sale. That includes at
least $14 million of options that were underwater before the
takeover.  Harleysville executives last year rejected a competing
offer from Boston-based Liberty Mutual Holding Co. that involved
a $250 million payout to customers and a lower amount for the
minority shareholders, Browne said in court.  ‘Inherent Conflict’  Liberty urged Pennsylvania regulators to scrutinize the
proposed transaction, saying it involved an “inherent conflict
of interest.”  Harleysville, based in the Pennsylvania community of the
same name, had said its policyholders would benefit from the
deal because they would become affiliated with Nationwide, a
larger company with a better financial-strength rating.  Under Pennsylvania law, a company’s board must balance the
interests of policyholders, employees and other stakeholders
rather than maximize economic value as a stock company
incorporated in  Delaware  would. Pennsylvania’s insurance
regulator approved the acquisition in April.  “Given the potential cost and burden of continued
litigation, Nationwide believes that settling this lawsuit is in
the best interest of all Nationwide and Harleysville
stakeholders,” Nationwide said in the statement. Neither
insurer admitted wrongdoing or liability, Nationwide said.  Allied Mutual  Nationwide paid at least $100 million in 2005 to settle
similar claims in a case involving its acquisition of Allied
Mutual Insurance Co., which also had a listed subsidiary.  The plaintiffs have co-lead counsel from law firms Barrack
Rodos & Bacine and Wohl & Fruchter LLP. Ballard Spahr LLP is
representing Harleysville Mutual, Fox Rothschild LLP is
Harleysville Group’s legal counsel, and attorneys from Dechert
LLP are advising Nationwide.  Nationwide separately agreed to pay $7.2 million to settle
state regulators’ reviews into whether companies were holding
funds that should go to beneficiaries of life policies and
annuities, California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones said in
a  statement  today.  “We look forward to fulfilling the terms of this agreement
and moving forward with this matter resolved,” the company said
in a statement.  The case is In re: Harleysville Mutual, 11102137, Court of
Common Pleas, Philadelphia County (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  