-- NBK Profit Tops Estimate as Stagnant Market Crimps Growth
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-11T14:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/nbk-profit-tops-estimates-as-stagnant-market-crimps-growth-plans.html
National Bank of Kuwait SAK , the
country’s biggest lender, repeated its criticism of the
government for failing to boost spending on construction and
speed up the tendering of projects.  “The operating environment continues to pose some barriers
to our potential for growth,” Group Chief Executive Officer
Ibrahim Dabdoub said in a statement announcing the bank’s third-
quarter results. “Government spending continues to be
insufficient and the tendering of new projects has significantly
lagged, leading to a stagnant stock market performance and
dormancy in economic activity.”  Kuwaiti private-sector borrowing grew at the slowest pace
in at least 17 years in 2011 as OPEC’s third-biggest exporter
couldn’t meet spending pledges and stimulate investment. The
Central Bank of Kuwait on Oct. 4 cut the key interest rate by 50
basis points to 2 percent to spur growth.  Net income surged to 108.1 million dinars ($384.5 million)
from 78.9 million dinars a year earlier, NBK said in an e-mailed
statement today, without providing a reason for the increase.
The median estimate of three analysts was for profit of 66
million dinars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Development Plan  Repeated cabinet resignations and political clashes between
the government and lawmakers have hindered  Kuwait ’s $110 billion
development plan to modernize and diversify away from oil. The
government had planned to have private investors contribute
almost half the cost for projects including a metro and rail
network, expanding the airport, and constructing new power
stations, hospitals, roads and a port.  National Bank of Kuwait in July acquired a controlling
stake in Boubyan Bank as it seeks to diversify its income. The
lender said the same month that Josef Ackermann, the former
chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG, joined its
International Advisory Board. Mohamed El-Erian, CEO of Pacific
Investment Management Co., and former Citigroup Inc. Senior Vice
Chairman William Rhodes are also on the board.  “NBK’s results were driven by one-off investment gains
amounting to 82 million dinars which came about due to re-
measurement of its existing stake in Boubyan Bank on the
consolidation of the Islamic lender into its books,” Naveed Ahmed, a banking analyst at Kuwait-based Global Investment House
KSCC, said in an emailed statement. “The bank’s top-line from
conventional operations dropped by 5 percent year-on-year and
any positive movement in the total is a result of the
consolidation.”  Heavy Provisions  NBK continued taking “heavy provisions” in the third
quarter, “higher than our expectations,” Ahmed said. The
nation’s three biggest banks set aside more provisions to guard
against non-performing loans in the first half of this year than
they did in the same period last year. NBK  more than doubled 
provisions in the second quarter.  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)   shares  were unchanged at 990 fils
at the close in Kuwait City before the results were announced.
The stock has fallen 2.8 percent this year compared with a 2.7
percent increase for the benchmark KSE Index.  “The improvement in the local operating environment now
depends on developing a more dynamic fiscal policy, most
importantly accelerating spending on mega projects,” Dabdoub
said in the statement. “We hope this will materialize in the
near future considering recent directions from the highest
authority and the proposed measures to boost economic activity
and spur growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  