-- Nigeria, Boko Haram May Have Committed Crimes, Group Says
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-10-11T17:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/nigeria-boko-haram-may-have-committed-crimes-group-says.html
Nigeria ’s Islamist group Boko Haram
and state security forces may be guilty of crimes against
humanity in the three years of a conflict that has claimed at
least 2,800 lives, New York-based  Human Rights Watch  said.  Boko Haram, which says it’s fighting to impose Islamic law
in Nigeria, “has callously murdered people while they pray at
church services in northern Nigeria,”  Daniel Bekele , Africa
director at Human Rights Watch, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “It has also gunned down Muslims who openly oppose
the group’s horrific violence.”  While the Nigerian government has rarely tried people
responsible for the violence, the security forces “have killed
hundreds of Boko Haram suspects and other members of the public
with no apparent links to the group,” it said. The military
denies the accusations.  Over the past three years, Boko Haram’s attacks in the
mainly Muslim north and the capital, Abuja, have killed more
than 1,500 people, HRW said. Boko Haram has claimed
responsibility for bombings and gun attacks on churches and
government buildings, and the killing of police, soldiers,
officials, and Muslims who disagree with the group.  In addition to these attacks, “the group has forced
Christian men to convert to Islam on pain of death and has
assassinated Muslim clerics and traditional leaders in the north
for allegedly speaking out against its tactics or for
cooperating with authorities to identify group members,” HRW
said in the  report .  ‘Excessive Force’  Responding to attacks by the group, the Joint Military Task
Force, in charge of security in the region, “has engaged in
excessive use of force, physical abuse, secret detentions,
extortion, burning of houses, stealing money during raids, and
extrajudicial killings of suspects,” the rights group said.  The extrajudicial killing of the group’s founder,  Mohammed Yusuf , and other group members in 2009 became “a rallying cry
for the group’s subsequent violent campaign,” it said.
Government corruption, police brutality, inter-communal violence
and poverty, which is more severe in the north, are among the
problems that provide a fertile environment for Boko Haram to
recruit.  The military in Borno state, Boko Haram’s birthplace, “has
no record of extrajudicial killings,” Sagir Musa, a spokesman
for the Joint Force in the region, said by phone today from
Maiduguri, the state capital. “The Nigerian army is not trained
to kill innocent civilians, but to protect them, and that’s what
they’ve been doing.”  President Goodluck Jonathan in January called the
insurgency a more serious threat to  Africa ’s biggest-oil
producer than the 1967-1970 Biafran civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  