-- Nobel Looks Provincial as U.S. Snub Continues: Commentary
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-10-11T21:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/nobel-prize-looks-provincial-as-u-s-snub-continues-commentary.html
Philip Roth will have to wait
another year. Should he have won the 2012 Nobel Prize for
Literature? Assuredly. Instead, the Swedish Academy has thrust
author Mo Yan into the spotlight.  Literature’s newest laureate is the first resident Chinese
winner in the prize’s 111-year history. Though China-born Gao Xingjian won in 2000, he was an unpopular choice back home,
having taken French citizenship several years before.  As translator Howard Goldblatt has said of “ The Garlic
Ballads ,” which Mo Yan wrote in less than a month in response
to a struggle between poor garlic farmers and corrupt officials,
the author is “political, if not polemical.”  Satire is his chief weapon and he is as likely to be found
slyly sending up his countrymen’s taste for extreme culinary
delicacies as the state’s shabby dealings with its peasants.
Peter Englund, head of the Swedish Academy, said that when the
author heard he’d won, he was “overjoyed and scared.” An
acceptance speech is going to pose special challenges for a
Chinese author whose pen name translates as “don’t speak.”  After Liu Xiaobo won the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize,  China 
censored the news and placed him in detention. This time the
criticism has come from Chinese liberals, who point to Mo Yan’s
participation in a project to commemorate a speech given by Mao
Zedong in 1942 about the role of artists.  So where does this leave the award itself? Mo Yan is far
from being a winner without merit, and represents a move away
from recent Eurocentricity.  Smaller Prizes  That said, the Nobel’s prize money has already been
diminished due to the financial crisis. If the literary medal is
to retain its cultural luster, it must remain wholly
international in outlook, something it becomes harder to claim
the longer North American talent is ignored.  In certain respects, Mo Yan’s work has an affinity with
that of American author Pearl Buck, whose epic descriptions of
life in rural China helped her win the 1938 prize. His writing
has also been compared to that of Laurence Sterne, William
Faulkner and Francois Rabelais. You’ll find tinges of Latin
America’s magic realists, too, even if Mo Yan says they haven’t
influenced him.  Mo Yan was born in 1955 in Gaomi, a city in northern China
whose surrounds are the setting for most of his fiction. His
hardscrabble childhood was rich in folktales; much of it was
spent tending livestock in the fields and later, during the
Cultural Revolution, toiling in factories.  Army Officer  With little by way of formal schooling, he joined the
People’s Liberation Army in 1976. He wrote his earliest work
while still serving as an officer and his breakthrough came in
1987 with “ Red Sorghum ,” which fictionalizes three generations
of freedom fighters during the Second Sino-Japanese War. It was
made into a film and was translated into English in 1993.  In the decades since, he has amassed a body of largely
historical novels that draw on folklore to probe his nation’s
turbulent heritage while meditating more universally on human
nature.  There are supernatural touches, as in “Thirteen Steps,”
whose caged protagonist begs for chalk with which to inscribe
tales of miraculous happenings.  Earthy sensuality can be found, too. “ Big Breasts and Wide
Hips ,” a brick-thick novel encompassing most of China’s 20th
century, opens with descriptions of bosoms and buttocks and goes
on to make a metaphor of the female body.  Animal Imagery  Mo Yan is particularly fond of animal imagery, using it to
visceral effect.  In his recent novel “ Life and Death Are Wearing Me Out ,”
Lord Yama, king of the underworld, sends a landowner named Ximen
back to his village as “a white-hoofed donkey with floppy,
tender lips.” His transformation is preceded by a vivid birth
scene. Ximen then cycles through reincarnations as an ox, a pig,
a dog and a monkey before returning to human form.  To the Western reader, China’s literature can seem as
exotic as its opera. By blending family sagas rooted in the past
with glimpses of a fast-changing present in which capitalist
converts dream up Cultural Revolution theme parks, Mo Yan offers
a deepened understanding of far more besides.  And yet as his homeland’s 21st-century story is confirming,
ours is an increasingly globalized age. Just look to his
neighbor and this year’s Nobel favorite, Haruki Murakami, for
proof that cross-pollination with the likes of Raymond Chandler
and F. Scott Fitzgerald can have exhilarating results. The
Swedish Academy would do well to take note.  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  James
S. Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at  hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 