-- Obama Finding Election Cheer in Misery Index: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   A l e x a n d e r   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/obama-finding-election-cheer-in-misery-index-cutting-research.html
President  Barack Obama  should find
happiness in the U.S. economy’s “Misery Index” -- as long as
he focuses on its national reading rather than its state-by-
state gauges.  The combination of unemployment and inflation was 9.7
percent in the third quarter, compared with 11.3 percent in the
comparable quarter before the Democrat’s 2008 victory,
calculated  Carl Riccadonna , a senior economist at  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  in  New York . That suggests a “narrow re-election” for Obama
next month over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , Riccadonna
said in an Oct. 5 report.  The misery index was developed in the 1970s by American
economist  Arthur Okun , who added unemployment and consumer-price
inflation together to grade the state of the economy. In the
most recent quarter, U.S.  unemployment  was 8.1 percent and
inflation 1.6 percent, Deutsche Bank says.  A decline over a four-year presidential term suggests re-
election for the incumbent or his party’s candidate, according
to Riccadonna. The index has predicted nine of the past 12
elections and was only marginally off when it failed to forecast
 George W. Bush ’s re-election in 2004, he found. If the threshold
for the index is raised to a full percentage-point move over the
term it was accurate every election.  The picture is less clear when Riccadonna allows for the
importance of the Electoral College, which determines the winner
based on how each state votes. Assuming that the results in 13
states, many of them so-called swing states, are hard to call,
and using the most recent state data for the second quarter, he
calculated an average misery index for those states of 9.5
percent. That compares with a national average of 10.1 percent.  If votes are apportioned according to the level of the
index and only those above the national average tilt to Romney,
then Obama wins, Riccadonna said. The incumbent also stays in
the White House even if the four states that are clearly worse
off than four years ago favor the Republican.  Still, if all states with an index now above the 9.5
percent average back Romney, then he would secure the White
House. The same happens if the states whose indexes are only
marginally lower than four years ago unite with the worse-off
ones.  * * *   Housing is typically more of a leader in U.S. economic
recoveries than it is across other global markets.  Residential investment’s role as an early engine of growth
seems to vary with differences in construction, according to a
National Bureau of Economic Research paper this month by
University of California Santa Barbara economists Finn Kydland,
a 2004 Nobel laureate, and Peter Rupert. The study was
coauthored by Roman Sustek of the University of Southampton in
the U.K.  Building takes place faster in the U.S. than other markets,
so the investment registered as part of gross domestic product
is concentrated in an earlier period, the authors said.  The authors looked at housing starts and found the
beginning of construction showed “much more uniformity” across
Australia,  Belgium ,  Canada ,France and the U.S., according to the
NBER paper. It’s after that that the differences emerge.  In the U.S., it takes about five or six months to build a
home, the authors say, citing Census Bureau data. Across other
countries, “longer completion times in residential construction
make residential investment more coincident with GDP” rather
than a leader.  Housing has been a laggard in the current expansion, with
residential investment contributing an average of less than 0.1
percentage point to growth in the past three years.  * * *  Government spending  reductions probably cut deeper than
economists first estimated.  Olivier Blanchard , chief economist at the  International
Monetary Fund , and colleague Daniel Leigh argue that so-called
fiscal multipliers used by analysts around the world to gauge
how declines in government spending affect economic growth have
“been systematically too low” in the past two years. The
higher a fiscal multiplier, the more effect a budget
retrenchment has on output.  Their findings, released on Oct. 9 as part of the
Washington-based lender’s World Economic Outlook, help explain
why economic projections for 28 countries didn’t capture the
weak pace of growth that has occurred as countries reined in
government spending.  To arrive at this conclusion, the economists examined the
degree to which forecast errors in 2010 and 2011 could be
explained by assumptions about spending. The forecasts, which
came from the IMF, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, the Economist Intelligence Unit and the European
Commission, included members of the Group of 20 nations and the
European Union.  A 1 percent reduction in government outlays could cut a
nation’s GDP by 0.9 to 1.7 percentage points, according to their
calculations. Earlier studies tended to assume such a reduction
would trim GDP by only 0.5 point, the IMF economists found.  * * *  Europe’s youth unemployment rate may not be quite as bad as
it first seems, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and the
Peterson Institute for International Economics.  While it may be the highest ever, JPMorgan Chase economist
David Mackie and  Jacob Kirkegaard  of the Peterson Institute said
in separate studies in the past week that the official 22.8
percent youth unemployment rate exaggerates the participation of
that group in the labor market.  The rate is overblown because it’s based on the ratio of
unemployed to the workforce. Because many young people are
studying at that age, only 42 percent of that population is in
the workforce, according to Mackie, JPMorgan’s London-based
chief European economist, in an Oct 5. report. Fifty-two percent
are in education.  Using 2011 data and reclassifying those in education as
employed, Mackie suggests the European youth jobless rate was
about 9.4 percent last year rather than the official 20.8
percent. He and Kirkegaard suggest a better gauge is the so-
called NEET rate, which measures those young individuals not in
employment, education or training. It was 12.6 percent last
year.  “By this metric, the euro area is actually performing
better in the aggregate than the U.S., and even the supposedly
desperate periphery only has NEET rates a few percentage points
higher than the U.S.” Kirkegaard said in an Oct. 5  study .
“Youth dropping out of the workforce in a recession is not
necessarily such a bad thing for them or the nation if they
leave low skilled work to return to education.”  * * *  African markets may offer the promise of strong economic
growth absent elsewhere in the world economy, according to
 Standard Bank  Group.  Ten of the 25 fastest expanding economies in the next five
years will be in  Africa , where the combined gross domestic
product is comparable to that of Brazil or Russia, projected
Goolam Ballim, group chief economist in Johannesburg, in a
presentation in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Africa’s population is increasingly youthful in contrast to
the aging workforce in developed economies, while the
continent’s growth in private consumption lags behind only China
and Japan, he said. Two in three Africans probably will be
living in cities by 2050, while Africa’s resource potential
remains largely dormant and financial services are growing.  Since May, Standard Bank’s index of 10 African currencies
has outperformed its gauge of 10 emerging market exchange rates,
Ballim said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Tokyo at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net ,
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ,
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  