-- Ohio Loses Appeal, Can’t Reject Voters in Wrong Precincts
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/ohio-loses-appeal-can-t-reject-voters-in-wrong-precincts.html
Ohio  was barred from disqualifying
provisional ballots cast in the wrong precinct, an appeals court
said, upholding an earlier ruling.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati issued the ruling
yesterday, the second loss in two weeks for the state in
election-related lawsuits.  A lower-court federal judge in August ruled that
provisional ballots, used to record votes when eligibility is an
issue, can’t be thrown out if they’re filed in the wrong
precinct as a result of poll-worker error. Opponents of a 2006
law saying they must be discarded argued that the law would
unfairly cause the rejection of thousands of votes in the
November election.  The lawsuit is one of at least 15 pending nationwide over
election law limits on issues such as early voting, registration
and identification in the run-up to the Nov. 6 vote. Yesterday,
 South Carolina  became the fourth state to be blocked from
requiring voters to show photo identification before casting a
ballot.  A special panel of three federal judges in  Washington  ruled
that given the time left before the election, requiring photo ID
at polling stations puts a burden on minority voters that
violates the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “Proper and smooth
functioning” of a key protection in the South Carolina law can
only be assured in elections after this year, the judges said.  Too Much Risk  “Even assuming the best intentions and extraordinary
efforts by all involved, achieving that goal is too much to
reasonably demand or expect in a four week-period -- and there
is too much of a risk to African-American voters for us to roll
the dice in such a fashion,” U.S. Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh 
said in the ruling.  The court said there was nothing inherently discriminatory
in the law that would bar enforcement in future elections.  South Carolina Attorney General  Alan Wilson  called the
ruling “a major victory for South Carolina and its election
process.”  “It affirms our voter ID law is valid and constitutional
under the Voting Rights Act,” he said in an e-mailed statement.
“The fact remains, voter ID laws do not discriminate or
disenfranchise. They ensure integrity at the ballot box.”  On Oct. 5, Ohio was barred by a different panel of the
appeals court in Cincinnati from enforcement a law that ended
early-voting days for the general populace on Nov. 2, while
allowing members of the military and those residents living
abroad to cast ballots until Nov. 5. The state appealed that
decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Early voting in the state of 11.5 million people began on
Oct. 2, according to Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted’s
 website .  Vermont Sued  Vermont  and its chief election official were sued yesterday
by the U.S. over the state’s alleged failure to send more than
20 percent of the absentee ballots requested by Vermont’s
military and overseas voters. The complaint filed by the U.S.
Justice Department in federal court in Vermont seeks an order to
ensure military voters can cast their ballots in time to have
their votes counted, the department said in an e-mailed
statement.  The lawsuit was filed under the Uniformed and Overseas
Citizens Absentee Voting Act, which requires states to allow
uniformed service voters and their families as well as overseas
citizens to register to vote and to vote absentee for all
elections for federal office, according to the statement.  Vermont Secretary of State James C. Condos, who is named as
a defendant, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on the
lawsuit yesterday after regular business hours.  Texas Lawsuit  Also yesterday, Harris County in  Texas  was sued in federal
court in Houston by the  League of United Latin American Citizens 
over claims it discriminates against blacks and Latinos by
disproportionately challenging their voter registration.  The county, which includes Houston, rejects voter-
registration applications from zip codes dominated by Latino and
black residents at a higher rate than it does applications from
zip codes with predominantly white residents, the activists said
in the complaint.  Don Sumners, the county’s voting registrar, said in an e-
mailed statement that LULAC’s challenge “another unwarranted
political lawsuit” similar to one filed in 2008 by the Texas
 Democratic Party . That case was resolved “when the Democratic
Party was unable to produce a single person who had been
illegally denied the right to register and vote,” he said.  Sumners, a Republican, said he’s already refused to remove
any voters from election rolls as part of the state’s dead-voter
purge program, a campaign he urged state officials to alter to
keep from improperly deleting voters close to a presidential
election.  Swing States  About half of the pending cases over voting are in states
where both Democratic President  Barack Obama  and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , a Republican, contend they
can win. In Ohio, a so-called swing state that no Republican has
lost and captured the White House, both Obama and Romney see a
path to victory.  Voting laws have been enacted by Republican-dominated
legislatures across the country -- laws aimed partly at fighting
voter fraud, proponents contend. Opponents argue they are an
effort to limit votes for Democratic candidates.  During the past few months, the majority of challenges have
been resolved against the laws, including an Oct. 2 decision in
which a Pennsylvania judge barred enforcement of the state’s
voter photo-identification law until after the election.  Likely Violation  In Ohio, officials said the state’s law didn’t
disenfranchise anyone and allowed a more efficient election. A
three-judge panel of the U.S. appeals court in Cincinnati
disagreed, finding that the plaintiffs had “shown a likely
 equal-protection  violation.”  Ohio’s secretary of state “failed to present evidence to
the district court that other factors besides poll-worker error
caused wrong-precinct ballots, and the state offers none now,”
the panel said.  “Because the state offers no evidence of alternative
causes, we find no clear error with the district court’s factual
conclusion that most right-place/wrong-precinct ballots result,
and will continue to result, from poll-worker error,” it said.  “We are currently reviewing the decision,” said Dan
Tierney, a spokesman for Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine.  The judges hearing the Ohio provisional ballot appeal were
all appointed by Republican presidents. Julia Smith Gibbons and
Deborah Cook were chosen by  George W. Bush . Lee Rosenthal, a
U.S. district judge from Houston, was selected by  George H.W. Bush .  Union Suit  In the ballot lawsuit, the Service Employees International
Union, Local 1, and other plaintiffs sued the Ohio secretary of
state, seeking a statewide order that provisional ballots cast
in the wrong precinct be counted.  The union argued that rejection of such ballots violates
the rights of voters, particularly in locations that have
multiple precincts, which are generally in urban areas.  In these locations, casting a ballot in the right precinct
is dependent on the poll worker, according to the court filings.
Plaintiffs said that accepting these ballots would prevent the
disqualification of thousands of votes.  U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley in Columbus on Aug. 27
ordered such ballot disqualification stopped. In 2008, Ohio
rejected 14,355 so-called wrong-precinct ballots, according to
the judge’s decision.  Marbley, appointed by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat,
said that as a matter of law if a voter casts a ballot in the
wrong precinct it’s the fault of a poll worker, unless the voter
deliberately refused to go to the right polling place.  Wrong Precinct  To disqualify a voter who used the wrong precinct, the
state would have to provide a sworn statement by a poll worker
that this happened. The state appealed the decision.  The counting of wrongly cast ballots would “undermine the
precinct system,” Fred Nelson, an attorney for the state, said
at an Oct. 1 hearing before the appeals court. “If a vote
counts even when cast in the wrong precinct, voters will be able
to vote on issues that aren’t relevant to them.”  Disqualifying these votes “doesn’t undermine the fabric of
the election,” Nelson said, asking the panel to throw out the
earlier ruling. “The problem only affects 0.1 percent of all
votes.”  Reversing Marbley’s decision would “indisputably result in
the rejection of thousands of votes by lawfully registered
voters that would otherwise have been protected from
disqualifying poll-worker error,” lawyers for the union and a
homeless advocacy group said in a filing with the appeals court.  ‘Incredibly Unfair’  For about 80 percent of provisional votes cast in the wrong
precinct, the voters were given the wrong ballots because of
poll-worker error, plaintiffs’ lawyer  Danielle Leonard  told the
appellate panel at the hearing. Rejecting these ballots would be
“incredibly unfair,” she said.  “To disqualify those ballots after the election is not
needed to uphold the precinct voter system,” Leonard said.
“It’s the poll workers’ job to tell voters they’re in the wrong
place, and it overrides voter error for going to the wrong
location.”  In a telephone interview, plaintiffs’ lawyer Stephen Berzon
called the decision “a great ruling” for thousands of Ohio
voters who faced the prospect of having their ballots
invalidated because they obeyed incorrect instructions.  Because of the court’s decision, said Berzon -- a partner
in  San Francisco ’s  Altshuler Berzon LLP  -- the election winner
“will be determined fair and square.”  The Ohio provisional-ballot cases are  Service Employees
International Union  v. Husted, 12-4069 and Northeast Ohio
Coalition for the Homeless v. Husted, 12-03916, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  The South Carolina case is South Carolina v. U.S.,
12-cv-00203, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The Vermont case is U.S. v. Vermont, 12-cv-00236,
U.S. District Court, District of Vermont. The Texas case is
LULAC v. Harris County, 12-cv-03035, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 