-- Oil Heads for First Weekly Gain in Month on Economy, Middle East
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-12T07:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/oil-gains-a-second-day-on-falling-jobless-claims-mideast-unrest.html
Oil headed for its first weekly gain
in a month in New York after claims for U.S. jobless benefits
dropped to the lowest level in four years and increasing Middle
East tensions prompted concern crude supplies may be disrupted.  Futures were little changed after rising 0.9 percent
yesterday. First-time unemployment claims fell to 339,000 last
week, the lowest since February 2008, according to Labor
Department data. Brent oil traded near the highest premium in a
year to West Texas Intermediate grade after  Turkey  said a Syrian
plane that it grounded contained munitions, while Italian
Foreign Minister Giulio Terzi said Europe is prepared to tighten
sanctions on Iran.  “The potential for a blow-up in the Middle East is being
reflected in that persistently wide spread between Brent and
WTI,” said Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets in Sydney. “Jobless claims were better-than-expected.”  Crude for November delivery was at $92.19 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 12
cents, at 3:20 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday
climbed 82 cents to $92.07. Prices are up 2.6 percent this week
and down 6.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange declined 42 cents to $115.29 a barrel.
The European benchmark crude was at a $23.10 premium to WTI,
down from $23.64 yesterday, the biggest gap since October 2011.  Middle East  Oil may extend gains in New York after its moving average
convergence-divergence indicator rose above the signal line
yesterday for the first time in four weeks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors typically buy contracts on a
so-called bullish MACD crossover. Crude has technical resistance
along its middle Bollinger Band, around $93.50 a barrel today.  The Syrian Arab Airlines plane that was forced by Turkish
F-16 jet to land on Oct. 10 contained equipment and munitions
sent for the Syrian Defense Ministry from a Russian institution
equivalent to a state arms manufacturer, Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
Turkey’s prime minister, said yesterday. The confiscation of the
cargo follows the shelling of a Turkish border town by Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces and Turkish artillery
barrages in response over the past week.  Europe is prepared to tighten sanctions on  Iran  if talks
stall over the country’s nuclear program, Terzi said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. A European Union ban
on the purchase, transport, financing and insurance of Iranian
oil went into effect on July 1. Military action against the
Persian Gulf nation, which has been threatened by Israeli
leaders, wouldn’t be effective, Terzi said.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories rose  1.7 million barrels  last week
as output climbed to a 17-year high, an Energy Department report
showed yesterday. Supplies were forecast to increase 1.5 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Production rose 78,000 barrels a day to 6.6 million in the
week ended Oct. 5, the fastest rate since May 1995, the report
showed. Imports were up 115,000 barrels a day at 8.22 million.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and Vitol Group are among
companies that have applied to the U.S. government for licenses
to export “substantial” amounts of crude for the first time in
decades, the Financial Times reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Gasoline stockpiles fell  534,000 barrels  to 195.4 million
last week, dropping for the 10th time in 11 weeks to the lowest
since October 2008, the Energy Department said. Imports of the
motor fuel declined and refinery output slid to 8.6 million
barrels a day, the lowest since March. Distillate-fuel supplies,
including heating oil and diesel, decreased 3.2 million barrels
to 120.9 million.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
reduce shipments by 0.3 percent this month, according to Oil
Movements. The group will export 23.83 million barrels a day in
the four weeks to Oct. 27, down from 23.89 million a month
earlier, the tanker tracker said yesterday in a weekly report.
The data exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  