-- Hollande Robbed of Growth Engine as Companies Cut Investment
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-12T11:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/hollande-robbed-of-growth-driver-as-companies-curb-investments.html
French companies aren’t investing
much at home these days.  A no-growth economy had already damped spending when
President  Francois Hollande ’s government late last month
unveiled a budget that slaps companies with 10 billion euros
($13.1 billion) of tax increases for next year. Executives are
returning the favor by suspending investments.  “On investment, the word right now is caution,” Stanislas de Bentzmann, co-chief executive officer of  Devoteam SA (DVT) , a
telecommunications services company based on the outskirts of
Paris, said in an interview. “September was a terrible month,
growth came to a halt. Now the government is pouring oil on the
fire. The tax increases aren’t encouraging for business.”  Hollande, who was elected on an anti-austerity platform, is
banking on higher taxes for two-thirds of the 30 billion euros
he needs to raise to meet his  budget-deficit  target for next
year and avoid the soaring borrowing costs in countries such as
 Spain  and  Italy . His government is trimming tax relief on
interest charges and raising corporate taxes in addition to
increased levies on top earners.  Combined with a  stalled economy , that’s discouraging the
kind of corporate expansion that helped pull  Europe ’s second-
largest economy out of recession in 2009 and 2010.  The Numbers  The national statistics office Insee predicts that
investments by non-financial companies will fall 0.2 percent
this year, the first drop since the 2009 crisis provoked by the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Investments rose 5.1
percent and 5.9 percent in 2011 and 2010 respectively.  Granted, French investment figures look better when stacked
up against euro-area countries such as Italy and Spain. Earlier
this year, the  European Commission  estimated that investment in
equipment in  France  would grow 0.5 percent this year compared
with declines of more than 6 percent in Italy and Spain.  Still, investments have helped the French economy grow or
hold steady even as Italy and Spain dipped into recession. With
new corporate taxes aimed at fulfilling Socialist President
Hollande’s pledge of bringing greater “social justice” in
France, that engine of growth may dry up.  Even before the tax increase,  Carrefour SA (CA) , Europe’s
largest retailer, had put on hold a planned 1.5 billion-euro
refurbishment of some of its largest stores in the region. For
its part, PSA Peugeot Citroen SA, France’s largest carmaker, has
been seeking to stop burning cash by shrinking operations.  Sin Tax  Tax increases are giving other businesses cause for
concern. Producers of beer in France, for instance, say any
development plans they had have been “nipped in the bud” by
Hollande’s plan to boost the tax on the drink next year. The
move will translate into levies for their 2 billion-euro
industry of more than 800 million euros from 337 million euros
currently, they say.  “It’s a catastrophe for the sector,” Pascal Chevremont,
the deputy director of the French Brewers’ Association, said in
a statement this month. The body counts the local units of
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  among its members.  The industry that directly employs 3,000 people and
accounts for 65,000 other associated jobs is looking at possible
reorganizations and closures, the body said, adding that the tax
puts at risk the survival of about 450 small companies.  ‘Extra Brake’  Large French companies, including Carrefour, Peugeot and
 Air France-KLM Group (AF)  are reducing thousands of jobs in France.
The cuts helped propel the country’s unemployment rate to a 13-
year high of 10.2 percent at the end of the second quarter. It
may reach 10.6 percent at the end of 2012, Insee predicts.  “The budget is going in the opposite direction from
encouraging growth,” Patrick Sayer, CEO of investment firm
Eurazeo, said today on Europe 1 radio. “It’s perfectly
legitimate to aim for a 3 percent deficit and for executives to
share the burden. The problem is with any measure that in the
end -- in five or ten years -- discourages investment.”  The government’s policies are cooling interest in investing
in France, Pierre Gattaz, chairman of the GFI, the largest
federation of French manufacturers, said at a press conference
in Paris on Oct. 4.  “This all-out, anti-economic fiscal pressure leads people
to adopt a wait-and-see attitude as it comes on top of the
economic slowdown,” he said. “The worrying information and
recent news on the budget bill has added an extra brake.”  Public Spending  The dearth of investment coincides with a drop in  consumer
spending  and stalled exports, all of which add up to bad news
for a president who won office in May on a campaign for growth.  France’s economy has been on a no-growth path for the past
three quarters, a streak that Insee expects to continue in the
third and fourth quarters this year.  Only  government spending , in the form of social services
and general outlays, is helping France avoid recession, Insee
figures show.  That explains why taxes must increase if Hollande is to
meet France’s promise to bondholders and his European partners
to reduce the budget deficit. His insistence France will meet
its deficit-cutting targets have helped the country sell debt at
record-low borrowing costs.  The total tax burden will climb by 1.4 percentage point to
a record 46.3 percent of gross domestic product next year, when
public spending will represent 56.3 percent of GDP, unchanged
from this year.  ‘Targeted Punishment’  “Investment in capital goods such as  machine tools  has
entered a phase of hesitation, with more unfavorable signs in
the past six months,” said  Denis Ferrand , head of Paris-based
research institute COE-Rexecode.  Manufacturers have signaled investment will contract in the
second half, he said, citing an Insee survey held in July.  Ferrand expects corporate investment to fall 1.9 percent
next year after dropping 0.5 percent in 2012, contrary to French
government forecasts that companies’ capital expenditure will
climb by 1.5 percent in 2013.  Corporate leaders, who are calling for cuts in labor costs
and more flexible rules, were particularly incensed by a
government plan to tax  capital gains  on asset sales by as much
as 60 percent up from a previous rate of about 35 percent.  “This is targeted punishment,” leaders of Croissance
Plus, a federation of so-called fast-growing companies, said in
a statement. “Entrepreneurs who take the risk of failing today
will refuse to take the risk of succeeding tomorrow.”  Economic Warriors  While Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  responded to
critics of the capital-gains tax by saying the levy’s terms and
conditions would be amended, 12 groups representing companies
both big and small said in a joint statement on Oct. 9 that the
government’s pledge doesn’t go far enough.  “The measures, taken without consultation, will have ill-
fated consequences in terms of economic development, investment
and jobs,” the groups said in the statement.  For businesses, the government’s proposals show a lack of
understanding of how fiscal incentives work.  “We’re the foot soldiers of an economic war, and our chief
of staff, who’s asking us to export, invest and hire, is
shooting at us,” said Gattaz of the manufacturers lobby.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  