-- Tom Hanks Tangles With Bart Simpson in Democratic Duel
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/tom-hanks-tangles-with-bart-simpson-in-democratic-duel.html
Two California Democrats with more
than 45 years in Congress between them are pitted against each
other for the same seat in an unusual family feud that’s
dividing the party from top to bottom.  Marquee Democratic donors are set against each other:  Tom Hanks ,  Viacom (VIAB) ’s Sumner Redstone and Disney chief  Robert Iger  are
backing Howard Berman, 71. His opponent,  Brad Sherman , 57, has
Nancy Cartwright, the voice of Bart Simpson, actor Ed Begley Jr.
of TV’s “St. Elsewhere” and actress Mayim Bialik of “The Big
Bang Theory,” according to election filings.  Even the volunteer receptionist at the party’s local
headquarters is on the opposite side of the hierarchy. On the
walls are posters for Sherman, reflecting that 62 percent of the
executive committee voted to endorse him. The volunteer wore a
pin for Berman, who’s served about twice as long as Sherman.  The choice in the race, in which the two candidates agree
on major issues, is coming down to one between an incumbent who
has developed a reputation as a  Washington  workhorse -- Berman,
and a more popular, state-oriented representative -- Sherman.  “There’s very little difference between them
ideologically,” said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political
scientist at the University of  Southern California . “It comes
down to, Do you want a guy who focuses on the district alone? Or
do you want a guy who’s climbed up the congressional ladder and
who has a larger palette to paint with?”  Rare Race  The Berman-Sherman race is one of three contests out of 435
races for the U.S. House of Representatives that pits incumbents
of the same party. The rare pairings were caused by new district
boundaries and California’s system of advancing the top two
primary candidates, regardless of party.  Both men vote with their party 95 percent of the time,
according to the nonpartisan OpenCongress.org. Both serve on the
House Foreign Affairs Committee and tout their support for
 Israel  and work on nuclear nonproliferation.  Both also characterized their relationship before this
campaign as “collegial.” That’s no longer the case. In
interviews, Berman and Sherman belittle each other’s legislative
records and accuse each other of waging scurrilous campaigns.  “Brad is really a people person,” the volunteer at the
party office, Doris Dent, 72, said of Sherman. “But when I
compared their legislative records, it’s astoundingly different.
Howard is an extremely serious person, a policy wonk. He doesn’t
spend a lot of time glad-handing, which is probably what cost
him in the primary.”  Top 2 Primary  An independent commission charged with drawing new
boundaries in  California  to reflect population changes placed
Berman and Sherman in the same district. Berman got 32 percent
of the vote in the June 5 primary, behind Sherman, with 42
percent,  according  to the California secretary of state’s
office. Another Democrat, three Republicans and a Green Party
candidate split the rest of the vote.  Berman, with 30 years in office, raised $3.5 million as of
June 29, with the entertainment industry as his top fundraising
source, according to Federal Election Commission  filings .
Sherman, a 15-year incumbent, reported $2.7 million in the same
period, with real-estate interests as his largest source.
Outside groups have spent another $2.9 million on independent
expenditures, the filings show.  Industry Endorsement  Berman’s work on intellectual-property bills such as the
Stop Online Piracy Act, a failed effort to crack down on non-
U.S. websites that offer pirated content, helped him secure the
endorsement of the  Motion Picture Association  of America, said
Kate Bedingfield, a spokeswoman for the film industry’s advocacy
group.  Berman said that if voters return him to office, he’ll
resurrect efforts to forge a compromise between technology
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which opposed the anti-piracy
bill, and the entertainment studios. He said Sherman is
incapable of a meaningful role in such negotiations.  “He doesn’t have the skills or the contacts to be a player
on any major legislation,” Berman said. “He never has been.”  Sherman was among the 23 co-signers of the Stop Online
Piracy  Act , though in an interview he said Berman and other
sponsors underestimated the opposition.  ‘Spectacular’ Failure  “This is the most spectacular roll-out failure since
Ishtar,” Sherman said, referring to the 1987 film that has
become synonymous with box-office bomb. “He came up with the
worst way possible to market the bill. Google and Wikipedia
killed the bill in one day.”  Sherman declined to elaborate on how he’d change the anti-
piracy bill, saying his work on housing issues is more
important. He said he and other members of Congress pushed
federal regulators in 2011 to rescind a proposed 20 percent down
payment requirement for residential mortgages, which Sherman
said would have decimated the San Fernando Valley housing
market.  “He outranks me in a pecking order in Washington, D.C.,
that lives off of seniority,” Sherman said. “The problem is,
because he doesn’t listen to the Valley, he takes the wrong side
on these issues.”  Berman touted his work securing funds to widen the nation’s
most-traveled freeway, Interstate 405, and to rebuild a hospital
damaged in the 1994 Northridge Earthquake. Berman said his rival
talks a good game while accomplishing little.  “There’s no comparison in terms of accomplishments for the
Valley,” Berman said. “Forget the national issues, forget the
international issues, just for the Valley, his record is
minimal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  