-- Longfor, Nippon Life Market Dollar Bonds; Asia Debt Risk Rises
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-10-11T04:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/longfor-nippon-life-market-dollar-bonds-asia-debt-risk-rises.html
Longfor Properties Co. and Nippon
Life Insurance Co. are marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds.
Debt risk in the Asia-Pacific region rose after  Spain ’s
sovereign rating was downgraded by  Standard & Poor’s .  Longfor is considering pricing seven-year notes to yield
about 7.5 percent while Nippon Life is offering 30-year bonds to
investors at 5 percent to 5.25 percent, according to people
familiar with each deal, who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set. Longfor’s debt can be bought back by the
company after four years while Nippon Life’s securities can be
called after 10 years, the people said.  Bond risk increased in Asia, Australia and  Japan  after
Spain’s credit rating was cut to one level higher than junk
yesterday by S&P, which cited “significant risks” to the
country’s growth and uncertainty about euro-zone policy.
Investors are channeling money into countries outside the common
currency, with emerging market bond funds taking another $1
billion in the week to Oct. 3, according to EPFR Global.  “Fund flows into  emerging markets  are still strong so bond
supply in Asia will continue to be well-absorbed,” said Krishna Hegde, the Singapore-based head of Asia credit research at
Barclays Plc. “Despite concerns about Spain, funds need to
deploy their money.”  Thai oil and gas explorer  PTT Pcl (PTT)  and Russia’s Home Credit
& Finance Bank plan to meet debt investors in Asia, people with
knowledge of the details said today. Home Credit may seek to
sell lower tier 2 bonds in dollars after the talks, the person
familiar said.  Credit Risk  Sales of dollar bonds from Asia outside of Japan total $3.4
billion this month, bringing year-to-date volumes to $98.1
billion, an 87 percent increase on the same period of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan advanced 2.5 basis points to 134 basis
points as of 8:34 a.m. in Hong Kong,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices
show. The measure is on course for its highest close since Oct.
2, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index added 2 basis points to
158.5 as of 11:34 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Credit Agricole .
The benchmark is set for its highest close since Oct. 1,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Japanese Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 1 basis point to 227.5
basis points as of 9:34 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG prices
show. The gauge rose to a high this year of 229.5 on Sept. 26,
the CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net ;
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  