-- Mortgage REIT Slide Accelerates as Fed Expands Bond Buying
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   F e l i c e   M a r a n z
-- 2012-10-15T16:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/mortgage-reits-reap-what-they-sowed-as-stocks-slump-stifel-says.html
Real estate investment trusts that
buy mortgage debt slumped the most in a year, continuing a
decline that started last month after the Federal Reserve
announced it would expand its buying of home loan securities.  A  Bloomberg index  of shares in the REITs tumbled as much as
4.5 percent, the largest  intraday  drop since October 2011. The
measure declined 1.9 percent as of 12:50 p.m. in New York, after
falling 4.2 percent last week.  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) ,
the largest, and  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the second
biggest, each lost 2.6 percent.  The Fed’s expanded mortgage-bond buying is creating
pressures on the companies’ earnings and dividends. Rapid growth
funded by share sales has also brought in skittish investors,
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analysts wrote in a report last week.
Wunderlich Securities Inc. lowered its earnings estimates on 13
mortgage REITs today citing higher refinancing among homeowners.  “Dividends are under pressure and could be cut by as much
as 20 percent,” Merrill Ross, a Wunderlich analyst, wrote in a
report.  The REITs’  dividend yields  are 13.3 percent, based on
current share prices and the firms’ recent payouts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The stocks have returned about 20
percent this year, assuming reinvested dividends.  While Ross expects “considerable price volatility” in the
next few months, even reduced dividends will be “nearly
impossible” for investors to replace, she said.  Mortgage REITs have raised $17 billion through equity sales
this year, after a record of almost $20 billion in 2011,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Reactionary Selling’  “On the heels of last week’s downdraft in the space, we
think today’s action has been driven overwhelmingly by the
retail community through reactionary selling as well as stop
loss triggers which have only intensified the pressure,” Jason Weaver and Calvin Hotrum, analysts at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.,
wrote in a research report.  The Fed’s mortgage-bond buying has reduced yields on the
REITs’ new investments, while sending home-loan rates to record
lows and  refinancing applications  to the highest level in more
than three years.  The firms have more to lose from rising prepayments after
paying more above face value for their holdings, according to
the Baltimore-based Stifel Nicolaus analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Felice Maranz in New York at 
 fmaranz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  