-- Mortgage Rates in the U.S. Increase From Record Lows
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-10-11T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/mortgage-rates-in-the-u-s-increase-from-record-lows.html
U.S. mortgage rates rose from record
lows, increasing borrowing costs as an improving job market
bolsters a recovery in housing.  The average rate for a 30-year mortgage climbed to 3.39
percent in the week ended today from 3.36 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based Freddie Mac said in a statement. Last week’s rate
was the lowest in the mortgage-finance company’s data, which go
back to 1971. The average 15-year rate increased to 2.7 percent
from 2.69 percent.  Low interest rates and job growth have helped boost demand
for homes as the housing market recovers from the worst crash
since the Great Depression. The  unemployment  rate fell in
September to 7.8 percent, the lowest since January 2009,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ survey of
households. A separate survey of employers showed the economy
added 114,000 workers.  “A positive job report is always good for the housing
market,” Celia Chen, a housing economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in West Chester,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday. “We do
expect job growth to continue -- not strongly, but it will
continue. That will be enough to keep housing on an upward
trajectory.”  Home prices rose 4.6 percent in August from a year earlier,
the biggest increase since July 2006, according to CoreLogic
Inc., a Santa Ana, California-based mortgage data firm.  Mortgage applications in the U.S. decreased last week from
a three-year high as fewer borrowers refinanced loans, according
to a Mortgage Bankers Association index released yesterday. The
Washington-based group’s  refinancing  measure fell 2 percent,
while  purchase  applications climbed 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  