-- OTP Bank Jumps to 13-Month High on Economy Shift: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-11T14:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/otp-bank-jumps-to-13-month-high-on-economy-shift-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, jumped to a 13-month high on bets the government is
adapting its policies to meet demands by international lenders
and as bank shares  led advances  in emerging-market stocks.  OTP’s shares rose 3.6 percent to 4,324 forint by 3:19 p.m.
in Budapest, the highest since Aug. 30, 2011, and extending this
month’s rally to 11 percent. The volume of shares traded was 208
percent of the stock’s three-month daily average. The benchmark
BUX stock  index  advanced 1.5 percent and the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index rose 0.3 percent, led by a 1 percent jump in
financial companies.  Hungary last week scrapped a plan to tax financial
transactions at the central bank, removing a potential obstacle
to aid talks with the  International Monetary Fund . Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  expects a turnaround for Hungary’s economy
next year, he told reporters in Berlin today.  “Hungary’s economic policy is starting to be more suitable
for the IMF, which is diminishing political risk,” Peter Varju,
a Budapest-based equities trader at Erste Group Bank AG, said by
telephone today. “The overall economic picture is still bad but
it seems to be closer to a turnaround.”  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell 21 basis points to 307, the lowest in
14 months.  “There’s been a fall in the  risk premium  which was priced
in” to OTP’s share price, Erste’s Varju said.  Emerging-market stocks snapped a three-day decline today as
higher commodity prices boosted producers and a unit of  China ’s
sovereign wealth fund vowed to support banking shares,
offsetting concern a downgrade of Spain’s debt will exacerbate
the credit crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  