-- Pakistani Girl Activist Still Critical After Taliban Attack
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-10-11T13:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pakistani-girl-campaigner-still-critical-after-taliban-attack.html
A 14-year-old Pakistani activist
remains in critical condition two days after Taliban gunmen shot
her in the head as political rivals united to condemn the attack
and offer help.  Malala Yousufzai was moved in a military helicopter to an
army-run hospital in Rawalpindi from the northwest city of
 Peshawar  to get better care, Provincial Information Minister of
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Mian Iftikhar Hussain told reporters in
Peshawar, Geo television reported.  The Oct. 9 attack on Yousufzai, who began writing blog
posts at age 11 documenting Taliban repression in her native
Swat Valley, drew condemnation from leaders in  Pakistan  and
abroad. Opposing political parties, Islamist groups and women’s
rights activists have called for nationwide protests tomorrow.  Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf called for prayers for
her speedy recovery as her condition remains critical after
doctors removed a bullet yesterday during surgery that lasted
three hours, according to an e-mailed statement from his office
today. Yousufzai’s posts for the British Broadcasting Corp. had
focused on a Taliban ban against girls attending school.  The provincial government of Khyber-Pakthunkhwa, where Swat
is located, has announced a 10 million rupee ($104,701) reward
for information leading to the arrest of the culprits. Interior
Minister Rehman Malik said that the man who fired at the girl
had been identified. The Taliban said on Pakistani media the
girl was attacked for spreading secular thoughts in the
insurgency-hit valley where she lived.  Blasphemy Case  Pakistani police registered a case against a teenage
Pakistani boy yesterday under the blasphemy law which stipulates
a jail term or even a death sentence for those found guilty. The
case comes less than two months after a 14-year-old Christian
girl was arrested in Islamabad and put on trial under the same
law before being released in September.  Both houses of parliament passed resolutions yesterday
against the “barbaric” attack on Yousufzai and rights groups
and school children staged protests throughout Pakistan.  In  Washington , Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  praised
Yousufzai yesterday as “very brave in standing up for the
rights of girls.”  A gunman walked up to a bus taking Yousufzai and other
children home from school in the volatile northern Swat Valley
and shot her in the head and neck. Another girl on the bus was
also wounded.  Taliban guerrillas’ control of Swat ended after the army
initiated a 10-week offensive starting in May 2009. The military
campaign, which began after Taliban beheaded local officials and
burned schools in a two-year fight to impose Islamic law,
uprooted 2 million people from their homes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  