-- Pandora-Backed Bill to Hurt Musicians, SoundExchange Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pandora-backed-bill-to-hurt-musicians-soundexchange-says.html
U.S. legislation backed by  Pandora
Media Inc. (P) , the biggest online radio service, would hurt
musicians and record labels by reducing their royalties,
according to SoundExchange President Michael Huppe.  Under the current structure, the online radio industry is
growing rapidly, said Huppe, whose nonprofit group collects and
distributes royalties. This year, SoundExchange is collecting
digital royalties from 1,800 outlets, compared with 1,210 in
2009 and 855 in 2007, he said in an interview yesterday.  The Internet Fairness Act would cut Pandora’s content costs
by as much as half, Rich Tullo, an analyst at Albert Fried &
Co., said in a report last month. The bill calls for royalty
parity among satellite, pay-TV and online services as a share of
the revenue rather than a flat rate per track, he said. Rates
are currently determined by the  Copyright Royalty Board , part of
the Library of Congress.  “We want Pandora to succeed,” Huppe said. “We want them
to grow and have a hugely successful business but we don’t
believe artists should have to subsidize that business.”  Pandora, based in Oakland,  California , fell 3.5 percent to
$9.49 yesterday in New York and has  declined  5.2 percent this
year. Tullo has an “overweight” rating on the stock  Online radio services pay 0.11 cent for each song they
stream, with half going to a track’s owner, 45 percent to the
performers and 5 percent to background vocalists and musicians,
Huppe said. Pandora’s second-quarter royalty payments grew 79
percent, while revenue rose 51 percent.  Lil Wayne  Tim Westergren , Pandora’s co-founder and chief strategy
officer, said Oct. 9 in a  blog  post the company expects to pay
recording artists Lil Wayne and Drake $3 million each this year.
Coldplay, Adele, Wiz Khalifa and Jason Aldean will receive $1
million each, he wrote.  “We’re proud to pay performance fees,” Westergren wrote.
“We think artists could and should ultimately earn even more.
But all of this revenue is coming from a single company.”  Lower royalty rates would draw investment into the market,
creating more opportunities for artists, Westergren wrote.
Pandora, which accounts for 6.5 percent of U.S. radio listening,
paid $60.5 million in royalties last quarter.  ``We envision a future in which Internet radio can offer
more as the sector grows and innovates -- but this is only
possible if Internet radio can compete on a level playing field
with the other forms of digital radio,'' Mollie Starr, a 
Pandora spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Royalty Payments  Huppe says payments listed in Pandora’s blog are misleading
and include funds that don’t go to top artists.  “We’re not just paying the Lady Gagas of the world, we’re
also paying middle class artists who depend on this revenue
stream,” Huppe said.  The current arrangement expires in 2015, and talks to
establish a new royalty rate are slated to begin next year,
Huppe said. That may be delayed while Pandora and SoundExchange
lobby over the proposed legislation, he said.  “It’s fair to say the negotiations have already begun by
another means,” Huppe said. “Clearly this bill is starting the
process a little early and I expect this to continue into new
term when Congress reconvenes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  