-- Paris Galerie Perrotin to Open Manhattan Branch in 2013
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-10-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/paris-galerie-perrotin-to-open-manhattan-branch-in-2013.html
Galerie Perrotin , one of the top
contemporary-art galleries in  France , said it will open a New
York branch in 2013, the latest of several expansions announced
recently in the international art market.  The Paris-based gallery, which represents 35 artists
including  Takashi Murakami  and   Maurizio Cattelan , signed a 10-
year lease to rent three floors in the former Bank of New York
building on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side, a 1932 landmark.  “New York remains the capital of the art market, and it is
key that we are a part of it,” said Emmanuel Perrotin, who
founded his Paris gallery in 1989.  The new space at the corner of 73rd Street and Madison
Avenue will add 4,300 square feet to Perrotin’s network, which
includes two venues in Paris and one in  Hong Kong . (A Miami
branch closed in 2010 after six years of operation.)  He will share the building with Dominique Levy, a founding
partner of L&M Arts, who will open her own gallery next year
specializing in the masterworks of postwar and contemporary art.
Levy’s space will occupy the second, third and fourth floors of
the 1932 building, Dominique Levy gallery said in a press
release.  These moves follow other expansion plans.  Larry Gagosian 
will open his 12th space this month, in a suburb of Paris. Last
week, New York galleries  David Zwirner  and Pace unveiled new
branches in  London , preceded there by  Michael Werner  in late
September. New York gallery Lehmann Maupin recently announced
plans to open its first international exhibition space in Hong
Kong next year.  Cultural Capitals  “In the global market, it’s seen as more and more crucial
to have an exhibition program in these major cultural
capitals,” said Noah Horowitz, author of “Art of the Deal”
and executive director of the Armory Show. The expansions are
“signaling to the international community that they are among
the most ambitious galleries operating today.”  Perrotin said the new location will allow him to engage
important local collectors, museum directors and curators.
Having given  Damien Hirst  his first commercial gallery show, in
1991, Perrotin also wants to discover young talent.  “My goal is to provide my artists with services they
deserve and the right platforms to reach a truly global
audience,” he said. “I am 44 years old, I still have to find
new artists, to be active and creative.”  Live Leopard  For a  Paola Pivi  project in 2007, Perrotin filled a gallery
with more than 300 cups of cappuccino and a live leopard. He
spent two years trying to persuade Sophie Calle, a prominent
French artist, to join his stable; she acquiesced after he hired
a private detective who had tailed the artist in a famous 1981
project -- and restaged the event in a “Twenty Years Later”
piece.  “It’s very important to follow the dream of the artist,”
Perrotin said. “Sometimes you have to produce a project which
is hard or impossible to sell.”  Perrotin said there will be a total of 40 employees in all
his galleries when the  New York  space opens. It will be near
major players including Gagosian, Mnuchin Gallery, Mitchell-
Innes and Nash, and Acquavella Galleries. The Whitney Museum of
American Art is another neighbor.  “Madison Avenue in the corridor between East 72nd and East
79th Streets has the largest demand by international retailers
and galleries in the city,” said Faith Hope Consolo, chairman
of the retail group at Prudential Douglas Elliman.  The market price for ground-floor spaces in the area is
about $700 a square foot annually, Consolo said; higher floors
go on average for $100 a square foot.  “Over the last 10 years the neighborhood has seen a number
of breakthrough exhibitions featuring younger artists, and I see
this trend continuing,” Perrotin said.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Jason Harper  
on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 