-- Perry’s Fixed-Rate Tuition Given Poor Marks in Georgia
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/perry-s-fixed-rate-tuition-given-poor-marks-in-georgia.html
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  is
promoting fixed-rate tuition plans for all four-year state
colleges and universities, an approach abandoned by schools in
 Georgia  and  Michigan  because of declining budget support.  The Republican is pitching the concept after lawmakers from
his party cut about $1 billion from higher education in the two-
year budget through September 2013. Spending reductions made in
Atlanta derailed the Georgia program after just three years.  “Not only will this give students cost certainty heading
into their education, it also will provide a powerful incentive
for them to finish their degree on time,” Perry said in a
 speech  at an Oct. 1 event in  Dallas .  Should Perry, the longest-serving governor in the second-
most populous U.S. state, succeed,  Texas  would join  Illinois  in
providing four-year fixed tuition rates at publicly funded
colleges. He has been pushing the plan in public appearances,
along with initiatives such as $10,000 degree-granting programs,
as ways to make postsecondary education more affordable.  “As interest in pursuing a college degree is increasing,
state officials have to do everything we can to remove the
roadblocks and enable students to pursue their dreams,” Perry
said in an opinion  article  printed this week in several Texas
newspapers. He cited sharply rising numbers of Latino and black
Texans taking SAT college entrance examinations.  Providing Predictability  “We must give our students affordable and predictable
options, and reduce the debt that they carry with them as they
start their careers,” Perry said in the article, which was
posted on the governor’s website. “That’s why I’m calling for a
four-year tuition freeze for incoming freshmen, so that the
amount students pay when they first arrive on campus will be
locked in through what should be their senior year.”  Public colleges across the U.S. have raised student costs
to offset declines in state aid. Tuition  rose  12 percent last
year at the 23 California State University campuses, with more
than 400,000 students, after a $650 million budget cut by the
Legislature and Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat.  Apart from government-supported schools, where the plans
are rare, institutions such as the nonprofit George  Washington 
University in Washington offer four-year tuition locks, with the
rate reset for each incoming freshman class. Among states, only
Illinois has a fixed-rate plan at its 12 four-year colleges.  Georgia Failure  Regents overseeing the University System of Georgia adopted
a statewide fixed-rate plan in 2006. The organization oversees
35 institutions, including the flagship  University of Georgia 
and Georgia Institute of Technology. It serves about 318,000
students  Declining state support made the plan unsustainable and it
ended three years later, according to John Millsaps, a system
spokesman in Atlanta. Lawmakers cut higher-education funding by
about 10 percent for fiscal 2009 and 2010, and the tuition lock
left administrators with fewer options to offset the reductions.  “When we announced the program, we made it clear that the
long-term viability was dependent on continuation of current
levels of state support,”  Millsaps said. “Then, boom, two
years later, we have this big economic recession.”  In Illinois, then-Governor  Rod Blagojevich , a Democrat,
signed a bill in 2003 that created a mandatory, statewide fixed-
rate plan at public colleges and universities, to give families
a clearer picture of costs. Students are guaranteed a fixed rate
for four years, and pay the same as the freshman class that
followed them for a fifth and sixth year, if needed.  Rising Costs  Yet the change hasn’t prevented costs from rising for the
next class of students -- tuition for those entering this year’s
freshman class at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign,
rose 4.8 percent from 2011, after a 9.5 percent increase for the
2010 entering class. The school with 42,600 students will cost
$11,636 annually, plus fees and expenses, for the next four
years for the freshmen who started this semester.  The state also has cut support for higher education and
student financial-aid grants, said Dan Mann, director of student
financial aid at the state’s flagship campus about 138 miles
(220 kilometers) south of  Chicago .  “It does make it very hard to estimate what tuition should
be from year to year,” Mann said. “It’s a challenge for the
administration and board to think that through.”  Providing four-year fixed tuition costs hasn’t led to
substantial improvement in graduation rates at the school, where
almost two-thirds of students graduate in four years, Mann said.  ‘Nice’ Theory  Fixed-rate tuition “sounds nice in theory but in practical
application has not been fantastic,” said Joseph Orsolini,
president of College Aid Planners in Glen Ellyn, Illinois. Cost
projections used to set rates sometimes turn out to be too low,
leading to large increases for future classes, he said.  Such plans can be “politically appealing, a good sound
bite,” said Daniel Hurley, director of state relations at the
400-member  American Association  of State Colleges and
Universities in Washington. Yet he questions their workability.  “It places institutions in very difficult fiscal
straits,” Hurley said, because while they’re guaranteeing rates
for students, there is no certainty about future state funding
levels for higher education.  Central Michigan University  in
Midland abandoned its three-year-old fixed-rate program in 2008
because of questions surrounding budget allocations.  Trade Off  For some colleges, offering a fixed-rate plan can be a boon
to a significant portion of students. Yet it can also increase
their costs beyond what other entering students must pay, in
exchange for the guarantee of no increase.  “More than a third of our students have family incomes of
$20,000 or less,” said Diana Natalicio, president of the
 University of Texas  at El Paso, which has about 22,600 enrolled.
“These are working class people who don’t have the luxury of
thinking out four years and making that commitment.”  The school started its optional fixed-rate plan in 2006.  “At the time, there were rather significant increases in
tuition on annual basis, the picture was a lot more volatile,”
Natalicio said. “We felt there were at least some students
whose parents would find it an attractive option.”  Yet just 30 students were in the plan for the current
semester, down from 110 in September 2010.  “We’re very cautious about a one-size-fits-all approach,”
Natalicio said.  Most Participate  The University of Texas at Dallas started its fixed-rate
plan in 2007. At the time, President David Daniel said it would
provide certainty for students and give them an incentive to
graduate in four years.  In the 2011-2012 school year, more than 13,000 of almost
19,000 students participated, according to Robin Russell, a
spokeswoman. This year’s entering freshmen who take 15 hours or
more of classes will pay $11,592 for each of their four years,
the highest cost among the state’s public universities.  LaToya Mitchell, a junior majoring in speech pathology,
said the plan wasn’t part of her decision to choose the school.  “But knowing that my costs are not going to change helps
me budget and plan,” Mitchell said. “It gives me peace of
mind.”  Mitchell is using loans and scholarships to pay her way.
After earning about a semester’s worth of advance credits as a
high-school student, she said, “I was always going to graduate
in four years.”  Among members of the class that entered the school in 2008,
the second to have access to the fixed-tuition program, 51
percent graduated this year, according to Russell. That was up
from 46 percent who graduated in 2011, four years after
starting, she said.  Perry wants fixed-rate plans to be offered by all state
colleges and universities eventually, according to Lucy Nashed,
a spokeswoman.  “Currently less than 30 percent of students at Texas’s
four-year institutions graduate in four years, and only 58
percent have their degree in six,” Perry said Oct 1 in Dallas.
“Clearly, the system can, and must, be improved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin, Texas, at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 