-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate as Credit Pinch Fights Inflation
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-10-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-credit-pinch-fights-inflation.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged for the 17th consecutive month
today as it seeks to balance inflation risks resulting from
strong growth with concern that the global economic outlook is
deteriorating.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The decision will be
announced at about 6 p.m. in  Lima .  Policy makers increased  reserve requirements  Oct. 1 for a
second straight month as consumer demand fuels credit growth and
investors move money into  South America ’s fastest growing
economy. While inflation accelerated for a fourth month in
September, the bank won’t raise its key rate as stagnation in
Europe threatens Peru’s metal exports, said  Michael Henderson ,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd.  “Policy makers still have one eye on troubles in the euro
zone while domestically inflation is a bit stronger than they’d
be comfortable with,” Henderson said in a telephone interview
from  London . “There are risks on both sides, which is why you
see them doing incremental tightening using macro-prudential
measures.”  The central bank increased the average reserve requirement
by 0.5 percentage point for local and foreign currencies this
month, after a similar increase in September. Banks’ average
ratio was 16.2 percent for soles in August and 39.5 percent for
dollars.  Balance of Risks  While annual inflation has slowed to 3.74 percent from
4.74 percent in December 2011, it has been above the top of
the central bank’s target range of 2 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point since June 2011.  The bank is tightening  money supply  after credit growth
expanded 17 percent in August, the strongest pace in five
months, amid rising consumer demand and private investment.  The $176 billion economy expanded 7.2 percent in July, the
fastest pace in 11 months, as construction activity surged. The
government is rolling out an infrastructure-heavy fiscal
stimulus package equivalent to 2.5 percent of gross domestic
product to offset falling exports.  Shipments overseas fell 4 percent to $29.6 billion in the
first eight months of 2012 on lower copper and gold prices, Juan Varilias, president of exporter association Adex, said in an
Oct. 4 e-mail. Exports dropped 20 percent in August from a year
ago, he said. Metals account for almost two thirds of Peru’s
sales overseas.  Fastest Growth  Peru will be South America’s fastest growing economy in
2012 and 2013, expanding 6 percent and 5.8 percent respectively,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . The Washington-
based lender cut its global growth forecasts Oct. 9 and warned
of “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown as the euro
area’s debt crisis escalates.  Peru’s consumer prices rose 0.54 percent in September, the
fastest pace in six months, the national statistics agency said
Oct. 1. The increase pushed the annual inflation rate up for a
second straight month  Though last month’s price increases were a bit higher than
the central bank was expecting, the annual rate will slow to 3
percent by the end of December, Velarde told reporters Oct. 3.
Consumer prices will rise 0.1 percent a month in the current
quarter, he said.  “The central bank uses its benchmark rate to manage
inflation and that’s calculated to end the year within the
target range. There’s no need to use this tool,” said Carlos Montalvan, chief executive officer at Interfondos SAF, the
country’s fourth-largest mutual fund manager, in an Oct. 4
interview. “There’s still a small possibility that  Europe  will
fall over, so it’s better for the bank to keep the rate at 4.25
percent and have margin to lower it quickly than to use it today
and be left without bullets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  