-- Pfizer Appeals Court’s Order for CEO to Testify at Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-12T15:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pfizer-appeals-court-s-order-for-ceo-to-testify-at-trial.html
(Corrects first name of executive Hughes in ninth paragraph
of story published Oct. 11.)  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  appealed a judge’s order
that Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  testify in person at a
federal trial over claims that use of its anti-smoking drug
Chantix caused a Minnesota man to commit suicide.  The family of Mark Alan Whitely sued Pfizer after his death
in November 2007, alleging the company failed to sufficiently
warn that Chantix could increase the risk of suicide. The
Whitely lawsuit is the first of more than 2,500 Chantix cases
pending in federal court in Alabama to go to trial, according to
court records.  U.S. District Judge Inge Johnson ordered Read and two other
company executives to testify live at the trial, which is
scheduled to begin Oct. 22 in Florence, Alabama. Pfizer asked
the federal appeals court in Atlanta to erase her Oct. 4 order
as “plainly beyond the court’s subpoena power.”  Johnson’s order violates civil procedure, which “prohibits
service of subpoenas more than 100 miles from the courthouse,”
Pfizer lawyers said in their appeal. “There is absolutely no
overriding need for live testimony here.”  The Pfizer witnesses testified in videotaped depositions
and excerpts will be played at the trial, the New York-based
drugmaker said in its appeal, filed yesterday and posted by the
court today.  “Our company witnesses already have provided hours of
deposition testimony,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel,
said in an e-mailed statement. “None of these witnesses should
be required to testify in person at this trial.”  ‘Enormous’ Burden  “On the flip side, the burden on the Pfizer witnesses --
and in particular to its chairman and CEO -- is enormous,” the
company said in its appeal.  Read “is a crucial witness in the Chantix story, and any
inconvenience is outweighed by the benefit of allowing the jury
to evaluate his testimony in person,” Whitely’s lawyers said in
court papers Oct. 1.  The two other employees, Pfizer vice presidents Diana
Hughes and Carl Wilbanks, are “sufficiently high ranking” and
have been “sufficiently involved” with Chantix to be required
to testify live as well, the lawyers said.  The Whitely case and other lawsuits have been combined in a
multi-district litigation before Johnson for pretrial evidence-
gathering and the first trials.  The lawsuits claim that Chantix causes depression and other
psychiatric disorders, some so severe that patients attempt or
commit suicide. The plaintiffs allege that Pfizer knew of a link
between Chantix and suicide and failed to sufficiently warn
patients.  Pfizer Warnings  Pfizer has denied that Chantix was the cause of Whitely’s
suicide or that the company withheld information about the drug.  Pfizer has provided warnings on the package insert of
reports of suicidal thoughts since 2006, Johnson said in court
papers in July. The notice was updated in 2007 and 2008,
“culminating in a ‘black box warning’ being placed on the
package insert in July 2009,” she said.  The plaintiffs’ lawyers contend that Pfizer should have
provided such warnings earlier.  Mike Ciresi, an attorney for Whitely’s family, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on Pfizer’s appeal.  Chantix has been prescribed to more than 17 million
patients seeking to quit smoking, including 8 million in the
U.S., the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  “There is no reliable scientific evidence demonstrating
that Chantix causes the neuropsychiatric injuries alleged by the
plaintiffs,” according to the statement.  The lawsuit is In Re: Chantix (Varenicline) Products
Liability Litigation MDL 2092, 09-cv-2039 U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Alabama  (Florence).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  