-- PG&E Should Pay `Significant Fine' for Pipeline Explosion
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pg-e-should-pay-significant-fine-for-pipeline-explosion.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of the state’s
largest utility, should pay a “significant fine” for a 2010
natural gas pipeline blast that killed eight people, the head of
the  California  Public Utilities Commission said.  While the commission can also penalize the company by
disallowing certain costs, a fine is something the “public
understands,” President Michael Peevey said during an interview
at the commission’s headquarters in San Francisco yesterday. He
would like the company to reach a settlement with regulators by
the end of the year, he said.  The commission is considering penalties after beginning
three separate investigations into the blast that destroyed 38
homes in San Bruno, California. Violations of federal and state
safety laws by San Francisco-based PG&E led to the disaster, the
commission’s staff said in a  January report .  Commission staff last week asked judges hearing several
PG&E cases at the agency to suspend hearings while they engage
in settlement talks with the company. PG&E has set aside $200
million for potential fines resulting from the inquiries,
according to an Aug. 7 investor presentation.  PG&E would like to reach a settlement by year end, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Tony Earley said during an Aug. 7
conference call.  “We support negotiations that will work toward a universal
settlement and we will continue to work with the commission,”
Brittany Chord, a PG&E spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  A settlement would require public hearings and approval by
the five-member commission, Peevey said. Without a deal,
hearings would extend into the middle of next year, Peevey said.  “It’s in everyone’s interest that we put this behind us,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  