-- TPG Real Estate Gets $350 Million From New Jersey Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-10-11T22:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/tpg-real-estate-gets-350-million-from-new-jersey-fund.html
TPG Real Estate, a unit of the TPG
Capital private-equity firm founded by  David Bonderman  and  James Coulter , received a pledge of $350 million from New Jersey’s
pension to make investments in the U.S. and Western Europe.  The state will pay management fees of 0.95 percent on
invested capital in the TPG/NJ Partnership LP fund and receive
80 percent of any profits after an 8 percent hurdle rate has
been achieved, according to documents prepared for a New Jersey
State Investment Council meeting today.  “TPG is highly focused on growing the TPG RE platform,”
Timothy Walsh, director of the New Jersey Division of
Investment, wrote in an Oct. 5 memorandum prepared for today’s
meeting. The division oversees the state’s $70.1 billion pension
fund.  TPG Real Estate has invested about $1 billion of equity in
five transactions so far, according to the memo. Before forming
TPG Real Estate in 2011, the private-equity firm pursued
“numerous” corporate buyouts with real estate components,
Walsh wrote.  The fund will invest in real estate debt and equity,
according to the New Jersey documents.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG with Owen Blicksilver
Public Relations Inc., declined to comment.  TPG Capital, trailing rivals that struck partnerships with
large U.S. public pensions, has been seeking to secure a large
investor as it plans to start raising its next buyout fund, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in July.  Pension Partners  TPG is seeking to join other buyout firms in securing more
permanent capital from a large backer as buyout funds are
shrinking for the first time in the industry’s history.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , KKR & Co. and  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  have all paired up with at least one major
U.S. pension, drawing commitments as large as $3 billion.  In such deals, investors write big checks and back multiple
strategies at one firm in exchange for better terms such as
lower fees. Last December,  New Jersey ’s pension system committed
to invest more than $1 billion in Blackstone funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  