-- TPG Withdraws A$694 Million Billabong Takeover Bid as Talks End
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-12T07:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/tpg-withdraws-a-694-million-offer-for-billabong-correct-.html
TPG International LLC scrapped a
A$694 million ($713 million) bid for  Billabong International
Ltd. (BBG) , sending the surfwear maker’s shares to a record low as it
was left without a suitor.  Billabong  fell  17 percent to a record low after the Gold
Coast, Australia-based company said talks had ended. TPG, run by
David Bonderman, made a conditional bid of A$1.45 a share on
July 24, five months after a A$3.30-a-share offer was rejected.
A second private-equity firm walked away last month.  Slumping global demand has driven the company to its first
annual loss since listing in 2000, amid plans to close about a
fifth of the stores it had as of June 2011. Taking Billabong
private offered the best chance to turn the business around and
the stock may now decline further, said Tony Wilson, an analyst
at Evans & Partners Pty. with a sell  rating  on the stock.  “I’m not prepared to touch this thing. The risks are
through the roof,” Wilson said by telephone from  Melbourne .
“The fact that TPG have walked away -- does that mean they
can’t see any equity value in the structure?”  The company’s shares closed at 83.5 Australian cents in
Sydney, the lowest close since its 2000 initial public offering
and 42 percent below TPG’s indicative offer.  TPG had earlier “expressed concerns in relation to some
issues” as it studied the surfwear company’s financial data,
Billabong said Oct. 5. Launa Inman, Billabong’s chief executive
officer, declined to say what those concerns were or the reasons
for the buyout group’s withdrawal.  “It really was their concerns,” she said on a media call
after the announcement. “I have to repeat: it wasn’t our
concerns.”  Brand Writedown  The company posted a A$276 million full-year net loss in
August, its first since listing. Billabong also wrote off 42
percent of the value of its namesake label as a consumer
slowdown forced it to sell inventory at a loss and pay penalties
to close stores before leases expired.  Billabong had 634 stores in  Australia ,  Europe  and the
Americas at the end of June, having shut 58 during the previous
12 months. A further 82 are slated to close this year, the
company said.  “It’s a very complex business,” Sondal Bensan, an analyst
at  BT Investment Management Ltd. (BTT)  in Sydney, said by telephone
before the announcement. “You can’t just turn up and lift the
 margins . There’s a whole portfolio of brands and a lot of them
are in decline.”  Earlier Bid  A second buyout firm, which Billabong didn’t identify,
walked away last month, the company said at the time. Boston-
based Bain Capital Partners LLC made the competing offer, people
familiar with the matter said Sept. 6.  Inman, a former managing director of  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s
Target discount department store chain, was appointed CEO in May
to turn around the company’s performance. That process continues
amid “challenging” trading conditions, Billabong said in a
statement today.  “What we need to do is go forward and transform this
 business ,” Inman said on the call. “As we are today, we are on
track to deliver it.”  She declined to comment on the board’s view of TPG’s offer
or whether other parties were looking at the company.  “What I can say is that the board is united in what we are
doing and are very supportive of the transformation strategy,”
she said.  Deutsche Bank AG, which had a share price forecast of
A$1.10 for the  stock  on June 28 before adjusting it to align
with TPG’s A$1.45 offer,  cut  its 12-month estimate to 85
Australian cents after the announcement.  Capital Raising  Billabong in February rejected an offer of A$3.30 a share
from TPG. Founder and largest shareholder Gordon Merchant,
together with director Colette Paull, said they wouldn’t
consider a bid of less than A$4 a share. Billabong has since
increased its issued capital by 86 percent after it raised A$225
million selling new stock at a discount to pay debt.  Merchant, a former surfboard-shaper, started stitching
Billabong’s clothes in his kitchen in 1973, according to the
company’s website.  TPG, based in Forth Worth,  Texas , sold its stake in
Australian retailer  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  in a 2009 initial public
offering that raised A$2.1 billion, Australia’s biggest that
year. TPG and Carlyle Group bought Australian hospital operator
Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7 billion, including debt, in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  