-- Phoenix Rises on Bets Elections to Delay Sale: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-10-11T14:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/phoenix-rises-on-bets-elections-to-delay-sale-tel-aviv-mover.html
The Phoenix Holdings Ltd. (PHOE1) ,  Israel ’s
fourth-largest insurer by market value, rose the most in more
than a week on speculation the call for early elections will
delay the potential sale of the company.  The  shares  of the Givataim, Israel-based company rose 6.1
percent, the most since Oct. 3, to 8.081 shekels, at the close
in Tel Aviv. Investors traded 93,632 shares, 107 percent of the
three-month average volume. The TA-25 index advanced 0.9
percent.  Phoenix is one of the companies likely to be sold once
parliament approves cabinet recommendations requiring companies
to reduce cross-holdings in financial and industrial businesses,
Meir Slater, an analyst at DS Securities & Investments in Tel
Aviv, said today by phone. Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
called elections for early next year, a decision that may delay
parliament’s approval of the proposals, first announced in
April, that also limit ownership structures to three layers.  “The looming elections will postpone a parliament decision
on the recommendations and Phoenix was the company that would
have been most affected by them,” Slater said. “Now there is
no pressure to sell and management is not focused on this.”  Seeking to boost competition in the economy, Netanyahu
planned to give conglomerates four years to comply with the new
corporate structure rules.  Phoenix is owned by businessman Issac Tshuva’s  Delek Group
Ltd. (DLEKG) , which also has investments in oil and natural gas
exploration companies. Some 20 families control 25 percent of
the listed companies and 50 percent of the total market share in
the  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange, one of the highest concentrations
among developed economies, the  Bank of Israel  said in its 2009
annual report.  Clal Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. (CLIS) , owned indirectly
by IDB Holding Corp., was another prime candidate for sale under
the new rules, Slater said. Clal’s sale will probably go ahead
anyway, independent of the new rules, because of IDB’s need to
sell assets to meet creditor commitments, Slater said. Clal’s
shares were up 3.8 percent.  IDB Holding’s second-quarter results included a so-called
going-concern warning, and the company is trying to raise money
through the sale of assets to pay back creditors. Its IDB
Development Corp. unit sold a stake in  Clal Industries and
Investments LTD. . to Access Industries Holdings Inc. in July. In
August a  Berkshire Hathaway (BRK/B)  unit acquired Clal Insurance’s U.S.
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  