-- Pimco Local Buying Signals Longest Rally Prolonged: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pimco-local-buying-signals-longest-rally-prolonged-muni-credit.html
Bill Gross  keeping his municipal-
debt holdings in September at the highest since at least 2006
lends confidence to a market on a pace to beat Treasuries for a
second straight year.  Gross, 68, directed 5 percent of the  $278 billion  Total
Return Fund, the world’s biggest bond fund, to state and local
debt last month. It’s the first time he’s held that high a
percentage of munis in consecutive months since at least 2006,
according to data  released  yesterday by Gross’s firm, Pacific
Investment Management Co.  Bets on the $3.7 trillion muni market are paying off as
local borrowings are poised to out-earn Treasuries this year on
an absolute basis and when adjusted for volatility. City and
state debt has returned 3.7 percent in 2012 after accounting for
price swings, compared with 0.6 percent for Treasuries, data
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg show. It
would be the second straight year for tax-exempts to beat
federal securities, the longest stretch since 2006.  “The risk-adjusted returns that we’ve had this year is one
of the key factors as to why we’ve been buying them as a firm,”
said  Joe Deane , who helps manage $62 billion as head of muni
investments in New York at Pimco, in an Oct. 9 interview.
“We’ve been buying them pretty much across the board and it’s
because we felt it was one of the safer, cheaper spread asset
classes.”  Economic View  Munis are among fixed-income segments to benefit from
Gross’s move to cut back on Treasuries, which he reduced to 20
percent last month, the lowest since October 2011, on concern
that record U.S. government borrowing will lead to quicker
inflation. Mortgages are his biggest holding, at 49 percent.  The fund, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , has returned
9.3 percent this year, beating 97 percent of its peers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It is staging a rebound from 2011,
when it outperformed 30 percent of that group.  Gross is adding to state and city debt as investors seeking
a haven from  Europe ’s financial crisis have turned to munis,
pushing yields to 45-year  lows . Muni mutual funds have added
assets for 25 straight weeks, the longest span since March 2010,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows data.  Water, Sewer  “Pimco continues to see value in high-quality municipal
bonds,” according to an August fund commentary. “And we retain
our preference for essential-service revenue bonds such as water
and sewer, power, and airports.”  Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, didn’t respond to an
e-mail and a voice message seeking comment yesterday.  Before the past two months, Gross also held 5 percent in
munis in November 2011. He held no munis from March to May of
2007.  Tax-free debt is extending a rally even after three
California municipalities declared bankruptcy since June and as
states face potential federal-spending reductions set to start
in January unless Congress acts.  Still, the default rate for muni debt is lower than that
for corporate bonds. From 1970 to 2011, an average of 0.08
percent of investment-grade munis that were sold a decade or
more earlier defaulted, compared with 2.61 percent for
investment-grade company bonds, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  “On an after-tax basis, municipals still provide a
tremendous amount of yield for unit of  default risk ,” said Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord-Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  Munis Growing  The Total Return Fund invests in government, mortgage and
investment-grade company fixed-income securities. Pimco, a unit
of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed $1.82 trillion of
assets as of June 30, including a selection of municipal-bond
funds.  In the past four to five months, Deane’s muni portfolios
have grown from $55 billion, he said.  Deane looks for munis maturing in 14 to 20 years and tends
to prefer essential-service revenue bonds to general-
obligations. He does invest in state and larger city general
obligations while avoiding smaller municipalities and school
districts, which typically rely on property taxes for repayment.  “It’s very unlikely that assessed valuations have
bottomed,” Deane said, talking about property assessments.
“And that’s what you really get paid on.”  In trading yesterday, yields on 10-year bonds rated AAA
were little changed at about  1.66 percent , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The index touched 1.63 percent July 27, the
lowest since at least January 2009, when data collection began.  Following are pending sales:  WISCONSIN plans to offer $303 million of general-obligation
bonds through competitive bid as soon as Oct. 17, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will help finance construction of
highways and buildings and acquire land and equipment, according
to offering documents. (Added Oct. 11)  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA is set to borrow $675 million of
general-obligation tax-revenue anticipation notes as soon as
next week, according to Moody’s Investors Service. (Added Oct.
11)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  