-- Pimco to Daiwa Avoid Long Bonds as U.S. Approaches Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-10-11T07:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/pimco-to-daiwa-avoid-long-bonds-as-u-s-approaches-fiscal-cliff.html
Investors from Pacific Investment
Management Co. to Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. say long-term
Treasuries are unattractive as the U.S. risks inflation and
fiscal contraction.  Buyers of U.S. Treasuries should avoid 30-year securities
as the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary stimulus risks stoking
increases in asset prices, according to Tomoya Masanao, head of
 portfolio management  for  Japan  at Pimco, which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund. The fiscal health of the U.S., which faces
more than $600 billion of potential tax increases and spending
cuts from year-end, also warrants caution. The government is
scheduled to sell $13 billion of bonds maturing in 2042 today.  “Caution of fiscal sustainability of the U.S. is a long-
term view,” Masanao said at a Euromoney conference in  Tokyo 
yesterday. “We should avoid long-end of the U.S. Treasury curve
yielding below 3 percent if you ask if the fiscal situation is
still there and ask if the Fed is trying to reflate the economy
with massive amount of liquidity,” he said, adding that he
prefers middle-term maturity debt.  Thirty-year rates were little changed at 2.88 percent as of
8:12 a.m. in  London  after falling 9 basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, over the past two days, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader data. Benchmark 10-year notes yielded 1.68 percent.  Treasuries Trimmed  Pimco reduced holdings of Treasuries for a third
consecutive month to the lowest level since last October. The
proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in its $278
billion Total Return Fund dropped to 20 percent of assets in
September from 21 percent the prior month, according to data
released on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s
website.  Ten-year Treasury yields touched a record low 1.38 percent
on July 25 after the Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing. The U.S. central bank in September
began a third cycle, pledging to buy $40 billion of mortgage
debt a month until the economic recovery is well established.  “Yields look far too low,” said Roger Bridges, who
oversees $15.3 billion of debt in Sydney at Tyndall Investment
Management Ltd., a unit of Japan’s Nikko Asset Management Co.
The fiscal cliff is helping keep rates down, he said yesterday.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said in
Washington yesterday that bond markets would spurn  U.S. debt  if
lawmakers fail to address the nation’s deficit.  Lower Return  Thirty-year U.S. debt has gained 2.5 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
underperforming the 3.9 percent gain in the 7-to-10 year
Treasury market. The securities returned 35.5 percent in 2011,
more than double the 15 percent gain by middle-term Treasuries.  Yields on 30-year U.S. Treasuries will rise to 2.94 percent
in the first quarter 2013, based on a Bloomberg survey of
economists, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings. Analysts project 10-year yields will rise to 1.87
percent.  “The current level is very expensive,” Kei Katayama, who
buys  U.S. government debt  in Tokyo for Daiwa SB, which manages
the equivalent of $63.6 billion and is a unit of Japan’s second-
biggest brokerage, said on Oct. 9. “The  U.S. economy  will keep
growing slowly.” Ten-year yields will be 2 percent at year-end,
Katayama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 