-- Plosser Says 2015 Fed Rate Outlook Risks Spurring Inflation
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-11T19:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/plosser-says-2015-fed-rate-outlook-risks-spurring-inflation-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President Charles Plosser said keeping the benchmark interest
rate low through mid-2015 risks unleashing inflation, and
borrowing costs may have to be raised before then.  “To keep the funds rate at zero that long would risk
destabilizing inflation expectations and lead to an unwanted
increase in inflation,” Plosser said today in a speech in
Avondale, Pennsylvania. “Chasing an elusive goal for
 unemployment  could well risk losing control over inflation. That
was the lesson of the Great Inflation during the 1970s.”  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
said the central bank may have to tighten policy “well before
mid-2015,” given his outlook for a 3 percent pace of growth
over the next two years and a gradual decline in the
unemployment rate, which unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent in
September, the lowest since January 2009.  Plosser said he opposed last month’s decision by the
Federal Open Market Committee to extend its horizon for low
interest rates from late 2014 and to start a third round of
large-scale asset purchases, known as quantitative easing. The
Fed is buying $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities per
month, and for the first time it didn’t specify an end-date for
the program, intended to boost growth and reduce unemployment.  ‘Allocating Credit’  “In general, central banks should refrain from allocating
credit toward one sector or industry,” Plosser said. “Those
types of credit-allocation decisions rightfully belong to the
fiscal authorities, not the central bank. Engaging in such
actions endangers our independence and the effectiveness of
monetary policy.”  The Philadelphia Fed chief said asset purchases probably
won’t reduce long-term interest rates “by a significant
amount,” and that a decline in rates of “a few more basis
points” won’t spur growth or generate more jobs.  “We know that monetary policy can control inflation, but
its ability to manage the unemployment rate is far more
dubious,” he said.  “Interest rates are at historic lows, and markets are
generally functioning well,” Plosser said in the speech to the
Southern Chester County Chamber of Commerce. “I do not believe
a lack of monetary accommodation is restraining near-term growth
prospects.”  Economic Growth  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace
from April through June, slower than a prior estimate of 1.7
percent, after growing at a 2 percent rate in the first quarter.
Economists expect gross domestic product to grow 1.8 percent in
the third quarter and 1.9 percent in the fourth, according to
the median of 91 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The district bank’s gauge of manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region is “inching its way back up,” and many
small manufacturing firms “are doing quite well,” Plosser told
reporters after his speech.  “I talked to some just yesterday who were quite
positive,” Plosser said. “What they’re saying is it’s not as
good as it was earlier in the recovery, but they’re still making
progress.”  The Philadelphia Fed’s general economic index improved to
 minus 1.9 , higher than forecast, from minus 7.1 in August.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the area covering
eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and  Delaware .  ‘Making Progress’  The September jobs report “was mostly good news,” Plosser
said. “It suggests that while we still have a long way to go,
we are gradually making progress, even if it’s slow.”  Stocks rose after a report from the Labor Department
showing that initial claims for unemployment benefits declined
last week to a four-year low. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
climbed 0.2 percent to 1,435.24 at 3:38 p.m. in New York.  The Fed cut its benchmark interest rate almost to zero in
December 2008 and has since used asset purchases to lower long-
term borrowing costs.  In the first round, starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25
trillion of mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal
agency debt and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round,
announced in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of
Treasuries.  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the graduate school of
business administration at the University of Rochester in New
York State. The Philadelphia Fed will next have a vote on policy
decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Avondale,  Pennsylvania  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  