-- Orioles Force Playoff Decider Against Yankees; Giants Oust Reds
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-12T04:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/posey-s-slam-completes-giants-comeback-in-mlb-series-win-at-reds.html
The  Baltimore Orioles  won 2-1 in 13
innings to force a decider against the  New York Yankees  and the
 San Francisco Giants  beat the Cincinnati Reds 6-4 to become the
first National League team to win a best-of-five Major League
Baseball division series after losing the first two games.  Buster Posey’s grand slam capped a six-run fifth inning for
the Giants, who lost two games at home before sweeping three in
Cincinnati. All five games in the series were won by the
visiting team, also an NL first.  “We’ve got a bunch of fighters, I don’t think anybody gave
up,” Posey said in a television interview. “We didn’t make it
easy on ourselves, that’s for sure.”  The Giants will play the defending-champion St. Louis
Cardinals or the Washington Nationals for a spot in the  World
Series . The Nationals forced a decisive Game 5 later today in
Washington with a 2-1 home win against the Cardinals last night
as  Jayson Werth  hit a game-ending home run in the ninth inning
to tie the series.  “I felt pretty good going in there,” Werth said in a
televised interview. “I was sure. We’ve been doing it all year.
We’ve got a great club.”  In the American League, the Yankees and Orioles will meet
again this afternoon in New York to determine which team will
face the  Detroit Tigers  or the Oakland Athletics for a place in
the World Series. The Tigers are playing at the Athletics in the
decisive Game 5 of their division series.  The A’s, who scored three runs in the ninth inning two
nights ago for a 4-3 win, are trying to become the fifth AL team
to win a division series after dropping the first two games.  Orioles Win  After four scoreless innings at Yankee Stadium, Nate McLouth hit a leadoff home run off New York starter  Phil Hughes 
to give the Orioles a 1-0 lead.  Derek Jeter  then scored on a
Robinson Cano groundout in the sixth to tie it.  Manny Machado got the 13th inning under way with a double
and advanced to third on McLouth’s groundout before scoring on
J.J. Hardy’s double to seal the win for Baltimore.  The Yankees are 11-4 favorites to win the World Series,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, with the
Cardinals at 9-2.  Giants-Reds  The Giants-Reds game at Great American Ball Park in
Cincinnati was scoreless until the fifth inning, when Brandon
Crawford had a run-scoring triple and scored on an error before
Posey’s bases-clearing home run.  The Reds got a two-run double from  Brandon Phillips  in the
fifth, a solo home run from Ryan Ludwick in the sixth inning and
a run-scoring single by Ludwick in the ninth.  The Nationals became the first Washington team to reach the
playoffs since 1933 by finishing the regular season with a major
league-best 98-64 record, 10 wins better than the Cardinals, who
reached the NL Division Series by beating the  Atlanta Braves  in
the wild-card game.  Washington took a 1-0 lead in the second inning at
Nationals Park on a solo home run by Adam LaRoche. The Cardinals
tied it in the third on a sacrifice fly by  Carlos Beltran  that
scored Pete Kozma.  The game remained tied until the bottom of the ninth inning,
when Werth hit a leadoff home run on the 13th pitch of his at-
bat to seal the win for the Nationals. It was the 14th career
postseason home run for Werth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  