-- Power Debt Revamp to Spur $6 Billion Expansion: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-11T12:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/power-debt-revamp-to-spur-6-billion-expansion-corporate-india.html
Neyveli Lignite Corp. (NLC) ,  India ’s
third-largest state-run power generator, expects a debt revamp
plan for distributors will help recover dues and spur lenders to
fund its 310 billion rupee ($6 billion) expansion.  A government decision last month to recast short-term loans
of distribution companies and allow them to raise tariffs may
help the states of Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan settle 40 billion
rupees of unpaid bills with Neyveli Lignite, Finance Director
 Rakesh Kumar  said in an interview. The states paid 3.7 billion
rupees last week, he said.  “The plan to turn around distribution companies is a big
step for every power generator in the country,” Kumar said by
phone from the southern Indian town of Neyveli, where the
company is based. “Without this, it would be difficult to
proceed with our expansion plan.”  The lignite miner is seeking to triple capacity to 8,000
megawatts in eight years and boost profit growth as Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  aims to spend 13.73 trillion rupees
($263 billion) in the next five years to reduce blackouts that
hinder economic growth. The collection of dues from the two
states is also crucial to revive a stalled share sale plan,
India’s Coal secretary S.K. Srivastava said last week.  Shareholder Return  “Neyveli must expand revenue and profit to be able to
boost shareholder returns,” said Vijaykumar Bupathy, an analyst
with Spark Capital Advisors in the southern city of Chennai, who
has an “add” rating for the shares. “Faster recovery of dues
will help the company pursue its expansion more aggressively.”  The  stock  has gained 17 percent this year, compared with a
22 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  Rivals
 Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) ,  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. have outperformed the index. Neyveli gained
0.2 percent to 85.15 rupees at the close of trading today in
Mumbai.  Neyveli’s inability to recover dues prompted the government
last month to defer the plan to sell a 5 percent stake in the
company, Srivastava said Oct. 3. The stake would be worth 7.1
billion rupees based on yesterday’s closing price.  “Once the dues are cleared, we will have a stronger case
before the investors,” Srivastava said.  Neyveli reported a  record profit  of 14.1 billion rupees
after boosting output 5 percent to 18.8 billion kilowatt hours
in the year ended March 31.  Borrowing Plan  The company plans to raise 9.4 billion rupees in loans this
month and has asked banks to submit bids by Oct. 15, Kumar said.
Power-generation companies have struggled to raise funds for
projects because of concerns they might not find buyers for all
of their output and a fuel shortage may hamper operations.  Neyveli is counting on the government’s approval on Sept.
24 to allow state distributors to restructure at least $30.5
billion of debt, helping them clear their dues and boost
electricity purchases. According to the plan, half of the short-
term borrowings of the distributors will be taken over by the
regional governments, while the rest will be reorganized by
lenders. The utilities will be asked to seek regular tariff
revisions and improve efficiency by curbing power thefts and
upgrading machinery.  State utilities that adopt the debt recast plan will get
transition funding from government lenders such as Power Finance
Corp. and  Rural Electrification Corp. Ltd. (RECL) , Kumar said. These
funds will help the distributors, many of which have been denied
loans by banks, keep the operations running and pay back dues to
generation and fuel suppliers.  Utility Losses  Power Finance will lend 50 billion rupees to the  Tamil Nadu 
distribution company, Power Finance Chairman Satnam Singh said
in a phone interview. The loan will be disbursed in phases, as
the distributor meets milestones in increasing tariff and
reducing technical and commercial losses, he said.  Rural Electrification is also considering lending a similar
amount, Finance Director Ajeet Agarwal said by phone.  Losses at regional electricity distributors have widened in
tandem with the difference in the cost of supply and the average
tariff. State utilities, forced to sell electricity below cost,
had accumulated losses of 1.9 trillion rupees as of March 2011,
almost 85 percent of which were funded through short-term debts,
according to Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar.  “State distribution companies owe about $3 billion to
power generators and that’s a lot of money,” said Amit Sinha, a
New Delhi-based partner with Bain & Co. “If your customers are
in bad shape and delaying payments, any investor will be very
cautious in putting money in generation projects.”  Leakages, Theft  India loses 27 percent of its electricity through leakages
and theft, while peak supply lags behind demand by an average 9
percent, according to the  Central Electricity Authority .  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the country’s biggest power producer, cut
generation by 13 billion kilowatt hours, or 6 percent of total
production in the year ended March 31, as state government
utilities reduced purchases, Chairman Arup Roy Choudhury said on
Aug. 7. The company may have to cut output by another 13 billion
kilowatt hours this fiscal year.  Neyveli’s stock is the cheapest among state-run power
producers, with the price-to-earnings multiple lower than that
of NTPC and hydro power producer NHPC Ltd. The government, which
owns  93.56 percent  in the company, must raise the public float
to at least 10 percent to comply with capital market regulations.  “Neyveli is one of the worst-affected generators because
of the financial distress of state distributors and a recovery
of dues will be significantly positive for the company,” Spark
Capital’s Bupathy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  