-- Preventing Child Brides Is Goal on UN Day of Girl Child
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-10-11T15:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/preventing-child-brides-is-goal-on-un-day-of-girl-child.html
As the  United Nations  today
recognizes its first  International Day of the Girl Child , a 14-
year-old Pakistani schoolgirl activist who was shot in the head
by Taliban gunmen lies in critical condition.  Her crime: She wanted an education.  The struggle for life by Malala Yousufzai, the veiled
teenage blogger who defied the Islamic extremists by secretly
going to school, adds special poignancy to a day intended to
highlight the challenges facing girls in many nations, such as
educational restrictions and marriage as child brides.  “I think we should be dedicating our efforts to brave
young women, some of whose names we will know and some we will
never know, who struggle against tradition and culture and even
outright hostility and sometimes violence to pursue their hopes,
their God-given potential,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in  Washington  yesterday.  One of those women is 23-year-old Salamatou Aghali Issoufa
from Niger, who fought and won the right to continue her studies
and, in so doing, escaped the fate of millions of women married
as girls. About 70 million -- or around 1 in 3 -- young women
age 20 to 24 were married before the age of 18, with 23 million
of them betrothed before they turned 15, according to  Unicef ,
the UN agency which helps children.  In contrast to the harsher realities of girls born into
poor rural areas, hers is a rare success story which she is
telling at the UN in New York.  Today Issoufa is happily married to a man of her choice,
the mother of a four-year-old, with a baby on the way. She’s
also her town’s midwife.  Brother’s Help  Her life could have been very different. Born in a country
with the highest child marriage rates, Issoufa grew up in a
village near an oasis in the  Sahara desert  that first allowed a
girl to attend its primary school in 1989.  When she turned 16, her parents wanted to yank Issoufa out
of high school, where she was a star pupil, and marry her to a
man three times her age. To her disgust, he was also already
married and had a child.  “I objected because I did not know him, and he was much
older,” Issoufa said in an interview in French. “I did not
like polygamy, either, and wanted to continue going to school.”  So she confided in her older brother, who was 24 at the
time, and asked him to intercede on her behalf. In Niger and
elsewhere in West Africa, it’s a traditional for parents to
decide the future of their daughters.  Poverty, Customs  “Where I come from, there are several reasons for arranged
marriages; there is poverty, the customs, the tightened ties,
and early marriage is considered a way to safeguard a girl’s
virginity,” Issoufa said.  Also championing her cause were members of the health
support committee in her hometown of Timia, who offered her a
scholarship to a three-year midwifery school program in Agadez,
a six-hour drive away. She met her husband there while
completing her studies. They since have moved back to Timia,
where he works as a travel agent and she assists the town’s
women during pregnancy, labor and delivery.  Her cousin, not so lucky, was married off at 16.  Ending child marriage is the focus of the first
International Day of the Girl Child, an initiative supported by
UN agencies, rights groups, foundations and governments.  Clinton announced yesterday that the U.S. will work with
the government of  Bangladesh , which has one of the highest rates
of child marriage, and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo to seek
to reduce the numbers through expanded heath care, education and
legal rights. The U.S. will also include the issue in programs
for foreign teachers coming to the U.S. for training, she said.  ‘Marginalized’ Girls  Separately, the Ford Foundation announced a five-year, $25
million program against child marriage. The UN Population Fund
said it will invest $20 million over five years on programs for
the “most marginalized adolescent girls” at risk of child
marriage in 12 nations, including Niger,  Guatemala ,  India , and
Zambia.  About a third of women Issoufa’s age were married as
children in the developing world, most commonly in  South Asia 
and Sub-Saharan Africa, Unicef said.  Child brides run a greater risk of domestic violence, have
to abandon their studies and risk life-threatening pregnancies,
according to Unicef. About 70,000 girls between the ages of 15
and 19 die each year of complications linked to pregnancy or
childbirth, according to Unicef, and that in turn pushes up the
number of babies who die before they’re a year old.  These sobering statistics are not lost on Issoufa, who on
her first visit to  New York  has a simple message to share:
“Give girls a chance to study.”  -- Editor: Terry Atlas, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  