-- Profit Amputations Are ‘Just a Flesh Wound’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-10-11T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/profit-amputations-are-just-a-flesh-wound-.html
If the stock market were a Monty
Python movie,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  would be the character known as the
Black Knight, who cheerily yelled “just a flesh wound” after
losing both of his  arms  in a sword fight. Anyone can see the
company is bleeding profusely. Yet it won’t admit defeat.  Consider Zynga’s Oct. 4  news release , in which the maker of
online games said it expected to report a third-quarter net loss
of $90 million to $105 million. But never mind those figures.
Zynga has developed its own rules for measuring financial
performance. And under this approach, which doesn’t comply with
generally accepted accounting principles, the company said its
loss would be only $2 million to $5 million.  Why such a big difference? Here’s where the numbers get
comical. Zynga paid $183 million in March to buy another games
company called  Omgpop . Then last week, Zynga said it would write
down that acquisition by $85 million to $95 million. Zynga
excluded the writedown from its non-GAAP results for the third
quarter, and encouraged others to do the same.  The notion is absurd. The $183 million that Zynga paid for
Omgpop was  cash . It’s writing down about half of the purchase
price. Zynga bought Omgpop less than seven months ago. In other
words, Zynga’s management wasted a lot of money and acts as if
it doesn’t matter.  Investors didn’t buy into the ruse. The shares fell 12
percent on Oct. 5, the day after the warning. They closed
yesterday at $2.43, down 76 percent since Zynga’s initial public
offering last December, giving the San Francisco-based company a
$1.8 billion stock-market value.  Numbers Spinning  Why bother with spinning the numbers this way? In addition
to requiring a complete reconciliation to GAAP, the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s  rules  for non-GAAP financial metrics
say companies must provide “a statement disclosing the reasons
why the registrant’s management believes that presentation of
the non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to
investors regarding the registrant’s financial condition and
results of operations.”  “Non-GAAP net loss” is one of a few nonstandard metrics
that Zynga publishes. Here’s the  explanation  from its Oct. 4
press release: “We believe these non-GAAP financial measures
are useful to investors because they allow for greater
transparency with respect to key financial metrics we use in
making operating decisions and because our investors and
analysts use them to help assess the health of our business.”  That reasoning is circular. All Zynga said is that the
information is useful because it’s useful. That can lead to only
one conclusion: If Zynga’s executives actually make decisions
based on such numbers, this might explain why the business is
such a disaster. When asked for a comment, a Zynga spokeswoman,
Stephanie Hess, referred me to the company’s public disclosures.  The spread of hokey non-GAAP financial metrics in
corporate-earnings releases became a big issue during the late
1990s  stock-market bubble . The practice seems to have gotten out
of hand again. Zynga is merely an extreme case.  About half of the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index presented non-GAAP earnings for their most recent quarters
in ways that made their results look better, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Only about one-fifth of the companies
showed non-GAAP earnings that looked worse. These numbers wind
up in a vast information food chain, where they often are
repeated in the financial press and used as benchmarks for Wall
Street stock analysts’ earnings estimates.  Showing Profits  Hewlett-Packard Co. , for example, showed a profit of about
$2 billion for the quarter ended July 31 -- excluding almost $11
billion of restructuring charges and asset writedowns, all of
which are considered ordinary expenses under GAAP. HP said its
net loss was $8.9 billion.  News Corp.  reported a $1.6 billion net loss for the quarter
ended June 30. Meanwhile, its Aug. 8 earnings release
highlighted a $783 million non-GAAP profit. That excluded about
$2.4 billion of writedowns and restructuring charges, as well as
expenses related to phone-hacking investigations at the
company’s U.K. newspapers.  This week,  Alcoa Inc.  reported a third-quarter net loss of
$143 million, but a profit of $32 million “excluding special
items.” The items were a lawsuit settlement and costs from an
environmental cleanup, which are nothing special. This is a
metals company. Lawsuits and environmental hazards are routine.  Do these companies’ executives think they are fooling
anybody? They must. Otherwise they wouldn’t do it.  In the 1975 movie “ Monty Python and the Holy Grail ,” the
Black Knight kept trying to provoke his adversary, King Arthur,
even after getting his  legs  cut off, too. “Come back here and
take what’s coming to you! I’ll bite your legs off!” he
shouted.  In life, as in art, some people just won’t accept reality.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving U.S. food safety ;
Stephen L. Carter on  which facts last the longest ; William Pesek
on  economist  Raghuram Rajan ’s return to  India ; Richard Vedder on
 what colleges aren’t telling  prospective students.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  