-- Publisher Win $6.6 Million From Greenspan Lyrics Websites
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-11T16:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/publisher-win-6-6-million-from-greenspan-lyrics-websites.html
Music publishers including Warner
Music Group won a $6.6 million judgment in a copyright lawsuit
against song lyrics websites run by Brad Greenspan, one of the
developers of the MySpace online social network.  U.S. District Judge George Wu ruled that LiveUniverse and
its founder Greenspan must pay damages of $12,500 for each of
528 songs infringed on the websites, in an order dated Oct. 9 in
federal court in Los Angeles.  “Defendants have willfully infringed upon plaintiffs’
copyrights, even after being sanctioned, both by this court and
Magistrate Judge Abrams,” Wu said in his default judgment
order. “Their blatant disregard for the civil justice system
favors a substantial damages award.”  He also issued a permanent injunction barring Greenspan
from offering song lyrics online without licenses from copyright
holders.  Greenspan and his lawyer, Andrew Kislik, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment on the ruling.  Music publishers Peermusic Ltd. Bug Music Inc. and Warner
Chappell Music sued Greenspan in August 2009, claiming that his
online sites provided the lyrics of copyrighted songs without
authorization or payment to the owners. Wu issued his ruling
without a trial.  Default Judgment  “The default judgment was based on the client’s misconduct
in the litigation,” Paul Fakler, a lawyer with Arent Fox LLP
who represented the publishers, said in a phone interview. “He
was refusing to provide discovery. He failed to show up several
times for depositions. After escalating contempt orders the
judge finally defaulted the defendants.”  Fakler said that although the damages, which don’t include
attorneys’ fees, are substantial, “we believe an even higher
award would’ve been justified.”  The publishers had sought statutory damages of $100,000 for
each song infringed. The songs included “China Girl” by David Bowie and “Moondance” by Van Morrison.  The case is Peermusic III Ltd. v. LiveUniverse Inc., 09-
06160, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at ‘  mhytha @bloomberg.net. 