-- Putin Braces for First Russian Election Since Kremlin Return
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 2012-10-12T10:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/putin-braces-for-first-russian-elections-since-return-to-kremlin.html
Russia ’s regional elections,
including the first gubernatorial polls in eight years, are
testing President Vladimir Putin’s efforts to reassert control
after the largest protests in more than a decade.  Contenders backed by the ruling  United Russia  party may
suffer setbacks in at least 10 mayoral and local legislative
elections before the Oct. 14  vote , the Carnegie Moscow Center
 projects . Governing-party candidates are leading by double-digit
margins in all five gubernatorial races, according to a report
released this month by the Civil Society Development Fund.  The unrest is pushing Putin’s allies into a balancing act
where a heavy-handed show of strength risks sparking new
protests and rallying the opposition. Putin, who began his third
presidential term in May, abolished direct elections of
governors in 2004 and agreed to restore them last year after
tens of thousands took to the streets to protest voting fraud.  “With this vote, the Kremlin wants to show it still
maintains control of the situation,” said Mikhail Remizov
president of the National Strategy Institute. “Secondly, the
Kremlin wants to avoid angering people with unfair elections
that may provoke large-scale protests.”  Russian equities, which have the lowest valuations based on
projected earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg, dropped for the fourth time in five days, with the
Micex Index retreating 0.4 percent to 1,456.76 at 12:36 p.m. in
Moscow. The ruble-denominated benchmark gauge trades at 5.6
times estimated earnings after gaining 3.9 percent this year.  Ratings Slump  Putin, who handed the chairmanship of the United Russia
party to Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev a year ago, is
struggling to reverse a slump in approval ratings that are near
the lowest level since mass protests broke out in December. A
crackdown has since ensued, including prosecution of opposition
activists and leaders, increased fines for unsanctioned rallies
and tightened controls over the Internet.  Support for Putin is at 44 percent, after bottoming out at
41 percent last month, the Moscow-based Public Opinion
Foundation, or FOM, said in an Oct. 11  report . The Russian
leader won the March presidential election with 64 percent of
the vote. FOM polled 3,000 Russians Oct. 6-7. No margin of error
was given.  The Kremlin winnowed the contenders in gubernatorial
elections by using a so-called municipal filter to screen
candidates, while the heads of at least 20 of Russia’s 83
regions were replaced or reappointed before legislative changes
went into effect.  Missed Chance  “The Kremlin lost a chance to show a willingness to allow
for soft democratization,” said Grigory Melkonyants, head of
Golos, a vote-monitoring watchdog. “We see almost as many
violations and administrative pressure during the election
campaign as before.”  The system of screening candidates includes a requirement
to collect the signatures of as many as 10 percent of municipal
lawmakers in the region. Most regional parliaments are
controlled by United Russia and will decide individually whether
independent candidates are allowed to run.  “Maybe we acted too harshly with the filters but in my
opinion filters are needed,” said Sergei Ivanov, Putin’s chief
of staff. “I can’t quite understand how we can allow 120 to 150
candidates to compete in gubernatorial elections.”  ‘Boorish Behavior’  Speaking in an Oct. 7 television interview that marked his
60th birthday, Putin chided the opposition for their “boorish
behavior” and said he held out “hope serious people will
appear someday” among his opponents. The president cited an
increase in the wellbeing of Russians, including a more than
tenfold increase in average wages since 2000, among the greatest
accomplishments of his tenure.  Even so, the world’s biggest energy exporter is facing
slowing growth after inflation accelerated to a 10-month high in
September and  consumer confidence  fell in the third quarter for
the first time since January-March 2011.  The World Bank on Oct. 8 cut its forecasts for Russia’s
economic expansion this year and next, citing the country’s weak
harvest, the global economic turmoil and faster price growth
eroding purchasing power.  Gross domestic product will grow 3.5 percent this year and
3.6 percent in 2013, the Washington-based lender said. The
forecast for this year was cut 0.4 percentage points from a June
estimate, while next year’s projection was lowered half a
percentage point. GDP rose 4 percent from a year earlier in the
second quarter.  ‘Angered Elite’  “The elite is angered because it’s told the Kremlin
couldn’t guarantee them victory in elections,” said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a sociologist in Moscow, adding that fallout
from the vote may prompt further escalation of political
tensions. “The old agreement -- you give me position and I give
you my loyalty -- is not working anymore.”  More Russians are leaning toward joining rallies against
possible voter fraud, with 17 percent saying in September they
would back local demonstrations to protest falsifications, up
from 13 percent a month earlier and 15 percent last December,
according to an Oct. 8  survey  by the independent Levada Center.  About 63 percent of respondents in six of the country’s
biggest cities have a very bad, bad or average impression of
their mayors and governors, according to another  poll  published
by Levada on Oct. 5.  Bryansk, Ryazan  Even so, incumbent governors will probably “win easily”
in the regions of Amursk, Belgorod and Novgorod and overcome
“some difficulties” to finish first in Bryansk and Ryazan,
said Nikolay Petrov, a scholar at the Carnegie Moscow Center.
Politicians backed by United Russia may suffer defeat in several
local legislative races and mayoral elections in Kaliningrad,
Nizhny Tagil and Khimki, according to Petrov.  “The Kremlin and regional authorities in many cases still
enjoy almost complete control over the election process, but
they are afraid to provoke mass protests,” Petrov said. “The
Kremlin closely screened the regions and decided to permit
elections only where no surprises were expected.”  Controversies have engulfed two of the regional elections.
Russia’s Supreme Court yesterday reinstated Bryansk’s incumbent
governor, Nikolai Denin, after a local court barred him from
running because of falsified signatures. In the Ryazan region,
the main challenger for the governor’s office dropped out of the
race and accepted an offer to become a senator.  “A split in the elites is growing,” said Vladimir
Mekhedov, a political scientist at Bryansk State University.
“It may not be that distinct yet, but the discord is making
itself felt, it’s hard to constrain it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  