-- QNB Said to Complete Due Diligence on SocGen Unit This Month
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-11T10:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/qnb-said-to-complete-due-diligence-on-socgen-unit-this-month.html
Qatar National Bank (QNBK)  expects to
complete the due diligence process to buy a stake in  Societe
Generale SA’s (GLE)  Egyptian unit this month, said an official, who
asked not to be identified in line with the bank’s policy.  The Middle East’s biggest lender by assets received
approval from  Egypt ’s central bank last month to begin the
process on the 77.2 percent stake in Cairo-based National
Societe Generale Bank. QNB will have to “make an offer by the
end of the month, otherwise they can’t submit a bid for six
months,” said Jaap Meijer, head bank analyst at Arqaam Capital
Ltd. in Dubai, citing the bank official’s call with analysts
yesterday.  QNB, which raised $3.5 billion in a rights issue last year
and sold $1 billion of bonds in February, is expanding to
counter limited domestic growth in the country of 1.7 million
people. Shares of QNB are set to surge more than 50 percent if a
deal is concluded,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a note this
week, with the stock of the Doha-based bank potentially reaching
207 riyals.  The shares  rose as much as 1 percent today to 135.9 riyals,
before trimming gains to 135 riyals at 12:25 p.m. in Doha. NSGB
shares rose 1.7 percent in Cairo after surging 6.1 percent
yesterday.  Third-quarter profit at QNB, which missed out to OAO
Sberbank in its bid to buy  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s Turkish unit  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) ,
increased 11 percent on higher lending. Ten analysts recommend
investors buy the shares, while one has a hold rating, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  