-- Trade Gap Probably Widened in August on Higher Crude Oil Prices
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/trade-gap-probably-widened-in-august-on-higher-crude-oil-prices.html
The U.S.  trade  deficit probably
climbed in August on higher crude oil costs at the same time
slower global growth reduced demand for American exports,
economists said before a report today.  The gap widened to $44 billion during the month from $42
billion in July, according to the  median forecast  of 73
economists in a Bloomberg survey. More expensive oil pushed up
import prices in September, and claims for jobless benefits
rose, figures from the Labor Department may also show.  A stagnant Europe and slower growth in China and other
 emerging markets  may be starting to curtail demand for U.S.
products, a source of strength for the expansion in the second
quarter. At the same time, the pickup in the price of fuel may
push up the nation’s import bill and costs for American
companies.  “Exports grew weakly because of the spreading economic
weakness in Europe and  Japan  and slowing growth elsewhere in the
world,” said Steven Wood, chief economist at Insight Economics
LLC in Danville,  California . “Imports increased despite the
recent slowing in domestic demand because of higher energy
prices and volumes.”  The Commerce Department’s trade report is due at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
gaps of $47.5 billion to $41 billion.  Price increases for fuel from overseas probably pushed up
the value of imports. The active contract on Brent oil on the
London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange climbed to $114.57 at
the end of August, from $104.92 on July 31.  The pickup in oil costs extended into September, a Labor
Department report at 8:30 a.m. is projected to show. The  import
price index  climbed 0.7 percent for a second straight month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Import Prices  Excluding oil, the cost of goods and materials the U.S.
purchases from abroad may be restrained as cooling overseas
markets limit demand for commodities like metals. Even the
higher energy prices may be difficult for U.S. companies to pass
on to consumers as weak job growth puts pressure on sales.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
reports from the Labor Department. The producer price gauge is
due tomorrow, and the consumer-price index, the broadest of the
measures, will be released on Oct. 16. The figures are projected
to be consistent with Federal Reserve policy makers’ view that
inflation will remain subdued.  Another Labor Department report today may show first-time
claims for  jobless benefits  climbed to 370,000 last week from
367,000, economists predicted. The increase highlights uneven
improvement in the labor market. Last week, the agency said the
jobless rate fell to 7.8 percent, the lowest since January 2009,
while employers added 114,000 jobs.  The slackening world economy is weighing on sales at
companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , which cut its forecast for
2015 earnings after commodity producers reduced capital
spending. The world’s biggest construction and mining equipment
maker said profit will be $12 to $18 a share, compared with
previous projections of $15 to $20.  Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar is forecasting moderate
and “anemic” growth through 2015, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said Sept. 24 in a presentation to
analysts at a conference in Las Vegas. Construction in emerging
markets will probably show modest improvements, he said.  “We’ve seen a slowing in economic growth that was more
than we expected,” he said. “We think ’13 could look like 2012
in terms of worldwide economic growth.”  The International Monetary Fund on Oct. 9 cut forecasts for
global growth to 3.3 percent this year, the slowest since the
2009 recession, and said there are “alarmingly high” risks of
a steeper slowdown. The Washington-based lender projects the 17-
country euro area economy will contract 0.4 percent in 2012,
worse than its prior forecast, while the U.S. will expand 2.2
percent, faster than an earlier prediction.  “The U.S. itself is doing OK, not great, but we’re not
looking at a recession,” said Michael Gapen, a senior economist
at Barclays Plc in New York. “Europe is in a minor recession
and  China  is slowing. Exports are a challenge.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  