-- Rakuten Seeks Asia Growth as Japan Online Mall Chases Amazon
-- B y   M a t t   W i n k l e r ,   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   T e o   C h i a n   W e i
-- 2012-10-12T06:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/rakuten-to-expand-in-asia-as-japan-online-retailer-chases-amazon.html
Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s biggest
Internet retailer, plans to expand in India and  Australia  as the
outlook for slowing economic growth at home hurts demand at its
online shopping malls.  “We’re making very steady progress in terms of expanding
our global presence,” Chief Executive Officer Hiroshi Mikitani
said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. Rakuten aims to have 70
percent of sales transactions overseas by as early as 2020, said
Mikitani, 47, Japan’s third-richest man.  The retailer in the past three years  announced  more than
$1.6 billion worth of purchases such as stakes in social network
Pinterest and digital book seller Kobo Inc. as part of its
strategy to catch up with  Amazon.com. (AMZN)  Mikitani, whose company’s
revenue is about one-tenth that of his U.S. rival’s has a T-
shirt that reads: Beat Amazon.  The move to expand overseas has yet to contribute to
 earnings  in the aggregate, said Justin Weiss, a Tokyo-based
analyst at JI  Asia  who is ranked second in one-year performance
among 17 analysts tracking Rakuten. “It hasn’t disclosed
country-by-country numbers showing what progress has been made
to date and what it expects going forward,” said Weiss, who
 recommends  selling the company’s stock.  Mikitani, a Harvard Business School graduate who requires
employees to learn English, said he plans to expand to 27
countries and regions from the current 13.  Slow Growth  “We’re not that picky,” he said, when asked for details
on Rakuten’s expansion plans. “We will adjust our strategy
depending on the situation and maturity of the market.”  He’s also considering expanding into  Southeast Asia ,
Eastern Europe,  Latin America , the billionaire said.  Rakuten fell 0.8 percent to 757 yen in Tokyo trading. The
stock has dropped 8.6 percent this year,  compared  with a 1.4
percent decline for the broader Topix index.  The company isn’t just smaller than Amazon, it’s also
expanding at a slower pace. Rakuten’s annual  sales growth 
averaged 13 percent over the five years through 2011, less than
half the  rate  of Amazon’s 35 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  on Sept. 19 followed the government in
downgrading its assessment of the domestic economy, saying
growth has “come to a pause.” Morgan Stanley & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. expect the economy to contract in the two
quarters through December.  Market Share  In the past two years, Rakuten acquired online businesses
including U.K. music and game retailer Play Holdings Ltd., U.S.
retailer Buy.com Inc., French electronics seller PriceMinister
S.A. and  Brazil ’s Ikeda. It bought Canada-based Kobo this year
for $315 million.  The company’s flagship shopping portal,  Rakuten Ichiba ,
connects about 40,000 merchants to customers shopping for
products such as toys, electronics and pajamas. Its English-
language website also offers Japanese goods to overseas
customers.  The Japanese company had $10 billion in  cash and short-term
investments  as of June 30, about double the amount for Amazon,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rakuten is the world’s third-largest Internet retailer,
with a 3.5 percent market share after Amazon.com’s 12 percent
and Apple Inc.’s 3.9 percent, according to London-based research
company Euromonitor. EBay was excluded because of its different
consumer-to-consumer business model.  In Japan, Rakuten leads with a 29 percent share, ahead of
Amazon’s 15 percent, Apple’s 4.5 percent and Yahoo! Inc.’s 3.2
percent, according to Euromonitor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Winkler in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Teo Chian Wei in Tokyo at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  