-- Rand Gains Third Day as Labor Unrest Eases, Bond Inflows Resume
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-10-11T15:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/rand-gains-third-day-as-labor-unrest-eases-bond-inflows-resume.html
The rand appreciated for a third day
against the dollar amid signs labor unrest that shut gold and
platinum mines and spread to the  transportation industry  is
easing, boosting foreign investor demand for the nation’s bonds.  South Africa ’s currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 8.7054
a dollar as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 were unchanged at 6.79 percent after dropping 12
points yesterday.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Gold Fields Ltd. and Harmony Gold
Mining Co.,  Africa ’s largest producers of the metal, extended an
offer to raise the wages of their lowest-paid workers to give
unions more time to consider. Members of a labor union
representing 8,000 truckers who have been on strike for three
weeks said they’re considering a wage offer.  “You can argue that the tide is turning and that potential
for positive news flow has increased,” Theuns de Wet, head of
fixed-income research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. “We are cautiously
optimistic that these developments will ease foreign investor
concern about investing in the South Africa and set the scene
for a resumption of the trend for foreign flows into the
domestic  bond market .”  Growth Risks  Foreign investors were net buyers of 1.4 billion rand ($166
million) of South African bonds yesterday after selling 4.6
billion rand of debt in the previous three trading days,
according to JSE Ltd.  data .  The rand pared gains after manufacturing growth slowed in
August, limiting growth in Africa’s largest economy. Factory
production grew 3 percent, down from a revised 6.3 percent in
July, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said.  Slowing growth may prompt the central bank to lower
borrowing costs, reducing the rand’s yield advantage over the
dollar. South Africa’s benchmark central bank rate is 5 percent,
compared with 0.25 percent in the U.S.  “The risk to domestic economic growth remains on the
downside,” Nicky Weimar, an economist at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “The risk to the rate outlook
remains on the downside in the short-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  