-- Transport Shares Showing U.S. Slowdown Due for Surprise: Freight
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-10-11T14:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/transport-shares-showing-u-s-slowdown-due-for-surprise-freight.html
Investors have driven down
transportation stocks on concern a recession is looming in the
U.S. That may be an opportunity for those who see the industry
getting a fresh boost from holiday sales.  Landstar System Inc. (LSTR)  and  Old Dominion Freight Line Inc. (ODFL) 
were among companies making early announcements of results that
fell below forecasts after activity in the third quarter was
slower than anticipated. Carriers were working through a small
inventory glut, creating “sluggishness,” said John Larkin,
managing director in Baltimore at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  Still, there’s no indication the “economy is cratering,”
said Larkin, who has been covering or  involved  in transportation
since 1977. “The slowdown appears to have been more of a mid-
course correction, similar to others we have experienced since
the economic trough formed in early 2009.”  While volume since June has been consistent with a “very
slow-growth” expansion, more recently there’s been a “modest
pre-holiday peak” for transportation companies carrying imports
from the west coast, Larkin added. His favorite picks are  Swift
Transportation Co. (SWFT) ,  Ryder System Inc. (R) ,  Celadon Group Inc. (CGI)  and
 CSX Corp. (CSX)  These companies became more attractively valued after
the earnings announcements, he said.  U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to grow at a 1.8
percent annual rate in the third quarter and 1.9 percent in the
three months ending Dec. 31, based on the median estimates of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That suggests a rebound
from the second quarter’s 1.3 percent annual rate.  New Lows  The  iShares U.S. Dow Jones Transportation Average Index
Fund , an exchange-traded fund that includes  C.H. Robinson
Worldwide Inc. (CHRW)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , has fallen 4.1 percent since
June 18, compared with the SPDR Standard & Poor’s 500 ETF’s 7.3
percent rise. About three weeks ago, the transportation ETF fell
to a relative low last reached in April 2009 during the midst of
the 18-month recession that ended in June of that year.  The stock performance of transport carriers suggests
investors are bracing for a recession, which is “too
pessimistic against a modest-growth backdrop,” said Jack Ablin,
who helps oversee about $65 billion of assets as chief
investment officer at BMO Private Bank in  Chicago . The holiday
season tends to benefit carriers because they transport
merchandise to retailers, making these companies a “good
gauge” for anticipated spending, he said.  Retail sales  during November and December will rise 4.1
percent to $586.1 billion this year, higher than the 10-year
average of 3.5 percent, though less than last year’s 5.6 percent
gains, the National Retail Federation in  Washington  said in an
Oct. 2 statement.  Bright Spot  The advance in housing and the resurgence in automobile
sales is a bright spot for transportation carriers, Larkin said.
These industries have helped to maintain modest growth in
transportation volume because their supply chains require a lot
of freight, he said.  Carmakers sold cars and light trucks at an annualized rate
of 14.9 million in September, taking into account seasonal
adjustments, the best pace since March 2008, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Meanwhile, sales of new U.S. homes
held near a two-year high in August, at a 373,000 annual pace,
down from July’s revised rate of 374,000, based on Commerce
Department data.  The Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee said “the
somewhat faster pace of home sales and construction provided
some encouraging signs of improvement.” Autos and housing were
“notable areas of relative strength,” according to the minutes
of its September meeting released Oct. 4.  Better Christmas  Rallying stocks and incremental gains in  consumer
confidence  are providing “the underpinnings for a Christmas
selling season that will be better than last year,” Ablin said.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  is up about 14.6 percent this year, while
sentiment as measured by the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
has risen 8.9 points to minus 38.5 as of the week ended Oct. 7,
from 2012’s low of minus 47.4.  The early earnings announcements were “an amplification of
the overall sluggish economy,” said Larry Gross, a senior
consultant in Mahwah, New Jersey at FTR Associates.  Domestic intermodal shipments -- those sent by both truck
and rail -- are a good proxy for the Christmas season because
they are “more sensitive to the cyclicality of holiday
shipping,” Gross said. This segment of the industry now is
“operating in a pretty seasonal fashion,” he said.  An indicator of domestic volume, revenue movements of
intermodal equipment, has rebounded more recently, growing 8.9
percent from a year earlier in August, up from 6.7 percent in
July and 6.3 percent in June, Gross estimated, using data from
the  Intermodal Association of North America  in Calverton,
 Maryland .  ‘Pretty Decent’  Even so, the outlook for Christmas retail sales varies
among transport and retail executives. Phoenix-based Swift
Transportation is looking ahead to a “pretty decent holiday
season,” Chief Executive Officer Jerry Moyes said at a Sept. 11
conference hosted by RBC Capital Markets. Meanwhile, Union
Pacific’s customers “clearly are being cautious not to over
build inventory,” Robert Knight, chief financial officer for
the Omaha, Nebraska-based company, said at a Sept. 5 conference
hosted by Dahlman Rose & Co.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, had a
“very strong” back-to-school season that will continue into
the holiday period, executives from the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company said yesterday at an investor community meeting.  The looming so-called fiscal cliff and U.S. elections on
Nov. 6 also could temper consumers’ holiday spirits, Ablin said.
The U.S. faces higher taxes and reductions in spending on
government programs that will take effect at year-end unless
Congress acts.  No Great Start  If there are fewer shipments, then this also could
constrain the transport carriers’ ability to raise prices,
particularly in the spot market, Larkin said. September volume,
typically among the best of the year, was disappointing, while
October “doesn’t appear to be off to a great start,” he said.  Landstar, based in Jacksonville,  Florida  is scheduled to
report third-quarter earnings on Oct. 24, followed by
Thomasville, North Carolina-based Old Dominion the day after.
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  will release its holiday shipping
forecast for this year in late October. FedEx hasn’t given a
time frame for its projections.  There’s still “no indication that we’re entering a
contraction,” Gross said. In addition, October typically is the
busiest month for intermodal shipments and the highest yearly
increases in volume came late in 2011, so there’s still room for
further improvement, he said.  “So far it looks like the peak shipping season is
unfolding in a pretty normal fashion,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  