-- RBS Raises 787 Million Pounds in Direct Line Share Sale
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-11T15:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/rbs-raises-787-million-pounds-in-direct-line-s-initial-offering.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, raised 787 million
pounds ($1.3 billion) in an initial public offering of its
insurance unit forced by European Union regulators.  RBS sold 450 million shares in Direct Line Insurance Group
Plc, or about 30 percent of the insurer, for 175 pence each, the
Edinburgh-based lender said in a statement today. The stock rose
7.4 percent to 188 pence in London  trading .  RBS was required to sell the operation to comply with
European Union state aid rules after receiving a 45.5 billion-
pound government rescue in 2008, the biggest bank bailout in the
world. The lender must sell its remaining Direct Line stake by
the end of 2014.  “Although below what we believe the group expected to be
valued at at the start of this process, this is a reasonable
outcome,”  Eamonn Flanagan , a Liverpool, England-based analyst
at Shore Capital Group Ltd., wrote in a note to clients today.  The offering valued Direct Line at 2.63 billion pounds,
less than the 3.4 billion-pound valuation put on the unit last
month by Commerzbank AG, one of the banks managing the sale. The
IPO values Direct Line at 1.1 times its tangible book value of
2.3 billion pounds, according Oriel Securities Ltd. That’s less
than competitors such as RSA Insurance Group Plc, which trades
at about 1.6 times tangible book value.  Injury Claims  Investors (DLG)  including JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd. had
pressed for a discount because Direct Line focuses on the U.K.
motor market, which hasn’t generated an underwriting profit for
insurers in a decade because of surging personal-injury claims
exacerbated by no-win, no-fee lawyers.  Direct Line paid out 1.01 pounds in claims for every pound
it took in premiums in the six months ended June 30 and plans to
reduce this to 98 pence in 2013. The insurer, which has about
8.5 million mainly U.K. home and motor insurance customers,
returned to profit in 2011 and  earnings  rose 7 percent to 224.2
million pounds in the first half of this year.  The  Competition Commission , a U.K. antitrust regulator,
began a probe into the U.K. motor insurance market last month
after the  Office of Fair Trading  deemed it “dysfunctional.”  Direct Line’s valuation is “reasonable” given its
exposure to the U.K. motor insurance market, Shore’s Flanagan
said. The stock will have a dividend yield of about 7.6 percent,
he added.  Individual Investors  The lender also tried to boost demand by offering shares to
individual investors, who bought 15 percent of the stock on sale
and will own about 4.5 percent of the company, Direct Line Chief
Executive Officer Paul Geddes said on a conference call today.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are
managing the IPO as bookrunners, while  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are joint lead managers.
The banks may sell a further 67.5 million shares if they
exercise the over-allotment option in full.  The banks will receive as much as 2.6 percent of the money
raised in the sale in fees. Intermediaries selling the stock to
those investors will receive a further 0.4 percent fee, RBS
said.  Initial share sales in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa
have raised $6 billion this year, compared with $37 billion in
the same period last year as market volatility caused by
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis slowed the pace of stock sales,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Direct Line’s IPO is the
biggest in  London  since Genel Energy Plc raised 1.3 billion
pounds in June 2011, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 