-- Treasuries Hold Gains Before Trade Data, 30-Year Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-11T16:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/treasuries-hold-gains-before-trade-deficit-30-year-sale.html
Treasury 30-year bonds pared losses
before a $13 billion auction of the debt, underscoring the
infinite appeal of the world’s safest securities.  Yields had risen as global stocks climbed for the first
time this week and commodities rallied as investors sought
higher returns after U.S. jobless claims slid to a four-year low
and Italy’s bond yields fell after a debt sale.  “Buying continues to materialize on backups and stocks
have come off their highs,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at
Societe General in  New York , one of the 21 primary dealers that
are required to bid at government debt auctions. “There is
still a lot of uncertainty in the market domestically and
globally and that keeps a ceiling on yields.”  The 30-year bond yield was little changed at 2.88 percent
at 12:37 p.m. New York time, after rising to 2.93 percent. Ten-
year note yields added one basis point to 1.69 percent after
declining to 1.67 percent, the least since Oct. 5.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  added 0.4 percent, snapping
four days of losses.  “The key factor is the bond auction,” said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a
brokerage for institutional investors in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The 30-year bond scheduled for sale today yielded 2.88
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.896 percent at
the last offering, on Sept. 13. The record auction low of 2.58
percent was set in July. Investors bid for 2.68 times the amount
of the securities offered last month. Thirty-year yields have
averaged 3.96 percent in the past five years.  Economic Indicators  The U.S. sold $21 billion in 10-year debt yesterday and $32
billion in three-year notes the previous day at record demand.  Thirty-year  U.S. debt  has gained 2.5 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes,
underperforming the 3.9 percent gain in the 7-to-10 year
Treasury market. The securities returned 35.5 percent in 2011,
more than double the 15 percent gain by middle-term Treasuries.  There are some signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy , as
President  Barack Obama  and challenger  Mitt Romney  prepare to
face off in the Nov. 6 election.  Applications for jobless benefits dropped 30,000 to 339,000
in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest since February 2008, Labor
Department figures showed today. The median forecast of 49
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a rise in initial
jobless claims to 370,000 from 367,000 the previous week.  The jobless number “raises the important question of the
new seasonal tendency for claims to decline in the fourth
quarter,” said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “Even if this gets worked out
to everyone’s satisfaction, this is going to be a theme that the
market is going to have to deal with.”  ‘European Problems’  U.S.  unemployment  declined to 7.8 percent in September from
8.1 percent the month before, the Labor Department reported Oct.
5. Manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in September, an industry
report showed Oct. 1.  Treasuries advanced earlier as  Spain ’s credit rating was
lowered two levels to BBB-, one above junk, by  Standard &
Poor’s . The New York-based company cited mounting economic and
political risks as the government considers a second bailout, it
said in a statement yesterday.  “We’re trying to figure out whether Spain is going to take
a bailout or not, and whether there’s any possibility that that
stokes another round of European problems,” Tom Graff, who
manages $3.6 billion of fixed-income assets at Brown Advisory
Inc. in Baltimore. “I really think the answer is no. I think
Europe has gone way too far down the road of compromise to
backtrack now.”  Basel Rules  EU lawmakers and officials, facing a Jan. 1 international
deadline for incorporating the new Basel rules, held the latest
in a series of meetings today on how the bloc should implement
the measures, said three people familiar with the talks who
asked not to be identified because the negotiations are private.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8
billion) of its benchmark three-year bond to yield 2.86 percent,
more than the 2.75 percent at the last auction of the same
securities on Sept. 13. Investors bid for 1.67 times the amount
offered, up from 1.49 times last month, indicating investors are
still willing to invest in the country.  Italy ’s current three-year bond yield fell 12 basis points
to 2.88 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  