-- Recovery Fuels Profit Gain From Retail to Food: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-10-11T12:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/recovery-fuels-profit-gain-from-retail-to-food-corporate-brazil.html
Brazil ’s biggest companies are set
to report that third-quarter profit almost doubled after the
central bank cut  interest rates  and government stimulus fueled
an economic recovery.  The 63 companies in the benchmark Bovespa index are
forecast to post combined net income of 37.8 billion reais
($18.5 billion), according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be a gain of 79 percent from the second
quarter, when most companies on the gauge missed estimates.
 Localiza Rent a Car SA  will kick off Brazil’s earnings season on
Oct. 15, when the car-rental company is expected to post a
sevenfold increase in profit to 77.5 million reais, according to
the median of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies getting most of their revenue from the domestic
market, including consumer-goods maker  Hypermarcas SA (HYPE3)  and food
processor BRF  Brasil Foods  SA, are benefiting as central bankers
cut borrowing costs and President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration reduces taxes on payrolls and consumer goods.
Brazil’s unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped in August, while
the economic activity index, a proxy for gross domestic product,
increased more than forecast in July. Retail sales rose for the
third month in a row in August, climbing more than economists
expected, the national statistics agency said today.  “The economy is in the middle of a recovery process, and
the third-quarter earnings reports should be better than in the
second, that’s for sure,” Hamilton Moreira, an equity
strategist at Banco do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “That’s particularly true for companies that depend
more on domestic demand, such as retailers and homebuilders.”  Hypermarcas  Hypermarcas, which makes more than 190  products  as varied
as condoms and nail polish to the generic forms of Valium and
Claritin, is expected to post an 83.2 million real profit when
it reports earnings next month, the average of three estimates.
That compares with a loss of 29.9 million reais in the second
quarter and 190.5 million reais a year earlier. Shares of Sao
Paulo-based Hypermarcas rallied 90 percent this year before
today, the best gain on the  Bovespa (IBOV)  index.  Hypermarcas declined to comment on its third-quarter
earnings. Localiza didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Sao Paulo-based Brasil Foods, which gets almost 60 percent
of its revenue from the domestic market, is forecast to report a
20-fold gain in profit from the second quarter to 128 million
reais, according to the average estimate of three analysts.  Brazil’s central bank, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
yesterday cut the benchmark lending rate for the 10th straight
time in another attempt to shore up growth. In a split decision,
the bank’s eight-member board reduced the Selic rate by a
quarter point to 7.25 percent, as forecast by 35 of 73
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  JBS, AmBev  Meatpacker  JBS SA (JBSS3) , beverage maker Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas and retailer  Lojas Americanas SA (LAME4)  are also expected to
report improved results.  Investors will be paying close attention to third-quarter
reports amid continuing concern about global and Brazilian
economic growth, said Marc Sauerman, who helps oversee 650
million reais at J Malucelli Investimentos.  In the second quarter, Brazilian companies missed analysts’
revenue estimates by the most since 2009. Thirty-six of the 58
companies listed on the Bovespa index and tracked by Bloomberg
reported earnings that trailed forecasts  “A lot of companies disappointed in the second quarter --
there’s no guarantee it won’t happen again,” Sauerman said in a
telephone interview from Curitiba, Brazil. “The market will be
watching companies’ earnings reports to see if these numbers
really back up the idea that the economy is improving.”  Petrobras  State-run oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
biggest company by market value, had a loss of 1.35 billion
reais in the second quarter, its first quarterly loss since
1999, trailing the median estimate for a profit of 2.94 billion
reais in a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras is expected to have a 10.8
billion-real profit in the third quarter, the median of two
 estimates .  Profit at commodities and oil producers will probably take
longer to rebound because they suffer more as the world economy
slows, said Saulo Sabba, who helps manage 500 million reais as a
director at Banco Maxima SA.  Vale SA (VALE3)  is forecast to report net income of 4.29 billion
reais in the third quarter, a 19 percent drop from the previous
three months. Vale has declined 5.2 percent this year, compared
with a 3 percent increase for the Bovespa index.  While shares of raw-material producers will likely keep
 underperforming  the Bovespa in the short term, companies focused
on the domestic market may rebound following third-quarter
earnings results, Sabba said.  “Some of the companies that benefit the most from the
government’s stimulus, such as homebuilders, have underperformed
the Bovespa this year,” he said. “If the third quarter does
bring some improvement to their earnings, it could trigger a
rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  