-- Reluctant Democrat Carmona Imperils Safe Republican Seat
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-10-11T04:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/reluctant-democrat-carmona-imperils-safe-republican-seat.html
When former U.S. Surgeon General
Richard Carmona makes his pitch for his Senate candidacy to
 Arizona  voters, he does so as a veteran, lawman, doctor and
reluctant Democrat.  He talks about his childhood as a poor kid playing
stickball in Harlem. He mentions his service -- as an Army
special forces soldier in  Vietnam  during which he won two Purple
Hearts, as a deputy Pima County Sheriff on the U.S.-Mexico
border, and as the nation’s top medical doctor under President
 George W. Bush .  Then, he tells the crowd that he thinks both political
parties are on the wrong track.  “The people are saying they want better representation,”
Carmona told about 50 people at a morning town hall in a North
Phoenix community center Oct. 6, as he decried gridlock in
 Washington . “We have to re-establish civility in government. We
have to re-establish statesmanship and stop hyperpartisanship.”  Carmona, 62, has parlayed his  biography  and bipartisan
background into a competitive run against Representative Jeff Flake for the open U.S. Senate seat in Arizona being vacated by
retiring Republican  Jon Kyl . Carmona’s efforts have turned a
race deemed safe for Republicans into one that could imperil the
party’s chances of taking control of the chamber, which the
Democrats now control 53-47.  Latino Voters  Carmona, who is of Puerto Rican heritage, is benefiting
from the increase in Latino voters and activism in the state,
spurred by a backlash to immigration initiatives backed by
Republican Governor  Jan Brewer . She signed into law the nation’s
toughest anti-immigration measure in 2010 and recently
undermined a White House directive allowing some young
immigrants to stay in the country by blocking them from getting
state driver’s licenses.  Arizona’s Latino community also has been galvanized by
opposition to Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio. A vocal
proponent of cracking down on illegal immigration, Arpaio is
facing a federal civil rights lawsuit over treatment of Latinos
in local jails.  Democrats say the number of Latinos registered to vote has
surged 51 percent since 2008. In 2008, Latinos accounted for 16
percent of those who cast ballots, according to exit polls.  A  survey  last week of Latino registered voters in Arizona
by Latino Decisions, an advocacy group based in  Seattle ,
Washington, showed that 75 percent said they would vote for
Carmona, while 12 percent favored Flake and 13 percent were
undecided.  Critical Turnout  “If the Hispanics do go out in force more than they
normally do, then I think Carmona definitely has a chance to
win,” Bruce Merrill, senior research professor at the  Morrison
Institute for Public Policy  at  Arizona State University , said in
a phone interview. “What’s got to happen for Carmona to win is
he has to do better than Flake in the independent vote and get
Hispanics out. His message seems pretty focused on the
independents, and I think that’s pretty smart.”  Last week, outside political groups and both national
parties upped their investment in the race, as recent polls
showed a close race between Carmona and Flake even as Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  remains favored to win
Arizona in his bid for the White House.  Former President  Bill Clinton  led a rally in Tempe,
Arizona, last night for Carmona as early voting is set to begin
in the state today. A  poll last week  by Raleigh, North Carolina-
based Public Policy Polling showed Carmona leading Flake 45 to
43 percent, within the survey’s 4-percentage-point margin of
error.  Rated Toss-Up  “Democrats have been arguing all cycle this is a close
race, but it was a little hard to believe,” said  Jennifer Duffy , senior editor at the Washington-based non-partisan  Cook
Political Report , which moved its rating on the race from lean
Republican to toss-up on Oct. 4. “There was no real reason for
it to be so close. Now, it is game on.”  Republicans still have a six-point registration advantage
in Arizona and control every major statewide office, the
legislature, both U.S. Senate seats and five of the state’s
eight U.S. House seats. Flake, known in Washington for his
opposition to earmarks -- spending pushed by lawmakers on local
projects -- emerged as an early favorite.  Yet as Carmona built name recognition while unopposed in
the Democratic primary, Flake was forced to spend his campaign
funds and stress his conservative credentials to fend off a
challenge in the race for the Republican nomination. Mesa
businessman Wil Cardon spent millions of his own fortune to
attack Flake as too weak on immigration and other issues.  Campaign Money  Though Flake won the Aug. 28 contest with 69 percent of the
vote, the victory cost him: He had just $1.7 million of the $5.3
million he raised on hand as of Aug. 8 -- slightly less than
Carmona, who had raised a total of $2.9 million by that point,
according to Federal Election Commission records.  The primary didn’t allow Flake “to introduce himself to a
statewide ticket in a way that he probably wishes he could
have,” said Chuck Coughlin, president of Phoenix-based
Republican political consulting firm High Ground Public Affairs,
whose  recent poll  found Carmona trailing Flake by three points,
within the margin of error. “Jeff’s never run statewide before;
he’s run from a very safe district. And Mr. Carmona’s personal
narrative has already made him very competitive.”  In his talks to voters, Carmona portrays himself as a
political outsider who eschews partisanship -- a tactic aimed at
the one-third of Arizona voters who aren’t affiliated with
either major political party.  Bipartisan Recruitment  It’s a position that fits Carmona, who says he was
recruited by Kyl and Brewer to run for office as a Republican
while he was serving as surgeon general. Declining those
entreaties, he describes his decision to get into the Senate
race as going back on active duty -- a calling he said he
couldn’t ignore as conversations with friends seemed to revert
back to the broken political system.  Then, he had to pick a political party.  “I’ve known my whole life that I am not a perfect fit in
either party, because I am truly independent,” Carmona told
 Bloomberg News  during an interview between town halls this past
weekend. “I looked to see where Republicans are in my state on
issues like women’s health, access to health, immigration
issues. I couldn’t support what the state Republicans are
doing.”  The  Democratic Party  “was a better fit, but it wasn’t
perfect,” he said.  Obama Appeal  Carmona said he talked to Democrats across the country who
assured him the party would welcome his issues-oriented
political approach. He said he’d already made up his mind to run
when President  Barack Obama , who he’d met years earlier on  CNN ’s
Larry King Show, called to urge him to make the commitment.  The phone call has emerged as the prime attack in
Republican opposition to Carmona. Commercials from the Flake
campaign call Carmona “Obama’s man in Arizona,” and say if he
gets to Washington he’d be a “ rubber stamp ” for the president
and congressional Democrats. Every recent press release on the
race issued by the state Republican party makes the same charge.  Carmona rarely mentions Obama’s name, even as he talks
about being recruited for surgeon general by Bush -- a
relationship that turned rocky when Carmona accused the
administration of trying to “water down” a report on the
dangers of second-hand smoke, according to his testimony in July
2007 before a congressional panel.  Health Care  In a  recent television ad , Carmona says both parties are
wrong on  health care . He repeated the line at the North Phoenix
town hall, before delving into an explanation on the need for
better preventative care and for Americans to take
responsibility for their own wellness to reduce medical costs.  He seeks similar middle ground on taxes, immigration and
 energy policy , and he told one audience member he refuses to
consider hypothetical legislation. It’s a tactic that wins over
some voters, while concerning others seeking specific policy
positions.  “I don’t talk in sound-bites,” Carmona said after the
town hall. “I do stand for something, but what I do stand for
is not the extremist rhetoric that has brought us to near
catastrophic consequences. I don’t think anybody wants that. I
am a reasonable person, and I am looking for solutions.”  That’s exactly the message that Democrat Janice Brunson, 72
of Scottsdale, says she thinks is needed to win the state.  Reasonable Manner  “He seems to know his issues and he speaks so reasonably
about them and in a manner that is not offensive to hardly
anybody,” Brunson said after the event.  That balance bothers Doug Smithe, a 49-year-old independent
likely to support Romney for president -- just the kind of voter
Carmona needs to convince to cross the partisan line.  The town hall was the second Carmona event Smithe went to
as he’s trying to make up his mind. During the forum, he asked
Carmona his position on coal-fired  power plants  in Northern
Arizona. The candidate responded that he wanted a national
energy policy established first. Afterward, Smithe tried to
press Carmona about corporate responsibility for the obesity
epidemic, and said Carmona answered him with a rhetorical
question.  “Dr. Carmona has a very impressive biography -- this is a
guy that is used to getting things done,” said Smithe, who
added that he planned on making his final decision after
watching debates between the candidates, the first of which was
last night. “What I can’t get my head around is that he isn’t
standing up and telling us exactly what the country needs to do
from a policy standpoint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  