-- Republicans Challenge State Department Over Libya Attack
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-10-11T13:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/republicans-challenge-state-department-on-libya-consulate-attack.html
Republicans on a U.S. House panel
confronted State Department officials over the attack on the
U.S. consulate in Benghazi,  Libya , saying they failed to provide
enough security beforehand and then joined in blaming the
incident on an anti-Islam Internet video.  At a politically charged hearing four weeks before the Nov.
6 elections, State Department officials defended their actions
yesterday before the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. They said they relied on the best intelligence they
had, provided adequate security and couldn’t have anticipated
the Sept. 11 assault by armed intruders that killed U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans.  “We regularly assess risk and resource allocation, a
process involving the considered judgments of experienced
professionals on the ground and in  Washington , using the best
available information,”  Patrick Kennedy , undersecretary of
state for management, testified. “The assault that occurred on
the evening of September 11, however, was an unprecedented
assault by dozens of heavily armed men.”  Republicans said President  Barack Obama ’s administration
downplayed terrorist warnings and incidents in Libya and
rebuffed requests from security officers on the scene to
maintain elevated levels of U.S. security agents in a country
gripped by violence since the defeat of longtime dictator
Muammar Qadaffi.  “The security experts who actually had been to Libya
didn’t get the resources they asked for,” said Representative
 Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican.  ‘This Thing Smells’  Republicans also grilled the officials through a four-hour
hearing about why the administration stood by a claim for days
after the attack that the incident grew out of a protest over
the video ridiculing the  Prophet Muhammad , rather than being a
terrorist assault.  Kennedy told the committee that officials needed time to
sort out conflicting reports in the chaotic days following the
attack. “There were reports coming out saying there were
protests” over the video, Kennedy said. “I will not go any
further than that.”  State Department officials made clear they knew the attack
was large, well-organized and violent -- complete with grenades
and mortars -- almost as soon as it began.  “Under that kind of lethality, we’re never going to have
enough guns,” Kennedy said. “We’re a diplomatic service. We
are not an armed camp.”  Security Requests  Lawmakers and State Department officials debated whether
requests for additional security were denied.  “It was abundantly clear we were not going to get
resources until the aftermath of an incident,” said Eric
Nordstrom, who served as a regional security officer in Tripoli
until July. Nordstrom said he was turned down when he requested
that a 16-member security support team that was scheduled to
leave Libya in August be extended.  Describing his frustration with officials at the State
Department in Washington, he said he told a regional security
director, “The Taliban is on the inside of the building.”  Utah National Guard Lieutenant Colonel  Andrew Wood , a
former military security officer in Libya, echoed Nordstrom’s
view that requests for security weren’t met.  “We were fighting a losing battle,” Wood said. “We
couldn’t even keep what we had.”  Training Libyans  Charlene Lamb , the deputy assistant secretary for
international programs in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security who
evaluated Nordstrom’s request, said the special team was
stationed in Tripoli, not Benghazi, and that other diplomatic
security agents were available to do the job along with Libyans
who had been trained to take over.  “We were training local Libyans and army men” to help
protect American facilities in Libya, Lamb said, a policy she
said is applied worldwide. Issa replied that turnover among the
trainees was as great as 30 percent.  Republicans didn’t further pursue the State Department’s
decision to hire members of a local militia, the Feb. 17
Brigade, to help provide security in Benghazi.  One question the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and a
State Department-sponsored independent inquiry will look into is
whether any of the militiamen the U.S. trained may have helped
plan or carry out the attack or had ties to extremist groups,
according to an official with knowledge of the investigations
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  ‘Correct’ Assets  “We had the correct number of assets in Benghazi at the
time of 9/11,” Lamb said. If the security team based in Tripoli
had remained in the country on the night of the Benghazi attack,
Lamb said, “It would not have made any difference.”  Nordstrom acknowledged as much in prepared testimony that
was reviewed by the State Department. “Having an extra foot of
wall, or an extra half dozen guards or agents, would not have
enabled us to respond to that kind of assault,” he said.  Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , the Republican
chairman of the committee, said requests for additional security
weren’t taken seriously enough by State Department officials in
Washington who “seemed preoccupied with the concept of
normalization” in Libya after the rebellion that ousted
Qaddafi.  Democrats on the committee said Republicans were conducting
a partisan investigation, preventing them from interviewing Wood
in advance and obtaining documents.  “We should not be about the business of drawing
conclusions and then looking for the facts,” said
Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , the panel’s most
senior Democrat.  Republican Cuts  Democrats also said the Republican-led House was at fault
for cutting funding for embassy security by hundreds of millions
of dollars from the levels requested by Obama over the last two
fiscal years. Issa said Democrats supported the funding cuts.  State Department officials sought yesterday to defuse a
potential conflict within the administration over the initial
assessment, voiced by United Nations Ambassador  Susan Rice  and
others, that the Benghazi attack grew out of a spontaneous
protest over the anti-Islamic video.  At a briefing for reporters the night before the hearing, a
State Department official who declined to be identified said the
department never reached such a conclusion.  Rice’s Information  Yesterday, Kennedy said of Rice, “The information she had
at that point from the intelligence community is the same that I
had at that point. As time went on, additional information
became available.”  Elaborating on that briefing, Lamb testified that she
stayed in almost constant phone contact with the consulate as
the Benghazi attack unfolded through a danger-notification
system that was activated.  Intruders forced their way through the consulate compound’s
main gate and used  diesel fuel  to set fire to a barracks
building that housed Libyan security guards, she said.  One security agent guarded Stevens and Sean Smith, an
information-management officer, in a “safe haven” in one of
the buildings in the consulate compound. When attackers set that
building on fire and it filled with smoke, the agent escaped
through a window and returned repeatedly to try to find Stevens
and Smith without success.  Mortar Fire  After security reinforcements arrived, Smith was found dead
and the ambassador was still missing. Agents took heavy fire as
they rode to an annex building by armored car. After coming
under mortar fire at the annex, where two security agents were
killed, they evacuated to the airport.  During an interview that aired last night on ABC News,
Obama said his administration didn’t seek to cover up what
happened in Benghazi.  “As information came in, information was put out,” the
president said. “The information may not have always been right
the first time. And as soon as it turns out that we have a
fuller picture of what happened, then that was disclosed.”  Republicans leaders in the House said yesterday’s hearing
will be followed by other investigations. House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, issued a statement calling
the hearing “a portion of the oversight into the failures of
intelligence, security and commonsense that have embodied the
Obama administration’s handling of this tragedy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  