-- Reserve Management’s Bent Tells of Desperate Situation
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-11T23:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/reserve-management-s-bent-tells-of-throwing-things-at-th.html
Bruce R. Bent, chairman and
cofounder of the Reserve Funds, said he and others were willing
to “try anything” the day after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s bankruptcy caused a run on the $62.5 billion money-market
fund.  Bent testified on the second day of a trial in the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s case claiming he and his
son Bruce Bent II defrauded investors by misleading them about
the fund’s safety in the two days following Lehman’s failure.  Under questioning by SEC lawyer Nancy Brown, Bent said
today his firm was exploring a reverse repurchase transaction to
raise cash on Sept. 15, 2008, the day after Lehman filed for
 bankruptcy protection , in spite of a limitation against
borrowing more than 5 percent of the fund’s assets.  “We’re throwing it at the wall. We’re hoping something
sticks,” Bent told a jury of eight in  Manhattan  federal court.
“It’s a desperation situation. You try anything.”  The next day, Reserve became the first money market fund in
14 years to “break the buck,” meaning that the net asset value
of its shares fell below $1.  Opening Statement  In her opening statement, Brown told jurors that the Bents
lied on the morning after Lehman announced its bankruptcy,
falsely telling investors, regulators and the fund’s trustees
that they would use money from their firm, Reserve Management
Co., to support the $1 net asset value.  The SEC sued in 2009. The commission seeks disgorgement of
unspecified ill-gotten gains, a civil fine and an order barring
the defendants from violating the securities laws in the future.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the Bents and the company,
told jurors in his opening statement that his clients didn’t lie
or defraud investors. He blamed the Lehman bankruptcy and an
unprecedented freeze in the credit markets for Reserve’s
failure. The Bents believed they would be able to raise money to
maintain the $1 NAV and pay investors’ redemption requests, he
said.  “The whole world changed between Monday and Tuesday and
the SEC says, ‘You’re lying,’” Dellaportas said.  Three Weeks  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe told the jury he expects
the trial will take three weeks. Bent’s testimony will continue
tomorrow.  Among Gardephe’s pretrial rulings is one barring both sides
from introducing evidence of how much investors lost in the
fund’s collapse. The defendants had argued they should be
permitted to introduce evidence demonstrating that investors
recouped “most” of their investment after the fund’s collapse,
demonstrating that “this is not a Madoff situation.”  Earlier in the day, Peter Rizzo, a senior director at the
credit-rating company  Standard & Poor’s , testified as a witness
for the SEC. Rizzo said that Patrick Ledford, Reserve
Management’s former chief investment officer, spoke to him on a
recorded telephone call shortly after noon on Sept. 15, 2008.  “If our rating is yanked, then you know, that’s the kiss
of death for us,” Ledford said, according to Rizzo. Ledford
told Rizzo that the fund and the Bents “are going to look for
funds” to help shore up the fund, adding, “I think we’re going
to make it out OK, not great.”  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co., 09-cv-04346,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  