-- Romney Win to Help Banks, Hurt Clean Energy, Analyst Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-10-11T15:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/romney-win-to-help-banks-hurt-clean-energy-analyst-says.html
Financial and education stocks would
benefit if  Mitt Romney  wins the U.S. presidential election while
a second term for  Barack Obama  would boost companies focused on
clean energy, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Electing the Republican candidate would be a positive for
 banks  because regulatory reforms and supervision would be more
“balanced,” Credit Suisse analysts wrote in a note today.
 Education stocks  have dropped following an overhaul in federal
student financial aid and may fall further under Obama, whose
administration could pursue another round of initiatives that
hurt earnings, they said.  “While we do not expect a repeal of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, a more ‘balanced’
approach to bank supervision and future bank reforms are likely
to be viewed favorably,” a group of analysts led by Mark Flannery, wrote in a note today. “We think a Republican
administration would be a positive for bank stocks.”  With less than four weeks until the Nov. 6 election, the
race between Romney and Obama has tightened. Polls showed that
most voters said Romney won the Oct. 3 presidential debate,
helping him narrow the gap among likely voters in five swing
state polls, while a report last week showing the lowest
unemployment rate since Obama took office in January 2009 may
boost the Democrat president.  Financial stocks are up  24 percent  in 2012, the most among
10 main S&P 500 industries, while education stocks have plunged
45 percent.  Banks to Watch  Credit Suisse listed  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as stocks that are “well positioned”
if Romney wins, while saying an Obama victory would have a
neutral impact on shares of financial firms. Shares of  Apollo
Group Inc. (APOL) ,  Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI) ,  DeVry Inc. (DV)  and  Strayer
Education Inc. (STRA)  would be boosted from a victory by the Republican
candidate and hurt by the Democrat’s re-election.  Clean-technology companies such as  Codexis Inc. (CDXS) ,  Cree Inc. (CREE) ,
 Echelon Corp. (ELON) , EnerNOC Inc. and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  would do better
under Obama than Romney, the analysts said. An Obama victory
would also hurt managed health-care stocks and oil prices could
gain if Romney is elected, according to the note.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has gained 16 percent on average in election
years when a Republican wins and an equal amount when the
incumbent remains in the White House, according to today’s note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net  