-- Romney Narrows Gap With Obama in Swing State Polling
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-11T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/romney-narrows-gap-with-obama-in-swing-state-polling.html
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
narrowed the gap with President  Barack Obama  among likely voters
in several swing-state polls released today.  Obama had a six-percentage-point lead in Ohio and a five-
point lead in one Virginia poll, while another survey in
Virginia and those in Colorado,  Florida  and  Wisconsin  showed
three points or less separating the candidates. According to
strategists in both parties, these are among the states that --
because of their history of voting for either major political
party -- will decide who wins the White House on Nov. 6.  A CBS News/ New York  Times/Quinnipiac University poll put
Romney ahead in Colorado, 48 percent to 47 percent, a reversal
of Obama’s one-point lead last month. The president continued to
lead in  Virginia , 51 percent to 46 percent, up one point from
his 50 percent to 46 percent advantage in September, and in
Wisconsin, 50 percent to 47 percent, down from 51 percent to 45
percent the month before.  Romney was ahead in Virginia, 48 percent to 47 percent, in
an  NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist College survey , a
reversal of Obama’s 49 percent to 44 percent lead last month.
Obama held a one-point advantage in Florida, 48 percent to 47
percent, after being ahead by five points in September, and led,
51 percent to 45 percent, in Ohio after being ahead, 50 percent
to 43 percent, last month. No Republican has ever won the White
House without carrying Ohio.  Tightening Race  Taken together, the surveys show a tightening of the race
following the Oct. 3 presidential debate, which most voters said
Romney won. A national Pew Research Center poll of likely voters
taken Oct. 4-7 gave the former Massachusetts governor a 49
percent to 45 percent lead, a reversal of a September survey
that put Obama ahead by 51 percent to 43 percent, the widest
margin of any nominee since  Bill Clinton  in 1996. The two were
tied in Gallup’s daily tracking poll of likely voters.  “Before the first presidential debate, Romney was the
expected loser and overcame those low expectations to impress
the voting public,” said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of
the Quinnipiac polling institute in Hamden,  Connecticut .  The latest polls were released in advance of tonight’s
debate between Vice President  Joe Biden  and the Republicans’
vice presidential nominee,  Paul Ryan , a U.S. representative from
Wisconsin.  Hispanic Voters  Even as the presidential race tightened in some key
battlegrounds, a Pew Hispanic Center poll out today found
Hispanic voters firmly in Obama’s camp. Registered Hispanic
voters support the president over Romney, 69 percent to 21
percent. That’s larger than Obama’s share of the Hispanic vote
in 2008, when he received 67 percent to 31 percent for his
Republican opponent, Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona .  In addition, 61 percent of those surveyed said the
 Democratic Party  has more concern for Hispanics than do
Republicans, the highest level in 10 years of polling and up
from 45 percent in 2011. Ten percent said the  Republican Party 
shows more concern.  Romney has suggested that undocumented immigrants self-
deport and called for actions to make them feel less comfortable
in the U.S. He said during the campaign that he opposes any
efforts to give legal status to undocumented immigrants without
first requiring that they leave the country, calling such
proposals “amnesty.”  Administration Policy  Obama, meanwhile, announced in June that the administration
would no longer deport undocumented residents who were brought
to the U.S. as children, have lived in the country for at least
five years, have no criminal record, and are in school or have a
high school diploma or equivalent. The Pew survey found 86
percent of Hispanic registered voters supporting the policy.  The key for Obama will be getting Latinos to the polls. The
Pew survey found 77 percent saying they were “absolutely
certain” to vote, compared with 89 percent of registered voters
in the general population. The telephone survey of 903 Hispanic
registered voters was taken Sept. 7-Oct. 4 and had a margin of
error of plus or minus 4.6 percentage points.  The swing-state polls showed Romney’s favorable ratings
improving to the point where he was in positive territory in
every state except  Ohio . Other than in Colorado, where his
rating was 49 percent positive and 48 percent negative, Obama
received favorable ratings from at least 50 percent of likely
voters in all of the swing states surveyed. Romney did not cross
the 50 percent threshold in any state.  Handling the Economy  Romney has an edge on handling the economy in Colorado, 52
percent to 44 percent; in Florida, 48 percent to 45 percent; and
in Wisconsin, 49 percent to 47 percent. He leads, 48 percent to
45 percent, on the economy in Virginia in the NBC/Journal poll
and is tied with Obama at 48 percent in the CBS/Times survey.
Obama leads in Ohio on that question, 49 percent to 45 percent.  The polls also show Obama with a sizable lead among likely
female voters, while Romney led among men in all states except
Ohio, which was tied at 47 percent. Obama polled 51 percent of
likely female voters in  Colorado , 54 percent in Florida, 54
percent in Ohio, 54 percent and 56 percent in the two Virginia
surveys and 53 percent in Wisconsin.  Romney had the support of 52 percent of likely male voters
in Colorado, 54 percent in Florida, 55 percent and 52 percent in
the two Virginia polls, and 51 percent in Wisconsin.  The NBC/Journal/Marist telephone polls were taken Oct. 7-9
of 988 likely voters in Florida, 994 in Ohio and 981 in
Virginia, all with margins of error of plus or minus 3.1
percentage points. The CBS/Times/Quinnipiac telephone polls were
taken Oct. 4-9 of 1,254 likely voters in Colorado, 1,288 in
Virginia and 1,327 in Wisconsin, with margins of error of plus
or minus 2.8 percentage points in Colorado and 2.7 percentage
points in the other two states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  