-- Romney Plans 15 Navy Ships Built Yearly in First Term, Aide Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-11T18:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/romney-plans-15-navy-ships-built-yearly-in-first-term-aide-says.html
Mitt Romney ’s pledge to build 15
Navy vessels a year, up from about nine a year now planned, is a
goal that will probably be reached in his first term, a campaign
adviser said today.  The Navy’s plans now call for seven vessels in 2014, eight
in 2015, nine in 2016 and seven in 2017. That’s 31 vessels for a
planned expenditure of $53.3 billion. The plan also anticipates
11 vessels in 2018 and nine in 2019. Over 30 years, the Navy’s
ship purchases will average about 8.9 vessels a year, according
to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Romney, the Republican presidential nominee, said this week
during a foreign policy speech at  Virginia  Military Institute
that he’d “restore our Navy to the size needed to fulfill our
missions by building 15 ships per year.” He didn’t set out a
time frame.  In a Romney presidency, “you’ll be on the path” to 15
vessels per year by fiscal 2014 and “probably hit it, you know,
by ’15 or ’16,” Romney adviser  Dov Zakheim  said at a breakfast
meeting with reporters today in Washington.  “You can hit it in the first term, definitely in the first
term,” said Zakheim, who was the Pentagon’s comptroller in
President  George W. Bush ’s administration and an adviser in
previous Republican presidential campaigns.  Huntington, Raytheon  Companies that would benefit from ship spending increases
of this magnitude include vessel and electronic-warfare
contractors  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   Babcock & Wilcox
Co. (BWC)  is the major supplier for Navy nuclear propulsion programs
on the Virginia-class submarine that Romney wants to increase to
three a year from the planned two.  Romney gave his foreign policy speech in Virginia, a
closely contested state in the election, where Huntington
Ingalls has its largest shipbuilding operation and the Navy has
its largest base.  Zakheim and his son Roger Zakheim, who’s also a Romney
adviser, today reiterated Romney campaign themes on defense,
including improvements in purchasing and management for
shipbuilding.  Funds for more naval spending also would come from Romney’s
projection that his policies would bring more economic growth
and from reductions in domestic entitlement spending that could
sustain defense expenditures at 4 percent of U.S. Gross Domestic
Product, they said.  Littoral Combat Ship  Former Navy Secretary John Lehman and former Missouri
Senator and Representative James Talent are among the closest
Romney advisers who “really interact with him” on defense
issues, Dov Zakheim said.  Talent is a former chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee’s seapower panel, where he pushed for increased naval
spending. Lehman is best known for his advocacy in President
 Ronald Reagan ’s administration for a 600-ship fleet.  The added vessels wouldn’t include Littoral Combat Ships in
excess of the 55 already planned, Zakheim said. Lockheed Martin
is making one version;  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and General Dynamics Corp.
make the other version.  Those vessels are intended to patrol coastal water for
mine-sweeping, anti-submarine warfare and operations against
smaller vessels. They aren’t designed for high-intensity warfare
or providing protection for Navy aircraft carriers.  “You’ll still be building the LCS program, you’re not
getting rid of” it, Zakheim said. Still, “I wouldn’t call an
LCS equivalent to a major escort for a carrier.”  Wisconsin, Alabama  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland, is leading
construction of its ship model in Marinette Marine Corp.’s
shipyard in Marinette, Wisconsin, home state to Romney’s running
mate  Paul Ryan . The version by Austal, based in Henderson,
Australia, and General Dynamics, based in  Falls Church ,
Virginia, is being built in Mobile, Alabama.  Romney’s new spending would focus on buying the three
Virginia-class submarines annually and larger warships such as
destroyers and potentially new cruisers to escort aircraft
carrier groups, Zakheim said.  Reviving a cruiser program the Navy terminated “is being
discussed,” Zakheim said.  “There are going to be people who want more big-deck
cruisers, there are people who will say, ‘No, we want
destroyers,’ and he’s going to make up his mind,” Zakheim said
of Romney.  Increasing naval spending complements Romney’s approach to
diplomacy that calls for backing it with “a strong military
presence,” Zakheim said. “The best form to do that is by
having a Navy in Asia.”  What candidate Romney is “trying to do is diplomatically
convey strength, and the Navy is the best way to do that,”
Zakheim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  