-- Romney to Abandon China Stance If Elected, Greenberg Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-11T20:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/romney-to-abandon-china-stance-if-elected-greenberg-says.html
Mitt Romney , the Republican
candidate for president, will reverse his position on China if
elected, said Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the former chairman of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)   After the election “if Romney is successful, I think he
will change his mind,” Greenberg told Bloomberg Television’s
 Betty Liu  on the “In the Loop” program today.  Romney has said President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, has
been too lenient on trade issues with China. The Republican has
said he’d label China a currency manipulator on the first day of
his presidency. Greenberg, who now runs C.V. Starr & Co. and
invests in China, said such a designation could lead to
retaliation from the world’s second-largest economy.  “Do you want  China  to be an enemy or a friend?”
Greenberg, 87, asked. “We have a choice between a trade
agreement or a trade war. I choose a trade agreement and I hope
that we will.”  Liu asked Greenberg, a Romney supporter, why he thought the
former Massachusetts governor would change his position, and how
a reversal would be perceived.  “It’s common sense, and I think he has common sense,”
Greenberg said. “It’s not backtracking. He’ll have some
advisers around him that will put it straight.”  Obama’s Response  Greenberg is a director of the U.S.-China Business Council,
a nonprofit organization of companies doing business in the
country that favors the reduction of barriers to trade and
investment, according to its  website . He’s also a chairman
emeritus of the Asia Society, which fosters mutual understanding
and partnerships among people and leaders in the U.S. and Asia.  “Mr. Greenberg is not the only business leader in this
country to raise concerns about the impact that labeling China a
currency manipulator could have on our economy,”  Josh Earnest ,
a White House spokesman, told reporters on Air Force One, citing
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Greenberg said he agrees with Romney that Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke should be replaced when his term ends
in 2014. The executive said he’s opposed to a third round of
quantitative easing which may lead to a “burst of inflation.”  “I don’t see how you continue to print money and not pay
for it later on,” Greenberg said.  Romney has said he wouldn’t appoint Bernanke because he
wants a Fed chief who shares his economic views and would
promote monetary stability and a strong dollar. Republican
President George W. Bush appointed Bernanke, 58, to head the Fed
for a term starting in 2006, and Obama kept him on for a second
term beginning in 2010.  Asked about a possible replacement, Greenberg said
“somebody with experience in the real world, not just the
academic world, is what we need.” Bernanke previously worked as
a professor at Princeton University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Pak in New York at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  