-- Rothschild Mulls Bakrie Divorce as Bumi Venture Slumps 75%
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-10-12T03:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/rothschild-mulls-bakrie-divorce-after-bumi-venture-slumps-75-.html
Nathaniel Rothschild, whose ancestor
helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic  France , is
studying a $1.2 billion offer for the assets of  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  from
one of his co-founders of the Indonesian coal venture, after the
stock slumped about 75 percent in two years.  Indonesia’s Bakrie family, which sold a stake in the
country’s largest coal exporter into the original deal in 2010,
has offered to buy all of the venture’s assets to help resolve
“irreconcilable differences” with Rothschild and the other
founders, it said in an Oct. 10 letter to the independent
directors of London-based Bumi Plc.  Investors in the 2010 initial public offering of
Rothschild’s Vallar Plc, the precursor to Bumi, saw the drop in
the value of their holdings reach as much as 88 percent last
month after it announced an investigation into financial
“irregularities” at its Indonesian investments. The probe
marked the height of a dispute between Rothschild, 41, and
 Indonesia ’s prominent Bakrie family, which founded a palm oil-
to-property empire in 1942.  The proposals “could theoretically leave the company back
where it started as a cashed-up special-purpose acquisition
company, completely out of Indonesian coal and any influence
from the Bakries,” Barclays Plc analysts David Butler and Ian Rossouw said yesterday. “Crucially the proposal comes from the
Bakries,” the analysts said in a report titled “Bumi-Bakries
Divorce Proceedings Begin.”  Shares Gain  Bumi Plc, which counts Rothschild as a director, said it’s
studying the offer. The stock jumped by a record in London
yesterday, advancing 39 percent to 259 pence. That values the
company at 624 million pounds ($1 billion).  The proposal from the Bakrie Group would leave Bumi, which
holds 29 percent of Indonesia’s PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  as well as 85
percent of a second coal producer in the country, without any
mining assets.  The Bakrie Group has offered to swap its 23.8 percent stake
in London-listed Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources.
The Bakries also proposed to buy back the remaining 18.9 percent
in Bumi Resources by Christmas for about $278 million, or 680
rupiah a share.  It offered $947 million for Bumi Plc’s stake in Jakarta-
based PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk within six months. The offer is a
67 percent premium to Oct. 10 closing prices, Liberum Capital
Ltd.’s Richard Knights said yesterday.  Rothschild said in an e-mailed statement that Bumi Plc
would continue to face challenges even after an exit by the
Bakrie Group.  Board Friction  “As has been noted over the last 12 months, there have
been challenges in implementing appropriate standards of
corporate governance and these have been a source of friction
among the board members and shareholders,” Rothschild said.  “Even if the Bakries exit, one of the key concerns that I
share with other minority investors is that Bumi Plc would still
face a concentration of ownership by a small number of closely
related parties and such challenges would remain.”  Rothschild said he noted the announcement by the Bakrie
Group and said he would wait for the investigation a  London  law
firm is conducting on behalf of Bumi Plc’s independent directors
before commenting further.  Bumi Plc, founded as Vallar, raised 707 million pounds in
its initial public offering. The company sold shares in the IPO
at 1,000 pence apiece.  Stock Cancellation  The proposal also includes a demand that Rothschild return
“for cancellation” 16 million shares in Bumi Plc he received,
“given that these shares were awarded to the founders in return
for a transaction which is now being unwound,” according to the
letter from Long Haul Holdings Ltd., a unit of the Bakrie Group.  Those shares are equivalent to 6.6 percent of the company,
according to Barclays. Rothschild currently owns 10 percent of
Bumi Plc.  “This is an attractive, pragmatic and deliverable
solution,” according to the letter signed by director Omar
Luthfi Anwar. The offer is the result of “irreconcilable
differences between the original promoters of the company and
the current major shareholding groups.”  Bumi Resources gained 4.2 percent to 750 rupiah in Jakarta
trading at 10:44 a.m. local time. Berau Coal Energy jumped as
much as 20 percent to 240 rupiah, adding to yesterday’s 34
percent advance. The stock was up 13 percent at 225 rupiah at
10:55 a.m.  “The development appears positive and a likely all-round
win-win,”  Dileep Srivastava , a Bumi Resources director, said
yesterday by e-mail. “We are focused on operational excellence,
without distractions.”  Bumi Probe  The offer comes less than three weeks after London-traded
Bumi said it would start an independent investigation linked to
a $637 million writedown of development funds and exploration
assets in Bumi Resources’ December 2011 year-end financial
statement.  Relations between Rothschild and Bumi Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie began to sour last year after the financier made public a
letter to then-Chief Executive Officer Ari Hudaya urging a
“radical cleaning up” of Bumi Resources. He also sought a
timetable for the “repatriation of funds deposited with
connected parties.”  The Nov. 8 letter cited $394 million of business
development funds under non-current assets on the balance sheet
of Bumi Resources as at June 20, 2011.  Trading Discount  “The existence of these assets are well known to the
investment community and certain of these assets are invested
with connected parties,” wrote Rothschild, the son of financier
Jacob Rothschild. “This is one of the principal reasons why PT
Bumi Resources’ shares trade at a significant ‘corporate
governance’ discount to the broader Indonesian coal sector.”  PT Bakrie & Brothers, controlled by Aburizal Bakrie,
billionaire and brother of Indra Bakrie, sold half of their 47.6
percent stake in London-listed Bumi in November to help pay
$1.35 billion in debt owed to Credit Suisse Group AG. Aburizal
is the chairman of the Golkar Party of Indonesia. He’s also the
2014 presidential candidate for the nation’s second-biggest
political party, which was founded by former dictator Suharto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  