-- Rupiah Rebounds From Three-Year Low as Central Bank Holds Rate
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-11T09:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/rupiah-forwards-decline-to-a-one-month-low-before-rate-decision.html
Indonesia’s rupiah climbed from a
three-year low as the central bank refrained from reducing
 interest rates , maintaining the yield advantage on local assets.
 Government bonds  were steady.  The currency reversed earlier losses to rise the most in a
month as Bank Indonesia kept its  reference rate  at a record-low
5.75 percent for an eighth month. Bank of Korea cut borrowing
costs today, following reductions this month in Australia and
Brazil. Bank Indonesia held  $110 billion  in international
reserves in September, the highest level since May, giving it
scope to support the currency. Local 10-year bonds yield 5.90
percent, 4.21 percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries.  “The rupiah has room to rise as the reference rate remains
stable in an environment of declining interest rates, which may
make it more attractive to hold than dollars,” said Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank CIMB Niaga in Jakarta.
“ Bank Indonesia  remains in the market to ensure the rupiah’s
stability.”  The rupiah gained 0.6 percent to 9,583 per dollar as of
4:18 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg show. It touched 9,657 earlier, the lowest level since
October 2009. One-month implied volatility, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, held at 6 percent.  The central bank will guard the local currency from
becoming too volatile, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah told
reporters in Jakarta today.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds maturing in
May 2022 was little changed at 5.90 percent, the highest level
since Oct. 1, prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 