-- Russia Stocks Rise First Time in Four Days as Crude Oil Advances
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-11T16:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/russia-s-stocks-fall-fourth-day-on-spain-japan-machinery-orders.html
Russian stocks  rose for the first
time in four days as crude oil, the nation’s chief export
earner, advanced, bolstering investor confidence in the world’s
biggest energy exporter.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added less than 0.1 percent to 1,462.27 by
the close in Moscow. Power utility OAO MRSK Holding surged 4.5
percent. OAO Magnit,  Russia ’s biggest food retailer by market
value, increased 1.5 percent. Coalminer OAO Mechel rose 0.8
percent while VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
advanced 1 percent.  Oil gained as much as 1.9 percent to $92.94 a barrel in New
York after losing 1.2 percent yesterday, the lowest close since
Oct. 8. Russia received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year. Italy sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8
billion) of its benchmark three-year bonds at an auction today
after investors bid for 1.67 times the amount offered, up from
1.49 times last month.  “The oil price is helping Russia today,” Peter Westin,
chief equity strategist at Aton Capital in Moscow, said by
phone. “At the same time, we’re not seeing Russia outperform
other emerging markets in the region, which is disappointing.”  The  Istanbul Stock Exchange (XU100)  and  Hungary ’s  Budapest Stock (BUX) 
Index both climbed at least 1 percent today.  Stocks extended gains after fewer Americans than forecast
filed first-time applications for unemployment benefits. Labour
Department figures showed that claims for jobless benefits fell
to 339,000 last week, the fewest since February 2008.  Commodities Rally  Russian stocks fell as much as 0.5 percent earlier. S&P
lowered Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk, citing
increasing economic and political risks.  Japan ’s machinery
orders dropped more than economists forecast and  China ’s
passenger car sales unexpectedly shrank for the first time in
eight months.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
climbed as much as 1.5 percent.  Russian Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  gained
0.3 percent to 1,667.26.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, slid 0.9 percent
to $28.68 in New York yesterday.  Chemical holding OAO Poliplast plans to list 24 percent of
its shares on the Moscow Exchange, Vedomosti reported today,
citing two people close to the deal.  Megafon, X5  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s second-largest wireless carrier by
customers, sought to reassure investors a day after making an
initial public offering filing that revealed  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  would no longer be on the share sale.  “Corporate governance is very important to  MegaFon ,”
MegaFon spokesman Petr Lidov said by e-mail yesterday. “We
decided to launch the IPO on October 9 and we are working with
banks that were ready to go ahead with us on that date.”  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE)  erased an earlier gain and tumbled as
much as 3 percent to $19.50 in  London  after Russian billionaire
Mikhail Fridman’s retailer cut its 2012 sales growth forecast.  Revenue may grow 7 percent to 9 percent in ruble terms this
year, compared with a previous forecast of 15 percent, Chief
Financial Officer Kieran Balfe said on a conference call today.
“We see negative stock triggers ahead,” Renaissance Capital
analysts led by Natasha Zagvozdina wrote in an e-mailed report
today.  Shares earlier rallied after the company said net sales for
the third quarter climbed to 115.9 billion rubles ($3.7
billion), compared with 105 billion rubles a year earlier. The
volume of shares traded was about 49 percent of the stock’s 3-
month daily average, according to Bloomberg data.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 4.3 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added
8.8 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  