-- Sauber Appoints Formula One’s Only Female Team Principal
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-11T12:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/sauber-appoints-monisha-kaltenborn-as-formula-one-team-principal.html
Monisha Kaltenborn was appointed
principal of the Sauber Formula One team, becoming the only
woman team manager in the auto racing series.  Kaltenborn, 41, an Austrian citizen of Indian origin, takes
over from team founder Peter Sauber with immediate effect, the
Hinwil, Switzerland-based team said today in a statement. She
will also continue as chief executive officer of Sauber
Motorsport AG, the statement added.  Sauber, who turns 69 on Oct. 13, will continue as president
of the board of all Sauber group companies and retains
responsibility for strategic direction, according to the
statement.  “We decided a long time ago that Monisha would take over
from me, but we left the timing open,” Sauber said in the
statement. “Now is a good time for both of us, so this is the
right moment to pass on the baton.”  The team, which made its Formula One debut in 1993, has had
four podium finishes through 15 races this season, including
third place for Japanese driver Kamui Kobayashi at his home
Suzuka circuit four days ago. The Korean Grand Prix, the 16th of
20 events, is scheduled in three days.  Kaltenborn is a trailblazer for women in Formula One, Maria
de Villota, who was a test driver for the Marussia team before
losing an eye in a July 3 accident. A woman hasn’t raced in
Formula One since 1992.  “I send her a lot of support,” De Villota told a news
conference in  Madrid  today. “Women need someone to look up to
in motor sports.”  Villota, 32, was making her first public appearance since
the crash near Cambridge,  England . She said she plans to return
to the racetrack as a driving coach in Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net . 