-- Scene in D.C.: Ayenda’s Girls, Alzheimer’s Cure, Fiorina
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-11T15:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/scee-in-d-c-ayenda-s-girls-alzheimer-s-cure-fiorina.html
The tables were named after Afghan
provinces and the host welcomed his guests in Farsi.  A dinner at British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott ’s residence
last night supported the  Ayenda Foundation , which operates
learning centers where more than half the students are Afghan
girls from impoverished areas.  The occasion came a day after a 14-year-old girl on her way
home from school in Pakistan was shot in the head by Taliban
militants for protesting the group’s efforts to limit education
for girls. She survived.  Started in 2006 by Shamim Jawad, the wife of former Afghan
Ambassador Said Jawad, Ayenda means “future” in Farsi.  Guests ate miso-soaked halibut and caramel souffle on
Minton China with the royal crest. Tables were set in the
residence’s main parlor, overseen by  Andy Warhol ’s famous
painting of  Queen Elizabeth .  Guests included Dutch Ambassador Rudolf Bekink and Stuart
Holliday, chief executive officer of Meridian International
Center.  The dinner’s 100 guests, who left with gift bags from
Cartier, helped raise $100,000 for Ayenda.  Acting Skills  At the Phillips Collection last night, the  Aspen
Institute ’s Dan Glickman brushed up on his acting skills as one
of four readers of act one of “Surviving Grace.”  “I play an aging, balding, Jewish dentist,” said Glickman
about his character. “I know three of those categories.”  The play was written by Trish Vradenburg, a screenwriter
and wife of former AOL executive George Vradenburg, about her
mother’s struggle with Alzheimer’s.  The other readers were radio host Diane Rehm, actress
Marilu Henner, and ABC correspondent Terry Moran.  The reading and cocktail reception raised more than
$100,000 for USAgainstAlzheimer’s, an organization started by
Trish Vradenburg to end Alzheimer’s by 2020.  Breast Cancer  Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , says cancer taught her about leadership.  It is “about making something better for someone else. I
used to think it was about titles, and how big your office is,
and how big your budget is.”  The breast-cancer survivor, in Gucci pumps and pearls, was
the honorary chairman and keynote speaker at yesterday’s La Vie
En Rose luncheon, hosted by the George Washington University
Medical Faculty Associates Women’s Health Board.  The event raised $275,000 to benefit the board’s Mobile
Mammography Program, which operates a Mammovan that screens
2,300 women in the Washington area each year. It was parked
outside the French Embassy, awash in pink, the color of breast-
cancer awareness.  Many of the male guests, like James Sherrick, senior vice
president in the commercial division of  BB&T Corp. (BBT) , wore pink
ties.  Guests sipped pink champagne on the patio before sitting
for a lunch of pink-glazed salmon.  Sarah Bovim, corporate director of federal government
relations for  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , gave away 40 KitchenAid Inc. pink
mixers to top donors.  Other guests included Barry Wolfman, the CEO of George
Washington University Hospital, and the president of the
university, Steven Knapp.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on autos,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 