-- Schaeuble Clashes With IMF, Rejects Government Writeoffs
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-10-11T08:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/schaeuble-clashes-with-imf-rejects-government-writeoffs.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said European governments can’t accept losses on Greek
debt holdings, clashing with the International Monetary Fund.  “At the International Monetary Fund, there are indeed
considerations that if the total Greek debt was reduced by means
of a haircut borne by public creditors, the gap would be easier
to close” in terms of  Greece ’s debt sustainability, Schaeuble
said in  Tokyo  today before a meeting of finance chiefs.  Almost all European member states have rules stipulating
that guarantees can’t be extended without some assurance that
the loan will be repaid, Schaeuble said. If an official sector
involvement, dubbed OSI, was carried out, “the preconditions
for further guarantees or payments would be destroyed,” he
said.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde has suggested that
Greece may need another debt cut, saying on Sept. 24 that the
country at the source of  Europe ’s financial crisis faces a
financing gap that won’t be solved by budget measures alone.
European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said
last month that Greece may need more aid.  International lenders have so far pledged funds totaling
240 billion euros ($309 billion) to Greece, which also had 100
billion euros of debt written off by private-sector investors
this year in the biggest restructuring in history.  Troika in Athens  Inspectors from the troika, which comprises the European
Commission, the IMF and the ECB, returned to  Athens  at the end
of last month to continue to assess whether Greece is meeting
the terms of its bailout and can receive the next installment.  In a March report on Greece, IMF economists said the
country may need more aid from Europe or further debt
restructuring if the current loan program went off track.  Rainer Bruederle, a former German economy minister who is
now parliamentary caucus leader of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Free Democratic coalition partner, said that public creditors
may forgo repayment of some Greek debt, Die Welt newspaper
cited him as saying in an article published today.  Time has come for European creditor governments to think
about the costs and benefits of OSI for Greece, Pimco’s Mohamed El-Erian said Sept. 28 in a commentary in the Financial Times.
The longer governments wait, the greater the likelihood of an
unplanned, badly managed debt reduction, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  