-- Senators Contradict Oil Industry’s Challenge of SEC Rules
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-10-11T19:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/senators-contradict-oil-industry-s-challenge-of-sec-rules.html
Two U.S. senators who wrote the
provision in the Dodd-Frank law requiring oil and gas companies
to report payments to foreign governments defended it against a
lawsuit that said regulators went beyond what Congress intended.  The  American Petroleum Institute , whose members include
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , and other business groups
sued in federal court yesterday, saying the regulation based on
the law “grossly misinterpreted” the lawmakers’ directive by
requiring each company to report publicly payments made to a
foreign government.  “The U.S. economy and our values substantially benefit
when our companies are working in oil, gas, and mineral rich
states,” Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican who wrote
the provision with Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, said
today in a  statement . “The benefits will not be realized if
investments serve to entrench authoritarianism, corruption and
instability. With oil prices high and volatile, our economy
needs more transparent markets, not less.”  Cardin disputed the argument by API and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce that the rule, written by the Securities and Exchange
Commission to implement the 2010 overhaul of financial markets,
places U.S. companies at a competitive disadvantage.  “Congress and the SEC carefully crafted a reasonable and
very manageable reporting requirement that will bring greater
transparency to oil, gas and mineral sector,” Cardin said.  The SEC approved a rule in August requiring public
companies to disclose payments of more than $100,000 to foreign
governments relating to the development of oil, gas or minerals.  “We’ve been working hard to increase transparency for a
decade, but this rule could interfere with ongoing efforts by
making U.S. firms less competitive against state-owned firms in
China and Russia that have no interest in transparency,” API
President  Jack Gerard  said in a statement yesterday.  The business groups say companies should be able to report
payments to the SEC confidentially. The regulator would then
release aggregate figures to the public. The groups also argue
the SEC didn’t adequately consider the rule’s effects on
competition.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 12-cv-01668, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  