-- Severe U.S. Income Inequality Inspires Have-Nots: Josh Tyrangiel
-- B y   J o s h   T y r a n g i e l
-- 2012-10-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/severe-u-s-income-inequality-inspires-have-nots-josh-tyrangiel.html
If there’s a lesson from  Occupy Wall
Street , it’s that anger, tents, and drumming are no threat to
the global financial system.  Which is not to say that the Occupiers missed their mark.
They wielded a brilliant array of indicators and statistics,
held aloft for the world’s cameras and honed to inflict maximum
damage to American self-esteem. For instance: “The U.S. has
greater income inequality than  Russia ,  China , and Cameroon.” In
a dozen words the whole premise of American exceptionalism --
that only here, under liberty, do fortunes rise and fall on
merit -- gets body-slammed. It’s a picket sign that leaves
bruises. It also happens to be true.  The  Gini index , devised by Italian statistician Corrado
Gini in 1912, measures  income distribution  on a scale of 0 to 1.
Zero is a perfectly shared pie; one is a population in which a
greedy actor hoards it all. In 2011, the U.S. Gini stood at
0.475, a 1.3 percent rise over the previous year and the first
significant annual increase since 1993. The 1.2 million
households that make up the top 1 percent of wealth saw their
 earnings  increase by 5.5 percent last year, according to the
U.S. Census Bureau. In the 96 million households that made less
than $101,583, roughly 80 percent of Americans, earnings dropped
1.7 percent. It has not been an equal-opportunity recovery.  Motivates People  Shift the light, however, and even severe income inequality
has its virtues. If wealth at the top motivates people at the
bottom, the gap is less relevant. If the state refuses to let
citizens slip from lower class to underclass, it assures a level
of dignity. And if the journey from  poverty  to prosperity is an
open road, free of prejudice and corruption, then no one can say
that class is fate. Which is why the focus on  income inequality 
is a little misguided. It’s opportunity we need to watch.  Unlike income, opportunity is a synthesis of disparate
things, only some of which are concrete: access to the polls and
public schools; reliable social services; stable markets;
penalties for those who would cheat to get ahead.  Over the past four years the federal government has been
more aggressive in defending opportunity. The Affordable Care
Act promises that, eventually, no one will lose their savings
when they lose their health.  Pell Grants  for college remain
funded, with bumps for inflation, despite serious congressional
threats. And while dropout rates still track inversely to
income, thousands of students remain enrolled in public colleges
only because the feds picked up the slack when state schools
raised fees and cut their budgets.  Obama, Blankfein  Opportunity feeds on symbols, too, and America has never
stopped manufacturing those.  Barack Obama  is one symbol of the
possibilities in American life.  Lloyd Blankfein  is another. To
the Occupy signmakers, Blankfein’s scowl and pay package offered
proof of the financial industry’s disdain for the little guy.
But symbols, like statistics, change with perspective.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s chief executive officer was born in the Bronx
to a postal clerk father and a receptionist mother. He grew up
in public housing and earned his first pennies as a 13-year-old
vendor at the old Yankee Stadium.  “Three cents per soda,’” Blankfein recalls. Not
surprisingly, Blankfein, 58, says that America is still the land
of opportunity. “C’mon, where are you going to go?” he asks.
“Is there a block in Copenhagen that I haven’t heard about?
We’re noisy and crazy and provide great theater to the world,
but we’re actually pretty stable in our extremes.”  Top Universities  The key word is extremes. Almost all top universities in
the U.S. are need-blind, ensuring that the brilliant poor will
be catapulted into a world of new possibilities, even as average
low-income students fight to cover community college costs. A
new drycleaner may struggle to get a  small-business  loan, but
innovators at the front end of the bell curve can call on
venture capitalists regardless of their age and qualifications.  Asks Blankfein: “Where else could you have a guy like
Zuckerberg, where in his dorm room he can find people to give
him money, and go out into  capital markets  and get a first,
second, and third funding? Where else in the world does that
exist? And when else in the  United States  did that exist?”  These extreme American incentives attract the hungriest
people from all over the world. They always have. And it’s not
always going to feel fair. A new Yankee Stadium opened in 2009,
this one with a concrete moat separating the top-price ticket
holders in the first nine rows from anyone who might try to
sneak up for a better view.  “I don’t remember being too successful at sneaking down to
the first row in the olden days either,” says Blankfein. “Not
that I didn’t try.”  To contact the reporter and editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  