-- Sex, Death, Creepy Desire; Foote Family Spinsters: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-10-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/sex-death-creepy-desire-foote-family-spinsters-review.html
The set for “Harper Regan,” at the
 Atlantic Theater ’s off-Broadway mainstage in Chelsea, is a wall
of gray slabs that pop up or down to reveal a dining area or
hotel room.  Sterile and somewhat distancing, it serves as a good
metaphor for Simon Stephens’s sexless play about the search for,
and the limits of, desire.  The title character, played with maddening restraint by
Mary McCann, is a middle-aged wife, mother and family provider
who risks losing her suffocating job when she decides to visit
her dying father.  She has two out of town encounters. The first is with a
drunken lout who spews anti-Semitic venom before Harper cuts off
their boozy flirtation. The other is with a married Craig’s List
pickup who has the virtues of patience, tenderness and a
willingness to have sex on a hotel room floor.  Staged by Gaye Taylor Upchurch, “Harper Regan” promises a
lot more than it delivers, putting it squarely in the tradition
of Stephens’s “Bluebird,” seen at the Atlantic in 2011. Though
Harper is onstage for all of the play’s two hours, I didn’t come
away knowing much more about her, let alone feeling connected,
than I did at the start.  There are two standout performances, from Jordan Lage, as
the creepiest boss you’d ever imagine and, despite a voice that
could shatter glass, Madeleine Martin as Harper’s teenage
daughter Sarah.  Through Oct. 28 at 336 W. 20th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com .
Rating: **1/2  About ‘Him’  Although it has moved from East Texas to rural  New
Hampshire , the Foote family business carries on with “Him,” a
compelling new play about siblings confronting history and
destiny in the long shadow of a departed parent.  The business is drama -- indeed theater itself. “Him” is
by Daisy Foote, the playwright daughter of Horton Foote, who
died in 2009 after a lifetime of writing about the Texas
generations of Vaughn and Robedaux families modeled on his own
parents.  And it vibrates with life thanks to a defining performance
by Hallie Foote, muse to both her father and her sister.  Human Weakness  With “Him,” Daisy offers a vision of human weakness
that’s somewhat tougher, if no less empathic, than her father’s.  The play, receiving its world premiere at off-Broadway’s
 Primary Stages , opens with grown siblings Pauline (Hallie Foote)
and Henry (Tim Hopper) stumbling woozily into the shabby and
barely genteel house they share with their mentally challenged
brother Farley and their unseen, dying father.  It’s 2003. Pauline and Henry are struggling to keep the
family dry-goods store going in an era of supersize Stop & Shops
and increasingly demanding customers.  They’re both spinsters, Henry moodily pining for a married
man he fantasizes has eyes for him; Pauline, embittered,
impoverished and yearning for the child that might have come had
she not aborted an early pregnancy.  It isn’t until after the death of the title character and
the revelation of an unexpected inheritance, that a rift
develops between Pauline and Henry.  Mild Shocks  There’s a too-neat secondary plot involving Farley and his
similarly afflicted girlfriend Louise (they are sensitively, if
discomfitingly, played by Adam LeFevre and Adina Verson). The
two threads eventually are interwoven in a denouement that
startles with the low-voltage shock that is another Foote family
trademark.  There is, however, nothing low voltage about Hallie Foote’s
performance, in an acutely realized production under Evan
Yionoulis’s direction. She finesses the broadest range of
emotions with such economy of movement -- a piercing look, a
raised eyebrow -- that character registers as a slow burn until
we’re engulfed in its heat. The Foote family business thrives.  Through Oct. 28 at Primary Stages, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com 
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 