-- Siemens Sketches Savings Efforts as Job Cuts Said to Reach 8,000
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-10-11T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/siemens-said-to-identify-8-000-job-cuts-as-ceo-drives-efficiency.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  outlined an efficiency
plan focused on cost cuts and weeding out laggard businesses, as
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  seeks to turn around the
engineering company after goals for this year slipped.  The program will review Siemens’s marketing approach,
simplify processes, eliminate redundant functions and examine
units not meeting profit expectations, the Munich-based company
said today. The plan will run for two years, and Loescher will
provide an update next month when Siemens reports earnings.  “We expect to see one of the best operational results in
our company’s history,” in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30,
Loescher said in an interview to be published in the company’s
employee magazine. “Despite this, we aren’t satisfied since we
didn’t reach our goal of being better than the market and
competitors. So we drew our conclusions.”  While Loescher said redundancies are not the main focus,
Siemens has identified about 8,000 potential cuts globally, and
the number that may reach 10,000 by year-end, a person familiar
with the plan said. The reductions are the result of a global
effort by  regional managers  to comb through operations and find
overlaps in administration worldwide, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the plans are private.  Many of the layoffs may not be made public because they are
part of a sweeping push to streamline operations rather than
targeted reductions at specific operations, the person said.  Loescher is taking his message to about 600 top managers in
Berlin this week to kick off the next fiscal year. He was forced
to lower earnings targets in April, and in July said that new
goals are still a stretch, as orders for industrial gear waned
and projects charges mounted.  Trains, Turbines  Siemens, which makes high-speed trains, turbines and
medical gear, is already negotiating job losses at units
including transformers and gearboxes in response to slowing
economic growth. The company announced 615 job cuts at the U.S.
wind power business on Sept. 18, on top of 500 jobs at six
German factories making mechanical drives.  Transformer sites in  South America  and the  Middle East  have
also faced cutbacks, and Siemens is in the process of
eliminating as many as 1,600 jobs in health care, as well as
1,050 at the lighting unit, bringing total reductions announced
in the past year to about 5,000.  Loescher today said Siemens failed to reach financial goals
as defined by the company’s “One Siemens´´ target system in the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30, as the year proved more difficult
than expected. The plan aims for sales growth exceeding peers
including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  as well as
profitability targets for operating units.  Wind Slump  Siemens has gained 4.5 percent this year, lagging behind
the performance of peers such as Schneider Electric Co., which
is up 17 percent in Paris, and  Alstom SA (ALO) , which has advanced 16
percent. Royal Philips Electronics NV, which competes with
Siemens in areas such as lighting and medical equipment and is
also cutting jobs., has gained 15 percent this year.  The meeting of executives at the  Intercontinental Hotel (IHG)  in
Berlin seeks to align top management with company goals for the
new fiscal year and features workshops on the four main
businesses: energy, industry, health care and infrastructure.
Siemens had about 370,000 employees at businesses from
continuing operations as of June 30.  Loescher aims to slash costs after a bet on an economic
recovery in the second half proved wrong, depressing
profitability at the Munich-based company as higher operating
expenses and marketing costs were met by declining orders.  ‘‘We didn’t succeed in adjusting to this development fast
enough,´´ the employee magazine cites Loescher as saying. ‘‘Our
costs are too high and we must be faster to better respond to
changes.´´  The 55-year-old Austrian will on Nov. 8 present concrete
figures and milestones to lift profitability back toward 2011
levels. The effort may require cuts of as much as 4 billion
euros ($5.1 billion) in order to meet estimates for profit in
the next couple of years, Andreas Willi, an analyst at JPMorgan,
has said.  Net income before extraordinary items at Siemens topped 7
billion euros in 2011, a number that won’t be reached until
2015, according to analyst  estimates  collected by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  