-- Softbank-Sprint Deal Seen Presaging Deutsche Telekom Exit
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-11T17:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/softbank-sprint-deal-seen-presaging-deutsche-telekom-exit.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which last year
failed to sell  T-Mobile USA  to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion, may
get another shot at disposing of the customer-losing unit.  U.S. rival  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  today said it’s in talks to
receive a “potential substantial investment” from  Japan ’s
 Softbank Corp. (9983)  A transaction could create an operator
financially strong enough to eventually bid for the assets T-
Mobile USA is trying to combine with  MetroPCS Communications
Inc. (PCS) , said a person familiar with Softbank’s plans, declining to
be identified as the discussions are private.  T-Mobile and Sprint, the fourth- and third-largest
operators in the U.S., are looking to strengthen their positions
as more consumers adopt data-hungry smartphones. AT&T and
Verizon Wireless dominate the market for the high-end data
packages required for devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which
Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile USA doesn’t offer.  “If Sprint gets a financially strong partner, that would
increase the probability of an eventual bid for the joint
package of T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS,” creating a strong No. 3
carrier, said Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst Stefan Borscheid. “The market would like to see Deutsche Telekom
eventually exiting the U.S. at a premium.”  Affordable Alternative  Deutsche Telekom,  Germany ’s largest phone company, last
week agreed to combine T-Mobile USA with MetroPCS after it
failed last year to sell the business to AT&T amid opposition
from regulators. The agreement with MetroPCS is designed to
facilitate a potential withdrawl of Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom
from the U.S. market at some point, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because the
discussions are private.  Sprint discussed buying T-Mobile USA last year, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. Sprint is currently
holding off on an immediate counterbid for MetroPCS to gain time
to scrutinize the carrier’s planned combination with T-Mobile
USA, people familiar with the situation said this week.  The MetroPCS deal is the latest attempt by Deutsche Telekom
Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  to revive the fortunes of
T-Mobile, more than a decade after the German company entered
the American market. T-Mobile USA, which has positioned itself
as a more affordable alternative to Verizon Wireless, AT&T and
Sprint, lost 2.76 million contract customers, or more than 10
percent of its subscriber base, in the two years through June.  Deutsche Telekom rose as much as 2.9 percent to 9.48 euros
following reports of Softbank’s talks with Sprint and closed up
1.6 percent in  Frankfurt .  “Too Early”  In a statement today confirming talks with Softbank, Sprint
said it couldn’t assure a transaction would occur and didn’t
provide any other details. Softbank, Japan’s third-largest
mobile-phone company, said on its website it won’t comment on
Sprint.  Deutsche Telekom spokesman Andreas Fuchs declined to
comment on the implications of a potential transaction involving
Softbank and Sprint.  Will Draper, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said it’s too early to predict the implications
of Softbank’s foray into the U.S. market.  “We have very little visibillity regarding Softbank’s
strategy,” he said, adding that the Japanese operator also
needs to digest other acquisitions.  The Tokyo-based company, the fastest-growing Japanese
mobile-phone provider, this month agreed to pay 180 billion yen
for a smaller local rival,  eAccess Ltd. (9427)   Removing Doubts?  T-Mobile USA CEO John Legere said last week that the
MetroPCS deal “signals T-Mobile’s commitment to competing in
the U.S. and removes any doubts about whether we are here to
stay.”  Deutsche Telekom would own 74 percent of the new business
in a deal that pays MetroPCS shareholders $1.5 billion in cash.
T-Mobile had about 33 million customers at the end of June,
roughly a third of what  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T have apiece.
MetroPCS will add 9.3 million, pushing the total above 42
million. Sprint had more than 56 million customers in its most
recently reported quarter.  By merging with a publicly traded company, T-Mobile can get
the benefits of an initial public offering without the hassles,
Obermann has said, calling the deal an “accelerated initial
public offering with synergies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  