-- South Africa Manufacturing Growth Slows as Strikes Spread
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-11T11:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-slows-as-strikes-spread.html
South African  manufacturing  growth
slowed in August as demand for exports eased and mining strikes
disrupted output, limiting growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  Factory production grew 3 percent, down from a revised 6.3
percent in July, Pretoria-based Statistics  South Africa  said on
its website today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of
nine economists was for a contraction of 1.1 percent. Output
rose 3 percent in the month.  “This is a reflection of the overall picture globally,”
Nicky Weimar, an economist with  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said today in a phone interview
from Johannesburg. “You will see a continuation of this slow
crawl.”  South Africa’s economic outlook is deteriorating
“rapidly” as strikes that began in platinum mines in August
spread, Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said yesterday.
Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy, is
already under pressure as a debt crisis in  Europe  cuts demand
for manufactured exports. The central bank, which lowered its
growth estimate for this year to 2.6 percent, kept its benchmark
lending rate at 5 percent last month.  The  purchasing managers’ index  fell to a three-year low of
46.2 in September, indicating that factory output contracted in
the month, according to Kagiso Tiso Holdings.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  is set to reduce his
economic growth forecast when he presents the mid-term budget on
Oct. 25. The economy expanded 3.1 percent last year.  The rand pared its gains after the manufacturing data,
dropping to 8.7453 as of 1:44 p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on
the government bond due in 2021 dropped one basis point to 6.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  