-- South Africa to Combat Illegal Lending Blamed for Stoking Unrest
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-11T15:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/south-africa-to-combat-illegal-lending-blamed-for-stoking-unrest.html
South African Trade Minister  Rob Davies  pledged to crack down on loan sharks who are violating
credit laws and fuelling a wave of recent labor unrest.  “We are seeing practices that are at the very least
verging on being highly reckless,” Davies told reporters in
 Cape Town  today. “We are going to redouble our efforts and
crack down on this. The message to anybody who is engaged in
these practices is you are taking a risk because we are after
you.”  Ten out of 12 credit providers raided on Oct. 9 at  Lonmin
Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mining complex, where a strike began on Aug. 10,
appear to have been acting unlawfully, according to the  National
Credit Regulator . As many as 46 people died before Lonmin agreed
to wage increases of as much as 22 percent, while the illegal
labor action has spread to other platinum and gold mines.  With more than 16 credit providers operating in Marikana,
many miners took on loans with interest charges of as much as 30
percent that they struggled to repay, resulting in the lenders
making deductions directly from miners’ salaries, according to
the regulator.  “We have been hearing quite a lot of people saying that a
lot of the pressure on wage demands is arising from the fact
that many ordinary workers, low-income people, have very high
levels of  consumer credit ,” Davies said. “Reckless lending is
having a negative impact on our society, on our working people,
on low-income communities. People are being enticed into taking
loans under difficult circumstances and those loans don’t solve
their financial problems, they actually worsen them.”  Unsecured Loans  The National Credit Act, introduced in 2006, aimed to
reduce so-called reckless lending and protect borrowers. In the
past three years credit providers have increasingly offered
unsecured loans to low-income earners to maintain and boost
profit margins.  The effectiveness of the law is being investigated and it
will be tightened if necessary Davies said.  Consumer loans in  South Africa  amount to 1.3 trillion rand
($149 billion), of which 9 percent is unsecured, said Nomsa
Motshegare, the credit regulator’s chief executive officer.  “We have got 19.6 million credit-active consumers,”
Motshegare told reporters in  Pretoria . She said 49 percent of
them are “impaired” and the share has been growing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  