-- Spanish Treasury Official Says Cut by S&P Unexpected, Negative
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-11T06:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/spanish-treasury-official-says-cut-by-s-p-unexpected-negative.html
The decision by  Standard & Poor’s  to
cut  Spain ’s credit rating was unexpected and negative for the
country, Ignacio Fernandez-Palomero Morales, deputy head of the
nation’s Treasury, said at a conference in Tokyo today.  S&P lowered Spain’s rating by two levels to BBB-, one level
above junk status, and assigned a negative outlook for its debt.
The country’s deepening recession is limiting the government’s
policy options and social discontent is likely to intensify, the
ratings company said in a statement yesterday.  Moody’s Investors Service on Aug. 30 said Spain’s credit
rating remains on review for a possible downgrade from Baa3, the
company’s lowest investment grade.  The following are comments made by Fernandez-Palomero today
on the sidelines of today’s Euromoney conference in  Tokyo .  On the downgrade and statement by S&P:  “On the fundamentals side, they only touch upon the
deterioration of the economic cycle, but they touch much more on
the European resolution -- clarity, unpredictability impacting
on the rating of the sovereign. Our impression is that a two-
notch downgrade should be based on a fundamental analysis of the
economy. So we do respect the opinion of the rating agencies,
but we believe that the fundamental analysis is required in
depth to argue on the basis of a ratings adjustment.”  On ratings firms:  “Investors are much less reliant today on ratings than
they were several years ago. Rating agencies have been moving
their ratings very steeply in a very short period of time, which
in our view is not so much related to the fundamentals of the
economy, but probably to a different type of assessment of what
should be the rating value of the sovereigns. My impression --
and we saw that after several rating downgrades in the past --
is that investors do not rely so much on ratings today.”  On the review by Moody’s:  “The market has been more focused on potential Moody’s
action, because there is this ongoing delay by Moody’s that has
drawn attention. My impression is that if I was going to make an
analysis on the fundamentals of an economy, 15 days of delay do
not change the fundamentals of an economy.”  On economic fundamentals:  “If spreads and markets’ reaction were based on
fundamentals, probably yields would be different. Probably
ratings would also be different for some. It is important now to
keep looking at fundamentals of economies and not get driven by
short-term analysis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  