-- Stocks Trim Gain, U.S. Bonds Rise; Commodities Hold Gain
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-10-11T20:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/spanish-debt-stocks-fall-on-cut-commodities-aussie-strengthen.html
U.S. stocks trimmed gains as
optimism about a drop in jobless claims faded and technology and
consumer shares turned lower, while Treasuries erased losses
after a $13 billion bond auction. Corn led commodity gains as a
report showed global inventories will drop more than expected.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  increased less than 0.1
percent to 1,432.84 at 4 p.m. in  New York  after rallying 0.8
percent earlier, paring gains as Apple Inc. extended its retreat
from a September record to more than 10 percent. Thirty-year
Treasury bond yields fell three basis points to 2.85 percent
after climbing as much as five points. The S&P GSCI gauge of
commodities added 1.1 percent as corn, natural gas, soybeans and
wheat led gains. The dollar fell against 14 of 16 major peers.  Global stocks and commodities extended gains this morning
after U.S. applications for jobless benefits unexpectedly fell
by 30,000 to 339,000 last week, in a report which may reflect
difficulty adjusting the data for seasonal swings at the start
of a quarter. Early gains also came after Citigroup Inc.
upgraded U.S. equities to overweight, citing central-bank
stimulus plans and earnings momentum, and predicted a 9 percent
rally in global stocks by the end of next year.  “The economy is improving, we’re doing a better job,”
 Philip Orlando , the New York-based chief equity strategist at
Federated Investors Inc., which oversees about $370 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “I think we should be going
faster but this is a phenomenal claims number. So now the
question is, ‘Is this number real or is it going to get revised
away next week?’”  Slump Halted  The  S&P 500  rose for the first time in a week. Unemployment
claims were forecast to increase to 370,000 last week from
367,000 the previous period, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of economists. One state accounted for most
of the plunge in claims, a Labor Department spokesman said as
the data were issued to the press.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  jumped  14 percent as Japan’s Softbank
Corp. was said to be in talks to buy control of the company.
Schlumberger Ltd., Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. paced gains that sent
commodity and financial shares to the best performances  among 10
groups  in the S&P 500.  Banks rose the most among 19 industries  in Europe  after
people familiar with the talks said the European Union may push
back the deadline for applying tougher capital rules for as long
as a year. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the
global standard-setting body that prepared the new rules,
admitted this week that not all nations will meet the 2013 start
date.  Bank Earnings  JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co . are scheduled to report
 quarterly earnings  tomorrow. Analysts forecast Wells Fargo, the
largest U.S. home lender, will post record profit. Income at
banks increased 19 percent in the third quarter, helping limit
the S&P 500’s first drop in quarterly earnings in three years to
1.7 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The S&P 500 has slipped about 2.3 percent since reaching an
almost five-year high of 1,465.77 on Sept. 14 after the  Federal
Reserve  announced plans to buy $40 billion in mortgage
securities a month to boost growth. The benchmark  index (MXEF)  is less
than 1 percent higher than its 50-day moving average of  The slackening world economy is weighing on sales at
companies such as Caterpillar Inc., which cut its forecast for
2015 earnings last month after commodity producers reduced
 capital spending .  ‘Focus Is Shifting’  “It’s the beginning of earnings season and the focus is
shifting from the boost that stocks got from provisional
liquidity around the world,” Brian Gendreau, a market
strategist at El Segundo, California-based Cetera Financial
Group Inc., said in a telephone interview. The firm has about
$20 billion in assets under management. “We’ve had a string of
warnings now from internationally oriented companies that
profits and revenues aren’t going to be what they had been. This
is coming in a context of a global slowdown in growth.”  U.S. 30-year bond yields decreased for a third straight
day. The 30-year U.S. securities sold by the Treasury today drew
a yield of 2.904 percent, compared with a forecast of 2.880
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal
Reserve’s primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.49, versus an average of 2.65 for the previous 10
sales.  European Market  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  snapped a three-day slump as
luxury goods companies and retailers also climbed. Burberry
Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker, rallied 13
percent after reporting a partial recovery in retail sales
growth since September’s profit warning. Christian Dior SA and
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA rose more than 3 percent.  Carrefour SA (CA)  climbed 3.7 percent in Paris after the world’s
second-largest retailer posted third-quarter sales that beat
analyst estimates. Direct Line Insurance Group Plc, a U.K.
insurer, added 7.4 percent on the first day of trading following
its 787 million-pound ($1.3 billion) initial public offering.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped nine basis points to
5.02 percent after the nation sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8
billion) of benchmark three-year bonds at 2.86 percent and
investors bid for 1.67 times the amount offered, up from 1.49
times last month.  Spain’s two-year  notes  erased earlier losses, with the
yield falling five basis points to 3.22 percent. The nation’s
10-year rates were down four basis points at 5.76 percent. S&P
yesterday cut Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk,
citing economic and political risks as the government considers
a second bailout.  German Outlook  German bunds erased gains after the U.S. jobless claims
report, pushing the yield one basis points higher to 1.50
percent. Germany’s leading economic forecasters cut the
country’s outlook for growth next year to 1 percent, half the
rate of an estimate on April 19. Europe’s biggest economy is
beginning to be hit by the debt crisis, said the group that
includes Munich’s Ifo institute in its 86-page report.  The euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.2929 after
weakening for three days. Australia’s dollar rallied for a
fourth day, climbing 0.3 percent to $1.0265. The rand extended
gains against the dollar amid signs labor unrest that shut gold
and platinum mines is easing. The currency has strengthened 2.6
percent in three trading sessions.  Corn Supplies  Corn jumped 5 percent to lead gains in 13 of 24 commodities
in the S&P GSCI Index after a government report showed global
inventories will drop more than expected as the worst U.S.
drought in more than 50 years cuts output by the most since
1996.  Worldwide inventories on Oct. 1 will be 117.27 million
metric tons, down from 123.95 million predicted a month ago and
131.54 million estimated this year, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said today. Reserves as a percent of consumption
will fall to 13.7 percent, the lowest since 1974, USDA data
show. Stockpiles in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter,
will fall 37 percent to 15.73 million tons, from last year.  Oil in New York climbed 0.9 percent to $92.07 a barrel amid
lingering concern tensions between Syria and  Turkey  will disrupt
supplies from the  Middle East .  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.4 percent, the
first gain in four days, as benchmark gauges in Turkey, Hungary,
Brazil and  South Africa  climbed at least 1 percent.  South  Korea ’s  KOSPI (KOSPI)  fell 0.8 percent to its lowest level
since Sept. 11, as the country’s central bank lowered the
benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to 2.75 percent from 3
percent. The  Bank of Korea  slashed its 2012 economic growth
outlook to 2.4 percent from an earlier estimate of 3 percent.
Taiwan’s benchmark stock  gauge  slumped 1.9 percent, falling for
a third day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  