-- Meningitis Risk Spreads to 14,000 People Given Pain Shot
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-12T19:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/steroid-shot-linked-to-meningitis-given-to-14-000-in-u-s-.html
About 14,000 people who received
pain-relieving steroid shots may be at risk for meningitis
because of a fungal contamination that has led to the deaths of
14 people, U.S. regulators said.  The fungus strain is “new territory” that has never
before caused  meningitis , Todd Weber, who is overseeing the
federal probe for the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, told reporters on a conference call yesterday. He
said more than 12,000 of the patients have been informed of
possible exposure.  There are 184  confirmed infections  traced to vials from a
pharmacy in Framingham, Massachusetts, that mixed the steroid
and sold it to 75 hospitals and clinics in 23 states, the CDC
said today. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said it will
work with Congress on new regulations that would grant the
agency greater oversight of such compounding pharmacies.  “We want to sit down with pharmacists and lawmakers and
think about a scheme that recognizes that the industry and
practice of pharmacy have evolved over time, and put in place a
risk-based scheme,” Deborah Autor, deputy FDA commissioner for
global regulatory operations and policy, said on the call.  About 7,500 compounding pharmacies now are largely exempt
from FDA oversight, since they’re only supposed to prepare
individual prescriptions unavailable through regular avenues,
such as those with a unique dosage. The drug methylprednisolone
acetate was apparently contaminated during the mixing process.  Injections of the tainted steroid -- an epidural shot used
to treat neck and back pain -- were given starting May 21, the
Atlanta-based CDC said on the call. Meningitis is an
inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord usually
caused by an infection from a virus or bacteria.  Suspended Operations  The New England Compounding Center, which mixed the drug,
suspended operations last week and recalled 17,676 doses. Krista
Robinson of O’Neill and Associates, a Boston-based
communications firm representing the center, didn’t return a
request for comment.  The outbreak highlights the need to ensure product safety,
the CDC’s Weber said on the conference call. “We want patients
to be confident that they’re not going to get a potentially
devastating disease as a result of their care,” he said.  Twelve states have reported meningitis infections:  Florida ,
 Indiana ,  Idaho ,  Maryland ,  Michigan ,  Minnesota ,  New Jersey ,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio ,  Tennessee ,  Texas  and  Virginia .  Government Probes  Madeleine Biondolillo, director of the Massachusetts
Department of Public Health’s Bureau of Health Care Safety and
Quality, said yesterday that the Framingham company violated
state regulation that forbids such pharmacies from mass-
producing drugs. The U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee is
also investigating the outbreak, and yesterday requested a
briefing from the compounding pharmacy by Oct. 18.  “We ask that you preserve all documents and communications
that may be relevant to understanding how the product was
contaminated and distributed as well as the business practices
of the NECC in general,”  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who
is chairman of the House panel, and Representative  Henry Waxman ,
a California Democrat who is the ranking minority member, wrote
in a letter to the pharmacy.  The committee has requested the FDA and CDC to brief them
on the outbreak by Oct. 12. Committee leaders also asked today
that the Massachusetts Board of Pharmacy brief staff by Oct. 19
on any actions the board took to address potential violations.  8.9 Million Americans  New England Compounding Center was  warned  by the FDA in
2006 for repackaging  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s cancer drug Avastin to
treat an eye disease as well as acting more like a manufacturer
by promoting a triple strength anesthetic cream.  At the time, the pharmacy assured the FDA through an
exchange of letters it was complying with the law, Autor said.
The FDA didn’t visit the pharmacy again until the outbreak.  About 8.9 million Americans in 2010 received epidural
injections for pain which take minutes to administer. Use of the
shots increased 106 percent in Medicare beneficiaries from 1997
to 2006, according to a study in Pain Physician.  Since the meningitis outbreak, clinics have been left
searching for a new supplier for methylprednisolone acetate,
which allows physicians to treat neck and back pain without
surgery or addictive pills.  While  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker, offers
the same steroid, the company’s product contains additives that
carry greater risk when injected into the spine area, keeping it
from getting U.S. approval for that use. That’s why doctors are
forced to buy from the patchwork of pharmacies that compound the
steroid without the preservatives, David Kloth of the American
Society of Interventional Pain Physicians, said in a telephone
interview earlier this week.  No Other Answers  “Pills are not the answer; surgery is definitely not the
answer because surgery has its own inherent risk complications.
This is sort of the next step,” Kloth said of the injections.  Pharmacies that aren’t compounding on such a large scale as
the New England center are safe, said  David Miller , chief
executive officer of the International Academy of Compounding
Pharmacists, in a telephone interview.  “Every compounding pharmacy in the country is double
checking, verifying, repeating, making sure everything they’re
doing is consistent with their standards,” Miller said. “This
tragedy has everyone focused on making sure it never happens
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  