-- Structured Note Sales Slow in Third Quarter as Volatility Drops
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2012-10-11T17:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/structured-note-sales-slow-in-third-quarter-as-volatility-drops.html
Third-quarter sales of structured
notes in the U.S. fell to the lowest this year as a new round of
quantitative easing and the lead-up to the November presidential
election damped market volatility.  Investors bought $9.37 billion of the securities, down 4.3
percent from the previous quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the second-lowest three-month period for
issuance since at least the beginning of 2010, exceeding only
the $8.6 billion sold in the fourth quarter of last year.  The  Federal Reserve ’s announcement of an open-ended bond
buying program and investors adopting a wait-and-see attitude
before the presidential election contributed to lower
volatility, said Scott Miller Jr., a managing partner at Blue
Bell Private Wealth Management LLC. When assets are less
volatile, the options embedded in certain types of structured
notes are cheaper, hurting the ability of issuers to offer
enticing features.  The value of the securities is “not as attractive as it
was and that’s a little bit of a hard pill to swallow,” Miller
said. Current terms, such as the level of protection against
losses, aren’t as good as they have been in the past two or
three years, he said.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , fell to 13.45 on Aug. 17, the lowest since June of
2007. During the quarter, the benchmark didn’t close above
20.47, which is close to its average historical value of about
20.35 since March 30, 1990.  Global sales excluding the U.S. were $19.4 billion last
quarter, a 6.5 percent gain from the previous three months,
Bloomberg data show. Issuers sold 889 notes, 15 percent fewer
than in the second quarter.  Low Rates  In the U.S., sales were also hurt by  interest rates  close
to historical lows and lower bank funding levels, said John Tessar, senior vice president at JVB Financial Group LLC in  Boca
Raton ,  Florida .  “You can’t really attract investors with better-than-
before yield,” he said in a telephone interview.  The yield on benchmark Treasury notes averaged 1.62 percent
for the quarter and touched a record low of 1.3875 percent on
July 24. The average of five-year credit-default swaps on six of
the largest U.S. banks, including Bank of America Corp., the
biggest structured note issuer, declined 29 percent during the
period. That meant they had to pay investors less to borrow
funds.  Euro Stoxx Notes  Deutsche Bank AG sold the largest U.S. note of the quarter,
$429.6 million of 18-month securities tied to the Euro Stoxx 50
Index on Sept. 14, Bloomberg data show. They yield a minimum of
7.6 percent unless the benchmark falls more than 20 percent from
its initial value, according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The notes sold a week after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
had agreed on a bond-buying plan to support the euro.  Investors bought $336.9 million of securities linked to the
price of gold last quarter, more than four times the amount of
the previous period, the data show. Barclays Plc sold $143.2
million of one-year notes tied to the metal on Sept. 28, the
biggest such deal in 2012, that pay as much as 17.5 percent and
protect against losses as long as gold doesn’t decline by more
than 15 percent, according to a  prospectus  filed with the SEC.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  Bloomberg began collecting comprehensive data on U.S. SEC-
registered securities in January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  