-- Sugar Seen by Macquarie Rallying Up to 24 Cents on Crop Risk
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-11T09:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/sugar-seen-by-macquarie-rallying-up-to-24-cents-on-crop-risk-1-.html
Sugar prices could rally to 23 cents
to 24 cents a pound on the risk of production estimate cuts in
 Thailand ,  India  and the European Union just as importing
countries rebuild stockpiles, according to  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   Sugar has fallen 11 percent so far this year to 20.84 cents
a pound in  New York  trading on speculation supplies would
outpace demand for a third year in the season that started this
month. The global sweetener surplus will be 4.3 million metric
tons in 2012-13, down from 6.5 million tons a year earlier,
estimates  Kona Haque , a London-based analyst at the bank.  “We see bullish risks from even lower production in
Thailand, India and the EU, which could necessitate higher
imports into the latter two,” Haque said in a report e-mailed
today. “The re-stocking process continues, and until it is
completed, prices will remain vulnerable to any unforeseen
supply, principally weather-related shocks.”  Sugar output in India, the second-biggest producer and
largest consumer, is set to drop to 23.8 million tons from a
previous forecast of 24.4 million tons because of dry weather,
Macquarie estimates. That compares with 26 million tons a year
earlier. The lack of rainfall in Thailand, the second-biggest
exporter, will cut production to 9.8 million tons from 10.3
million tons last year, the bank said. EU output will be 17
million tons compared with 18.2 million tons in 2011-12.  Ethanol Shift  A potential shift to ethanol from sugar in  Brazil , the
largest producer of the sweetener, could also add to bullish
sentiment in sugar, Haque said. Millers may opt to make more of
the biofuel next year if the government there chooses to bring
the mandatory blend into gasoline back to 25 percent from 20
percent now, she said. Ethanol could become more profitable if
rising corn prices result in more imports from the U.S.  “Changing dynamics in Brazil’s ethanol market have the
potential to curb sugar output there too,” Haque said.  Prices rallies are unlikely to take sugar above the 24
cents to 25 cents a pound range because of a surplus and lower
import demand from  China  and  Russia , she said. Russia will
produce 5 million tons of sweetener in 2012-13, down from 5.2
million tons a year earlier and up from 3 million tons in
2010-11, when the country was the largest importer of the raw
variety, the bank estimates. In China, output will jump to 13.8
million tons from 11.5 million tons a year earlier, according to
the report.  “Russia, usually the single largest importer, is on track
to produce another bumper beet crop, which will again limit the
country’s import requirements,” Haque said. “Lower import
demand overall, especially from Russia and China, will likely be
a drag on this market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 