-- Summers Says Strengthening Middle Class Is Key to U.S. Recovery
-- B y   T r i s h   R e g a n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-11T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/summers-says-strengthening-middle-class-is-key-to-u-s-recovery.html
Strengthening the middle class is
the central issue facing economic recovery in the U.S., said
 Lawrence Summers , former U.S.  Treasury Secretary  and now a
professor at Harvard University.  “The middle class needs to see this economy get back to
its potential,” said Summers in an interview with  Trish Regan 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” “It needs to see a
real substantial expansion; it needs to see more focus on
economic growth.”  Rising inequality and income disparity is “pulling apart”
American society and must be addressed as part of the country’s
renewal process, said Summers.  “‘‘We’ve had a rising tide that’s helped the yacht, but
hasn’t helped most of the smaller ships,” he said. “We’re
seeing the correlation between the prospects of the children of
the rich and the prospects of the children of the middle class
actually widening for the first time in history.”  The 1.2 million households whose incomes put them in the
top 1 percent of the U.S. saw their earnings increase 5.5
percent last year, according to estimates released by the U.S.
Census Bureau. Earnings fell 1.7 percent for the 96 million
households in the bottom 80 percent -- those that made less than
$101,583.  Incomes in the U.S. rose 0.1 percent in August, the
Commerce Department said on Sept. 28. Wages and salaries also
increased 0.1 percent and the saving rate fell to 3.7 percent,
the lowest since April. Disposable income, or the money left
over after taxes, decreased 0.3 percent after adjusting for
inflation, the weakest reading since November.  Excess Capacity  “The private sector is not going to invest that much,”
said Summers. “There’s excess capacity, there’s problems in the
financial system.”  Instead, Summers said investing in the public sector,
renewing the country’s infrastructure, exploiting the natural
gas industry and providing stronger incentives to small
businesses are all essential components of an economic growth
strategy.  “These are all - managed right - effective and substantial
job creators. That’s where we need to start,” said Summers.
“Surely this moment, when so many people are out of work, is
the moment to put people to work.”  Last week the Department of Labor said the economy added
114,000 workers in September following a 142,000 gain in August.
The jobless  rate  fell to 7.8 percent, the lowest level since
January 2009, after hovering above 8 percent for 43 straight
months. Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
rose by 104,000 in September.  Tax Cuts  Summers also said the country cannot afford “massive,
across the board, tax cuts” at this time and that there is no
evidence the tax plan proposed by Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  would contribute to economic growth.  “The evidence is the economy can grow very rapidly and
what we need is adequate revenue to do the fundamental things
that the public sector has to,” he said.  Romney has called for a tax plan that would reduce income
tax rates by 20 percent, cap individuals’ tax deductions at
$17,000 and eliminate the estate tax and the alternative minimum
tax. An August analysis by  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan
organization in  Washington , found that under Romney’s plan, in
2015, $86 billion of the tax burden would be shifted to the
middle class to keep the plan from increasing the deficit.  Summers is President Emeritus of  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and previously served in the Obama
administration as the director of the National Economic Council.
He served as U.S. Treasury Secretary from 1999 to 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  