-- Superbugs Epidemic to Spur Teva Supplier Growth in India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2012-10-12T11:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/superbugs-epidemic-to-spur-teva-supplier-growth-corporate-india.html
Cocktails of antibiotics aimed at
thwarting lethal superbugs may help  Venus Remedies Ltd. (VNR)  expand
at the fastest pace in three years as the Indian drugmaker taps
demand from doctors for more bacteria-fighting options.  Venus, which supplies medicines to the world’s largest
generic drugmaker,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
forecasts sales will expand 15 percent for the next two years,
driven largely by its treatment for drug-resistant infections of
the urinary tract and respiratory system, Chairman Pawan Chaudhary said in an interview.  Sales of fused antibiotics expanded at four times the pace
of single-ingredient substitutes in the past two years as
physicians in India increasingly relied on cocktails to treat
patients with multi-drug resistant infections. Mutant germs
producing an antibiotic-destroying enzyme called ESBL first
showed up in 1983 and are now responsible for 40 to 80 percent
of hospital-acquired infections, according to several studies.  “Resistance has already become a very big problem and in
the next five years it’s going to be an epidemic,” Chaudhary
said from his office near Chandigarh in northern  India . “We
want to give doctors an option, they don’t have to rely on the
strongest antibiotic to deal with ESBLs.”  Sales  growth  at Venus, set up in 1989, has slowed for six
straight years because of declining prices of medicines sold to
governments. The company’s  shares  fell 0.2 percent to 279.45
rupees in Mumbai. The stock has risen 83 percent this year,
compared with a 29 percent gain on the 17-company  BSE India
Healthcare Index. (BSETHC)   Bacterial Enzyme  It’s become a common practice for drugmakers to introduce a
variety of cocktails as there are almost no new antibiotics
coming in, Siddhant Khandekar, an analyst at ICICI Direct, said
in an interview. Sales of combination drugs containing three of
the most commonly used antibiotics have grown 52 percent in the
last two years, according to data from IMS Health Inc.  Competition is also intensifying in the market that’s led
by the Indian unit of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Augmentin, the best-selling brand in the country, is one
such combination of the antibiotic amoxycillin and clavulinic
acid, which blocks the activity of a defensive bacterial enzyme.
Glaxo is the leader with a 27 percent market share and there are
293 other registered brands for the same product, according to
the  All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists .  Venus, which also makes injectable medicines to treat
pneumonia and meningitis, plans incremental changes and
additions to improve the efficacy of existing drugs in ways that
can be patented to beat the competition, Chaudhary said.  Sulbactomax Brand  The company’s flagship product contains three ingredients:
the antibiotic ceftriaxone, a chemical that aids the drug’s
activity by attacking a defensive enzyme produced by the
bacteria, and a compound called EDTA. The compounds have been in
use for about three decades and Venus’ patents pertain to the
specific concentration of the three.  The product is sold under the  Sulbactomax  brand in seven
countries, including Ukraine and  Syria , and will be introduced
in India next year, Chaudhary said.  In a drug cocktail, three or four ingredients are combined
in a single pill or injectable vial. The widespread use of such
treatments can also lead to resistance, according to Pankaj
Vohra, a  pediatric gastroenterologist  in New Delhi’s Max
Hospital.  Bacteria evolve the ability to thwart a drug when it’s used
repeatedly and this characteristic can be carried in the genes
and passed on to other bacteria.  ‘Indiscriminate’ Usage  There is a “strong threat” to the society because
patients are demanding quick cures and doctors often prescribe
antibiotics without carrying out diagnostic tests, Bhagwat
Dhingra, chief executive officer of  Unichem Laboratories Ltd. (UL) ’s
Indian business, said in an interview.  In 2008, researchers studying the  case  of a diabetic stroke
patient of Indian origin found that bacteria cultured from his
urine and feces evaded more than a dozen drugs, including last-
resort medicines called carbapenems.  The bacteria carried a gene, later named  New Delhi  metallo-
beta-lactamase-1 or NDM-1, that scientists warn is spreading
faster, further and in more alarming ways than any they’ve
encountered.  Venus is carrying out laboratory-based tests to verify
whether Sulbactomax can work against NDM-1 and will publish the
results soon, Manu Chaudhary, head of research, said in an
interview.  It’s unlikely that the drug would work on NDM-1, said  David
Livermore , who formerly headed antibiotic resistance monitoring
at the U.K.’s Health Protection Agency in  London .  The company, which gets about 4 percent of its revenue from
selling to  Israel ’s  Teva (TEVA) , has obtained a patent for Sulbactomax
in 40 countries and plans to start sales in 20 nations by 2014.  Demand to treat superbugs such as  ESBL  has helped sell
Sulbactomax, which accounts for about 10 percent of Venus’
sales, Chairman Chaudhary said. The company is looking for
partners to expand in  Africa  and  South America , he said.  “There is demand because more than anything else, it is
giving better results,” Chaudhary said. “This is our fastest
growing drug.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  