-- Suzlon Plans India’s Biggest Convertible Bond Default
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-10-11T13:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/suzlon-energy-said-to-plan-default-today-on-209-million-of-debt.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest
wind turbine maker, will fail to repay $209 million of debt due
today in the nation’s largest convertible bond default. Its 2016
note slumped to a record.  Suzlon won’t be able to redeem two notes maturing today
after bondholders rejected its request for a four-month
extension, according to a statement sent to the Singapore stock
exchange. The company’s default will total $209 million, and it
has started talks with senior-secured lenders and bondholders on
options, said two people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be identified because those details are confidential.  Suzlon, which has lost money for three years, has
accumulated  $2.8 billion in debt , including $965 million in
revolving facilities, from acquisitions made before a global
supply glut depressed turbine prices by  23 percent  from their
peak in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Pune-
based manufacturer’s failure to pay will raise the amount of
convertible defaults from India to $664 million this year and
tops  Sterling Biotech Ltd. (SLT) ’s $184 million delinquency in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The notes are unsecured, and Suzlon won’t be forced to
liquidate assets or wind down operations, the two people said.
Suzlon is expecting fresh working capital from its banks so that
operations aren’t affected, they said.  The yield on the company’s $175 million, 5 percent
convertible debt due April 2016 surged 7.7 percentage points to
a record today, according to pricing data from KNG Securities.
Its  shares , which have lost 72 percent in the past two years,
fell 2.4 percent to a three-week low of 16.15 rupees in Mumbai.  State Bank  The  State Bank of India , Suzlon’s main lender, said the
Indian banking system has loaned 140 billion rupees ($2.7
billion) to the turbine-maker, including 35 billion rupees from
SBI.  “We are looking at ways to resolve the issue and need time
to sort this out,” SBI Deputy Managing Director Santosh Nayar
told reporters in Mumbai today. “The company followed a highly
leveraged business model.”  Suzlon is under pressure to raise cash after a lack of
working capital constrained its ability to complete orders in
the quarter that ended June 30, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said in August after the company reported its second-
biggest quarterly loss since at least 2007.  The turbine maker expects to get $60 million by the end of
this quarter from the sale of its Chinese manufacturing
business, the people said. It agreed to sell the plant in June
to China Power (Tianjin) New Energy Development Co.  It also filed a lawsuit last month against a unit of  Edison
International (EIX)  to recoup a $217 million payment by February for
turbines supplied to an Illinois wind farm in 2009. Suzlon
hasn’t satisfied the conditions necessary to trigger payment in
February, Edison spokesman Douglas McFarlan said on Sept. 28.  High-Yield Bonds  Suzlon requested the extension on the bonds’ maturity to
Feb. 11, saying it needed time to raise funds from sources,
including fresh debt and the sale of non-critical assets,
according to a Sept. 18 statement.  One plan was to raise as much as $500 million through a new
high-yield  bond issue  this year. That still remains an option,
the people said.  Suzlon’s request for a moratorium on the debt was the
second this year. The company got a 45-day extension to avert
default in June on $360 million of convertible notes. The bonds
were repaid on July 27 after the company borrowed $300 million
from banks and sold two Indian wind farms.  The bonds maturing today are a zero-coupon note with a face
value of $200 million and a 7.5 percent note with a face value
of $20.8 million. Suzlon will default on a total of $209 million
after accounting for redemption premiums on the amount
outstanding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  