-- Swiss Stocks Climb for First Time in Four Days
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-10-11T16:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/swiss-stocks-climb-for-first-time-in-four-days.html
Swiss stocks  rose for the first time
in four days as demand increased at an Italian debt sale and
U.S. jobless claims fell to a four-year low.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and Swatch Group Ltd. advanced
more than 3 percent after the U.K.’s Burberry Group Plc reported
second-quarter sales that exceeded analyst estimates.  The  SMI (SMI)  gained 0.4 percent to 6,654.02 at the close in
Zurich. The 20-share measure has rallied 16 percent since this
year’s low on June 4 as the  European Central Bank  unveiled an
unlimited bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  started
its third round of quantitative easing. The broader Swiss
Performance Index climbed 0.4 percent today.  “ECB president  Mario Draghi  really made a difference much
bigger than I or the market had hoped for a year ago,” said
Morten Kongshaug, the chief equity strategist at Danske Bank A/S
in Copenhagen. “The risk of a collapse of the euro is really
off the table.”  The ECB has announced a bond-purchase program called the
Outright Monetary Transactions, under which it will buy
securities of indebted nations that comply with rescue
conditions.  Italy’s Treasury sold 3.75 billion euros ($4.8 billion) of
its benchmark three-year securities, the maximum sales target,
to yield 2.86 percent. Investors bid for 1.67 times the amount
sold, up from 1.49 times at the last auction of the debt on
Sept. 13. That pushed the country’s 10-year yields lower for the
first time in four days.  American Jobs  In the U.S., first-time applications for jobless benefits
dropped 30,000 to 339,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest
since February 2008, Labor Department figures showed. Economists
forecast 370,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Standard & Poor’s  cut  Spain ’s rating to BBB-, one level
above junk, from BBB+, citing increased economic and political
risks. The downgrade came after Spain announced a fifth
austerity package in less than a year and published details of
stress tests of its banks.  Cie. Financiere Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand,
advanced 4.5 percent to 59.90 Swiss francs.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the
biggest maker of Swiss watches, climbed 3.2 percent to 380
francs. Burberry led  European personal and household-goods
stocks  higher after its second-quarter same-store sales beat
forecasts that called for a drop.  Cytos, Dufry  Cytos Biotechnology AG (CYTN)  jumped 9.5 percent to 3.01 francs,
its highest price in 13 months. The maker of biopharmaceuticals
on Oct. 9 appointed Christian Itin as the new chief executive
officer. The shares have gained 18 percent so far this month.  Dufry (DUFN)  declined 0.4 percent to 114.3 francs after the
operator of Hudson News stores in airports sold 2.7 million
shares at 109 francs apiece.  Dufry yesterday agreed to buy a 51 percent stake in Folli-
Follie Group’s travel retail business. The company is paying
200.5 million euros for the stake, which it is financing through
the share sale.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , the biggest maker of solar-
panel manufacturing equipment, slid 1.2 percent to 12.05 francs.
The U.S. Commerce Department revised penalties it will impose on
solar-energy equipment imported from China, increasing anti-
subsidy duties it had previously announced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  