-- U.K. Will Stay Out of European Banking Union, Turner Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-11T23:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-will-stay-out-of-european-banking-union-fsa-s-turner-says.html
The U.K. won’t allow its lenders to
be supervised by the  European Central Bank ,  Financial Services
Authority  Chairman  Adair Turner  said in a speech designed to
boost his candidacy for the top post at the  Bank of England .  The U.K. “does not need to, and will not, be part of that
Eurozone banking union,” Turner told financial executives in
London yesterday. He also said regulators may further ease
capital and liquidity rules if economic growth remains elusive.  European Union leaders in June embarked on plan to give the
ECB oversight of the banking system in a step toward offering
direct bailouts from the euro-area’s sovereign debt crisis fund.
All 27 EU nations must approve the oversight proposal for it to
move forward. Non-euro nations have called for assurance their
voices won’t be drowned out.  “We have an enormous national self-interest in the
Eurozone either taking the steps required to succeed, or, if
that is politically unattainable, dissolving in a controlled
rather than chaotic fashion,” Turner said.  Finance ministers have acknowledged the EU is unlikely to
implement the new oversight regime by the start of 2013 as
initially hoped. Any delays mean a longer wait for  Spain , which
is looking to hand off its financial-sector rescue to the 500
billion-euro ($647 billion) European Stability Mechanism once
the new system is in place.  BOE Odds  The next governor of the Bank of England will have
increased powers, including supervision of U.K. banks, to add to
its monetary-policy remit.  Turner, who celebrated his 57th birthday last week, is 9/2
to replace  Mervyn King  as governor of the U.K.’s central bank,
according to bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc .  Paul Tucker , currently
deputy governor, is the favorite to get the job, while a winning
1 pound ($1.6) bet backing economist  John Vickers  would yield a
4-pound profit, according to the company’s website.  Turner has overseen a loosening in FSA requirements for
banks’ to hold capital and liquidity buffers since June. He said
regulators “need to be ready if these measures prove
insufficient, to consider further policy innovations” to
overcome “powerful economic headwinds.”  The FSA relaxed the amount of funds U.K. banks must hold
against domestic lending last month. The regulator has also said
it would include Bank of England liquidity measures in
calculations of banks’ liquid asset buffers, giving lenders more
room to dip into reserves.  Turner was appointed chairman of the FSA a week after the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. which triggered a
financial crisis.  It felt like “being made captain of the Titanic after
we’d hit the iceberg, but before we’d actually sunk,” he said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  