-- U.K.’s Davey Touts Energy Reform in Bid to Pacify Areva, Siemens
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-11T11:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-s-davey-touts-energy-reform-in-bid-to-pacify-areva-siemens.html
Britain’s electricity-market reforms
will provide certainty for investors in low-carbon power, Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey  said after  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  complained
that the policies risked “stranding” investments.  Contracts for difference , which set long-term prices for
power, will provide the “predictable revenue streams” needed
to commit to big projects, Davey said today at a conference in
Edinburgh, acknowledging that “the uncertainty of the current
arrangement” has put global fund managers off investing.  Davey this month received a letter from seven companies
that employ 17,500 in Britain’s energy industry. The group,
including Siemens, Areva and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , said they
had reassessed “political risk in the U.K.” following delays,
reports of government discord and speculation that contracts for
difference would be rationed.  “These investments have long time scales and carry a risk
of stranding if the present policy focus on decarbonization and
green growth changes,” they said in the letter.  Britain is overhauling its  electricity market  in a bid to
expand low-carbon generation as it retires aging power stations.
The U.K. needs about 110 billion pounds ($176 billion) in low-
carbon investment by 2020 to replace plants and upgrade grids,
according to the government.  Carbon Capture  Contracts for difference “can help smooth out market
volatility, not only minimizing costs to the consumer, but also
making investment and financing decisions easier,” Davey said.
He also announced the award of 20 million pounds in funding for
a carbon capture and storage demonstration project in Scotland,
developed by Doosan Power Systems Ltd. and Howden Group Ltd.  The award is part of a four-year, 125 million-pound
government plan to develop cheaper CCS technology as it seeks to
trap emissions from power generation and industry for permanent
underground storage.  The British and Scottish administrations will also study
obstacles to renewable-energy projects around  Scotland ’s
islands, where developers are concerned a lack of grid
connections may hamper investments, Davey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  