-- U.K. Trash-to-Power Companies Seen as ‘Strong’ Targets for Asia
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-11T14:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-trash-to-power-companies-seen-as-strong-targets-for-asia.html
U.K. waste-to-energy producers will
lure Asian buyers because their stable revenue streams provide a
low-risk environment to learn about the technologies, according
to Credit Suisse Group AG.  British companies that use waste such as old cooking oil
and wood chips to produce transport fuel and power are a
“strong target” for Asian businesses, Martin Catchpole, head
of European renewables at the Swiss bank, said in an interview.  Clean-power output has expanded in the U.K. as the nation
pursues a target to get 15 percent of energy from renewables by
2020, up from about 9.4 percent now. That’s piqued the interest
of investors in  Asia  as utilities seek expertise in low-carbon
power generation to fuel their growing economies. For U.K.
businesses, that could bring funding at a time of tight credit.  “It’s not that we’re seeing asset owners and developers
seeking to sell control of their respective businesses, but
we’re seeing those companies seeking to bring in capital,”
Catchpole said in  London . There’s “significantly” more
interest in northern Europe from non-Europeans as financing
dries up in the south of the continent, he said.  The push toward sustainable fuels extends to the aviation
industry, with Airbus SAS teaming up with  China  Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. last month to develop cleaner jet fuel in China.  Renewable-energy acquisitions by Chinese and Japanese
companies in western  Europe  have more than doubled to $796
million in the past two years from $366.5 million in the
previous two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  