-- U.K. Wet Weather Drives Rodents Inside in Threat to Grain Stores
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-11T09:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-wet-weather-drives-rodents-inside-in-threat-to-grain-stores.html
The U.K.’s wetter-than-usual weather
is driving rats and mice indoors in a potential threat to grain
stocks, the country’s Home-Grown Cereals Authority said.  Rodent sightings have increased, and exterminators are
getting more calls than usual for the time of the year,
according to Richard Mosely, technical manager at the British
Pest Control Association, the HGCA wrote in an online statement.  The U.K. received the most rain in June, July and August
for any summer since 1912, and in September some areas in the
north had more than a month’s worth of rain over two days, the
 Met Office  reported. More than 400 properties across the country
flooded at the end of September, according to the U.K.
Environment Agency.  “The wet weather has caused rodents’ usual habitats to
become waterlogged, forcing them to move from fields to
buildings earlier than normal,” the HGCA wrote. “Rodent
numbers have probably not increased but a displacement of rodent
activity from sewers, streams and river banks to drier places
means that farmers’ grain stores could be a risk.”  Adult rats can eat about 50 pounds of grain a year and mice
about 2 pounds, and severe  infestation  in grain stores can cause
“substantial” profit loss, according to the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln. Brown rats and house mice leave 20 to 50
droppings a day, and feces and urine left by rodents pose the
greatest threat to stored grain, according to the university.  The U.K. wheat harvest, the European Union’s third-largest,
may be 13.3 million metric tons this year, down from a five-year
average of 14.9 million tons as wet weather hurt yields, the
National Farmers Union reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  