-- U.K. Home Values Drop as Olympic Knock-On Extends Summer Lull
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-home-values-drop-as-olympic-knock-on-extends-summer-lull.html
U.K. house prices fell for a third
month in September as  mortgage availability  remained constrained
and a lull during the London Olympics the previous month reduced
sales, Acadametrics Ltd. said.  The average cost of a home in England and  Wales  fell 0.1
percent from August to 225,374 pounds ($362,000), Acadametrics
and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said in a report in London today.
Transactions fell 24 percent to 50,000, the second-lowest level
for a September since records began in 1995, it said.  “A lethargic mortgage market and the knock-on impact of
reduced buyer activity in August took its toll,” David Brown,
LSL’s commercial director, said in a statement. “The lack of
lending, especially to first-time buyers, is choking off first-
time buyer sales outside of prime London.”  The Bank of England and the Treasury started a program in
August to boost bank lending to households and help the economy.
A central bank report last month showed that secured credit to
U.K. households rose “significantly” in the three months
through September and may increase further, suggesting mortgage
availability is set to improve.  “If this is the case and the cheaper finance reaches those
waiting to purchase their first home, it could provide a welcome
new impetus for transactional activity, and a new source of
optimism for would-be buyers,” Brown said.  From a year earlier, house prices rose 2.2 percent in
September, Acadametrics said. While values have increased on an
annual basis for the past six months “due to a shortage of
properties,” the rate of increase is slowing, it said.  London Boom  In  London , average prices jumped an annual 8.2 percent, 3.7
times more than in any other region, Acadametrics said. The
increase was led by a 23 percent surge in Kensington and Chelsea
as well as gains of 14 percent in Westminster.  “Overall we have a subdued market which itself is a
significant limiting factor in terms of economic recovery,”
Acadametrics said. “The market seems destined to drift
downwards in terms of prices, both nominal and real, as well as
in property transactions: this then becomes a self-reinforcing
process.”  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the Land Registry and results from other price measures to
produce their housing index. They said the annual price increase
in their report is larger than in other gauges because it
includes cash sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London, England at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  