-- U.K. Stocks Rebound From Three-Day Drop; Burberry Surges
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-11T16:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-k-stocks-climb-for-first-day-in-four-burberry-rallies.html
U.K.  stocks  climbed, rebounding from
a three-day selloff, amid speculation a downgrade of Spain’s
credit rating will encourage the country to seek a bailout and
as U.S. jobless claims slid to a four-year low.  Barclays Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  gained
more than 4 percent as the European Union was said to delay the
introduction of tougher Basel bank-capital rules.  Burberry (BRBY)  Group
Plc surged a record 13 percent after the luxury-goods maker
reported an acceleration in sales growth. Direct Line Insurance
Group Plc rallied 7.4 percent on the first day of trading after
its initial public offering.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index rose 53.04 points, or 0.9 percent, to
5,829.75 at the close in London. The gauge has advanced 11
percent from this year’s low on June 1 as the  European Central
Bank  unveiled a bond purchase program to support euro-area
nations seeking aid. The FTSE All-Share Index also climbed 0.9
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.3 percent.  “It’s no secret that the market wants to see Spain ask for
a bailout,” said  James Hughes , chief market analyst at Alpari
U.K. Ltd. in London. “What we are now seeing in the market is
that any bad news for Spain is positive for the euro zone.”  S&P reduced Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk at
BBB-, citing mounting economic and political risks. The
downgrade by the ratings agency comes after Spain announced a
fifth austerity package in less than a year and published
details of stress tests of its banks.  U.S. Economy  U.K. stocks extended gains after a report showed the  number
of Americans  filing  first-time claims  for unemployment insurance
payments fell to the lowest since February 2008. Applications
dropped 30,000 to 339,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, according to
the Labor Department. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast 370,000 claims.  The  Federal Reserve  said in its so-called Beige Book late
yesterday that the U.S. economy was expanding “modestly” last
month, buttressed by improvements in housing and auto sales.  Barclays (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, rallied 4.8
percent to 232.65 pence, RBS increased 4.2 percent to 273.8
pence,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  climbed 2 percent to 39.25 pence
and HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank, rose 1.3 percent
to 597.2 pence.  The EU may push back when lenders need to start phasing in
tougher Basel capital rules by as much as a year after warnings
that pressing ahead with the original timetable may drive up
costs, according to three people familiar with the talks.  Burberry Surges  Burberry jumped 13 percent to 1,136 pence, the biggest gain
since its 2002 IPO. Britain’s largest luxury-goods maker posted
a 1 percent increase in sales at stores open at least a year in
the second quarter, an improvement on the unchanged performance
the company reported on Sept. 11. The retailer also increased
its guidance for the second-half retail and wholesale operating
margin.  The results are “reassuring,” Louise Singlehurst, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a report to clients.
“Second quarter like-for-like growth implies an acceleration in
the last three weeks of September.”  Analysts at Seymour Pierce Ltd. raised their recommendation
for Burberry to buy from hold.  Direct Line rallied 7.4 percent to 188 pence after RBS sold
450 million shares in the U.K. insurer, about a 30 percent
stake, for 175 pence each. Britain’s largest government-owned
lender raised 787 million pounds ($1.3 billion) from the IPO,
which had been forced by EU regulators.  Tate Upgrade  Tate & Lyle (TATE)  Plc gained 1.2 percent to 697 pence after
Societe Generale SA upgraded the maker of low-calorie sweetener
Splenda to buy from hold and increased its price estimate for
the shares 24 percent to 805 pence. Analysts cited the potential
for an upgrade and re-rating in the next six months.  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  added 1.7 percent to 2,694 pence, the first
advance in five days.  Goodbody Stockbrokers  initiated coverage
of the building-materials company with a buy recommendation and
a share-price estimate of 3,400 pence. The analysts said
Wolseley was the best option in the European materials industry
to bet on a recovery in U.S. construction.  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  surged 39 percent to 259 pence, a record gain, as
Indonesia’s Bakrie family offered to buy back the coal assets it
helped bring to the London market with  Nathaniel Rothschild  in a
$3 billion deal two years ago.  The Bakrie Group, a palm oil-to-property-empire started in
1942, offered to exchange a 23.8 percent stake in Bumi Plc for
10.3 percent of Jakarta-based PT Bumi Resources. The group also
made a conditional proposal to buy back the remaining 18.9
percent in Bumi Resources in cash by Christmas and to make an
offer for Bumi Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in PT Berau Coal Energy
Tbk within six months.  WH Smith  WH Smith Plc (SMWH)  paced declining shares, dropping 3.2 percent
to 631 pence. The book and magazine retailer said Chief
Executive Officer Kate Swann will step down after nine years in
2013 and named Steve Clarke as her replacement. The shares fell
even after the company reported full-year pretax profit of 102
million pounds, beating analyst estimates.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  jumped 6.4 percent to 105 pence, the
highest since April, amid speculation that Swann, who left  Home
Retail ’s Argos unit in 2003, could return to the retailer. The
stock is the second-most shorted among western European
retailers, after Ocado Group Plc, with  15 percent  of shares
outstanding on loan, according to data compiled by Markit.  ‘Ideal Person’  “I can understand why the shorts have got nervous at the
prospect,” said  Nick Bubb , an independent retail analyst in
London. “She would be the ideal person to replace Terry Duddy
if Home Retail needs a new CEO, but it’s not often that people
go back to work for companies they’ve been at in the past.”  Greggs Plc (GRG)  lost 4.1 percent to 495.5 pence after the U.K.
bakery reported a 2.6 percent decline in same-store sales in the
14 weeks to Oct. 6.  In Ireland,  Independent News & Media Plc (INM)  plunged 30 percent
to 9 euro cents, the lowest level since at least 1988. Trading
volume in the shares surged to more than six times the three-
month average. Chairman Leslie Buckley last week sold shares in
the Dublin-based publisher to avoid triggering a mandatory
takeover bid by ally and biggest shareholder  Denis O’Brien .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  