-- U.S. Embassy Security Official in Yemen Killed by Gunman
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-10-11T21:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/u-s-embassy-security-official-in-yemen-killed-by-gunman-2-.html
A U.S. embassy security official in
Yemen’s capital was shot and killed by an unidentified gunman.  Qasim Aqlan, a Yemeni citizen, was an investigator in the
regional security office of the embassy for 11 years, U.S. State
Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday in
 Washington , confirming his death. He was shot while he was out
with a family member, away from the embassy, she said.  “He could have been killed for reasons that had something
to do with his job or reasons that had nothing to do with his
job,” Nuland said. “We just don’t know right now.”  Aqlan’s work included conducting personnel checks and
liaison on security matters with local authorities, Nuland said.  He had been involved in an investigation of the attack on
the U.S. embassy by Yemeni protesters last month sparked by an
anti-Islam film, according to an official in Yemen, who asked
not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak with
the press. Nuland denied he was involved in that investigation.  Nuland said she had no information on whether there may be
any connection between the targeting of Aqlan and the attack on
U.S. diplomatic compounds in  Libya  a month ago. The U.S.
ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, and three other Americans
were killed in a Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. mission buildings
in Benghazi.  The U.S. is working with Yemeni officials to investigate
the shooting, Nuland said.  “We condemn this vicious act in the strongest terms and
extend our deepest condolences to his family and his
friends,”she said.  Yemen, which borders  Saudi Arabia  and Oman, has been
battling militants from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula with
U.S. support. The U.S. is investigating whether there was an al-
Qaeda connection to the Libya attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  