-- Lufthansa Expands Germanwings in Aim for 2015 Short-Haul Profit
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-10-11T14:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/lufthansa-picks-discount-chief-winkelmann-to-head-european-arm.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  aims to make
short-haul operations outside its main hubs profitable by 2015
as it folds all such routes into the Germanwings low-cost arm
and scraps business class offerings at the unit.  The expanded division, which will operate almost three
times as many aircraft as the current 32 when it starts in
January, will be headed by Germanwings Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Winkelmann, Lufthansa said today. It will operate all the
airline’s short-haul flights outside Frankfurt and Munich.  “For several years we have been loss-making outside our
hubs,” Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said at a
Frankfurt press conference. “We are separating the two business
models: that of the hub carrier from the point-to-point
operations.”  Europe ’s second-biggest airline is seeking to save 1.5
billion euros ($1.9 billion) through 2014 via its Score
reorganization plan, which will see the elimination of 3,500
administration jobs and as many as 1,000 catering posts. Franz
said on Sept. 28 the program won’t deliver an improvement in
earnings this year.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, cut its
second-quarter operating loss by more than 50 percent to 66
million euros, aided by a 2 billion-euro savings plan.  British
Airways (IAG)  parent IAG is planning job cuts at Spanish arm Iberia
after the brand prompted a second-quarter loss.  The Lufthansa brand will eventually exclusively apply to
hub and long-haul operations, while Germanwings will be used for
all short-haul flights between airports away from Frankfurt and
Munich. The aircraft run by Germanwings will in the long-run all
have the discount carrier’s branding.  Low-Cost Carrier  The expanded Germanwings will remain a low-cost carrier,
with no business class seating, Franz said. Lufthansa’s current
direct services chief Oliver Wagner will join the board of
Germanwings, which is based at the airport in Cologne, where it
stations 16 planes.  Lufthansa is currently losing a “significant three-digit
million euro sum” on the routes to be covered by the merged
entity, Franz said today. Germanwings posted an operating loss
of 52 million euros in 2011, according to the annual report.  Pilot costs at Germanwings are about 20 percent lower than
at Lufthansa, although a cross-subsidy deal means that Lufthansa
pilots flying short-haul routes outside the hubs are not more
expensive. The carrier plans to negotiate with unions to move
these pilots to Germanwings.  Efforts to cut unit costs for decentralized traffic by 40
percent began in 2009, Thomas Kluehr, head of Lufthansa passenger
services outside its main hub, said at today’s press conference.
So far, a 20 percent reduction has been achieved, and this next
phase should help realize the rest of the savings, Kluehr said.  Lufthansa is predicting a full-year operating profit in the
“mid-three-digit million-euro range,” excluding restructuring
costs of at least 100 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  