-- Hungary Inflation Rate Rises to 4-Year High Amid Rate Clash
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-11T10:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/hungary-inflation-rate-rises-to-4-year-high-amid-rate-clash-1-.html
Hungarian inflation, the fastest in
the European Union, accelerated in September to the quickest in
more than four years as central bankers debate the merits of
cutting the  benchmark interest rate  further.  The  inflation rate  rose to 6.6 percent, the highest since
July 2008, from 6 percent in August, the statistics office in
Budapest said today. That compares with the 6.3 percent median
estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices advanced
0.4 percent in a month.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  cut its benchmark  two-week deposit
rate  to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent on Sept. 25, the second
quarter-point cut in as many months, as policy makers focused on
a recession that deepened in the second quarter, rather than on
price growth. The decisions polarized the Monetary Council as
the four non-executive members outvoted central bank President
Andras Simor and his two deputies both times.  “The central bank is unlikely to be deterred from further
rate cuts as inflation isn’t the primary focus, it’s more about
growth and risk premium,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based
economist at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit, said by phone.  The forint has gained 11.6 percent against the euro this
year, the world’s best performance, on investor confidence that
the government will obtain a loan from the International
Monetary Fund to ease fiscal-policy concerns and financing
risks. It traded at 282.16 per euro by 11:36 a.m. in Budapest.  CDS Falls  The cost to insure government debt against non-payment with
five-year credit-default swaps was 322 basis points today, the
lowest since Aug. 2, 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 10-year government bond dropped to
7.15 percent from 8 percent on July 10.  The central bank, which targets 3 percent inflation, last
month raised its forecast for price growth to an average of 5.8
percent this year and 5 percent in 2013.  Fuel prices rose 2.8 percent in September from August
levels, alcohol and tobacco products by 1.3 percent while food
costs increased by 0.6 percent. From the same month last year,
food prices soared 7.5 percent, alcohol and tobacco product
prices jumped 15.6 percent and fuel prices 15.7 percent.  Core Inflation  The core inflation rate, which strips out food and energy
prices, was 5.3 percent in September from the year-ago period
and increased 0.3 percent on the month.  “Inflation likely peaked in September as a strong base
effect may help to curb it in the coming months despite the
likely continuation of increases in food price,”  Eszter
Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said in
an e-mailed note today.  Rate-setters agreed that Hungary can cut the benchmark rate
further if financial-market conditions are “favorable” for a
“sustained” period and if medium-term inflation risks remain
“moderate,” according to the minutes of the Sept. 25 meeting,
published yesterday.  Policy makers were divided on the inflation outlook and
potential impact of a rate cut on output, according to the
minutes.  Inflationary Effects  Non-executive members of the rate-setting council argue
that the inflationary effects of indirect taxes should be
disregarded and support further rate cuts to 5 percent because
of the recession, lower risk premium and stronger currency,
Daniel Hewitt, an economist at Barclays Plc in  London , said in
an Oct. 9 report.  Simor thinks that policy makers can no longer depend on the
recession to rein in price growth and a lower main rate isn’t
effective for boosting output, Hewitt said after meeting policy
makers in Budapest.  The government, which has been in talks to obtain an IMF
loan since November, last week cut its forecast for  gross
domestic product  to a contraction of 1.2 percent this year from
0.1 percent growth. The Cabinet expects an expansion of 1
percent in 2013, compared with a previous estimate of 1.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  