-- Munich Re Sees ‘Profitable Growth’ in Industry Insurance
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-11T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/munich-re-sees-profitable-growth-in-industry-insurance.html
Munich Re said it expects to
increase the firm’s industry-insurance business, which offers
insurance and reinsurance for corporate clients.  “We have shown that we can achieve profitable growth in
the business at a low double-digit percentage range over the
cycle,” August Proebstl, head of the company’s  Corporate
Insurance Partner  unit, said in an interview in Munich. “Over
the last five years our compound annual growth rate was almost
13 percent.” The business doesn’t have a specific growth
target, he said.  The division of Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer,
has 235 employees and recorded premium income of about 525
million euros ($679 million) in 2011. It expects to increase
that to about 600 million euros this year. The unit focuses on
corporations with revenue in excess of 500 million euros and
offers broker-driven industrial insurance business as well as
reinsurance of large companies’ in-house insurance ventures,
Proebstl said.  “While the nature of the business is highly volatile as
insured values are rather high, we believe we can meet the
group’s overall profitability requirement of 15 percent return
on risk-adjusted capital,” Proebstl said. While the last two
years haven’t been profitable because of large claims, “2012
seems to be developing as a good year,” he said.  In 2010, the  Munich Re  unit had its biggest natural-
catastrophe loss “of the more recent years” when the Chile
earthquake cost it close to 100 million euros, mainly driven by
a single loss of a large corporate customer, Proebstl said.  Thailand Claims  “As a comparison, last year’s Thai floods, where our
losses were spread over a larger number of claims as a blend of
property damage, business interruption and contingent business
interruption losses, cost us half of that,” he said.  Munich Re is competing in the area with major industrial
insurers such as Allianz SE’s Allianz Global Corporate &
Specialty unit, Zurich Insurance Group AG, Talanx AG, American
International Group Inc.’s Chartis division as well as with
reinsurers such as Zurich-based  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)   Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer,  has said  it
plans to double its corporate-solutions business by 2015 from
$2.6 billion in gross premiums in 2011 to $4 billion to $5
billion. Reinsurers help primary insurers shoulder risks for
clients.  Munich Re’s industrial-insurance business doesn’t handle
coverage for aviation, space and credit risks as those are
offered by the company’s special and financial risks unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  