-- Murdoch’s $2 Billion Pay-TV Deal Backed by Stokes
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-11T06:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/murdoch-s-2-billion-pay-tv-deal-backed-by-stokes.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s A$1.94 billion ($2
billion) offer for pay-television company  Consolidated Media
Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  gained Kerry Stokes’s support after the
billionaire’s Seven Group Holdings Ltd. was blocked from
bidding.  Seven, which owns about 25 percent of Consolidated,
“intends to vote in favor” of  News Corp. (NWS) ’s bid, the company
said in a regulatory statement today. That gives the offer
support from about 75 percent of shareholders with billionaire
James Packer, holding a 50 percent stake, already saying he
supports  News Corp. (NWS) ’s A$3.45-a-share proposal.  Final approval of the deal at a meeting scheduled for Oct.
31 will unlock about A$1.5 billion in  cash  for Stokes and Packer
and allow Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. to double its stake in
 Australia ’s biggest pay-TV company Foxtel to 50 percent. The
deal will also give News Corp. full ownership of Fox Sports
Australia, which broadcasts subscription sports events.  Stokes “may use those proceeds to make a full takeover
offer for Seven West” Media Ltd., Mark McDonnell, an analyst at
BBY Ltd., said by phone from Sydney, in reference to the
television and newspaper company in which  Seven Group (SVW)  already
has a 33 percent stake. “It’s become very cheap.”  Buying Opportunities  He could also use the funds to buy the Sydney Morning
Herald and Melbourne’s Age newspapers from  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) ,
and eventually take control of regional broadcaster  Prime Media
Group Ltd. (PRT) , McDonnell said. A Seven West bid is still the most
likely option, he said.  Consolidated Media shares  rose  1.2 percent to A$3.42 at the
close in Sydney while Seven Group jumped 3.6 percent, the most
in a month, to A$7.28. Seven West climbed 2.4 percent to A$1.29
as the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index declined 0.2 percent.  News Corp.’s takeover offer will also release about A$970
million to Packer that could be used to help his casino company
 Crown Ltd. (CWN)  lift its stake in rival operator  Echo Entertainment
Group Ltd. (EGP)   Crown has applied for permission to buy a further 15
percent of Echo, worth about A$500 million at current prices.
Packer didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Seven Group had asked Australia’s antitrust regulator for a
ruling on whether it would be allowed to take over Consolidated
Media, without initiating a formal bid. It said it would vote in
favor of News Corp.’s bid immediately after that option was
blocked by the regulator.  Competition Decision  Such a deal would “result in a substantial lessening of
competition” in the free-to-air television market, the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said in a
statement today. Seven Group controls Australia’s largest free-
to-air television channel through its stake in Seven West.  “There’s actually limited scope for further media
acquisitions in Australia and the ACCC decision is further
confirmation of that,” McDonnell said.  In a preliminary finding Sept. 13, the antitrust regulator
said a takeover of Consolidated by Seven Group would give Stokes
undue influence over Australia’s market for sports rights and
access to confidential information from rivals.  The commission said Aug. 2 that it had no objections to
News Corp.’s offer. Unlike Seven, News Corp. doesn’t control a
free-to-air broadcaster in Australia.  Consolidated and News Corp. each own 25 percent of Foxtel
while  Telstra Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s biggest phone company, holds
the rest.  Stokes may instead decide to pay down debt and invest
further in Seven Group’s equipment services business, said
Anthony Passe de Silva, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Sydney.  “There are plenty of growth opportunities within the core
industrial services business,” he said, citing dealership
rights in  China  for Caterpillar Inc.’s Bucyrus mining equipment
business and a new service center in Australia’s Pilbara iron
ore region. “This gives them a bit more breathing room.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  