-- Tusk Wins Polish Confidence Vote After Pledge to Spur GDP
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2012-10-12T16:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/tusk-confronts-call-for-early-vote-as-opposition-surges.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk,
facing down a surging political opposition, won a parliamentary
confidence vote after pledging $95 billion in investments to
spur growth in the European Union’s biggest eastern economy.  Deputies in Warsaw voted 233 to 219 in the 460-seat lower
house to approve the confidence motion submitted by Tusk, the
first premier to serve a second term since communism ended in
1989. The win paves the way for Tusk to carry through with his
vow to spark  Poland ’s expansion, which slowed in the second
quarter to the  weakest pace  since 2009.  “Our goal is to protect growth so that not even one job is
lost,” Tusk said in a speech today in parliament marking his
reelection’s anniversary. “We will explore all ways to support
the economy and investment financing. No plan will undermine our
fiscal discipline.”  Two weeks after tens of thousands of Poles rallied in
Warsaw for an end to his government, Tusk used his speech to
outline a plan to pump 300 billion zloty ($95 billion) into
infrastructure and other investments through 2020. It came as
the opposition Law & Justice party grabbed the outright lead
over Tusk’s  Civic Platform  for the first time in seven years, a
TNS Polska poll showed on Oct. 5.  Early Elections  Tusk’s political opponents have called for early elections,
three years before the next general polls are due. While growth
is weakening, the economy is also enjoying its best bond rally
in five years, even after Tusk eased his deficit goals to
counter the slowdown. Poland’s 10-year bond yield was near a
seven-year low of 4.57 percent today.  The zloty depreciated 0.2 percent to 4.0999 per euro by
5:08 p.m. in Warsaw, extending this week’s loss to 0.4 percent.
That is the third-steepest drop among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  Indian rupee 
and the Czech koruna.  While foreign investors show trust in the country, Poles
are increasingly suffering. Unemployment at 12.4 percent and
bankruptcies at a seven-year high have given an opening to the
political opposition.  Warsaw Rally  Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the leader of Law & Justice, led a
rally of as many as 100,000 people in central Warsaw on Sept.
29, protesting rising living costs, joblessness and budget cuts.
The party also said it would submit a no-confidence motion
against the government and named sociology professor Piotr
Glinski as its candidate for prime minister.  “Unemployment is rising, companies are going bankrupt,
Poles are emigrating, and public institutions and services are
also in a crisis,” Glinski said on Oct. 1. “We keep hearing
about the crisis, but nothing is being done about it.”  While Poland’s economy expanded 4.3 percent last year and
was alone in the 27-nation EU to avoid a recession in 2009, its
ability to withstand the debt crisis gripping much of  Europe  is
waning. Gross domestic product  grew  2.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest since 2009. According
to revised government forecasts, the pace of expansion will ease
to 2.2 percent in 2013, almost half last year’s rate.  Deficit Goal  On Sept. 5, the government said it will overshoot its
deficit target, raising its estimate for this year’s shortfall
by half a percentage point to 3.5 percent of GDP and to 3
percent from 2.2 percent for 2013.  The changes reflect “a more realistic forecast of the
economy rather than any weakening in the Polish government’s
fiscal prudence,”  Fitch Ratings  said on Oct. 3.  In his speech, Tusk said the government will set up an
investment vehicle run by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, a state-
owned bank, to receive shares in the biggest state companies and
spend 90 billion zloty in investments in the next six years. He
pledged 50 billion zloty on developing shale-gas deposits and 60
billion zloty on energy and power, while about 100 billion zloty
will go to army projects. Road and railway development will also
continue.  No Debt  The plan won’t increase public debt, Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  told lawmakers. “Economic growth without financial
stability” is “the path  Greece  chose,” he said.  Kaczynski has argued that Poland must ramp up stimulus and
refrain from state-asset sales. He’s also stirred passions by
slamming Tusk for allowing  Russia  to lead a probe into the 2010
plane crash that killed his twin, former President  Lech Kaczynski , and 94 others.  Support for Law & Justice rose to 39 percent compared with
33 percent for Civic Platform, according to the TNS poll of
1,000 adults Oct. 3-5. It was the first such lead since general
elections in 2005. No margin of error was given.  Not Popular  Tusk, 55, acknowledges some policies outlined in his
inaugural speech last year haven’t been popular. He raised the
 retirement age  to 67 from 60 for women and from 65 for men, and
cut state contributions to pension funds. He also increased
disability taxes paid by employers, levies on copper and silver
extraction and excluded affluent families from some tax breaks.  “Poland needs a revolution to help families,” Tusk said
today, promising to extend parental leave to one year from the
current six months. He also said he’ll block any attempt to
raise labor costs.  Kaczynski is now seeking support from opposition groups to
dismiss the government, an effort that will require overturning
Tusk’s three-vote majority.  “Poles are waking up and beginning to change their mind,”
Kaczynski said at a press conference in Bialystok, eastern
Poland, on Oct. 6. “If the first no-confidence motion is
rejected, we’ll submit another one and another until people
realize we can’t wait three years to change the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  