-- Van Rompuy Says Euro to Stay Intact, Hails Narrower Bond Spreads
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-11T12:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/van-rompuy-says-euro-to-stay-intact-hails-narrower-bond-spreads.html
European Union President Herman Van Rompuy comments on the integrity of the 17-nation euro area and
confidence in the region as it seeks to overcome the three-year-
old debt crisis.  Van Rompuy, speaking at a conference today in Brussels,
also comments on a planned summit in November on the 2014-2020
EU-budget guidelines. Annual spending by the 27-nation EU is
about 1 percent of its gross domestic product.  On the euro’s integrity:  “A few weeks ago, or a few months ago, the discussion was
not about if the euro zone will break up but when. I don’t say
that this discussion is over, but I don’t read a lot on this
now. In some way, it is not real news anymore.”  “We will convince people only by our results. And it takes
more time than we thought. It takes more time than we
expected.”  “We will find a solution in the upcoming weeks so that the
euro zone will still be a euro zone with 17 member states and
that we could keep this integrity and keep the euro as an
irreversible project.”  “I am confident that we will keep the euro zone with 17
member states.”  On confidence in the euro:  “What I see more clearly around me in the last few days
and weeks is that people realize that we are heading somewhere
new.  “And even if the exact destination will depend on many
factors, there is an increasing confidence in the future of the
euro zone, a growing sense that we will get there.”  “Our union and the architecture of the euro zone look
already different today from how they did three years ago. And
this process of change is bound to continue further before of
course it stabilizes.  “Shaping this change together then is the driving
principle behind the actions of all European leaders. It is also
the principle behind the difficult but courageous reforms taking
place in the member states.”  “Every transition of this magnitude takes time. And some
member states’ economies were mismanaged for years or even
decades. Moreover, the euro zone did not have the tools to deal
with this crisis.”  “Growth and jobs are our main goals -- the rationale
driving all our efforts. But our success hangs on one key
condition: restoring economic confidence of consumers and
companies, which in turn requires the return to financial
stability and trust in our own currency.  “In this respect, the fact that spreads declined rather
spectacularly in the past weeks is a good sign. We are on the
right track. And we are working on three fronts.  “First, we need to keep reforming and to demonstrate
through actions and results that all European countries are
determined to remain among the most competitive in the world
whilst preserving social cohesion. The results are starting to
show.”  “Across  Europe  we already see a clear convergence for
public deficits, inflation, current account of the balance of
payments and competitiveness. Admittedly, there are divergences
in growth and employment figures. But we can overcome this in a
second stage.  “My second front: we must make sure that we are equipped
in a bullet-proof way to withstand short-term shocks. And here I
salute the launch of the European Stability Mechanism earlier
this week. It is the crown jewel in our tool kit.”  “Finally, the third front, we need a longer-term plan to
further reinforce our economic and monetary union.”  “Our immediate priority is progress on the banking sector.
The foreseen benefits are clear, both in terms of preventing
bank failures and protecting taxpayers.”  “At stake is breaking the vicious circle between banks and
the sovereigns. Our first aim is to agree in the upcoming months
on a single supervisory mechanism.”  On the EU’s planned budget for 2014-2020:  “I also want to make sure we activate all the growth
levers. It is not a huge budget; it’s only 1 percent of European
GDP. But it can have a big impact on future growth since it is
to a large extent an investment budget.  “I have dedicated a special summit in November to the
negotiations and my colleagues have already been warned it could
become the first three-shirter under my watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  