-- VMware CEO Sees New Cisco Relationship After Nicira Buy
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-10-11T22:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/vmware-ceo-sees-new-cisco-relationship-after-nicira-buy.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that enables computers to handle multiple operating
systems, said its partnership with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  will
change after its $1.26 billion acquisition of Nicira Inc.  Nicira makes software that helps networks run more
efficiently, an area where Cisco is dominant with hardware
sales. The industry is watching to see how the move to software-
based networking will impact Cisco, said VMware Chief Executive
Officer Pat Gelsinger in an interview this week.  Cisco, the largest maker of computer-networking gear, is
poised to face further competition and profit margin pressure
from technologies developed by Nicira, Arista Networks Inc., Big
Switch Networks Inc. and Cyan Inc. By helping businesses run
their networks more efficiently, such software reduces the need
for the devices that make up most of Cisco’s revenue.  “Does it change our relationship with Cisco? Well,
certainly, but we are reviewing this as a positive opportunity
to create more partnerships with them,” Gelsinger, who became
CEO of Palo Alto, California-based VMware in September, said in
Barcelona, Spain.  VMware plans to accelerate growth by expanding in software
for managing computer networks and storage devices, stepping up
competition with San Jose, California-based Cisco. Software such
as Nicira’s is designed to give technicians a faster and more
efficient way to manage network changes and monitor them from
one place.  Dominant Player  VMware is majority owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC) , which has a  joint
venture  called VCE Co. with investment from VMware and  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to sell software and equipment to large businesses.  Nicira is “tiny” in terms of revenue and the virtual
networking space is only “a few million dollars of revenue,”
Gelsinger said. There has been “an explosion in interest” in
the area after the acquisition, according to the executive.
“Obviously we hit a nerve,” he said, adding the company could
cause a “very large potential disruption.”  “Of course, everybody looks at it as, ‘Okay, how does it
affect Cisco?’,” Gelsinger said, adding that the company would
continue to develop virtual networking technology with Cisco.
“Cisco is a 70 percent share player so there’s particular
interest.”  Gelsinger said he would also use VMware’s roughly $4
billion of  cash  to pursue acquisitions that could help it to
develop what it calls the software-defined data center,
including security, networking, storage, availability or
automation, he said.  “I have plenty of money, that’s not the limitation,”
Gelsinger said, adding that it was about finding companies that
fit VMware’s strategy. “We’ve proved it with Nicira, we’ll pay
what it takes to get the right deal done.”  Tough Market  Along with companies such as Intel and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
Gelsinger said the next few months will be difficult in the
technology space as companies seek ways to conserve cash.  “We certainly see that there’s a tough market,” he said.
“Overall, business conditions are hard. Chief information
officers are very careful with their budget. They’re making
decisions very late in the quarter and they’re looking very,
very hard at their investments and scrutinizing them harder than
they have been in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  