-- Vodka Billionaire Spooking Bondholders on Talks: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2012-10-11T10:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/vodka-billionaire-spooking-bondholders-on-talks-poland-credit.html
Central European Distribution
Corp. (CDC) ’s borrowing costs are hitting a four-week high on concern
revived takeover talks with Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko
will result in less favorable terms for the Polish vodka maker.  The yield on CEDC’s 430 million euros ($557 million) of
bonds due 2016 soared 241 basis points this week, after the
company restated earnings on Oct. 6, to 22.57 percent yesterday,
the highest since Sept. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average yield of 4.86 percent
on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging market  consumer  industry
corporate bond gauge and 7.21 percent on the bank’s  high yield 
index for developing nations’ company debt.  Negotiations resumed after CEDC, which has distilleries in
 Poland  and Russia, revised down its financial statements for
2010 and 2011 and said in a Oct. 6 regulatory  filing  to the
Warsaw stock exchange that it has exceeded “certain
thresholds” in its strategic agreement with Tariko’s Moscow-
based Russian Standard Corp. New talks risk a revision to the
agreement the maker of the Zelyonaya Marka, Bols and Zubrowka
vodka brands signed in July with Tariko to enable it to repay
$310 million of convertible bonds due on March 15.  “The fact that CEDC is once again back at the negotiating
table may be another source of uncertainty for investors,”
Jakub Krawczyk, a Vienna-based analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank
AG, said in e-mail on Oct. 9. “Tariko now has the upper hand
and will try to improve the terms of the deal for himself.”  Strategic Alliance  Anna Zaluska, a spokeswoman at CEDC, and Oleg Yegorov, a
spokesman for Russian Standard, both declined to comment when
contacted by e-mails yesterday.  CEDC signed a “strategic alliance” with Russian Standard,
whose Roust Trading unit plans to purchase as much as $210
million of CEDC’s  notes  as well as new and existing shares in
the vodka producer, CEDC said in July. The Mt. Laurel, New
Jersey-based company said on Feb. 29 that it may default on its
bonds after losing out on rule changes in the Russian vodka
market, the biggest in the world for the clear tipple.  The restarted negotiations between CEDC and Tariko,
 Russia ’s 65th-wealthiest man, according to Forbes, “could
result in additional dilution for minorities in favor of Russian
Standard,” Renaissance Capital analysts Ulyana Lenvalskaya and
Natasza Zagvozdina, wrote in a note on Oct. 9.  Convertible Bonds  Tariko may seek to decrease the price at which Russian
Standard exchanges its investments in CEDC’s convertible bonds
into the company’s shares, Anton Farlenkov and Yulia Gerasimova,
analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a note on Oct. 9.  The company has struggled to regain Russian licenses after
the authorities last year approved laws to restrict advertising
for liquor, banned alcohol sales in stores after 11 p.m., raised
excise taxes from Jan. 1 and forced companies to reapply for
permits in an attempt lower consumption.  CEDC revised down net income by $31.6 million in 2010 and
$33.4 million in 2011 after an internal investigation regarding
“retroactive rebates, trade marketing expenses and related
accounting issues,” according to the regulatory filing. Its
second-quarter net loss widened to $93.6 million from a $3.3
million loss a year earlier, the company said.  Business Development  “Its business outlook is weak and CEDC’s revised results
don’t add any optimism,” Raiffeisen’s Krawczyk said. “In such
an environment, even Tariko doesn’t guarantee success,
especially as we don’t know how he will manage the company.”  CEDC notes have returned 3.5 percent this year, compared
with 5.7 percent for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Consumer Non-cyclical Index of bonds including distillers  Diageo
Plc (DGE)  and  Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on CEDC’s 2016 euro notes, which fell to
21.55 percent at 12 p.m. in Warsaw, hit this year’s high of
24.07 percent on Sept. 7, the data show.  “Having completed the restatement process, we can now
fully focus on the further development of our business and
continuing discussions toward moving forward with the alliance
with the Russian Standard,”  David Bailey , CEDC’s interim chief
executive officer, said in a statement on Oct. 8.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Poland’s dollar
bonds rather than  U.S. Treasuries  increased one basis point to
140 today, JPMorgan‘s EMBI Global index shows. The spread
between Poland’s 10-year zloty bond and German bunds narrowed
three basis points to 308. The zloty weakened 0.2 percent to
4.1016 against the euro, paring this year’s gains to 8.9
percent, the data show.  Default Swaps  Poland’s credit-default swaps grew one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 96 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The swaps cost 112 basis points less than the average
for countries in eastern  Europe , the Middle East and Africa that
are included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, compared
with an average difference of 78 basis points in the first half
of this year. The default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash if a government
or company fails to comply with debt agreements.  Russian Standard “will take the opportunity to further
increase” its stake in CEDC during the negotiations and “this
may over time turn out to be positive for the credit case,”
Martin Svaerdborg, an analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, wrote in a
research note on Oct. 10. He maintained a buy recommendation for
the company’s 2016 euro notes and dollar-denominated notes. “We
point out, that it’s a very risky investment,” he wrote.  Negative Outlook  The agreement with Tariko may be amended to issuing more
shares for the Russian investors or “effectively” give more
control to him, Magdalena Komaracka, a Warsaw-based analyst at
Ipopema Securities SA, wrote in a research note on Oct. 9. The
agreement with Tariko is “very likely” to remain as CEDC
doesn’t have “many other alternatives concerning refinancing of
convertibles, which will mature in half a year,” she wrote.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded CEDC’s  rating  by one
level to Caa2, eight steps below investment grade, while keeping
its negative outlook, according to an Oct. 5 statement.  The negative outlook reflects the “ongoing uncertainty”
related to CEDC’s “future capital structure, including its
refinancing plans,” and the “difficulties experienced in
Russia,” Paolo Leschiutta, a senior credit officer at Moody’s,
said in the statement. CEDC shares have tumbled 40 percent in
Warsaw  this year  and 37 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “The key focus for investors remains the strategic
partnership with Russian Standard, the company’s future strategy
and detailed action plan for the improvement of operating
performance,” Goldman Sachs’ Farlenkov and Gerasimova wrote in
their research note this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  