-- Wallabies’ Sharpe Defers Rugby Retirement Again to Tour Europe
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-11T05:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/wallabies-sharpe-defers-rugby-retirement-again-to-tour-europe.html
Nathan Sharpe  will play on
Australia’s rugby tour to Europe next month after the Wallabies’
most-experienced forward deferred his retirement for the second
time this year.  Sharpe, a 34-year-old second-row forward, made himself
available for four more matches following a request from the
Australian Rugby Union’s Chief Executive Officer, John O’Neill,
and Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans , the ARU said in a statement.  Sharpe had originally planned to retire at the end of the
Super Rugby season before agreeing to play through the inaugural
Rugby Championship and next week’s final Bledisloe Cup match
against New Zealand. He took over as team captain following
injuries to  David Pocock  and Will Genia, the back-ups to first-
choice skipper  James Horwill , who hasn’t played since May.  “From a playing perspective he’s been world-class
throughout 2012,” O’Neill said. “The way he’s taken to the
leadership in the face of adversity with the side losing three
previous captains to injury has been magnificent.”  Sharpe has played 111 Tests for Australia, a record for a
forward, and led the injury-ravaged team to second place in the
inaugural Rugby Championship behind winner New Zealand.  The Wallabies face the All Blacks in Brisbane on Oct. 20
before departing for Europe, where they play France, England and
Italy on successive Saturdays in November. Sharpe’s final match
is scheduled to be the Dec. 1 Test against  Wales  in Cardiff.  “The opportunity to lead the Wallabies again on what will
be a challenging but exciting tour was too tempting,” Sharpe
said. “It is not easy to say no to your country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  