-- Why Grooms Wear Wedding Bands but Not Engagement Rings
-- B y   V i c k i   H o w a r d
-- 2012-10-11T15:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/why-grooms-wear-wedding-bands-but-not-engagement-rings.html
In the 1930s, Fortune magazine
called weddings a “depression-proof” business; these days, the
term is “recession resistant.” That isn’t exactly true, but
there’s no denying that the U.S. wedding industry is big
business today: Even in a sluggish economy, the average cost of
a wedding in 2011 was $26,501,  according to  a Brides magazine
survey.  Much of the debt incurred by marriage-bound couples and
their families stems directly from a desire to follow tradition
-- to purchase the goods and services necessary for a “proper”
wedding. But many of these traditions are actually relatively
new: They were invented by businesses using shrewd advertising
campaigns, promotions and consumer “education” programs.  One such invention is the practice of exchanging rings.  Jewelers were the first to conceptualize a bridal market,
consciously targeting those about to marry, starting in the
1920s. Their trade press tracked marriage rates and licenses,
advising on the best months for promotions. Jewelry merchants
sought the business of brides with themed window displays, tie-
in advertising campaigns and gift registries that tracked china
and silverware patterns.  Ritual Goods  Increasingly innovative, jewelers introduced matching
engagement-ring and wedding-band sets for the bride, which cost
more than individual items sold separately. To reverse declining
sales in the 1930s, De Beers, the international diamond cartel,
hired the N.W. Ayer advertising agency. The diamond industry ran
sophisticated ads that not only promoted the bride’s diamond
engagement-ring tradition, but also pushed higher carat and more
costly stones.  Jewelry manufacturers also began to advertise brand-name
diamond engagement rings with names such as “Rings o’ Romance”
or “Token o’ Love.” To sell these ritual goods, the industry’s
trade journal, the  Jewelers’ Circular Keystone , advised
retailers and manufacturers to “trade on tradition” and use
sentiment as their “star salesman.”  At first, jewelers in this period made their sales appeals
largely to women, as the groom and the father of the bride had
long been seen as reluctant consumers. Seeking to expand their
traditional market, they soon attempted to get American men
interested in rings of their own.  Manufacturers and retailers first united in 1926 to promote
a “modern expression of an ancient custom” -- the male
engagement ring. Manufacturers employed radio advertising and
sent newspaper electrotypes for thematic window displays to
retailers across the country. The campaign sought to create a
network of jewelers that would work cooperatively to put “this
immense idea into the public consciousness.” Ads sought to make
men’s engagement rings seem like a masculine object, made of
rugged materials for “he-men.” Moreover, ad copy made clear they
didn’t challenge male prerogative. Women weren’t intended to pop
the question, but were only to acquire the ring after the man
proposed.  The campaign failed. For the most part, “getting engaged”
remained something that happened to women. The industry didn’t
give up, though. At least one entrepreneurial jeweler sought to
revive the “ancient” custom in the 1950s with a men’s
“acceptance ring.” In recent years, there have been further
efforts to develop new markets with the “man-gagement ring.”  A New Tradition  While engagement rings never became traditional for men,
the groom’s band did. Before World War II, the vast majority of
husbands in the U.S. didn’t wear a wedding band. In 1930, the
jewelers’ trade press even felt the need to justify the groom’s
band as a “real man’s ring.” Organized campaigns led by ring
manufacturers and the jewelry industry’s trade association --
which included successfully lobbying the government to lift
wartime restrictions on gold -- changed this very quickly.  During the war, the Jewelry Industry Publicity Board
campaigned widely to promote “the story of the double-ring
service.” Using radio, movies and newsreels, they reached a
broad audience, and the campaign worked: By 1943, about 80
percent of couples wanted to have a double-ring ceremony. After
debating it into the early 1950s, even the Catholic Church
decided to accommodate the new custom by blessing two rings in
wedding masses.  Hollywood was also helping popularize the tradition.
Manufacturers had used tie-in advertising since the 1920s when
Bristol Seamless Ring Co. featured a movie still of a wedding
scene to promote matching bride and groom bands. In the context
of the post-World War II marriage boom and the expansion of
middle-class affluence, jewelers had more success. In 1946,
Humphrey Bogart chose to wear his first groom’s ring when he
married for the fourth and final time to Lauren Bacall.
Actresses Ann Blyth and Shirley Temple also publicized the
tradition.  The jewelry industry’s successful campaigns for the groom’s
band took place in a particular window of consumer readiness
that hadn’t existed before. Relations between the sexes and
ideas of the family were changing, as postwar domestic ideology
evolved. During the Cold War, families were “homeward bound,” as
historian Elaine Tyler May has argued. In this context, perhaps
more men were willing to “look married” by wearing a band on
their left hand. A wedding band embodied the new social value
placed on “togetherness” in the postwar era, when couples
increasingly socialized and shopped together across the suburban
landscape.  But togetherness had its limits: Male engagement rings
failed to catch on in the 1950s, and never did.  (Vicki Howard is an associate professor of history at
Hartwick College and the author of “Brides, Inc.: American
Weddings and the Business of Tradition.” The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Vicki Howard at
 HowardV@hartwick.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 