-- Workers Reject South Africa Gold Mines’ Pay Plan, Union Says
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-11T17:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/workers-snub-south-africa-gold-mines-wage-plan-union-says-1-.html
Members of South Africa’s biggest
union rejected a proposal by gold producers to raise wages in a
bid to end a wave of strikes, as Anglo American Plc said a
platinum worker was killed at a site disrupted by stoppages.  Employees who belong to the  National Union of Mineworkers 
didn’t accept the offer, spokesman  Lesiba Seshoka  said in a text
message in response to a query today.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  had offered an
additional 2 percent increase on top of an earlier agreement,
and Harmony Gold Mining Co. 1.5 percent, Elize Strydom, chief
negotiator at the Chamber of Mines, which represents the
companies in wage talks, said yesterday. The entry-level worker
category would be eliminated in the proposal, meaning the
lowest-paid miners would move up to the next band.  About 41 percent of South Africa’s gold output is idled,
including all of AngloGold’s mines. Two Gold Fields sites were
halted after workers walked out without heeding resolution
procedures set out by  labor laws , while miners have been absent
from Harmony’s Kusasalethu operation since at least Oct. 3.  President  Jacob Zuma  said the mining strikes are having a
“significant” impact on an economy already struggling to cope
with Europe’s debt crisis. The National Treasury estimates that
total production lost in platinum and gold mining as of the
middle of September was about 4.5 billion rand ($518 million),
with 118 million rand lost in coal, Zuma said in a speech to
black businessmen in Johannesburg today.  Offer Extended  The mines chamber has extended the offer, which was to
expire today, until Oct. 15, when the parties will meet again,
Strydom said after meeting with union representatives. The
proposals haven’t changed.  Gold advanced 0.4 percent to $1,770.15 an ounce by 6:08
p.m. in  London .  Village Main Reef Ltd. (VIL) , a gold producer where most of the
1,700 workers who are NUM members have been on an unofficial
strike since Sept. 27 at its Blyvoor operation, gave workers a
second ultimatum to report for duty, it said in a statement.
Blyvoor’s output “will be negatively affected during the
December quarter as a result of continued illegal  strike
action ,” it said.  Most of Anglo American’s platinum mines and its Kumba Iron
Ore Ltd. unit’s Sishen iron-ore complex are also shut because of
strikes. Talks to end the strike at Sishen have failed, the NUM
and the Congress of South African Trade Unions said today in an
e-mailed statement. Kumba has appointed an outside mediator.  Burning Taxis  Xstrata Plc’s Eland platinum mine and Samancor Ltd.’s
chrome operations have been disrupted as workers seek more pay.  A man was burned alive and another suffered a gunshot wound
when around 400 people held an illegal gathering near Anglo’s
Bathopele platinum operation at Nkaneng near Rustenburg, police
spokesman Dennis Adriao said by phone.  “We think the crowd are burning taxis so as to stop miners
from entering the mine and going to work,” he said.  Anglo American (AAL)  said in a statement an Anglo American
Platinum Ltd. employee was murdered on his way to work at a
tailings re-treatment plant. The company on Oct. 5 fired 12,000
workers for participating in unofficial strike.  Police dispersed a group blocking a road to  Gold One
International Ltd. (GDO) ’s Ezulwini mine yesterday, Grant Stuart, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail today. The 1,435 workers
fired at the site, which was calm today, have until tomorrow to
appeal their termination, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  