-- Workday Surges in First Day of Trading After IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-10-12T20:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/workday-raises-637-million-in-ipo-pricing-shares-above-range.html
Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a maker of Web-based
human-resources programs, jumped 74 percent in its trading debut
after raising $637 million in its initial public offering,
pricing the shares above an increased range.  The shares advanced to $48.69 in New York, for a valuation
of $7.8 billion. They earlier reached a high of $51.37.
Yesterday Workday sold 22.8 million shares for $28 each, after
boosting the price range earlier this week to $24 to $26. The
IPO was the biggest technology offering since  Facebook Inc. (FB)  went
public in May, raising $16 billion.  With today’s surge, Workday is valued at 39 times revenue
over the past 12 months. That compares with a price-to-sales
ratio of 8 for  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and 23 for  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW) ,
which both deliver cloud-based software.  Workday was founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executive Officers
Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, both former top executives at
human-resources software pioneer PeopleSoft Inc. They sold the
company to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  that same year for more than $10
billion.  “Investors are betting that lightning will strike twice
for Duffield,” said Sam Hamadeh, CEO of PrivCo, a  New York- 
based firm that tracks private companies. “It’s definitely
worth a premium, but the multiple is far higher than its
peers.”  Revenue at Workday doubled in the second quarter to $62.7
million. The company spent 85 percent of that on research,
development, sales and marketing, leading to wider net loss of
$26.9 million from a $20.5 million loss a year earlier.  Bigger Clients  Workday’s software, accessed via Web browsers, tablets and
smartphones, is used by more than 340 customers, which are
choosing the cloud-based model over older systems tied to single
machines. Workday’s share of the $15 billion human resource
software market could increase more than fivefold in the next
three to five years, Mark Murphy, an analyst at Piper Jaffray &
Co., estimated in a report.  “Workday is emerging as a force to be reckoned with,”
Murphy wrote.  Murphy’s analysis was based on a survey of 125 managers of
human resources systems. He predicts Pleasanton, California-
based Workday will take sales from companies including  Automatic
Data Processing Inc. (ADP) , Lawson Software Inc. and Ceridian Corp.
The company already has replaced Oracle and SAP AG at businesses
including Flextronics International Ltd., Kimberly-Clark Corp.,
Sun Life Financial Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed the
offering. The shares, representing 14 percent of the stock
outstanding after the IPO, are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker WDAY.  Based on Workday’s share price and wealth that Duffield
accumulated from PeopleSoft, he is now worth about $4.5 billion.
Greylock Partners, a Menlo Park, California-based venture firm,
was the top outside investor in Workday with an 11 percent stake
and didn’t plan to sell shares in the IPO, according to the
prospectus. New Enterprise Associates planned to keep its 10
percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  