-- Workday Commands IPO Premium With Web Challenge to Oracle
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/workday-commands-ipo-premium-with-web-challenge-to-oracle.html
Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a maker of Web-based
payroll and human resources programs, is betting it deserves a
higher valuation than all other business software providers to
hit the public markets in the past year.  The company plans to raise as much as $591.5 million in its
initial public offering today. The middle of the $24 to $26
price range values Workday at $4 billion, about 20 times sales
in the past four quarters. That’s a richer valuation than any of
the 13 U.S. business software companies to go public since late
2011 had at their IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The higher valuation reflects confidence in Workday’s
ability to grow by targeting large corporations -- recent wins
include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  -- putting it in
direct competition with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Before founding Workday in
2005, co-Chief Executive Officers Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri
were top executives at PeopleSoft, the HR software company
Oracle bought that same year in a hostile takeover.  “The revenue momentum, the bookings momentum -- there’s no
doubt in a lot of peoples’ minds that this is a market-leading
company,” said Kevin  Spain , a general partner at Emergence
Capital Partners in  San Mateo ,  California , which invests in Web-
software businesses. “That obviously drives a premium.”  Workday’s  revenue  in the second quarter doubled to $62.7
million. The company spent 85 percent of that on research,
development, sales and marketing, leading to wider net loss of
$26.9 million from a $20.5 million loss a year earlier.  The shares are scheduled to price today and trade tomorrow
under the ticker WDAY.  Gaining Traction  Workday’s software, accessed via Web browsers, tablets and
smartphones, is used by more than 340 customers, which are
choosing the cloud-based model over older systems tied to single
machines. Unlike many software-as-a-service (SaaS) companies,
which tend to target small- to medium-sized customers, Workday
is aiming for installations at the largest businesses.  Workday’s valuation is three times as rich as the average
of the past 13 business software IPOs. The most expensive
previously was ServiceNow Inc., whose online tools automate
services such as HR and financial management, followed by
network security provider  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  They had
price-to-sales ratios of 15 and 13, respectively, and both have
soared since their stock market debuts. ServiceNow has almost
doubled, while Palo Alto Networks is up 46 percent.  Big Wins  Mark Murphy , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., estimated
in a report that Workday’s share of the $15 billion human
resource software market could increase more than fivefold to
17.6 percent in the next three to five years from 3.2 percent.
Murphy’s analysis was based on a survey of 125 managers of human
resources systems. He predicts Workday will take sales from
companies including  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP) , Lawson
Software Inc. and Ceridian Corp.  “Workday is emerging as a force to be reckoned with,”
Murphy wrote.  The company has replaced Oracle and  SAP AG (SAP)  at businesses
including Flextronics International Ltd.,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) ,
Sun Life Financial Inc. and Lenovo Group Ltd.  Workday recently signed a deal with Google to supply HR
tools for tens of thousands of employees, supplanting parts of
Google’s home-grown human resources software. Hewlett-Packard
CEO  Meg Whitman  told Wall Street analysts Oct. 3 the company is
standardizing its HR systems on Workday.  One Vendor  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) , the family-history research website,
implemented Workday in July, as the company was looking for a
single system to handle payroll, accounting and talent review
instead of the hodgepodge it had been using. The company chose
Workday for its 1,000 employees because it was the best equipped
to work in multiple countries and was easy for everyone to
access, said Jeff Weber, a senior vice president at Provo, Utah-
based Ancestry.  “It’s one vendor with one common application, one
interface and one log-in,” Weber said. “It’s so much easier
for employees to remember and get into.”  Some of the largest IT consulting companies are taking
notice, building up practices dedicated to Workday
installations.  Mark Willford , a managing director at  Accenture
Plc , said customers running older Oracle business applications
now face a choice whether to upgrade to Oracle’s new Fusion
programs, or switch to  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and Workday.  “That’s where the battle will be,” he said in an
interview. “It’s one vendor versus best of breed.”  Turf Battle  SAP and Oracle are moving to defend their turf. Earlier
this year, SAP  acquired  online talent management software maker
SuccessFactors Inc. for $3.4 billion, gaining tools that help
companies find, keep and promote the right people.  Oracle countered, purchasing rival Taleo Corp. for about
$1.9 billion. At Oracle’s OpenWorld conference this month,
Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  said businesses would be better served
buying his cloud-computing software, which he said could deliver
processing power, applications and databases online.  “We’re the only cloud company that delivers technology at
all three levels of the cloud,” he said. “If you’re just an
application company, you’re going to have a problem.”  Competition between Oracle and Workday is also personal.
Duffield and Bhusri were at PeopleSoft when Ellison orchestrated
the hostile takeover. The process lasted 18 months with Oracle
purchasing PeopleSoft for $10.3 billion. Emergence Capital’s
Spain, who isn’t an investor in Workday, doesn’t expect to see a
repeat ending.  “Duffield wants to build a big independent business,”
Spain said. “He’s not going to settle for building a public
company and turning around and selling it. He wants to go for
the long ball.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  