-- Yankees Beat Orioles in 12 Innings, A’s Tie Tigers in MLB
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-11T15:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/yankees-top-orioles-in-12-innings-a-s-tie-tigers-in-mlb-series.html
Raul Ibanez pinch-hit a game-tying
home run in the ninth inning and won it with another homer in
the 12th as the New York Yankees took a 2-1 lead in their Major
League Baseball playoff series against the Baltimore Orioles.  The 3-2 home victory last night leaves the Yankees needing
one win to advance to the American League Championship Series
against the  Detroit  Tigers or the Oakland Athletics. The A’s
scored three runs in the ninth inning to win 4-3 last night in
Oakland and force a decisive fifth game in that division series.  Ibanez, 40, hit his game-tying homer as a replacement for
Alex Rodriguez, the MLB active leader in home runs who is fifth
on the career list with 647. Rodriguez, 37, who has a MLB-high
salary of $29 million this year, is 1-for-12 this postseason and
has not hit a homer since Sept. 14.  “Raul had some kind of day for us today, and you have to
make some decisions sometimes that are tough,” Yankees manager
Joe Girardi said of his move to pinch-hit for Rodriguez. “But I
just had a gut feeling.”  In the National League, the San Francisco Giants forced a
decisive fifth game today in Cincinnati by winning 8-3 yesterday
against the Reds. The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the
 Washington  Nationals 8-0 to take a 2-1 lead in that series, with
Game 4 today in Washington.  New York can eliminate Baltimore with a win today at Yankee
Stadium. If the Orioles win, a decider would be played tomorrow
in New York.  The Yankees are now 11-4 favorites to win the World Series,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, with the
Cardinals at 9-2, followed by the Reds and Tigers at 5-1. The
Giants and Athletics have 7-1 odds, while the Nationals are 9-1
and the Orioles are listed at 22-1.  Yankees Comeback  Orioles starting pitcher Miguel Gonzalez held the Yankees
to one run on five hits in seven innings. Darren O’Day pitched a
perfect eighth inning for the Orioles and the Yankees trailed
2-1 going into the ninth.  With one out, Ibanez hit his homer off Jim Johnson, the
loser of Game 1 in this series. Johnson had a MLB-leading 51
saves this season. Ibanez’s game-winning home run came off Brian Matusz.  “We stayed after it,” said Ibanez, who became the first
player in MLB postseason history to hit two homers in a game he
did not start. “I’m blessed to have the opportunity to come up
like that.”  Ibanez’s performance was similar to one he had on Oct. 2,
on the next-to-last day of the regular season, as the Yankees
were trying to hold off the Orioles in the AL East.  He had a pinch-hit two-run homer in the ninth inning of
that game against the Boston Red Sox, then won the game with a
run-scoring single in the 12th. The win prevented the Orioles
from tying the Yankees atop the division.  Jeter’s Injury  The loss ended a streak of 16 straight extra-inning wins
for the Orioles. Rookies Ryan Flaherty and Manny Machado hit
solo home runs for Baltimore’s runs. The Yankees scored their
first run on a triple by Derek Jeter, who left the game in the
ninth inning with a bone bruise to his left foot.  “It’s very hard to do what these young men do for a
living,” Orioles manager Buck Showalter said in a news
conference. “It doesn’t always work out perfectly. It’s
happened at times during the year, and it’s part of the
process.”  In Oakland, Seth Smith had a two-run double in the ninth
inning to tie the game and Coco Crisp won it with a run-scoring
single. All the runs came off Detroit reliever Jose Valverde.  The A’s have won a MLB-high 15 games in their last at-bat
at home this year.  ‘Greatest Game’  “It’s a contagious feeling in our dugout,” Oakland
manager Bob Melvin said in a news conference. “There’s a
confidence. We’ve done it so many times that there’s always
going to be that confidence until we make the last out.”  The A’s have won two straight at home after losing the
first two games of the series in Detroit. Game 5 is tonight in
Oakland.  “You get tested all the time in this game, and this is a
good test,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland said in a news
conference. “We played our hearts out and tonight we just
didn’t close it out.”  In Cincinnati, the Giants got home runs from Angel Pagan,
Gregor Blanco and Pablo Sandoval as they evened their NL
Division Series at two games apiece. San Francisco lost the
first two games at home before taking two straight in
Cincinnati, the site of Game 5.  The Giants are trying to become the first NL team to rally
from a 2-0 deficit to win a division series. Four American
League teams have staged such a comeback.  Matt Cain, who had a perfect game this season, will start
for San Francisco against Cincinnati’s Mat Latos.  Carpenter’s Performance  “It’s probably hard for them to believe that we were up
2-0,” Reds manager Dusty Baker said in a news conference. “So
they reversed on us what we did to them out there. It won’t
matter, if we win tomorrow, how many games you were up.”  Pete Kozma hit a three-run homer as the Cardinals won the
first postseason game in Washington since 1933. St. Louis
starter Chris Carpenter allowed seven hits in 5 2/3 innings for
his first win since Game 7 of last year’s World Series.  “I’m just real excited to have this opportunity,” said
Carpenter, who missed most of the season after having surgery to
correct nerve damage in his shoulder. “I’m in my fourth spring-
training start, but I’m doing it under the lights in the
postseason.”  Carpenter, 37, who went 0-2 this season while being limited
to 17 innings, became the first starting pitcher in major league
history to win a playoff game following a season in which his
team was winless when he pitched. The Cardinals lost all three
of his 2012 starts.  Carpenter, a three-time All-Star, was the 2005 NL Cy Young
Award winner as the league’s best pitcher. He got the win as the
Cardinals defeated the Texas Rangers in the final game of the
2011 World Series.  “It’s unreal, he’s a monster, he’s just a warrior out
there,” Cardinals third baseman David Freese said in a radio
interview. “He’s not all the way back, and that’s impressive.
He’s not throwing as hard. He just got it done tonight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  