-- Yankees Top Orioles in 12 Innings to Lead MLB Playoff Series 2-1
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-11T03:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/yankees-top-orioles-in-n-y-take-2-1-lead-in-mlb-playoff-series.html
Raul Ibanez  hit two home runs as the
New York Yankees won 3-2 in extra innings to take a 2-1 lead in
their Major League Baseball playoff series against the Baltimore
Orioles.  Ibanez pinch-hit a homer in the bottom of the ninth to tie
the game 2-2 and send it into extra innings. He then led off the
12th inning with a game-winning home run. Ibanez was hitting for
 Alex Rodriguez , who is 1-for-12 so far this postseason.  “It’s a great experience,” Ibanez said in a televised
interview. “I’m blessed to have the opportunity to come up like
that.”  The loss ended a streak of 16 straight extra-inning wins
for the Orioles. The Yankees can oust Baltimore with a home win
tomorrow in the best-of-five American League Division Series. If
the Orioles win, a decisive fifth game would be the following
day in New York.  Ibanez’s performance was similar to one he had on Oct. 2,
on the next-to-last day of the regular season, as the Yankees
were trying to hold off the Orioles in the AL East.  He had a pinch-hit two-run homer in the ninth inning of
that game against the  Boston Red Sox , then won the game with a
run-scoring single in the 12th. The win prevented the Orioles
from tying the Yankees atop the division.  Rookies Ryan Flaherty and Manny Machado hit solo home runs
tonight for the Orioles. The Yankees also scored on a run-
scoring triple by  Derek Jeter , who left the game in the ninth
inning with a left foot injury.  The series winner will play the  Detroit Tigers  or the
Oakland Athletics for a spot in the  World Series . The Tigers
lead 2-1 in that series, with Game 4 tonight in Oakland.  In the National League, the  San Francisco  Giants forced a
decisive fifth game tomorrow in Cincinnati by winning 8-3
against the Reds. The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the
Washington Nationals 8-0 today to take a 2-1 lead in their
series.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  