-- Yen Weaker on U.S. Stability Signs; Singapore Dollar Up
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-12T07:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/yen-stays-lower-versus-peers-on-signs-of-u-s-stability.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against the euro as signs that the U.S. economy is stabilizing
curbed demand for the safest assets.  Japan’s currency slid against all of 16 major peers track
by Bloomberg before data today that analysts said will show U.S.
 consumer confidence  was near the strongest since May. The euro
headed for a weekly drop against the dollar before figures that
may show European industrial production shrank in August.
Singapore’s dollar rose after the city state’s monetary
authority kept policy unchanged.  “There are certainly some signs of improvement in terms of
U.S. data,” said Robert Rennie, chief currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “Market sentiment is pretty
stable at the moment.”  The yen weakened 0.5 percent to 101.77 per euro as of 8:32
a.m.  London  time. It slipped 0.2 percent to 78.46 per dollar.
The 17-nation euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.2974, still
headed for a 0.5 percent decline this week.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares rose for the first
time in five days, climbing 0.4 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  sentiment  index
was at 78 in October, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before a preliminary
reading of the U.S. confidence measure is released today. That
would be little changed from September’s final reading of 78.3.  Jobless Claims  Labor Department figures yesterday showed initial
applications for jobless benefits in the world’s largest economy
fell 30,000 to 339,000 in the week ended Oct. 6, the fewest in
more than four years.  The yen touched 77.95 per dollar yesterday, the strongest
level since Oct. 1. The Japanese currency has appreciated 3.7
percent over the past six months, the best performance among the
10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 1.9 percent and the dollar rose
0.2 percent in the same period.  Japan ’s Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said yesterday he
told his Group-of-Seven counterparts that the strength of the
yen is hurting the nation’s economy and that countries should
cooperate on foreign exchange if necessary. A stronger yen makes
Japanese products pricier overseas and erodes domestic
exporters’ earnings when repatriated.  Singapore Policy  Singapore’s dollar climbed against all of its 16 major
counterparts. The nation’s central bank unexpectedly announced
today that it would leave monetary policy unchanged, as
inflation risks trump worries over a shrinking economy.  “This policy stance is assessed to be  appropriate  in
containing inflationary pressures and keeping the economy on a
path of restructuring towards sustainable growth,” the Monetary
Authority of  Singapore  said today in a statement following its
semi-annual exchange-rate review. There will be no change to the
slope and width of the local currency’s trading band that the
MAS uses as its main policy tool, the bank said. The level at
which it is centered will also remain unchanged, the MAS said.  The Singapore dollar rose 0.5 percent to S$1.2216 versus
its U.S. counterpart. It has advanced 6.2 percent this year, the
best performance after the Mexican peso among the greenback’s 16
major counterparts.  Industrial Production  Industrial output in the euro area dropped 0.4 percent in
August from July, when it gained a revised 0.5 percent, a
Bloomberg poll of economists showed. The European Union’s
statistics office is scheduled to release the figures today.  Standard & Poor’s this week downgraded Spain to BBB-, one
level above junk, adding to pressure on the debt-saddled
nation’s government to seek a sovereign bailout. The move would
make it possible for the European Central Bank to buy Spain’s
bonds to contain borrowing costs under a new program to stem the
euro region’s debt crisis.  Spanish 10-year  bonds  yielded 5.74 percent today. The rate
has dropped from the euro-era record of 7.75 percent reached in
July to as low as 5.55 percent after ECB President Mario Draghi
said the central bank is ready to do “whatever it takes” to
preserve the euro.  While the ECB unveiled an unlimited debt-purchase program
on Sept. 6, Spain’s Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has held off on
a decision about whether to request aid, a condition the ECB
insists on. EU leaders will hold a two-day  summit  in Brussels
starting Oct. 18.  “There is some buying of the euro as investors speculated
the S&P downgrade may hasten Spain’s request for a bailout,”
said Noriaki Murao, New York-based managing director of the
marketing group at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit
of Japan’s biggest financial group by market value. “The
markets will be watching if any progress is made at the EU
summit on both the Spanish and Greek situations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 