-- Lynas Slumps After Court Ruling Delays Output: Sydney Mover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-10-11T06:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/lynas-slumps-after-court-ruling-delays-output-sydney-mover.html
Lynas Corp. (LYC) , the Australian company
developing the world’s largest rare-earth refinery in  Malaysia ,
fell the most in more than a year after a court ruling further
delayed production.  The stock fell 15 percent to 73 cents at the close in
Sydney, its biggest drop since Sept. 26, 2011, after the Kuantan
High Court adjourned until Nov. 8 an application by a protest
group to dismiss government approval for the plant.  The decision is the latest setback for Lynas, whose plant
has been held up by protests and legal delays amid community
concern over radiation risks. Deutsche Bank AG cut its rating on
the stock to sell from hold after the ruling, saying the delay
will place pressure on the company’s funding.  “Lynas will need additional funds to get it through to
first cash flows,” estimated in March, Deutsche Bank analysts
led by Chris Terry said yesterday in a report. The company may
need to raise A$40 million in equity to meet a shortfall of
about A$80 million, said the analysts. They also lowered the 12-
month price target on the stock to 65 cents from 82 cents.  Lynas has been waiting to start processing since winning
government approval for production in February. The first phase
of the plant, capable of processing 11,000 metric tons a year,
was completed last month. Even so, Lynas has been unable to
transport thousands of tons of raw materials at its Mount Weld
mine in  Western Australia  due to the delays.  “Arising from the delay that these proceedings have caused
to Lynas, the target first feed to kiln date will be delayed to
a date later than the previously advised date of October 2012,”
the company said yesterday in a statement.  Media Campaigns  Protests against the project in Malaysia have included a
march on parliament, court challenges and social media
campaigns. A Kuala Lumpur high court in April rejected a request
by a similar group to review the government’s approval. That
case is pending an  appeal  at the Federal Court. In June, Maximus
Johnity Ongkili, Malaysia’s minister of science, technology and
innovation, also denied an appeal to cancel Lynas’s permit
approval.  Lynas agreed last month to export any waste material from
the plant to ease community concerns.  “A month of extended suspension of the temporary operating
license is another month of temporary relief for the Stop Lynas
campaign,” Tan Bun Teet, a spokesman for Save Malaysia Stop
Lynas, said in an e-mailed statement. The group will consider an
appeal should the judicial review be rejected, he said by phone
today.  Rare Earths  Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are used in
Apple Inc.’s iPod music players, flat-screen televisions,
magnets and hybrid cars. The materials are also used to make
goods such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  helicopter blades,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  mobile
phones and Toyota Motor Corp. wind turbines.  Work on the second phase that would double capacity should
start in the second quarter of next year and be completed before
the end of 2013, Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Curtis said
last month.  The hold up has had repercussions for customers, with some
reversing plans to open factories near the refinery, Curtis said
June 29. Instead they’ve set up facilities in  China , which
supplies 90 percent of the world’s rare earths, he said at the
time.  The temporary operating permit, valid for two years through
to Sept. 2, 2014, will enable Lynas to conduct trial processing
in stages and in limited quantities under surveillance by the
authorities, according to the licensing board’s website.  The agency will monitor operations and safety standards and
a permanent license may be granted during the next two years
should standards be met, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  