-- Your Food Shouldn’t Hospitalize You
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-11T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/your-food-shouldn-t-hospitalize-you.html
Contaminated  food sickens  48 million
Americans, resulting in more than 3,000 deaths and more than
100,000 hospitalizations each year. That’s right: 3,000 deaths.  Hard as this is to believe, it’s easy to see how we got
here. It starts with the neglect of the  Food and Drug
Administration , the agency created to ensure the quality of much
of the U.S. food supply, which has been starved of funds for
decades. Congress gives the FDA about $1 billion a year for
 overseeing  the bulk of the $1.2 trillion  food industry . That’s
enough to pay for about 1,100 inspectors, who manage to check
only 6 percent of domestic food producers and 0.4 percent of
importers each year.  Inspection programs paid for by industry have filled the
void. As Bloomberg Markets magazine  reports  in its November
issue, however, industry-backed inspectors have given the all-
clear to producers that should be shut down.  In August 2011, for instance, 33 people died from eating
cantaloupe contaminated with listeria bacteria. The melons had
been grown and processed at a Colorado farm that had passed an
inspection by a private company with flying colors.  The inspector, a 26-year-old with little experience, raised
no objections to the absence of an antimicrobial wash to clean
the melons. Nor did the inspector bother to test for bacteria on
equipment that handled the melons. He granted the farm a
“superior” rating.  Deadly Peanuts  The cantaloupe poisonings came after nine people died in
2008 from eating peanut butter and peanut products tainted with
salmonella at a processing plant in  Georgia . That plant received
high marks from an inspector working for a  bakery industry trade 
association. The inspector wasn’t aware that peanut butter could
be contaminated by salmonella.  These private inspectors, known as third-party auditors,
operate with no government oversight or rules. Standards for the
auditors are established by trade organizations financed by
supermarket chains and food producers. Auditors are often paid
by the companies whose plants they inspect and can be told what
to look for, when and where. Board members of the companies that
provide the audits sometimes also work for food producers. The
potential for conflicts is obvious.  Most troubling is that audit reports by private inspectors
are secret, denying the public the right to know how food is
handled.  Actually, even more troubling is that a new law to improve
U.S. food safety leaves the system of unregulated industry-
sponsored auditors largely intact.  Yes, the  Food Safety Modernization Act  of 2011 does require
inspectors of foreign food processors to be FDA certified. And
yes, their audit reports must be turned over to the agency. But
there’s a catch: Domestic auditors were exempted from these
requirements after food manufacturers argued that certification
programs would siphon off resources better used in other FDA
efforts. In essence, the industry would keep an oversight
network it pays for and controls.  So what can be done?  The FDA estimates that it would need $3 billion a year to
perform the necessary inspections of domestic and imported food.
This seems a relatively small sum compared with the $75 billion
to $150 billion that food-borne illnesses  cost  Americans each
year for medical treatment and time lost from work.  The calculus of costs and benefits should persuade Congress
to increase funding for FDA inspections, even if not by as much
as the agency says it needs. Only the FDA has the power to
quickly obtain the court injunction to shut down a processor
when hazardous conditions are found. What’s more, because the
FDA doesn’t provide advance notice of inspections, the element
of surprise helps keep food producers honest.  Audit Guidelines  The agency would also do well to draft accreditation
standards and a code of industry best practices. This would
establish guidelines for auditor independence, barring employees
of food producers from serving as audit company directors. Food
producers should be prohibited from selecting auditors, who
could be assigned from a blind pool instead. The FDA also needs
to establish a formal certification program for auditors and
inspectors, and have the power to suspend or bar those who fall
down on the job.  Finally, all inspection reports should be filed with the
FDA and made public. Americans have a right to know not only
where their food came from -- but also who looked it over to
make sure it won’t make them sick.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Stephen L. Carter on  which facts last the
longest ; William Pesek on  economist  Raghuram Rajan ’s return to
 India ;  Jonathan Weil  on  funny numbers companies use  to burnish
their earnings; Richard Vedder on  what colleges aren’t telling 
prospective students.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 