-- ThyssenKrupp’s U.S. and Brazilian Plants Said to Draw Eight Bids
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-10-11T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/thyssenkrupp-s-u-s-and-brazilian-plants-said-to-draw-eight-bids.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, has attracted about eight bids for its U.S. and
Brazilian plants as it seeks to sell its unprofitable Americas
unit, according to two people familiar with the matter.  ArcelorMittal,  Posco (005490) , Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp.,
 JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ,  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , U.S. Steel Corp., Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA and  Ternium SA (TX)  handed in indicative
offers before the end of the September deadline, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because talks are
private. The German steelmaker may choose a shortlist of two or
three bidders in November, they said.  Some of the larger international steelmakers such as
ArcelorMittal and Posco may look at both the Alabama and Rio de
Janeiro state plants, while the U.S. players are interested in
the American site and the South American companies in the
Brazilian plant, said the people. The plants may fetch $3
billion to $5 billion, they said.  That’s less than the book value of at least $9 billion that
Heinrich Hiesinger, ThyssenKrupp’s chief executive officer, said
in August he wants to sell the unit for.  Erin DiPietro, a spokeswoman for U.S. Steel, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation, as did Giles Read, a
spokesman for  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  Officials in CSN’s press office
declined to comment. Officials at Ternium didn’t immediately
respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment. Officials at Nucor
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment, while those at
Posco, JFE and Nippon Steel couldn’t be reached by calls outside
of normal business hours.  Strategic Options  ThyssenKrupp announced in May that a sale of its U.S. and
Brazilian plants is among “strategic options” as it grapples
with the rising costs of building plants in  Brazil  and the U.S.
as the projects suffer delays. The Essen-based company was
already divesting assets contributing about a quarter of annual
revenue before that decision, including its stainless-steel
business, as it seeks to reduce debt and fund growth.  ThyssenKrupp started operating its Brazilian plant in 2010,
two years later than originally planned, to provide steel slabs
to its mills in Alabama and Germany. The two American plants, on
which ThyssenKrupp has spent more than 10 billion euros ($13
billion), according to Hiesinger, were meant to work as an
integrated network.  Delays at the Brazilian plant, 73.1 percent-held by
ThyssenKrupp and the rest by  Vale SA (VALE3) , contributed to impairment
charges of 2.9 billion euros in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30,
2011, for which the company reported a loss. The Steel America’s
adjusted loss before interest and taxes accumulated to 778
million euros in the first nine months of the following fiscal
year as production costs were higher than originally expected
and steel prices increased less than expected.  ThyssenKrupp declined to comment on the number or names of
bidders. Kilian Roetzer, a company spokesman, pointed to a
statement published on Sept. 28 saying: “Interest in both
plants remains very high and has been reinforced by on-site
inspections.”  German newspaper Die Welt on Oct. 10 reported that at
 least five bidders had submitted offers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  