-- Yuan Rises to 19-Year High, Tests Upper Limit of PBOC Range
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-10-11T08:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-11/yuan-strengthens-beyond-6-28-a-dollar-for-first-time-since-1993.html
China ’s  yuan  rose beyond 6.28 per
dollar for the first time in 19 years, moving to within 0.01
percent of the upper end of its permitted trading range, amid
speculation policy makers will act to revive economic growth.  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to close at 6.2770 per dollar
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. Today’s high of 6.2761 was the strongest level since
1993 and a 0.99 percent premium to the central bank’s  reference
rate , which was boosted 0.09 percent to 6.3391. China’s currency
can trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the daily
fixing.  China asked local authorities to spend more on public
transport to ease congestion and reduce pollution, according to
a statement posted on the central government’s website yesterday
after a State Council meeting presided by Premier  Wen Jiabao .
The Chinese Communist Party will hold a congress starting Nov. 8
at which new leaders will be named ahead of a once-a-decade
handover of power.  “Investors hold strong expectations for China to roll out
more stimulus measures as political issues have been settled,”
said Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
 Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  “It’s quite surprising to see the yuan
rising through key levels as export growth has yet to regain
strong momentum.”  China Exports  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, has advanced 0.8
percent this week and touched a one-month high today amid
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen. Standard & Poor’s
yesterday cut Spain’s debt rating to one level above junk,
citing mounting economic and political risks as the government
considers a second bailout.  A report on Oct. 13 may show China’s  overseas sales  climbed
5.7 percent from a year earlier in September, compared with a
2.7 percent increase the previous month, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We find it unusual that the fixing has been strengthened
at a time when the dollar is doing well in global markets,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “It’s inconsistent with China’ attempts to weaken
the currency in support of exporters.”  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan climbed 0.2
percent to 6.2800 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.3
percent, the most in four weeks, to 6.3758. The contracts traded
at a 1.5 percent discount to the onshore spot rate.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, increased five basis points to
1.25 percent.  Helping Obama  The Chinese currency has advanced 0.27 percent against the
dollar so far in 2012. The median estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg is for the currency to have an annual decline of
0.25 percent to 6.31 per dollar.  An appreciating yuan may reflect China’s desire for U.S.
President  Barack Obama  to win another four-year term in a
November election, according to Kowalczyk.  While the Obama administration has said it will keep
pressing China to strengthen the yuan, it declined to label the
world’s second-largest economy a “currency manipulator” in a
semi-annual report to Congress in May. Romney said he would on
his first day in the White House tell the Treasury Department to
list China as a currency manipulator, paving the way for more
duties on Chinese imports.  “It would be in Beijing’s interest to see Obama re-
elected, given Romney’s tougher stance on China,” said
Kowalczyk. “The PBOC may be trying to help Obama to make the
argument in the next debate that he has succeeded to pressure
Beijing into appreciating the yuan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  