-- 
‘Godfather’ Fear, ‘Leopard’ Pathos Fueled by Nino Rota’s Scores

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/-godfather-fear-leopard-pathos-fueled-by-nino-rota-s-stirring-scores.html
I hate being coerced by movie
scores. Why must sad scenes call for sorrowful strings? Do
romantic interludes really require soaring orchestral throbs?
Most of the time I prefer the minimalist Antonioni route: No
music at all.  Still, I realize that some of the most powerful moments on
screen would be far less memorable without the music. A recap of
my favorite original scores would be book-length, so here are
just a few that resonate for me.  Probably the greatest movie composer was Nino Rota, whose
marvelous works for the stage and concert hall include four
symphonies and eight operas. But it’s his film scores for
Luchino Visconti and Federico Fellini that are the most
stirring.  His soundtrack for Visconti’s “The Leopard” adds
immeasurably to that film’s grandeur, especially in its
incomparable closing sequence, when Burt Lancaster’s Prince
Fabrizio recognizes that his way of life is passing before his
eyes.  Fellini’s “La Strada,” the story of an innocent girl
(Guilietta Masina) forced to perform as a traveling entertainer
with a brutish strongman (Anthony Quinn), is graced with an
equally extraordinary score by Rota. The
pathos of the characters is evoked in just a few bars.  ‘Godfather’ Saga  From Fellini and Visconti to  Francis Ford Coppola , for whom
he worked on the “The Godfather” films, Rota composed
essential music. He and his directors shared the same muse.  Running a close second in my greatest film composer list
would be Ennio Morricone, who has written hundreds of scores
since the early 1960s. He’s had his share of popular success --
particularly his iconic theme for “The Good, the Bad, and the
Ugly” and his turbocharged music for Brian De Palma’s “The
Untouchables.”  His score for “The Mission” confers epic religiosity on
an otherwise middling movie about Jesuit missionaries in the
Brazilian jungle, and his music for “Battle of Algiers” is a
perfect sonic counterpart to its seething guerillas.  Plenty of famous composers have tried their hand in movies,
not always successfully. I am not, for example, a fan of Philip Glass’s aural wallpaper in any of its incarnations. Of his film
scores, I think “The Hours” and “Mishima” are the most
fitting because the tonal repetition at least matches the
obsessiveness of the characters.  Leonard Bernstein , surprisingly, wrote only one original
movie score -- his brilliant moody soundtrack for “On the
Waterfront.” Two of his stage musicals, “On the Town” and
“West Side Story,” were turned into movies, though sadly the
screen version of “On the Town” discarded most of the Broadway
songs.  Shakespeare Soundtracks  David Amram’s score for John Frankenheimer’s “The
Manchurian Candidate,” with its ominous, discordant air, is a
chilling counterpoint to that film’s  Cold War  paranoia. Quincy Jones’s sad, swinging jazz for “The Pawnbroker” is one of his
earliest and best contributions to the movies.  William Walton’s score for Laurence Olivier’s “Henry V”
has triumphal majesty to match Shakespeare’s poetry. (His less
well-known score for Olivier’s “Richard III” is almost as
good). And no movie music is finer than Ravi Shankar’s fragile,
beseeching themes for Satyajit Ray’s “Pather Panchali.”  Aaron Copland’s scores, particularly for “The Red Pony”
and “Of Mice and Men,” stand by themselves in the concert
hall. So, too, does Sergei Prokofiev’s music for “Alexander
Nevsky,” one of the most imitated scores of all time.  Sometimes popular film composers like  John Williams  aren’t
sufficiently recognized for their offbeat works.  ‘Black Orpheus’  Williams’s scores for “ Star Wars ,” “E.T.” and “Jaws”
are wonderfully accessible, but he’s at his most audacious in De
Palma’s  occult thriller “The Fury” and Robert Altman’s “The
Long Goodbye,” which spins its single lilting theme into
multiple jazz-pop-swing-blues variations.  The lush Afro-Brazilian samba score for “Black Orpheus”
by Luiz Bonfa and Antonio Carlos Jobim (who would go on to write
“The Girl From Ipanema” ) fits perfectly with the film’s lush
imagery. Walter Schumann’s infernal, lyrical music for “The
Night of the Hunter” is as integral to its atmosphere as
Bernard Herrmann’s famous scores are for “Psycho,” “ Taxi
Driver ” and “Vertigo.”  What all the best scores have in common is this: It’s
impossible to imagine the films without them.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 