-- 
‘The Help’ Remains No. 1 Movie With $14.5 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-08-29T22:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/-the-help-tops-box-office-for-second-weekend-columbiana-ranks-second.html
The civil rights-era drama “The
Help” remained No. 1 for a second weekend in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, taking in $14.5 million for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks Studios SKG.  The film, about black maids in the racially segregated
South, held off three new films, including the revenge drama
“Colombiana.” That movie, featuring Zoe Saldana as a
professional killer, had sales of $10.4 million to finish
second, Hollywood.com Box-Office said in an e-mailed statement.  “The Help” is based on a Kathryn Stockett novel about the
relationship between black maids and their white housewife
employers in 1960s Mississippi. The film has been praised by
critics, with a 74 percent positive rating from
Rottentomatoes.com, and has generated sales of $96.8 million
since it opened on Aug. 10.  “If you look at the box office right now, ‘The Help’ is
really the only film that’s doing anything positive over the
last two weeks,” said  Jeff Bock , a box office analyst for
Exhibitor Relations in Los Angeles. “There aren’t a lot of
female-centric films this summer.”  Sales at theaters in East Coast cities may have been hurt
by Hurricane Irene, Hollywood.com said. The storm hit the
country’s most populated region starting Aug. 26 before being
downgraded to a tropical storm yesterday. Weekend revenue fell
21 percent from a year earlier.  “The Help” stars  Emma Stone  as an aspiring journalist who
interviews the maids and writes about the indignities they
suffer. Octavia Spencer and Viola Davis co-star as the black
women who cope with mixed emotions caring for their employers’
white children while enduring insults from the mothers.  Professional Assassin  In  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Colombiana,” Saldana plays a woman who
becomes a professional assassin after witnessing the murder of
her parents. Her goal is to hunt down the killers. The film was
produced by Luc Besson, who also produced and directed “La
Femme Nikita,” the Golden Globe-nominated film about a woman
trained as a French government assassin.  In “Don’t Be Afraid of the Dark,” also new this weekend,
a family discovers they aren’t alone in their recently purchased
Gothic mansion. The movie had sales of $8.5 million, good for
fourth place.  Produced and co-written by Guillermo del Toro, “Don’t Be
Afraid of the Dark” stars  Katie Holmes  and Guy Pearce. It is
based on a 1973 made-for-television film and is distributed by
FilmDistrict.  Idealist Brother  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” the prequel to the 1968
classic, fell to third from second, taking in $8.9 million in
receipts. The movie from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Twentieth Century Fox
revives the franchise that began with the original film about a
world where apes dominate humans. Six previous movies have
generated $691.3 million in domestic ticket sales, according to
 Box Office Mojo , an industry tracker.  The film features  James Franco  and has taken in $148.7
million in the U.S. and  Canada  since it opened Aug. 5.  “Our Idiot Brother,” distributed by the Weinstein Co.,
opened in fifth place on sales of $7 million. The film features
Paul Rudd as an idealist who moves in with his siblings after
being kicked off his organic farm. His unorthodox approach to
life disrupts their lives. The film co-stars Elizabeth Banks,
Zooey Deschanel, Emily Mortimer and Rashida Jones.  Weinstein’s “Spy Kids: All the Time in the World”
finished sixth with $6 million. The movie is the fourth in the
series of children’s movies by “Sin City” director  Robert Rodriguez .  Motherhood and Marriage  In the latest film, distributed by Dimension Films,  Jessica Alba  stars as a retired spy who juggles motherhood and marriage
after being called back to service. The children join the action
after learning about their stepmother’s past. Danny Trejo co-
stars as Uncle Machete.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell to $74.8 million
from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic box-office
sales this year have declined 4.3 percent to $7.28 billion,
while attendance is down 5.3 percent.  This week’s sales figures are more reflective of poor-
quality films being released at the end of the summer rather
than effects from the hurricane, Bock said.  “For a smaller release, that would definitely hurt a film,
but not for these major wide releases,” he said in a telephone
interview. “People will come and find the film even through bad
weather, through hurricanes, through snowstorms. They don’t
really want to be stuck in their house all day anyway.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Aug.
26 through today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  