-- 
A Little Chocolate Goes a Long Way in Keeping Healthy Heart, Study Finds

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-08-29T08:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/a-little-chocolate-goes-a-long-way-in-keeping-healthy-heart.html
More bad news for those battling a
sweet tooth: eating chocolate is good for you.  Regular consumption may slash the risk of developing  heart
disease  by a third, according to research published in the
 British Medical Journal  and presented today at the  European
Society of Cardiology’s conference  in Paris.  Oscar Franco and colleagues from the  University of
Cambridge  sought to put studies linking chocolate and heart
health to the test, reviewing existing data to establish whether
such a link could reliably be claimed. Turns out it can,
according to Franco.  The scientists waded through seven studies involving about
114,000 participants. They found, when they pooled results, that
people who consumed the most chocolate carried a 37 percent
lower risk of developing heart disease and were 29 percent less
likely to suffer a stroke than those who ate the least. The
researchers found no link between cocoa intake and heart
failure.  The studies didn’t distinguish between dark chocolate and
sweeter goods like snack bars and cookies.  The  findings  shouldn’t be used as an excuse to go out and
binge, Franco said in a telephone interview. Most chocolate
found in stores has a high sugar and fat content and too much of
it may lead to weight gain, straining the heart and raising the
risk of diabetes, he said.  Cut Sugar and Fat  “You should eat chocolate in a moderate way and in a
regular manner,” Franco said. Initiatives to cut the sugar and
fat content of commercial chocolate should be explored, he said.  The benefits probably stem from chocolate’s high content in
polyphenols, antioxidant compounds that boost the body’s
production of nitric oxide, which in turn helps reduce  blood
pressure , the researchers wrote.  Given chocolate’s popularity, a dietary recommendation to
eat it regularly “may suit multiple populations” and help stem
heart disease in countries such as  Brazil ,  Ivory Coast  and
 Indonesia  where many cacao plantations are located, according to
the study’s authors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  