-- 
Labor Expert Is Right Choice to Lead Obama’s Economic Team: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-29T20:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/labor-expert-is-right-choice-to-lead-obama-s-economic-team-view.html
With unemployment stuck above 9
percent, the U.S. needs all the job-creation expertise it can
get. For that reason, President  Barack Obama ’s choice of Alan Krueger, an eminent labor economist, to head the  Council of
Economic Advisers  is an inspired one.  Krueger, a Princeton University professor, has built his
academic career on the study of labor markets, wage structures
and long-term unemployment. He also has strong policy-making
credentials. During the first two years of the Obama
administration, he served as chief economist at the Treasury
Department, where he helped devise the first stimulus package,
the cash-for-clunkers effort and the Build America Bond program.  Krueger has shown that he understands the need for a strong
government role as an anti-recessionary force, especially after
a contraction brought on by a severe financial crisis. He also
has made clear that there can be no meaningful job recovery if
business confidence isn’t restored.  As the president’s top economic adviser, Krueger can draw
even more on his background as a labor economist by designing
focused programs that will help put millions of people back to
work. A successful job-creation initiative will depend on broad-
gauge measures, such as extending the payroll tax cut, to make
it easier for all businesses to hire. Other initiatives are
needed to target specific groups of unemployed.  Self-Fulfilling Dynamic  Applied in concert, such steps can help the U.S. escape a
self-fulfilling dynamic in which high unemployment, weak
consumer demand and low business confidence combine to weaken
the economy.  Obama has announced that he will propose a comprehensive
jobs plan next week. He has some powerful tools at his disposal,
including five ideas we recently endorsed: stepped-up public-
works spending, particularly if the administration is willing to
rescind the costly and outdated Davis-Bacon Act that inflates
costs; a tax credit for companies creating jobs; income support
for new hires; self-employment assistance as a return-to-work
option; and an easing of rules that prevent people with minor
criminal records from re-entering the workforce.  In an interview with Bloomberg Radio in July, Krueger was
on the right track when he called for a fresh round of
infrastructure spending and a new tax credit to encourage
companies to hire. With the economy weakening since then, we
encourage him to think bigger -- and the Senate to act quickly
on his nomination.  Immediate action is needed to restore the economy and jobs.
Anything less than a speedy confirmation process will come at
the expense of the American people, who have already waited too
long.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 