-- 
Macquarie-Led Group Makes Conditonal Proposal for Charter Hall Office REI

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-08-29T07:07:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/macquarie-led-group-makes-conditonal-proposal-for-charter-hall-office-rei.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is leading
investors in an offer to buy the shares of  Charter Hall Office
REIT (CQO)  not owned by the trust’s manager, seeking a return to
assets it offloaded 1 1/2 years ago.  Australia ’s biggest investment bank and a group of global
institutional investors are offering A$3.52 per share, valuing
the office trust at A$1.7 billion ($1.8 billion) before the sale
of its U.S. assets. Charter Hall Group would retain its stake
and management of the REIT, according to the proposal announced
in a statement by Sydney-based Charter Hall today.  Charter Hall Office shares surged 16 percent, the biggest
jump since March 2009, to A$3.37 at the close of trading in
Sydney.  Charter Hall Group (CHC)  shares soared 6.3 percent to A$1.87,
the most since February 2010. Macquarie shares climbed 2.6
percent to A$24.89.  Macquarie Group stepped away from its listed property funds
model in February 2010, selling stakes in its real estate funds
and the rights to manage them to Charter Hall Group. The Sydney-
based bank, which had A$8.8 billion of cash on its balance sheet
as of March 30, sees an opportunity to “buy good assets at good
prices,” said Will Seddon, who helps oversee more than A$300
million at White Funds Management in Sydney.  “This is not necessarily a move back into property for
Macquarie, as one of the conditions is that Charter Hall remains
the responsible entity,” Seddon said in a telephone interview.
“Charter Hall Office has a number of  hedge funds  on its
register, which are looking to get out quickly. With Macquarie
coming in with an offer that’s above the share price but below
net tangible assets, the hedge funds can get some good value and
get out.”  Premium Price  Charter Hall Group renamed the Macquarie Office Trust and
returned it to profitability, reporting a A$69.4 million profit
in the year ended June 30, from a loss of A$90.7 million a year
ago. Charter Hall Group owns 13.4 percent of the office trust,
according to Bloomberg data.  Macquarie’s offer is 21 percent more than Charter Hall
Office’s closing share price on Aug. 26. The bid is conditional
on the completion of the REIT’s U.S. asset sale and return of
capital to investors, after which the offer price would drop to
A$2.39 per unit, Charter Hall Office said in a statement today.  Charter Hall Office this month agreed to sell its U.S.
assets for A$1.71 billion to entities affiliated with Beacon
Capital Partners. That came a week after it won investor support
to retain Charter Hall Group as its manager.  Charter Hall Office’s independent directors today said they
haven’t formed a view on the proposal, which would keep Charter
Hall Group as manager of the trust, and will discuss the offer
with Macquarie. The directors said there is no guarantee the
proposal will proceed and told unitholders to take no action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.netCQR  AU <Equity> 