-- 
Lagarde Snubbed in Push to Raise Bank Capital

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-29T15:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/lagarde-s-call-to-raise-european-bank-capital-is-snubbed-by-germany-spain.html
Germany, Spain and the European
Union rebuffed International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde ’s call for an “urgent,” potentially
mandatory, recapitalization of  Europe ’s banks.  German  Finance Ministry  spokeswoman Silke Bruns said
European governments have already taken measures to strengthen
banks, including increased  capital requirements  under so-called
Basel III rules. Spain is already pushing lenders to bolster
capital, said a spokesman for the Madrid-based Finance Ministry,
who declined to be named in line with policy.  “In the event that new necessities emerge in the future,
the instruments of the strengthened EFSF are available,” Bruns
said at a briefing today in Berlin, referring to the European
Financial Stability Facility, the region’s financial backstop.  The world economy is in a “dangerous new phase” that
requires action by governments, Lagarde told international
finance officials and economists in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming,
yesterday. She spoke near the end of a month when the value of
global equities dropped by $5.7 trillion on concern global
growth is slowing and governments will be unable to tackle
sovereign-debt burdens.  Without an “urgent” recapitalization, “we could easily
see the further spread of economic weakness to core countries,
or even a debilitating liquidity crisis,” Lagarde said.
Recapitalization should be “substantial” and a mandatory move
would be “the most efficient solution,” she said.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said European lenders are “moving forward” in their efforts to
boost capital. “EU banks are significantly better capitalized
now than they were one year ago,” Rehn told a European
Parliament committee today in Brussels. “As the necessary
recapitalization of EU banks proceeds, we expect their funding
conditions to improve.”  Spain  introduced new capital requirements for lenders in
February and banks have until Sept. 30 to comply with the new
rules, the Spanish spokesman said. Bruns said there is no
contradiction between the basic views held by Lagarde and the
German government.  Germany expects measures taken already to strengthen the
financial sector to be “effective in the necessary way,” she
said. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government shares the views of
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet that
measures taken already will “prevent a liquidity crisis in the
European banking sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  