-- 
Taiwan Urges Banks to Add More China Branches

-- B y   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-08-29T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/taiwan-urges-banks-to-add-more-china-branches.html
Taiwan ’s financial regulator urged
the island’s banks to open more branches in  China , pushing them
to expand more quickly in the world’s fastest-growing major
economy as competition erodes returns at home.  “If Taiwan’s finance companies can’t raise their
competitiveness, they’ll remained buried in a domestic market
that’s overbanked and rife with price undercutting,” Lee Jih- chu, deputy chairwoman at the Financial Supervisory Commission,
said in an interview in Taipei on Aug. 26. “That’s our biggest
concern right now.”  Fewer than one in five Taiwanese banks has opened a branch
in China after investment restrictions were relaxed amid warming
ties between the former civil war foes. China, with a population
more than 50 times bigger than Taiwan’s and $15 trillion in
banking assets, is the island’s largest trading partner,
accounting for more than two-thirds of its exports.  Taiwan has been pushing for consolidation in a home market
that has 37 domestic banks, 28 foreign lenders and more than 300
credit associations competing to serve 23 million people. That’s
forced average loan profit margins for its banks to less than
1.5 percent, compared with 2 percent or more for Chinese rivals,
said Tseng Fan-jen, an analyst at KGI Securities Co.  “Given the fact that state-controlled banks collectively
still account for the majority of market share, meaningful
banking sector consolidation will only happen if the government
is determined to actively pursue it,” said C.J. Chien, senior
vice president and head of financial institutions at DBS Taiwan
Ltd. In China, the Taiwanese banks lag behind rivals “in terms
of market-entrance timing and absolute scale,” he said.  ‘Unnecessary Obstacles’  Only six Taiwanese banks have set up branches in mainland
China so far, Lee, 51, said. The lenders should also considering
opening more outlets in Southeast  Asia , she said.  The financial regulator has proposed easing restrictions on
domestic lenders investing in Chinese rivals, said Lee, an
economics professor at National Chengchi University in Taipei.
The two sides signed an economic cooperation framework agreement
in June 2010 to allow more access to each other’s markets.  Under current regulations, Taiwan lenders can only choose
two out of three options: take stakes in a Chinese rival, or
open a branch or subsidiary. The island’s banks can’t invest
more than 15 percent of their net worth in China. The FSC wants
to remove these “unnecessary obstacles,” Lee said.  Taiwan is also considering letting its financial
institutions invest in yuan-denominated assets in  Hong Kong ,
after allowing the island’s insurers to do so in July, Lee said.  China Opportunities  The return on common equity for Taiwan’s 20 largest banks
is about 5.6 percent on average, compared with 8.2 percent for
the biggest lenders in the rest of Asia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese banks are at about 20 percent,
while those in  Southeast Asia  are at 15 percent, the data show.  Policy makers are looking to tap growth in China as cross-
straits tensions ease and the government makes bolstering
economic relations with the mainland a priority. China expanded
9.5 percent last quarter, while Taiwan grew 5.02 percent, the
slowest pace since 2009. The island’s government this month cut
its growth forecast for 2011 to 4.81 percent.  China has 3,769 banking institutions with total assets of
95.3 trillion yuan ($15 trillion) serving 1.3 billion people,
according to the nation’s  banking regulator .  The number of Taiwanese lenders has dropped to 37 from more
than 50 following a wave of mergers and takeovers prompted by
the government starting in 2000.  ‘No Such Impetus’  DBS Group Holdings Co., Southeast Asia’s largest lender,
took over the distressed Bowa Commercial Bank Co. in 2008. DBS
Taiwan is now profitable, Chien said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  have also acquired
Taiwan banks to tap Asia’s wealthiest people outside China and
 Japan .  Still, the financial reforms were stymied by corruption
probes linked to mergers and acquisitions carried out under
former president Chen Shui-bian and political wrangling over the
valuations.  “ Indonesia  had a fragmented banking sector before 1997 and
it took a crisis as large as the Asian financial crisis and
state intervention to spark mass consolidation,” Wai Ho Leong,
a Singapore-based senior economist at  Barclays Capital , said.
“The problem in Taiwan is that there is no such impetus. Banks
are adequately capitalized but mostly are domestically focused
and comfortable in their niches.”  Taiwan and China signed an economic framework cooperation
agreement on June 29, 2010, to cut tariffs and increase access
to banking, insurance and the securities industries as relations
improved after President Ma Ying-jeou came to office three years
ago.  Competition at Home  Four mainland lenders -- Bank of China Ltd., Bank of
Communications Co., China Merchants Bank Co. and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  -- have set up representative offices in
Taiwan as of April, according to the China Banking Regulatory
Commission.  The accord hasn’t been a bigger catalyst for change in
Taiwan because the economic integration is proceeding at a
“cautious pace,” Leong said.  “It would be a long time before Chinese banks actually
compete meaningfully in Taiwan,” Leong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  