-- 
Taiwan Downgrades Nanmadol as Storm Weakens, Leaves Land

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-08-29T09:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/taiwan-downgrades-typhoon-nanmadol-to-storm-evacuates-citizens.html
Taiwan  downgraded Nanmadol to a
tropical storm as it lost strength and headed out to sea after
authorities had earlier evacuated people in its path, shut
schools and warned of heavy rain, flooding and mudslides.  Sustained winds weakened to 101 kilometers (63 miles) per
hour, with gusts of 126 kilometers per hour, from winds of 119
kilometers per hour and 155 kilometer-per-hour gusts reported
earlier, the Central Weather Bureau said on its  website . The
storm’s center hit southern Taiwan, with no immediate reports of
deaths.  Nanmadol was the first typhoon to make landfall in Taiwan
this year. Typhoon Megi last year killed 36 people, while more
than 600 died in 2009 when Morakot struck, prompting the premier
and cabinet to resign over their handling of the disaster. Most
deaths were in mountainous regions.  All schools across mainland Taiwan were ordered shut today
while offices in southern Tainan, Kaohsiung and Pingtung and
Eastern Yilan, Hualien and Taitung were closed, the Central
Personnel Administration said.  The storm was offshore 40 kilometers east-southeast of the
outlying Penghu islands at 4:15 p.m., and headed toward  China ’s
Fujian province at 7 kilometers per hour, the bureau reported.
More than 500 millimeters of rain had fallen on the coastal city
of Hualien in the east and Hengchun at the southern end of
Taiwan.  More than 8,000 people had been evacuated by noon today and
22,000 military personnel were on standby, according to the
 National Fire Agency . Fifteen roads remained cut off and 37
local and domestic flights were canceled, the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications said in a press release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  