-- 
ANC Youth League Won’t Abandon South African Mine-Grab Drive, Malema Says

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-29T13:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/anc-youth-league-won-t-abandon-south-african-mine-grab-push-malema-says.html
The youth wing of South Africa’s
ruling party will keep pushing for the seizure of mines and
banks, even if disciplinary action taken against its leaders
results in their expulsion,  Julius Malema , the head of the ANC
Youth League, said.  Malema and his top five officials will appear before an
African National Congress disciplinary committee this week to
face allegations of undermining the party, bringing it into
disrepute and disrupting meetings. The youth league wants a
“radical” shift in the country’s economic policy, arguing that
the country’s black majority still don’t have an adequate stake
in the economy 17 years after the end of all-white rule.  “Nationalization will never change, expropriation without
compensation will never change,” Malema told a news conference
in Johannesburg today. “Whether you expel us or not expel us,
these resolutions will never change.”  The move to discipline Malema came after he said that
Botswana posed a threat to regional security because of its
close ties to the U.S. The ANC described those remarks as a
serious transgression that “crossed the political line.”
Malema and the youth league have led a campaign to nationalize
mines and banks and for the expropriation of land from whites.
 South Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of platinum.  In May last year, Malema admitted to violating party rules
by dividing the ANC and “undermining the stature” of President
 Jacob Zuma . He was forced to apologize, seek anger-management
help and agreed to pay a 10,000 rand ($1,416) fine. He was also
warned he risked suspension from the party if he committed a
similar infraction in the next two years.  Embarrass the ANC  “We reaffirm that these issues are political in nature and
they can be resolved politically,” Malema said. “We believe in
political engagement. There are political interventions to try
and find an intervention that will not embarrass the
organization. We have always said the ANC is in charge of our
future and if the ANC decides your future as expulsion, you need
to accept that.”  The youth league played a key role in helping Zuma take
control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki  in 2007. The party is due to
hold leadership elections in December next year, and local
newspapers have reported that the league will shift its support
for Zuma in favor of Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe.  “We have not engaged on succession,” Malema said.
“Whatever we are going to pronounce is going to be the order of
the day. That you can be guaranteed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  