-- 
Samsung Delays Australia Release of Tablet for Second Time in Apple Row

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-08-29T07:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/apple-wins-further-delay-on-release-of-samsung-s-new-tablet-in-australia.html
Samsung Electronics Co. agreed to
push back the introduction of its newest tablet computer in
 Australia  until the end of next month, the second delay in a
month in its dispute with Apple Inc. in the country.  Samsung will defer the launch of the Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computer pending a hearing scheduled the week of Sept. 26. on
Apple’s request for an injunction, the Suwon, South Korea-based
electronics maker said in a statement. David Catterns, an
attorney representing Samsung, said his client is prepared to
wait until the end of September.  The decision comes four weeks after Samsung first agreed to
hold off on the Australian debut of the product. The two
companies, the world’s two biggest makers of tablet computers,
are also locked in legal disputes in markets including the U.S.,
 Germany  and  South Korea .  Samsung will continue to push for the release of the
product in Australia to “ensure that consumers have a wider
selection of innovative products to choose from,” it said in an
e-mailed statement.  Samsung had agreed at an Aug. 2 hearing to hold off on
sales of the 10.1 tablet, after Apple claimed the device
infringed 10 of its patents, including the “look and feel” of
the iPad.  ‘Reduced Functionality’  Samsung said the claim was based on a U.S. model and the
Australian version was different. The company last week provided
Apple’s legal team with three samples of the 10.1 version
intended to be sold in Australia, Steven Burley, an attorney
representing Apple, told Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett
today.  Burley said the Australian model, which has “reduced
functionality,” still violates at least two of Apple’s patents.
Samsung’s Catterns said the Australian model has “different
features” and doesn’t have “reduced  functionality.”  The lawyers agreed to two days of hearings on Apple’s
request for an injunction barring the sale of the 10.1 tablet in
Australia until the resolution of the dispute, which may take
months. The hearings are scheduled for Sept. 26 and 29.  The agreement to halt advertising and the sale of the 10.1
tablet doesn’t affect any other Samsung tablet or smartphone
available in Australia, or other countries, the company said
following the Aug. 2 hearing.  A German judge said on Aug. 25 that Apple’s intellectual
rights are probably strong enough to ban the sales of the 10.1
tablet in that country.  In the U.S., Samsung is arguing that Apple stole the design
for its iPad from the Stanley Kubrick 1969 film “2001: A Space
Odyssey.”  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  