-- 
Arsenal Eyes Chelsea’s Alex After Worst Loss Since 1896: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-08-29T10:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/arsenal-eyes-chelsea-s-alex-after-worst-loss-since-1896-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger’s ‘Humiliation’  Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  wants to sign Chelsea defender
Alex da Costa after its worst defeat since 1896, an 8-2 loss
against Manchester United yesterday,  the Sun  reported.  The 29-year-old Brazilian, valued at 10 million pounds
($16.4 million) by Chelsea, was an unused substitute in its 3-1
win against Norwich at the weekend, the Sun said.  Wenger said he won’t quit after the “humiliating” defeat
and is working “very hard” to sign players before this week’s
transfer deadline, according to  the Sun .  His previous biggest loss as Arsenal coach was a 6-1
reverse at United in February 2001.  Tottenham Offer  Tottenham is close to signing  Scott Parker  after making an
improved 6 million-pound offer for the West Ham midfielder,  the
Sun  reported.  The Hammers, which rejected a 5 million-pound bid on Aug.
26, will try to sign Stoke’s Glenn Whelan as a replacement if
Parker leaves, the Sun added.  Separately, Spurs is set to trade Wilson Palacios, also a
midfielder, to Stoke for 6 million pounds, according to the Sun.  QPR Recruits  Manchester City ’s Shaun Wright-Phillips is one of three
possible signings by Queens Park Rangers,  the Independent 
reported.  QPR and Wigan are among four clubs that have agreed to a
fee for the former England winger, the newspaper said, citing
QPR coach Neil Warnock.  Joey Barton , a former roommate of Wright-Phillips at City,
may help persuade him to join QPR, Warnock was cited as saying.
Barton arrived at QPR from Newcastle last week.  Newcastle Signing  Newcastle agreed to sign Inter Milan full-back Davide
Santon for 5 million pounds, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Newcastle coach  Alan Pardew  has turned to the 20-year-old
Italy international after negotiations to sign PSV Eindhoven’s
Erik Pieters hit a snag, the Mail said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  