-- 
Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by Won, on Bernanke Optimism

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-08-29T09:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-won-as-bernanke-shows-growth-optimism.html
South Korea ’s won and the Indian
rupee led an advance in Asian currencies after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said it has tools to stimulate growth, fueling investor
appetite for emerging-market assets.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told a gathering of central
bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 26 that the world’s
largest economy is recovering and the central bank still has a
range of measures it could use to help the nation. The won rose
for a second day as South Korea’s current-account surplus
increased to a nine-month high.  “Some uncertainty has been taken out of the market because
Jackson Hole has been and gone,” said Stuart Oakley, Singapore-
based head of emerging-markets foreign exchange for  Asia  at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The Fed stands ready to step
in and provide some form of monetary easing when markets get
distressed. On a multiweek horizon, Asian currencies will go
higher against the dollar.”  The won climbed 0.8 percent to 1,073.78 per dollar at the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, after gaining 0.5 percent on Aug. 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee appreciated
0.5 percent to 45.92 and Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.2 percent to
2.9815.  China ’s yuan gained 0.09 percent to 6.3810.  Policy makers met for three days from Aug. 26 to discuss
ways to bolster long-term economic performance. They gathered as
banks from UBS AG to Citigroup Inc. cut their forecasts for
global expansion and predicted the Fed, the  European Central
Bank  and the Bank of  Japan  will keep their benchmark  interest
rates  at or close to record lows through next year.  Current-Account Surplus  Bernanke stopped short of suggesting that the Fed will
undertake a third round of government bond buying. His
announcement that the Fed’s policy-setting committee will meet
Sept. 20-21 raised the prospect more time may allow him to
strike a stronger consensus among colleagues.  “Market players are interpreting Bernanke’s speech in an
optimistic way, weighing possibilities for another stimulus in
the near future,” said Ryoo Hyun Jung, chief currency dealer
with Citibank Inc. in Seoul. “The speech has shifted sentiment
from risk-averse to some risk-taking.”  The Bank of Korea said today the current-account surplus
rose to $4.94 billion in July, from a revised $2.03 billion in
June. The current account is the broadest measure of trade,
tracking goods, services and investment income.  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said separately
that inflation may remain high in August before moderating to a
3 percent range next month. The government may have to cut this
year’s economic growth forecast of 4.5 percent amid increasing
downside risks, he added.  Ringgit Gains  The ringgit gained the most in a week before  Malaysia ’s
financial markets shut from Aug. 30 to Sept. 1 for holidays.  “Bernanke’s statement boosted risk appetite for most Asian
currencies,” said Wong Yoong Han, a currency trader at Alliance
Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The ringgit may, however, trade in
a tight range as market players are reluctant to take positions
ahead of the holiday break.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar fell 0.1 percent to
S$1.2077 and Thailand’s baht dropped 0.1 percent to 30.00. Local
financial markets are closed in Indonesia and the Philippines
for holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  