-- 
Asia Stocks Climb for Third Day as Bernanke Says U.S. Economy Recovering

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-08-29T10:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/asia-stocks-climb-for-third-day-as-bernanke-says-u-s-economy-recovering.html
Asian stocks advanced for a third
day after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
economic recovery will accelerate and the central bank has more
means to prop up growth if appropriate.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building materials supplier
which gets about 68 percent of sales from the U.S., gained 2.8
percent in Sydney.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, rose 1.3 percent after a gauge of metal prices in
 London  increased. China Shenhua Energy Co., a unit of the
country’s largest coal producer, advanced 3.7 percent in Hong
Kong after reporting higher first profit.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index advanced 1.6 percent to 122.18
as of 7:42 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its highest close since
Aug. 18. More than three stocks rose for each that fell in the
gauge. The measure snapped four weeks of losses last week on
speculation Bernanke would foreshadow measures to shore up the
U.S. recovery. The Fed chief didn’t announce a third round of
quantitative easing, known as QE3, and instead decided to extend
next month’s policy meeting to a second day.  “Markets that have been very oversold on the idea that the
global economy is sinking into another recession will get some
relief,” Arnout van Rijn, chief investment officer for Asia at
Robeco  Hong Kong  Ltd. said on Bloomberg Television. Investors
think “if things go wrong with the economy, there will be
another round of stimulus for the economy.”  ‘More Optimistic’  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.5 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 2.8 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index increased 1.4 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent
today. The index gained 1.5 percent in  New York  on Aug. 26 after
Bernanke said he is “more optimistic” about the long-term
prospects of the  U.S. economy  even amid challenges from the
slumping housing market and financial-market volatility. The
extended Federal Open Market Committee meeting in September will
“allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the central
bank’s possible response, he said.  Exporters advanced on speculation the extended policy
meeting will allow Bernanke to forge a stronger consensus on
monetary easing amid growing dissent among members of the FOMC.  James Hardie gained 2.8 percent to A$5.91 in Sydney.  Li &
Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to U.S. retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 2.2 percent to HK$13.30 in
Hong Kong.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, climbed 2.8 percent to 1,637 yen in Tokyo.  Japan,  Singapore  Elections  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average added 0.6 percent, having
earlier fallen 0.5 percent. Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  was
elected head of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan. Noda will
succeed Prime Minister Naoto Kan, who announced on Aug. 26 he
will resign.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index rose 1.6 percent after
former Deputy Prime Minister Tony Tan won the island’s
presidential election. Markets in the city-state will be shut
tomorrow for a holiday, joining those in  Indonesia ,  Malaysia  and
the Philippines.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 1.4 percent after
the central bank broadened the base of reserves for lenders by
extending the requirement to customers’ margin deposits to
control liquidity and tame inflation.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 15 percent from this
year’s peak on May 2 through the low on Aug. 22 when valuations
on the gauge fell to an average 11.8 times estimated earnings.
That’s the lowest since December 2008 when equity markets
tumbled as the global recession deepened amid a credit crunch
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Ltd. in
September 2008.  ‘Depressed Valuation’  The world’s biggest economy expanded less than previously
estimated in the second quarter and consumer sentiment this
month fell to the lowest level since November, government
reports on Aug. 26 showed. Hiring probably slowed in August and
U.S. manufacturing contracted for the first time in two years as
Americans lost confidence that the recovery will be sustained,
economists said before reports this week.  “The data has been mixed,” Ng Soo Nam, the Singapore-
based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset Management Co.,
said on Aug. 27. His firm oversees about $154 billion.
“Bernanke hasn’t announced QE3 because there is no need for it
at the moment. The situation isn’t as bad as the stock market
has factored in. There is scope for a rebound given such
depressed valuations.”  A gauge of raw-material producers and energy companies led
the advance among 10 industry groups in the Asia-Pacific gauge
after the London Metals Index, which tracks the prices of six
primary metals from copper to zinc, extended gains for a fourth-
day on Aug. 26 and crude oil futures traded near a three-day
high. All of the sub-indexes rose.  BHP Billiton  added 1.3 percent to A$39.15 in Sydney. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company by sales,
increased 2.1 percent to A$70.61. Cnooc Ltd., China’s No. 1
offshore oil producer, climbed 3.5 percent to HK$14.90.  Earnings Surprises  Of the 646 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported net income since July 11, 45 percent surpassed analyst
estimates, while 34 percent fell short, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China Shenhua gained 3.7 percent to HK$35.10 after
reporting first-half net profit rose 17 percent. Gome Electrical
Appliances Holdings Ltd., China’s second-largest electronics
retailer, increased 4 percent to HK$3.41 after saying first-half
net income increased 30 percent.  China Pacific Insurance Group Co., the nation’s third-
biggest insurer by market value, climbed 3.6 percent to HK$29.15
in Hong Kong after posting a 45 percent increase in first half
net profit.  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , a Macau casino operator, surged
7.6 percent to HK$22.80 after reporting first-half net income
more than doubled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  