-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Futures Decline as Stocks Rally

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-08-29T21:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-futures-decline-as-stocks-rally.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Falls as Stock Market Rally Reduces Demand for Haven Asset  Gold fell in  New York  after equities rallied, eroding the
appeal of the precious metal as a haven asset.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Monsanto Says 100,000 Acres of Corn May Have Resistant Bugs (1)  Monsanto Co., the world’s biggest seed company, said
100,000 acres of corn in Iowa and  Nebraska  may harbor rootworms
that developed resistance to the company’s insect-killing
biotechnology.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls on Concern Global Economic Recovery Is Faltering  Copper fell for the first time in five sessions on concern
that the global economic recovery is faltering.  MINING:  Trans Hex to Exit Luarica, Fucauma Diamond Projects in Angola  Trans Hex Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest publicly traded
diamond producer, said it plans to exit the Fucauma and Luarica
projects in  Angola  as talks over funding new exploration at the
sites failed to reached an agreement.  AGRICULTURE:  U.S. Soybean, Corn Crops Worsen on Dry Weather, USDA Says (1)  The condition of the U.S. soybean and corn crops worsened
last week as dry Midwest weather increased stress on developing
plants, the Department of Agriculture said.  Wheat Drops From Three-Month High as Demand Slows for U.S. Crop  Wheat futures fell from a three-month high on speculation
that demand will decrease for U.S. exports as production rises
in Ukraine and  Russia .  Rice May Rally 22% as Thai Buying Raises Cost, Cuts Exports (3)  Rice may rally 22 percent by yearend as  Thailand , the
world’s largest exporter, buys the grain from farmers at above-
market rates, pushing up costs for importers and fanning global
inflation even as economic growth slows.  Orange Juice Falls on  Florida  Crop Prospects; Cotton Gains  Orange-juice futures fell to a two-week low on speculation
that rains from Hurricane Irene will aid citrus crops in
Florida, the world’s largest grower after  Brazil . Cotton
advanced.  Corn, Soybeans Rise as Adverse Weather Threatens U.S. Yields  Corn rallied to an 11-week high and soybeans touched the
highest price since February on speculation that dry weather
during the next two weeks will erode yields in the U.S., after a
July heat wave damaged plants.  Hog Futures Slump on Weakening Demand for U.S. Pork; Cattle Drop  Hog futures dropped to the lowest closing price in seven
months on signs of weakening demand for U.S. pork. Cattle also
fell.  Coffee Climbs to Three-Month High; Cocoa Rises; Sugar Declines  Coffee rose to a three-month high as a jump in U.S.
 consumer spending  boosted prospects for demand while global
supplies tighten. Cocoa gained, and sugar dropped.  Damage to  North Carolina  Cotton May Be ‘Extensive,’ Group Says  Hurricane damage to cotton crops in North Carolina, the
fourth-largest producer in the U.S., may be “extensive,” with
many fields along the coast blown flat or almost touching
ground, an industry-funded trade group said.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Dry Index Falls 2.6% to 1,541 Points in London  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, fell 2.6 percent to 1,541 points, according to the  Baltic
Exchange  in London.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Consumer Spending Climbs More Than Forecast (1)  Consumer spending climbed more than forecast in July as
Americans dipped into savings to buy cars and cool their homes,
showing the biggest part of the economy is holding up.  Pending Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Fell in July (1)  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned U.S.
homes fell in July for the first time in three months, a sign
that lower prices and borrowing costs aren’t luring in buyers.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Rally Amid Optimism About Global Economic Recovery  U.S. stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to the highest level in almost a month, amid optimism the
economy will recover and after Hurricane Irene failed to shut
financial markets.  Franc, Yen, Dollar Drop as Risk Appetite Saps Safety Demand  The Swiss franc, yen and dollar dropped against most major
counterparts as stocks and commodities climbed on speculation
the world will avoid a return to recession, reducing demand for
refuge.  Oil Rises to One-Week High in New York on Consumer Spending Gain  Oil rose to the highest level in more than a week in New
York, climbing with equities on optimism that the economy will
expand and a report that U.S. consumer spending gained in July.  SPORTS:  Tiger Woods  Commits to Play in Golf’s Frys.Com Open in October  Tiger Woods will play in the Frys.com Open in October at
CordeValle Golf Club in San Martin,  California , according to his
website.  Manchester Soccer Clubs Hit 13 Goals Over  London  Teams (1)  Manchester United  put eight goals past Arsenal, while
 Manchester City  scored five at Tottenham as both clubs yesterday
maintained their winning starts to the season to sit atop
soccer’s Premier League after three games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Enoch in Washington at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  