-- 
Treasuries, Gold Rise on Consumer Confidence; U.S. Stocks Climb

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-08-30T20:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/asian-stocks-won-advance-on-outlook-for-u-s-economy-gold-franc-weaken.html
Treasuries and gold rose after
 consumer confidence  sank to a 28-month low, while U.S. stocks
climbed to a four-week high on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will enact more stimulus to safeguard the recovery.  Treasury 10-year yields dropped eight basis points to 2.18
percent at 4 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 0.2 percent to 1,212.92, after losing as much as 1.2
percent on the consumer confidence report. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index increased 1 percent, paring an earlier advance of 1.8
percent. Italian bonds retreated for a seventh day after the
nation sold debt. The euro fell against 11 of its 16 major
peers. Gold rose 2.1 percent and oil climbed 1.9 percent.  The Fed said in minutes of its meeting released today that
some policy makers, who weren’t identified, “felt that recent
economic developments justified a more substantial move” beyond
the pledge adopted at the Aug. 9 gathering of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  to hold its key  interest rate  at a record low
until mid-2013.  “You still have the Fed in your corner,” Mark Foster, who
helps manage $500 million at Kirr Marbach & Co. in Columbus,
 Indiana , said in a telephone interview. “That gives you
confidence in a market like this especially after the volatility
we’ve seen in the last few weeks, which was so unsettling.”  The S&P 500 rose to the highest level since Aug. 3 after
surging 7.7 percent in the previous six days. The index has
gained 8.4 percent since Aug. 8, after the loss of the U.S.
government’s AAA credit rating left the S&P 500 trading for 12.2
times earnings, the lowest level since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Minutes  When the Fed met on Aug. 9, the  S&P 500  had plunged 17
percent since July 22, including a 6.7 percent drop the previous
day that was the biggest slump since 2008.  The Fed minutes of their meeting indicate officials will
more fully debate their options when they meet next month for a
two-day meeting that was originally scheduled to last one day.
Fed officials discussed a range of tools, including buying more
 government bonds , to bolster the economy. They didn’t come to an
agreement on what the Fed’s next step might be should the
economy continue to weaken.  At the same time, some Fed officials “judged that none of
the tools available” to the Fed “would likely do much to
promote a faster economic recovery,” the minutes said.  ‘Lots of Crosscurrents’  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated last week that the U.S.
isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant immediate stimulus. Any
new easing could face more opposition from some Fed presidents.
Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher,  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis voted
against the Fed’s August statement that pledged to keep rates
near zero at least until mid-2013.  “There are just lots of crosscurrents going on,”  Don Wordell , a  fund manager  for Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital
Management, which oversees about $48 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The message is that the Fed is here, they
just won’t stop, they will keep their accommodative policy. At
the same time, there’s a view that there’s not much left in
terms of the policies being as impactful as they were two years
ago.”  Stocks dropped and Treasuries rallied earlier as the
Conference Board’s confidence index slumped to 44.5, the weakest
since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in July. It was
the biggest point drop since October 2008. Economists predicted
the August gauge would fall to 52, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Home Values  Equities also retreated after the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent from June 2010.
The index declined 4.6 percent in the 12 months ended in May.
The median forecast of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 4.6 percent drop.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
economic growth added 0.4 percent after sinking 1.4 percent.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  rose 1.9 percent, while  Boeing Co. (BA)  gained 2.2
percent. The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks fell 1 percent,
snapping a two-day rally.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  slumped 3.2
percent.  The yield on 30-year Treasuries slipped seven basis points
to 3.52 percent as demand increased for the safest assets.  “Treasuries are reflecting the continuous negative
economic surprises,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3
billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee .
“There was nothing much new in the Fed minutes. However, there
is really a difference of opinion on the Fed as to how much dry
powder they have left, and even if they can do something, should
they given increasing levels of inflation in the market.”  Treasury Bet  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , who runs
the world’s largest bond fund, said in a Financial Times
interview it was a mistake to cut his Treasury holdings and he
wished he’d invested in more U.S. government debt earlier this
year.  Treasuries have returned almost 7 percent since February,
when Gross eliminated the Total Return Fund’s holding of U.S.
government securities. He boosted Treasuries to 10 percent of
assets in July from 8 percent in June.  Gold rose 2.1 percent in New York on speculation that the
Fed will ease monetary policy further to stimulate the economy,
boosting the appeal of the precious metal as an alternative
asset. The metal, which settled at $1,829.80, is up 29 percent
this year, outperforming global stocks, commodities and
Treasuries.  Return From Holiday  The Stoxx 600’s increase extended yesterday’s 1.2 percent
advance, with U.K. stocks leading gains after a public holiday.
Britain’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  jumped 2.7 percent as Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Barclays Plc advanced more than
6.7 percent.  Greece ’s EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA sank 14 percent
after soaring 29 percent yesterday on an agreement to be bought
by rival Alpha Bank SA.  Stocks in the region pared gains after the European
Commission said confidence in the economic outlook plunged in
August by the most since December 2008.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose four basis points after demand
dropped at the government’s sale of bonds maturing in 2022. The
 European Central Bank  has restrained Italy’s borrowing costs in
the past three weeks by buying its securities in the secondary
market amid contagion from the sovereign debt crisis. Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi agreed to overhaul the 45 billion-
euro ($65 billion) austerity plan that persuaded the ECB to
support the country’s bonds.  German bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down seven
basis points to 2.15 percent.  European Interest Rates  The euro weakened against most major counterparts, losing
0.5 percent against the dollar, on speculation the European
Central Bank has finished raising interest rates as the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis curbs economic growth. The ECB is
scheduled to meet on interest rates Sept. 8.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
are under study in the context of the ECB staff projections that
will be released early September,” ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet told the European Parliament’s economic panel yesterday
in Brussels. The comment contrasts with his more recent policy
statement on Aug. 4, when he said risks to the inflation outlook
were “on the upside.”  The yen appreciated 0.7 percent against the euro and 0.2
percent versus the dollar. The Dollar Index rose 0.4 percent.
The New Zealand dollar strengthened versus all of its major
peers after home-building permits rose 13 percent in July, the
biggest jump since April 2008.  Oil, Copper  Oil jumped 1.9 percent to $88.90 a barrel in  New York ,
climbing for a fourth straight day and reaching the highest
level since Aug. 3. Oil advanced with gasoline and heating oil
as East Coast refineries worked to restart after Hurricane
Irene. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S. crude
inventories climbed 875,000 barrels last week.  Copper rose 0.8 percent to a three-week high. Corn futures
increased for the fourth straight session, gaining 0.7 percent,
after a government report showed U.S. crop conditions fell to
the lowest since 2005 after adverse weather during the past two
months. Rice climbed as much as 0.9 percent to its highest price
for a most-active contract since October 2008.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 1 percent, headed for
its largest three-day gain since Dec. 3. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index advanced 1.6 percent and Poland’s WIG20
Index jumped 1.4 percent after reports showed the countries’
economies expanded more than forecast. Russia’s Micex Index
climbed 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Sutherland in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  