-- 
AT&T-Verizon-T Mobile Sets $100 Million for Google Fight: Tech

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/at-t-verizon-t-mobile-sets-100-million-for-google-fight-tech.html
Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and T-
Mobile USA plan to invest more than $100 million in their joint
venture that lets consumers pay for goods with mobile phones,
people with knowledge of the project said.  The investment sets up a showdown between the venture,
known as Isis, and rivals like a mobile-payment service from
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  The amount of funding depends on how successful Isis
is at attracting banks and merchants, said one of the people,
who asked not to be identified because the financing is private.  The carriers have created the alliance to grab a piece of
the market for mobile commerce, which lets consumers buy things
by tapping devices against a reader at checkout. The market may
reach  $670 billion  by 2015, Juniper Research says. The carriers
may invest hundreds of millions of dollars in the venture if it
gains followers, one person said, helping it catch up with
Google, which unveiled its own mobile-wallet service in May.  “Over the long haul, operators have to create new
businesses that derive value from more than access,”  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless analyst in Issaquah,  Washington ,
said in an interview. “It’s a given that people are going to be
transacting more over cell phones. It could open a potential new
revenue stream for them.”  Worldwide mobile payments will generate $240 billion this
year, growing two to three times that amount within the next
five years, according to consulting firm Juniper Research.  Coupon Service  Formed last year , Isis also would let consumers receive and
redeem coupons via their mobile devices -- in addition to making
payments. The service, which will debut in several cities next
year, will make money by charging marketers a fee for sending
offers to consumers’ phones.  “Isis remains on track to launch in key markets, including
 Salt Lake City  and Austin, in early- to mid-2012,” Jaymee
Johnson, head of marketing for Isis, said in a statement. He
declined to comment on funding.  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, also declined to comment,
as did T-Mobile’s Hernan Daguerre. The two companies are poised
to merge  early next year , assuming AT&T’s $39 billion bid passes
regulatory scrutiny. Albert Aydin, a Verizon Wireless spokesman,
didn’t return a request for comment on Isis’s funding.  Isis also has built ties with the financial industry. It
has  partnerships  with  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,  Discover
Financial Services (DFS)  and  American Express Co. (AXP)   Chasing Google  The venture’s carrier owners may decide to increase the
pace of the service’s deployment to compete with rival mobile-
payment efforts, one of the people said. Google is equipping
merchant cash registers to accept its Google Wallet service.  Visa, which runs the world’s largest credit-card network,
is hedging its bets. In addition to supporting Isis, it also is
working on its own mobile-payment service. And it recently
introduced incentives to encourage U.S. merchants to adopt new
credit-payment terminals able to accept mobile payments.  Isis aims to get ahead of its rivals by relying on its
carrier partners’ existing distribution network and customer
relationships. Phones set up for Isis service are expected to be
available at carrier stores in the trial cities.  “We have yet to announce our national rollout plans,”
Isis’s Johnson said.  The carriers could potentially preinstall Isis software
onto their phones, making it easier to use. They also may push
handset manufacturers to adopt Isis software.  Samsung Electronics Co. and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  are
rolling out new phones that can tap on card-payment terminals at
cash registers to make mobile payments. By 2014, at least  one in
five  smartphones globally will rely on a technology called  near
field communications  to offer mobile-payment functions,
according to Juniper Research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  