-- 
Aurelius Seeks ISDA Credit Swaps Ruling on Energy Future Unit’s Solvency

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-08-29T16:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/aurelius-seeks-isda-swap-ruling-on-energy-future-holdings-unit-s-solvency.html
Aurelius Capital Management LP asked
a derivatives industry group to determine whether a unit of
Energy Future Holdings Corp. is insolvent, which would trigger
payouts on $1.2 billion of credit-default swaps linked to the
utility provider’s debt.  The hedge fund made a  request  to the  International Swaps
and Derivatives Association  to rule on Texas Competitive
Electric Holdings Co., according to a letter on the New York-
based group’s  website . Aurelius unsuccessfully claimed in
February that the unit of the power company was in default.  “Simply put, there is overwhelming evidence that TCEH is
insolvent,” Aurelius said in the letter.  The Dallas-based electricity provider, formerly known as
TXU Corp., reported a $705 million second-quarter loss as
wholesale and retail electricity sales fell. The company bought
by KKR & Co. and TPG Capital in 2007 in a $43.2 billion
transaction, the largest leveraged buyout in history, is
struggling with natural-gas prices that have plunged since the
takeover. It’s also facing new environmental regulations that
may cost as much $1 billion, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  Lisa Singleton, a spokeswoman for Energy Future, and
 Stephen Sigmund , a spokesman for Aurelius in New York, declined
to comment.  ‘Flat-Out Admission’  Texas Competitive said in an Aug. 15 registration amendment
that its outstanding debt exceeds its enterprise value, a
“flat-out admission” that it’s insolvent, according to
Aurelius. The hedge fund also cited rules the Environmental
Protection Agency introduced in July, the unit’s debt and
credit-default swaps trading at distressed levels, and gas
prices.  Banks,  hedge funds  and other money managers had bought and
sold credit swaps that protect against a default on a net $1.2
billion of Texas Competitive obligations as of Aug. 19,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Aurelius said in February that certain intercompany loans
violated Energy Future’s debt agreements. Energy Future rejected
the claims as “utterly meritless,” and in April reached an
agreement with its lenders to extend due dates on about $17.8
billion of loans. As of Dec. 31, the company had $39.6 billion
of long-term debt, according to a regulatory  filing .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 