-- 
BayernLB Profit Drops 56% on Writedowns of Greek Debt Holdings

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-08-29T08:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/bayernlb-profit-drops-56-on-writedowns-of-greek-debt-holdings.html
Bayerische Landesbank ,  Germany ’s
second-biggest state-owned lender, said first-half profit
declined 56 percent on writedowns of its Greek debt holdings.  Pretax profit fell to 244 million euros ($354 million) from
554 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company said
in a  statement  today. The lender had impairments on Greek
government bonds of 79 million euros. BayernLB reiterated a
target for a “positive” result for 2011 that will probably
remain below last year’s pretax earnings of 885 million euros.  The  European Commission , the European Union’s executive arm
in Brussels, is still holding discussions with BayernLB about
its restructuring measures.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
competition commissioner, said in July that the company has made
“very little progress so far” on negotiations with EU
regulators over approval for the  government aid  the bank
received for its bailout during the financial crisis.  “Six quarters in a row with black numbers shows that
BayernLB, with its new focus, is on the right track,” Chief
Executive Officer Gerd Haeusler said. “We hope that the aid
negotiations with the EU Commission will be concluded rapidly.”  As part of its revamp, BayernLB announced plans in 2008 to
refocus operations and reduce the workforce by 2013. While the
lender’s online venture, DKB Deutsche Kreditbank, is an
“indispensable” part of the business, a possible sale of
Budapest-based subsidiary MKB Bank is being discussed with the
EU Commission, Haeusler has said. Other units of BayernLB
include Banque LBLux based in  Luxembourg  and real estate company
GWB AG, of which BayernLB owns 92 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich Bureau at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  