-- 
Berlusconi Accepts Allies’ Demands to Overhaul $66 Billion Austerity Plan

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-08-30T13:22:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/berlusconi-bows-to-allies-demands-to-overhaul-66-billion-austerity-plan.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
agreed to overhaul the 45 billion-euro ($66 billion) austerity
plan that persuaded the  European Central Bank  to support Italy’s
bonds, dropping a tax on the highest earners and limiting
funding cuts to regional governments.  “I’m very, very satisfied because the plan has been
improved without changing the total value,” Berlusconi said in
an interview with the “Studio Aperto” program on Mediaset
SpA’s Italia 1 television. “Now the austerity package is more
equal and sustainable.”  Berlusconi and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  agreed to
the changes after a seven-hour meeting yesterday with officials
of the  Northern League , a key coalition ally opposed to parts of
the original plan that aimed to balance the budget in 2013.  That package was the second austerity plan in a month
adopted by the government as Italy tries to convince investors
it can tame the euro region’s second-largest debt and avoid
following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking a bailout. The
plan was put together in days and passed by the Cabinet on Aug.
12 after the ECB demanded additional austerity measures to buy
Italian bonds, Tremonti has said.  ‘Close Eye’  “The ECB will raise its voice if there aren’t further
guarantees that it’s completely covered,” said  Marco Valli ,
UniCredit’s chief euro-area economist. “It seems now that there
will be some kind of revenue shortfall, but we still don’t have
all the details and it’s probable that for now, the ECB will be
keeping a close eye on this”. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-
based ECB declined to comment.  Austerity measures and slowing global demand will depress
the country’s growth, endangering the government’s debt
reduction targets, Bank of  Italy  Deputy Director General Ignazio Visco said in testimony to the Senate in Rome today, adding that
the government’s measures should rely less on tax increases and
more on easing  labor laws  and business regulations.  Italy’s economy remains 5 percent smaller than before the
financial crisis, Visco said, suggesting that the government
will have to lower its forecast that the economy will grow 1.1
percent this year, with growth rising to 1.6 percent in 2014.  Bonds Decline  Italian bonds fell for a seventh day, the longest streak of
declines since February, as demand declined at the first auction
of 10-year securities since the European Central Bank began
buying the nation’s debt. The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year
bond has fallen about 100 basis points since the ECB began
buying. The yield rose 2 basis points today to 5.11 percent, the
highest in three weeks.  The ECB has restrained Italy’s borrowing costs in the past
three weeks by buying its bonds in the secondary market after
contagion from the sovereign-debt crisis sent yields to a euro-
era record 6.40 percent on Aug. 5.  “The deterioration in Italy’s perceived creditworthiness
in July was triggered by external events, now domestic issues
are becoming the focal point for investor anxiety” said
Nicholas Spiro, who runs Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a London-
based consulting firm specializing in sovereign credit risk.  The new version of the package, which is due to be voted on
by the Senate next week, drops the “solidarity tax,” which
would have imposed an additional 5 percent on income of more
than 90,000 euros a year, rising to 10 percent for income above
150,000 euros, Berlusconi’s office said in an e-mailed
statement.  No VAT Increase  The new plan does not include an increase in value-added
tax to compensate for lost revenue, which some lawmakers had
called for. The solidarity tax will be replaced with unspecified
levies aimed at the wealth of those evading taxes, the note
said.  “We estimate that the possible fiscal slippage would be
lower than 3.3 billion euros over three years” assuming the new
measures to combat  tax evasion  do not work at all, Fabio Fois,
an economist at  Barclays Capital  in London, said in a note to
clients. “As we had already projected that Italy would have
hardly met its fiscal target for 2013, the estimated possible
fiscal slippage is not going to alter our view much.”  Cuts in funding to regional and local governments, totaling
9 billion euros in the original two-year plan, will be scaled
back. Those reductions will be trimmed by about 2 billion euros,
Roberto Calderoli, minister for legislative simplification, told
the Ansa news agency.  ‘Weakening Globally’  “About the credibility of the measures, there is
implementation risk,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , euro-area economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London . “The growth
outlook is weakening globally. Some of the measures have to be
qualified in terms of the details. This is a feature of any
fiscal effort you see anywhere in the globe.”  The  International Monetary Fund  will cut its forecast for
Italian economic growth next year to 0.7 percent, Ansa reported,
citing a draft of the fund’s World Economic Outlook report.
Tremonti forecasts growth of 1.3 percent for 2012.  The statement didn’t say whether plans to raise the
capital-gains tax to 20 percent from 12.5 percent had been
modified, or whether a so-called Robin Hood tax on profit of
electricity utilities had been altered.  The new package will go ahead with efforts to reduce the
size of the parliament, the statement said. Legislators will
still have to pay a solidarity tax of 10 percent on income over
90,000 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 