-- 
Bernanke Turns Timid in Krugman View of Princetonians on Japan

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/bernanke-turns-timid-in-krugman-view-of-princeton-colleagues-eyeing-japan.html
When Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  launched a $600 billion round of asset purchases in
November, he said it would lead to a “virtuous cycle” that
boosted the expansion. Paul Krugman, his former colleague at
 Princeton University , said “meh.”  The stock market and the economy has proved more “meh,”
an adjective meaning mediocre, than virtuous. Now the Nobel
Prize-winning Krugman says the Fed should engage in much more
aggressive monetary policy, including raising its target for
inflation, to fight unemployment stuck near 9 percent for 28
consecutive months and avert a lost decade of low U.S. growth.  In a speech last week in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , Bernanke
said the central bank has tools to stimulate the economy without
providing details or signaling when or whether policy makers
might use them. Bernanke said that “most importantly” monetary
policy must keep inflation low and stable, and most policies
that would support growth in the “long run” are outside the
central bank’s purview.  “I think Bernanke’s definition of the long run is ‘after
all this nasty stuff is behind us’” Krugman said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “And similarly for Fed policy. So the
speech was basically saying that in the long run we don’t matter,
and in the short run, which could be pretty long, not our
problem.”  On his New York Times blog after the speech,  Krugman quoted 
John  Maynard Keynes : “This long run is a misleading guide to
current affairs. In the long run we are all dead.”  Bernanke Hire  Krugman since 2000 has been a professor at Princeton, in
 New Jersey , where he was hired by Bernanke, then the department
chairman. As academics studying Japan they agreed on the need
for aggressive action from the central bank to kick start a
stalled economy after a financial crisis.  In the U.S, Krugman sees Bernanke’s actions as weak
medicine. The central bank decided on Aug. 9 to hold interest
rates near zero through mid-2013 and pledged to employ
additional tools “as appropriate.” On his New York Times blog,
 Krugman wrote  that day that he was “unimpressed” with that
decision as well.  The decision drew three dissents from members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which may serve as a restraint to
the action Bernanke may favor, according to  Christina Romer , a
former White House chief economist.  “There are some very extreme opinions within the FOMC on
the ‘don’t do any more’ or ‘start tightening now’ side,” Romer,
a professor at the  University of California , Berkeley, said in a
telephone interview. “The trouble is there’s nobody stridently
on the other side. Bernanke’s life might be easier if he had a
Paul Krugman on the Fed’s board saying, ‘For heaven’s sake,
unemployment is 9.1 percent.’”  Fiscal Package  Romer has also been a policy maker facing Krugman’s
criticism. As chairman of Barack Obama’s Council of Economic
Advisors, she pushed for the $830 billion fiscal stimulus
package, passed in February 2009,  that Krugman wrote  in the New
York Times was “nowhere near big enough” to make up for the
economy’s lost output.  Krugman made a similar argument against the Fed’s asset
purchases, saying “$600 billion really isn’t a lot when you’re
trying to move a $15 trillion economy,” in a post  on his blog 
less than two hours after the policy was announced on Nov. 3.  “When I was in the administration, I found it helpful to
have prominent voices like  Paul Krugman ’s arguing for more
fiscal stimulus,” said Romer, who is also a contributing editor
for Bloomberg. “It made it clear that what the administration
was pushing for was very moderate.”  ‘Outside Voice’  “To have an outside voice arguing to do more may be very
helpful for Ben,” she said.  Federal Reserve Bank presidents  Charles Plosser  of
Philadelphia, Richard Fisher of Dallas and Narayana Kocherlakota
of Minneapolis all voted against the Fed’s decision to keep the
target for the federal funds rate at zero to 0.25 percent until
at least mid-2013. Plosser and Fisher both said the pledge
wouldn’t help spur growth. The last time three policy makers
dissented was in November 1992.  During his tenure as Fed chairman, Bernanke has had 26
dissents from the FOMC’s policy statements. Only one, from
Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  in December 2007, urged more
accommodative monetary policy.  “Chairman Bernanke is timid compared with Professor
Bernanke,” Krugman said, when asked why Bernanke had not taken
the sort of aggressive actions he had pushed for as a professor
at Princeton. Bernanke declined to comment, said Michelle Smith,
the Fed’s spokeswoman.  Inflation Target  In a  1999 paper , Bernanke, 57, dubbed  Japan ’s struggling
economy “a case of self-induced paralysis” and proposed an
idea previously proposed by Krugman -- an inflation target.
Bernanke’s favored strategy against deflation, as outlined in a
 2002 speech  after he became a Fed governor, was to increase
Federal Reserve asset purchases.  “Bernanke has always had more faith in the effects of
changing the Fed’s portfolio than I did or do,” said Krugman,
58. “Bernanke, going back more than a decade, was more inclined
to favor what we now call quantitative easing as opposed to
working on expectations of inflation.”  In his speech last week in Jackson Hole, Bernanke didn’t
discuss the tools available to the Fed. He announced that the
FOMC would extend its September policy meeting to two days from
one to allow discussion of its options.  Policy Options  In testimony before Congress on July 13, Bernanke outlined
three possible tools. The first was to provide more guidance
about the period over which  interest rates  would remain low. The
central bank took that step Aug. 9 with its pledge to keep
borrowing costs near zero for two years.  The second option was to initiate more asset purchases or
increase the average maturity of the Fed’s securities holdings.
A third was to reduce the interest rate the Fed pays on excess
reserves.  “I suspect that the main point is that Bernanke now has to
deal with politics, both within and beyond the Fed,” Krugman
said in an e-mail, when asked why Bernanke hasn’t wielded more
policy tools. “The other FOMC members have been very reluctant
to get radical -- three votes against mild language suggesting a
prolonged era of low rates -- and Bernanke doesn’t want to get
too far out ahead. And then he faces harsh criticism from the
right, which sees hyperinflation lurking under every bush.”  The prospect of new easing from the Fed has already drawn
criticism from Republicans such as  Texas  Governor Rick Perry.
Perry, who Gallup said this week is the leading Republican
candidate for his party’s nomination for president, said Aug. 15
that Bernanke would be treated “pretty ugly down in Texas” for
increasing monetary stimulus before the November election next
year.  ‘Play Politics’  “Printing more money to play politics at this particular
time in American history is almost treacherous -- or treasonous
-- in my opinion,” Perry said in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa . In
Congressional testimony last month, Republican Senators,
including Richard Shelby of  Alabama ,  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  and
Pat Toomey of  Pennsylvania , told Bernanke they opposed any
consideration of increasing the Fed’s record stimulus.  “You have conservatives really beating up on QE2 and I
think that reverberates within the Fed, he can’t escape that,”
said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and
Policy Research in  Washington . “It amazes me that there’s no
drumbeat on the other side, that QE2 was in the right direction
and just not anywhere near what we need,” he said in a
reference to the second round of asset purchases, also known as
quantitative easing.  Theoretical Models  Pledging to raise the inflation rate temporarily is
something that may work better in theoretical models than in
practice, said Dean Croushore, chairman of the economics
department at the University of Richmond and a co-author with
Bernanke of his textbook “Macroeconomics.”  “No central bank I know of has been able to actually
manage inflation that well,” Croushore said. “Allowing
inflation to rise temporarily could certainly make some bad
loans good, in the past it has increased house prices at the
expense of bondholders and stockholders. It would lead to a big
redistribution of wealth as it did in the 1970s.”  Bernanke’s critics do not fully appreciate the pressure of
having the job, said Mark Gertler, a New York University
economist who has co-written research with Bernanke.  “Regarding monetary policy, it’s easier to say what you
should do from the outside as opposed to when you’re actually in
the hot seat yourself,” said Gertler. “Krugman’s had a lot of
really perceptive analysis of the economy. I just think he’s
gone a little bit overboard about what the Fed should do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  