-- 
Big Banks Bet Crude Oil Prices Would Fall in 2008 Run-Up, Leaked Data Show

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/big-banks-bet-crude-would-fall-in-2008-run-up-leaked-data-shows.html
Just before crude oil hit its record
high in mid-2008, 15 of the world’s largest banks were betting
that prices would fall, according to private trading  data
released  by U.S. Senator  Bernie Sanders .  The net positions of the banks undermine arguments made by
Sanders that speculative trades on  Wall Street  drove  oil prices 
in 2008, said Craig Pirrong, director of the  Global Energy
Management Institute  at the  University of Houston . Retail
gasoline reached a record $4.08 a gallon on July 7, 2008, and
oil peaked at $147.27 a barrel on July 11 that year.  “If you believe the banks are jerking around the market
and the market is going the way they were trading, the price
should have been lower,” Pirrong, who reviewed the data, said
in an interview.  The records of oil futures and derivatives trades in the
first half of 2008 were compiled by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and made public Aug. 19 by Sanders. Banks
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Morgan
Stanley and UBS AG collectively held 229,460 net short contracts
compared with 101,537 net long contracts, the data show. Short
trades make money if prices fall.  Sanders, a Vermont Independent, and other supporters of
curbs on speculation have said the CFTC documents demonstrate
the need for the agency to complete its rule on so-called
position limits. The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul enacted last
year requires the CFTC to limit traders’ positions in exchange-
traded and over-the-counter derivatives for oil, natural gas,
wheat and other commodities.  ‘Major Reason’  In an Aug. 22 letter to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , Sanders
said the 2008 data showed that banks and other speculators
harmed the economy. “We now know that excessive oil speculation
is a major reason why oil prices have risen so sharply,” he
wrote.  Asked to comment specifically on the analysis of the banks’
positions, Warren Gunnels, senior policy adviser to Sanders,
declined, saying the senator’s office would need more
information from the industry and regulators. “The bottom line
is that we need the CFTC to obey the law, do its job and
eliminate excessive oil speculation,” Gunnels said in an
interview.  The position-limits  rule , first proposed by the agency in
January, spurred more than 13,000 public comments filed with the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents including  Barclays Capital .  The data released by Sanders lists transactions by more
than 200 traders, offering a dated but rare glimpse into an
opaque market. It was collected by the CFTC for a Sept. 11,
2008,  report  on the run-up in oil prices. The agency said at the
time that the data had limitations and, while it was the best
available snapshot of trading, it might not be definitive.  ‘Utmost Concern’  When the agency told Congress in 2008 that its review found
no evidence that non-commercial trading had driven the spikes in
prices, three House Democrats  questioned the conclusion  and
sought the underlying data about companies and their positions.  The CFTC data was kept confidential until Sanders
publicized it. John Damgard, president of the  Futures Industry
Association , said in an Aug. 19 statement that the release was
of “utmost concern” to the trade group’s members and could
“seriously jeopardize the CFTC’s ability to gather information
from market participants and carry out its market surveillance
mission.”  The CFTC and its inspector general should investigate if
any laws were broken because of the leak, the association said
on Aug. 25.  ‘Laughable’  Sanders has suggested he acted in part to counter the
CFTC’s assertion when it released  its January proposal  that it
needed more data on the private over-the-counter swaps market to
implement position limits on contracts that settle outside of
the current month.  Sanders’ office said the data he released included both
exchange-traded and over-the-counter transactions. “It is my
understanding that the CFTC is still claiming that it cannot
impose strict speculation limits because it does not have enough
information,” Sanders said in the Aug. 22 letter to Gensler.
That, Sanders said, is “laughable.”  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on
Sanders’s letter.  The swaps market was largely unregulated until those trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank, enacted last
year, aims to reduce risk, boost transparency and give
regulators access to databases of information about exchange-
traded and private trades.  Meeting the Burden  Opponents of the position-limit proposal have argued that
the agency doesn’t have enough data and that regulators haven’t
demonstrated that excessive speculation is driving prices.  “The commission has not met its burden of showing that the
proposed position limit regime is ‘necessary’ and
‘appropriate,’” Craig S. Donohue, chief executive of  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, wrote in a March 28
letter to the CFTC.  The agency has come under the opposite pressure from
Senators  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat,  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, and Sanders, among other lawmakers. “The
CFTC is breaking the law” by not meeting the Jan. 17 deadline
set by Dodd-Frank, Sanders said in the Aug. 22 letter.  The agency may vote to complete the position-limit rule as
early as Sept. 22, Gensler said Aug. 25. The regulation has
split the agency’s five commissioners: Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican, opposed the January proposal, while  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican, and Michael V. Dunn, a Democrat, supported seeking
further public comment even as they registered concerns about
imposing trading limits. Bart Chilton, a Democrat, has urged the
agency to implement the trading curbs.  Offset Positions  All banks included in the data released by Sanders held
both long and short positions, which when offset against each
other provide a net view of expectations of where oil prices
were headed. Credit Suisse held the largest net-short position
at 109,655 contracts, which was 2.7 times as large as the
largest net long position of 41,338 lots held by Deutsche Bank.
Each lot represents 1,000 barrels of oil.  “Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and other speculators on
Wall Street dominated the crude oil futures market causing
tremendous harm to the entire economy,” Sanders said on Aug.
19. Mark Lake, a spokesman at Morgan Stanley, and Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  Limited Data  Pirrong, who has consulted for exchanges and whose research
on derivatives regulation has been published by the industry,
said that one of the limitations of the CFTC data is that it
doesn’t distinguish between banks’ trading positions for their
own accounts and those handled for clients.  The aggregate position of the more than 200 traders was net
short by 36,327 contracts, according to the data.  T. Boone Pickens , the billionaire Texas hedge-fund manager, had 145,257
lots and was net short 1,983, according to the data.  A separate set of CFTC data provided to Bloomberg News by
Sanders’s office on Aug. 24 shows commodity index fund
investments holding net long positions on Dec. 31, 2007, March
31, 2008 and June 30, 2008. The data, also collected for the
CFTC’s 2008 report, shows index funds, institutional investors,
sovereign wealth funds and other clients all holding net long
positions expecting crude oil to rise.  A third set of data released by Sanders showed six hedge
and pension funds with crude positions exceeding so-called
accountability levels -- which are set by exchanges, not the
CFTC. Traders that exceed accountability levels may be required
to provide information about the positions to exchanges, while
not necessarily facing hard limits on the overall size of the
transactions.  The data shows non-commercial trades on exchanges and in
private over-the-counter markets. D.E. Shaw & Co., the now $21-
billion hedge fund, and Caisse de Depot et Placement, now
 Canada ’s biggest pension fund, held net short positions.
Meanwhile, Bridgewater Associates LP, the hedge fund founded by
Ray Dalio, expected crude prices to increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net  or
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 