-- 
Short-Seller Block Regrets Investors Bought Sino-Forest After 89% Retreat

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-29T14:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/block-regrets-investors-piled-into-sino-forest.html
Carson Block, the short seller who
recommended betting against  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  before it plunged
as much as 89 percent, said it’s regrettable some investors were
lured into buying the company’s shares following the retreat.  Sino-Forest Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Allen Chan
resigned yesterday, two days after the Ontario Securities
Commission said the company may have exaggerated timber
holdings, backing up Block’s argument. Investors such as
Wellington Management Co. and billionaire Richard Chandler
boosted their stakes in the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-
based company during the past few months.  “These two investors took large positions and
unfortunately that encouraged some investors to jump into the
stock,” Block said today in an interview with Matt Miller on
Bloomberg Television. “We weren’t happy to see the stock bounce
up and more investors pile in, although it runs contrary to what
our goals are,” said Block, who is shorting the shares and
stands to profit if the price declines. “This is somewhat of a
personal crusade for us.”  Sino-Forest fell to an eight-year low of C$1.99 on June 21
after Muddy Waters, Block’s company, said in a June 2 report
that the company overstated forestry holdings. The stock then
rebounded, closing at C$7.69 on July 27, as Chandler’s Mandolin
Fund Pte and Wellington acquired shares. Canada’s main
securities regulator suspended trading last week after the
shares closed at C$4.81.  Default Levels  Sara Lou Sherman, a spokeswoman for Wellington, and Richard
Barton, a spokesman for Richard Chandler Corp., declined to
comment on the firms’ investments in Sino-Forest.  Sino-Forest bonds are trading at levels that show investors
expect it to default. Its 10.25 percent notes due in July 2014
fell 50 percent to 35 cents on the dollar on Aug. 26, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. The securities, which have about
$400 million outstanding, now yield 50.49 percent.  Chandler said this month he increased his stake in Sino-
Forest to 18 percent. His purchases have made him the largest
shareholder of Sino-Forest ahead of Davis Selected Advisers LP
and Wellington Management Co., according to the most recent
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  Company’s Denial  Inconsistencies have been found in the valuation of Sino-
Forest’s holdings in China’s Yunnan province, Canada’s Globe and
Mail said June 18, citing Chinese government officials and
forestry experts it didn’t identify. The newspaper’s report was
an “incorrect portrayal” of the company’s business, Sino-
Forest said in a statement. The company is conducting its own
internal investigation.  “The priorities of the company are to complete the review
of the allegations by the independent committee, to cooperate
with the OSC and to preserve shareholder value,” Stan Neve, a
spokesman for Sino-Forest in New York, wrote in an e-mail today.  Paulson & Co. sold all its stock in the company, according
to a June 20 regulatory filing. John Paulson’s New York-based
hedge fund, which made $15 billion in 2007 wagering against
subprime mortgages, had been Sino-Forest’s biggest shareholder.  “It was a near total fraud,” Block said today of Sino-
Forest. “They have been overstating their timber holdings and
timber sales since inception.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Miller in New York at 
 mtmiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  