-- 
Brazil Lifts Primary Surplus Target to 91 Billion Reais as Slowdown Looms

-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-29T19:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/brazil-lifts-2011-primary-surplus-target-to-91-billion-reais-mantega-says.html
Brazil  plans to halt a rise in
 government spending  this year to prepare  Latin America ’s biggest
economy for a global slowdown and make room for a cut in
interest rates, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  The government raised its target for the 2011 budget
surplus before interest payments to 91 billion reais ($57
billion) from 81.7 billion reais, Mantega told reporters today
in Brasilia. Brazil joins countries from Mexico to  Turkey  in
signaling that rate cuts may be on the horizon as global growth
sputters and a debt crisis in Europe worsens.  “It makes it viable in the medium- or long-term to cut
interest rates,” Mantega said. “As you reduce or stop
increasing public spending, you open space for a reduction in
 interest rates  when the central bank thinks it is possible.”  The central bank’s board of directors, led by president
Alexandre Tombini, begins its August policy meeting tomorrow,
with inflation above 7 percent for the first time since 2005.
Traders are wagering that policy makers will cut rates a
quarter-point this week, and between 0.75 and 1 percentage point
by year-end, as the economy shows signs of cooling and the
global recovery falters.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2012, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 11.92 percent at 2:43 p.m.
New York time.  Mantega said he sees no immediate need for monetary
stimulus and added that inflation is a permanent concern for
President Dilma Rousseff’s government.  Holding Rates  Mexico  policy makers kept the benchmark rate at a record
low 4.5 percent for the 21st consecutive meeting on Aug. 26 and
said they would consider adjusting it if the national or global
economic outlook worsens. The Turkish central bank also left its
benchmark rate unchanged on Aug. 23 and Governor Erdem Basci
said the institution may have to loosen monetary policy. Peru
and  Chile  also held rates this month.  Tombini said on Aug. 18 that Brazil needs to “treasure”
its sound fiscal position and strive to maintain it even if the
economic climate becomes more challenging.  “We need to retain that strength now more than ever,”
Tombini told journalists in a conference call. “We need to make
sure that we are in the very same situation when this new phase
of financial turmoil is over.”  Fiscal Surplus  Brazil’s  budget surplus  before interest payments widened in
July to a record for the month, pushing the year-to-date total
to almost 80 percent of the 2011 target.  The so-called primary surplus, which includes federal and
local governments as well as state companies, last month rose to
13.8 billion reais from 13.4 billion reais in June.  “It’s a good move and will help fight inflation,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said
in a telephone interview. “We would have liked it to be for
more than this year though.”  The government earlier this year cut 50.7 billion reais
from its 2011 budget.  Brazil’s economic activity shrank in June for the first
time since December, 2008. Industrial production fell 1.6
percent in June, the second-biggest drop in output since 2008,
and business confidence in the second quarter fell to its lowest
level since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 