-- 
Brazil’s Rate Futures Yields Drop as Spending Halt Spurs Bets on Rate Cuts

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-08-29T21:46:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-on-report-that-mantega-will-cut-spending.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts declined as traders bet that an increase to
the government’s primary surplus target signaled that extra
revenue won’t be spent, helping curb inflation.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 declined eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
11.11 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time. They had declined as much
as 19 basis points earlier in the day on speculation Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  would announce spending cuts. The yield
on the contract due in January 2021 plunged 31 basis points to
11.12 percent, paring an earlier drop of as much as 43 basis
points.  Brazil  raised its target for the 2011 central government
 budget surplus  before interest payments to 91 billion reais ($57
billion) from 82 billion reais, Mantega said today in Brasilia.
The announcement comes one day before the central bank’s August
policy meeting, and the higher surplus makes room for the
central bank to lower interest rates, Mantega said.  “It’s a good move and will help fight inflation,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment Bank, said
in an interview. “We would have liked it to be for more than
this year though. It seems like it will take the form of not
letting spending increase rather than a fiscal cut.”  The government doesn’t currently see a need for monetary
stimulus and the decision to lift the surplus target is related
to the international economic environment rather than tomorrow’s
central bank policy meeting, Mantega said.  ‘Market Hoped’  Yields had fallen further as traders speculated Mantega
would announce “decreases in basic spending,” Ram Bala Chandran, a Latin America currency and rates strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said by phone. “He also said
basically they don’t need monetary stimulus right now.”  Local media had reported Mantega would announce measures
that may allow the central bank to cut  interest rates . Yields on
the contracts due in January indicate that traders are
anticipating that policy makers led by central bank president
Alexandre Tombini will reduce rates by at least 75 basis points
from the current 12.50 percent by the end of the year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers have increased rates five times this year by
a total of 175 basis points. Traders are stepping up bets for
rate cuts to start when policy makers meet this week after
betting that the central bank would raise rates at this month’s
meeting as recently as mid-July.  Budget Surplus  Brazil’s budget surplus before interest payments widened in
July to a record for the month, pushing the year-to-date total
to almost 80 percent of the government’s 2011 target. The so-
called primary surplus, which includes federal and local
governments as well as state companies, rose to 13.8 billion
reais, from 13.4 billion reais in June.  The central bank’s pledge to slow inflation to the mid-
point of its target range next year assumed that President Dilma Rousseff’s government would deliver a 117.9 billion reais
primary surplus this year, including state and local
governments.  The government earlier this year cut 50.7 billion reais of
spending from its 2011 budget. Rousseff’s government is using a
mix of spending cuts, interest rate increases and measures to
curb  consumer credit  to slow inflation which this month exceeded
7 percent for the first time since 2005.  The real rose 0.7 percent to 1.5914, from 1.6033 on Aug.
26. The currency posted its third straight day of gains, the
longest winning streak since the period ended July 26.  The real is rising today as markets outside Brazil are
“calming” after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last week that the  U.S. economy  isn’t weak enough to warrant
immediate additional stimulus,  Francisco Carvalho , currency
director at Liquidez DTVM, said in a telephone interview.  Twenty of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg rose against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  