-- 
Bright Food to Focus International Expansion Plans in Australia, Ge Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-29T04:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/bright-food-to-focus-international-growth-push-on-australia-after-manassen.html
Bright Food Group Co. will focus its
international expansion in  Australia  where China’s second-
largest food company is said to have spent about A$400 million
($425 million) this month to gain grocery brands.  “Recently quite a few Australian businesses came to us on
their own to talk about potential cooperation,” Vice President
Ge Junjie said today in Sydney at a signing ceremony for the
acquisition of Manassen Foods. “Australia is the area where we
are going to focus more.”  The Manassen deal, which includes Australian distribution
of McVities biscuits and  Sharwood’s curry , follows failed
acquisition attempts in  Europe  and Australia. Bright has said it
may buy overseas assets in sugar, wine and the manufacturing and
distribution of food as it aims to increase sales from outside
 China  to as much as 30 percent of revenue in five years.  Ge didn’t name any companies or assets as targets.  Bright agreed to buy 75 percent of Manassen on Aug. 17,
without stating how much it would pay. On Aug. 15 two people
familiar with the matter said Bright will pay about A$400
million to buy the stake from Champ Private Equity.  Funds advised by Champ and members of Manassen’s senior
management team will own the rest of Manassen Foods, which has
brands including Albatros bread and Harringtons chocolates.  Manassen ‘Platform’  “We are going to use the Manassen partnership as a very,
very important platform for both Australia’s market and China’s
market,” said Ge, who is also chairman of Bright’s Shanghai
Sugar Cigarette and Wine (Group) Co. unit.  Bright lost out to General Mills Inc. for a stake in French
yogurt maker Yoplait earlier this year and was outbid by Wilmar
International Ltd. for CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit, Australia’s
largest producer, in 2010.  It inquired last year about acquiring GNC Holdings Inc.,
the retailer of vitamins and supplements, before the Pittsburgh-
based chain raised $360 million in an initial public offering.  Bright Food, controlled by the Shanghai city government,
has interests that span food and beverage, farming and
retailing. It was established by merging four state-owned
companies in August 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  