-- 
Burberry Car Seat, Fendi Roof Dress Up Primp My Ride Subculture

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-08-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/burberry-car-seat-fendi-ceiling-color-primp-my-ride-subculture-hot-art.html
Artist  Luis Gispert  was
photographing lowriders a few years ago when someone told him to
check out a Cadillac Escalade with its interior redone like a
 Louis Vuitton  bag designed by Japanese artist  Takashi Murakami .  The car’s owner “had no clue who Murakami was,” Gispert
said. “He just liked the brand and the colors.”  Gispert soon switched to shooting this other subculture,
and the results will be on view at  Mary Boone  gallery as part of
an exhibition next month titled “Luis Gispert: Decepcion.”  For two years Gispert traveled around the U.S. in search of
these people whose sense of automotive bling was less “Pimp My
Ride” than “Primp My Ride.” They borrowed from the designs of
luxury brands such as Vuitton, Gucci and Dolce & Gabbana.  In  Detroit , Houston and  Los Angeles , he climbed into the
backseat and captured the logo-heavy interiors with a large-
format camera. Some car owners wore hand-made clothes or
accessories to match their autos, so Gispert shot them as well.  “They had a level of obsession with their projects that I
could recognize,” said Gispert. “Artists feel the same way in
their studios as these people do in their garages.”  The tanned 39-year-old spoke in his own studio, in the
Bushwick section of the New York borough of Queens, where
smaller versions of the exhibition prints lined the walls.  One interior was emerald green, with the seats and side
panels covered by cartoonish green-on-black text spelling
“Louis Vuitton Paris” in chaotic repetition. A mosaic of
colorful Fendi logos covered the ceiling and console in another,
while the seats and visors were powder blue.  ‘Giant Purse’  Can plaid be bling? The auto interior tricked out with the
signature geometric patterns of  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  seemed to
suggest as much.  “When you are inside the Burberry car, it’s like you are
driving in a giant purse,” Gispert said.  The images are enlarged to actual size, about 55-by-90
inches. Each has the same backseat vantage point: You are
looking at the front two seats, dashboard, windshield and two
side windows.  “All these brands represent high style, high fashion,”
said Gispert, examining. “It becomes a class thing.”  Adding to the surreal effect, Gispert placed the cars
against stunning landscapes seen through the front window: Louis
Vuitton appears to be soaring over an Alpine lake; Fendi looks
out onto a snow-covered mountain range; Burberry is suspended
above a desert.  Shady Characters  His human subjects ranged from working-class men to shady
characters whom he suspected were drug dealers.  A woman in heavy makeup wears a flamenco-style dress made
with the Vuitton pattern. Each of a man’s Timberland boots has a
different lining, one with Dior logos, the other with Gucci
ones.  “They are not concerned with reading  Vogue , following the
runways or even copying what’s in stores,’ said Gispert. “It’s
a fantasy they want to create.”  The photographs come in an edition of six, each priced at
$25,000. The show runs Sept. 8 through Oct. 22 at 745 Fifth
Ave.; +1-212-752-2929;  http://www.maryboonegallery.com   To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 