-- 
California-Blend Gasoline’s Premium Falls From Two-Year High

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-29T21:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/california-blend-gasoline-s-premium-falls-from-two-year-high.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  fell from the highest premium to futures in almost two
years after a buyer was able to secure gasoline to cover
commitments for prompt delivery.  Los Angeles Carbob’s premium fell 13.5 cents to 33 cents
above gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 3:58 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The fuel jumped 23 cents Aug. 26 to the highest premium
since Sept. 9, 2009, as supply tightened after  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ’s Torrance refinery had an equipment breakdown and  Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  shut a pipeline for the second time in
a week.  “You saw an extreme example of a short squeeze,” said
David Hackett, president of energy consultant  Stillwater
Associates  in Irvine, California. “A company sold gasoline for
delivery on the next cycle and couldn’t find someone to sell to
him to cover his contractual obligation to his buyer. The diffs
come off as soon as the short is covered.”  Carbob in San Francisco also fell 13.5 cents to a premium
of 33 cents over futures.  Bob van der Valk, an independent fuel pricing analyst in
Terry, Montana, described the tight market as “a classic
squeeze” on buyers trying to cover pipeline tenders the week
before Labor Day weekend.  Kinder Morgan   Kinder Morgan started a 10-inch, products pipeline in
northern California last week that was shut earlier after a
reported “seep,” Emily Mir Thompson, a spokeswoman for the
Houston-based company, said in an e-mail.  The same line, traveling from Kinder’s Concord station to
its Bradshaw terminal in Sacramento, California, was shut
earlier in the week after the company found a “minor leak.”  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo refinery,
south of Los Angeles, said it plans to flare gases until 11:59
p.m. local time tomorrow. The flaring isn’t associated with a
breakdown, the San Ramon, California-based company said in a
notice to air regulators.  Rod Spackman, a company spokesman at the refinery in El
Segundo, declined to comment on the plant’s operations.  Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said its 147,000-barrel-a-day
Wilmington refinery, also south of Los Angeles, plans to flare
until Sept. 4. The refinery told state regulators that it began
flaring gases over the weekend and was investigating the cause
of the incident.  Janet Grothe, a Conoco spokeswoman in Houston, declined to
comment on the refinery’s operations.  Conoco has also shut a 16-inch crude-oil pipeline
delivering feedstock to its 128,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery
in northern California. The company is making repairs on the
line after a leak, Romelia Hinojosa, a Conoco spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail today.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland , Oregon, was unchanged at 19.5 cents versus futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  