-- 
California Team Beats Japan 2-1 to Take Little League World Series Title

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-29T04:09:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/california-team-beats-japan-2-1-to-take-little-league-world-series-title.html
Huntington Beach , California, won
baseball’s  Little League World Series  by beating Japan 2-1 with
a game-ending, run-scoring single.  Ocean View  Little League  in Huntington Beach became the
sixth U.S. team in the past seven years to win the title as Nick
Pratto delivered a bases-loaded hit with two outs in the sixth
inning at Lamade Stadium in Williamsport,  Pennsylvania .  The start of yesterday’s championship game was pushed back
three hours because of Tropical Storm Irene, which began
battering the East Coast yesterday. The consolation game,
between teams from  Mexico  and  Montana , was canceled.  Pratto had three of California’s five hits, while winning
pitcher Braydon Salzman held international champion Hamamatsu
Minami Little League of Hamamatsu City,  Japan , to one unearned
run and three hits over six innings. The 13-year-old Salzman had
nine strikeouts and didn’t issue a walk.  “He pitched the greatest game of his life,” said
California manager Jeff Pratto, Nick’s father. “He was the
right guy for the job -- a pitcher who is very efficient, able
to change speeds and able to hit his spots, which is what you
need to beat Japan.”  Salzman walked to lead off the bottom of the sixth inning
and California loaded the bases with one out after a single and
a fielding error by Japan. Although Salzman was forced out at
home plate for the second out, Pratto,  California ’s 12-year-old
first baseman, followed with a single to centerfield to score
the winning run in front of a crowd of 20,168.  “I was ahead in the count, and I was just looking for a
good pitch to hit, to drive, and I got it,” said Pratto, adding
that he was nervous walking up to the plate. “But once I got in
the box, I just started to calm down, get my head straight and
see the ball.”  Japan took a 1-0 lead in the top of the third inning as
Seiya Fujita led off with a single, moved to third base on an
error and scored on a fielder’s choice.  California tied it in the bottom of the inning as Hagen
Danner hit a solo home run.  Huntington Beach is the second team from California to win
the Little League title for 11-, 12- and 13-year olds in the
past three years. Park View Little League in Chula Vista won the
2009 championship, while the Edogawa Minami All-Stars from  Tokyo 
last year gave Japan its first title since 2003.  Japan’s representative made it back to the final by beating
Seguro Social Little League of Mexicali,  Baja California , Mexico,
5-2 yesterday. California captured the U.S. title with an 11-2
win over a team from Billings, Montana, avenging an earlier 1-0
loss to the Northwest representative.  Huntington Beach outscored its opponents 23-2 at the Little
League World Series after outscoring teams 41-6 in the West
Regional to reach Williamsport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  