-- 
Canadian Currency Reaches Strongest in 3 Weeks on Boost in Demand for Risk

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-29T21:07:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/canada-s-dollar-appreciates-to-three-week-high-on-boost-in-demand-for-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar touched a three-week
high as stocks and commodities such as crude oil gained on
speculation a recovery in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade
partner, will resume.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is often known, gained
versus its U.S. counterpart after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated on Aug. 26 that the world’s largest
economy isn’t weak enough to warrant immediate stimulus.  “Bernanke gave the market a little bit of calm and
confidence, and obviously that’s carried over,” said  Steve Butler , managing director of foreign-exchange trading at Bank of
Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital, by phone from Toronto. “It looks
like we’re going to get a good start to the week. It’s just a
matter of time before we turn the corner.”  The Canadian currency advanced 0.5 percent to 97.69 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.13 cents on Aug.
26. It touched 97.41 cents, the lowest level since Aug. 4. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0237.  The loonie slid to a level weaker than 99 cents per U.S.
dollar four times last week yet closed weaker than that level
only on Aug. 22, indicating the trend can’t be sustained and
“there’s some demand for Canada on any weakness,” Butler said.
The currency would need to close stronger than 97.25 cents “to
really sustain some positive momentum this week,” he said.  The Canadian dollar extended gains after a report showed
U.S. consumer spending climbed more than forecast in July,
climbing 0.8 percent, the most since February. The median
estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.5 percent increase. Canada ships about three quarters of its
exports to the U.S.  ‘Bullish Case’  “Given the tight range of the past few weeks and the
failed breakout higher Friday morning, the move down late Friday
and overnight has done serious damage to the bullish case for
funds,” wrote  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
in Toronto at  National Bank of Canada , in a note to clients
today. “Funds” refers to the U.S. dollar versus Canadian
dollar exchange rate.  Canada’s economy was unchanged in the three months through
June after expanding 3.9 percent in the first quarter, according
to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The report from  Statistics Canada  is due Aug. 31.  Primary Market  Canada’s dollar rose to a three-year high of 94.07 cents on
July 26 before plunging to below parity on Aug. 9 on mounting
concern the  U.S. economy , the primary market for Canada’s energy
products, may be heading into another recession. The loonie has
also fallen on speculation  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will
sap risk demand.  Government bonds  fell today. The benchmark two-year yield
rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.06
percent. The yield plunged to 0.783 percent on Aug. 9, the
lowest in Bloomberg records dating to 1989. The price of the 2
percent security maturing in August 2013 dropped 12 cents to
C$101.78.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index advanced 2.8 percent. The
loonie’s one-month correlation coefficient with the benchmark
gauge for U.S. stocks reached 0.92 today, matching the reading
on Aug. 22, which is the highest since June 2010, Bloomberg data
show. A reading of 1 indicates the measures move in lockstep.  Crude oil for October delivery added 2.5 percent to $87.52
a barrel in  New York . The correlation coefficient between oil
and the loonie was 0.39 today, about the lowest since March,
from as high as 0.86 on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  