-- 
House to Focus on Eliminating U.S. Regulations, Cantor Says

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-29T18:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/cantor-says-republicans-aim-to-scale-back-regulations-hurting-job-growth.html
Republicans will focus on limiting
government regulations, including environmental and labor rules,
that are creating “burdens to job creators,” U.S. House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said.  The agenda for the rest of the year will include repealing
or scaling back Environmental Protection Agency rules on power
plant pollution, ozone standards and greenhouse gas emissions,
Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said today in a memo to
Republican lawmakers.  “By pursuing a steady repeal of job-destroying
regulations, we can help lift the cloud of uncertainty hanging
over small and large employers,” Cantor said in the memo.  The Republican agenda is “ideologically driven,” and will
jeopardize clean air and water and allow employers to punish
workers for their lawful right to organize, said a statement
from House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi’s office.  House Republicans also plan legislation to prevent the
 National Labor Relations Board  from restricting where an
employer can locate jobs, he said.  The labor board has been accused by Republicans and
business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce of pushing
a pro-union agenda. Board opponents cite its April complaint
against  Boeing Co. (BA)  that said the world’s largest aerospace
company retaliated for worker strikes in its Seattle-area hub by
building a plant in  South Carolina , a state where employees
aren’t required to join a union.  Tax Deduction  The House will also work on a plan to let small business
owners take a tax deduction equal to 20 percent of their income
to free up funds for hiring and expansion, he said.  President Barack Obama is set to outline a jobs plan next
month that will include funding to improve the nation’s
infrastructure.  Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, said House
Republicans are ‘“struggling to play catch-up” on  job creation 
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  “called for more
aggressive fiscal policies than they have supported so far.”  At an annual retreat of central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, Bernanke urged adoption of “good, proactive housing
policies” to reverse the depressed U.S. real estate market and
warned lawmakers to avoid steps that may hurt short-term growth.  Lawmakers return from their August recess next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  