-- 
Carson Block Calls Sino-Forest ‘Near Total Fraud’ (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-29T19:18:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/carson-block-calls-sino-forest-near-total-fraud-transcript-.html
Carson Block, research director and
founder of Muddy Waters Research, talks about suspension of
trading on Sino-Forest Corp. by  Canada ’s main securities
regulator amid an investigation that the company has been
inflating its China timberland holdings and the resignation of
Chief Executive Officer Allen Chan. (Source: Bloomberg)  (This is not a legal transcript of the interview. Bloomberg
LP cannot guarantee its accuracy.)  MATT MILLER, BLOOMBERG NEWS: The bad news keeps piling up
for Chinese timber firm, Sino-Forest. Moody’s cut the company’s
rating to C, double A1 (ph) this morning which means that there
is a substantial risk. S&P went further cutting Sino-Forest to
triple C minus and then withdrawing the rating altogether.  Yesterday, the company’s CEO quit. Short-seller, Carson
Block, was the one who started this all in June. He wrote a
scathing report that Sino-Forest is a fraud. He joins us now by
Skype at Sao Paulo.  And Carson, thanks so much for joining us. I guess, Sino-
Forest really is the one who started this all, right, because
they have the issues of which you accuse them. Why don’t you
just draw those out for those who are new to this story?  CARSON BLOCK, FOUNDER,  MUDDY WATERS  RESEARCH: Sure. Well,
this company actually went public over 16 years ago in Canada by
reverse merger. And it just kind of grew to be a multibillion
dollar market cap company during a time when people were not
really aware of the potential issues that you have with these
Chinese companies.  So when we happened (ph) upon it, it had $2 billion in
debt, $5 billion market cap, and it’s a near-total fraud. They
have been overstating their timber holdings and timber sales
since inception. So we were able to prove it.  We published a 40-page report with another 40 pages or so
of appendices. And the company, in response to that report, the
independent director set up their own committee to investigate
our conclusions.  And that committee has largely worked in silence. But they
seemed to have muzzled (ph) the management since our report came
out early in June. So we haven’t heard much from the company
until this surprise order from the Ontario Securities Commission
on Friday.  MILLER: So you’re saying the overstated value in the land
they have where their trees are and they overstated their
revenue. I mean, how do they refute those claims?  BLOCK: Well, I mean, initially, of course,  Allen Chan , the
person who just initially resigned after telling investors that
he personally guarantees that all financial statements are
accurate. And he personally guarantees that the company is not
engaged in any undisclosed related party transactions.  They’ve imminently denied our allegations and said that
we’re short sellers, you know, we’re lying, et cetera. So it’s
actually pretty standard playbook for these companies that are
accused of fraud by short sellers such as ourselves.  MILLER: Although this company had some pretty famous long
investors, right? I mean, John Paulsen (ph) and Chris Davis (ph)
- two really big names here in  New York , indeed around the
world, or holding huge amounts of the company’s stocks.  So those two, I’m guessing, have defected (ph) and are
gone. Are there any other long investors left?  BLOCK: Well, they were recently - when I say recently, I
mean, the past six to eight weeks, Wellington Management took a
large long position and also Mandolin Fund owned by billionaire,
Robert Chandler.  So these two investors took large positions. And
unfortunately, that encouraged some investors to jump into the
stocks (ph). So the price of the stock was bid up at one point
close to $8 a share largely just on the back of these funds
taking their stakes, you know.  I don’t know whether, you know, Chimp Mersfine (ph) is for
his activist shareholder policies so I don’t know whether he was
expecting to try to effect (ph) change in the company or not and
this is in, you know, in accordance with his plan. It’s an
interesting question.  MILLER: But you have to be happy when more long investors
buy the stock because it gives you more action on the short
side, right?  BLOCK: Well, I mean, look, you know, when we put out these
reports, we’re doing it, in large part, because we want to see
these frauds that were (ph) raised.  Everybody who is part of Muddy Waters is someone (ph) who
has a personal crusade for us, particularly because we’ve done
business in  China , most of us are entrepreneurs. And we’ve dealt
with these people who think that the rules don’t apply to them.  So from our perspective, you know, it’s great that we’ve
found a way to make a living exposing these frauds and
protecting investors from them. So we actually weren’t happy to
see the stock bounce up and more investors pile in but runs
contrary to what our goals are.  MILLER: Got it. Well, I’m sure there’s a lot more to that
where it came from. So Carson, thanks very much. Carson Block
there, Founder of Muddy Waters Research…  BLOCK: Thanks (ph)…  MILLER: …coming to us from  Sao Paulo .  #<478851.166543.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 