-- 
Steak Chops, Caviar Served With Harbor View: Sydney Dine & Deal

-- B y   M a l c o l m   S c o t t
-- 
2011-08-29T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/caviar-steak-chops-crumbed-brain-with-harbor-view-dine-deal-in-sydney.html
With the Australian dollar’s rise,
Sydney is now an expensive place to dine by global standards.
Thankfully, creative chefs, fresh ingredients and spectacular
settings mean diners aren’t short changed.  From brain-spiked fish to dry-aged steak, the city’s
kitchens mix techniques and flavors from around the world to
create the ‘modern Australian’ experience. Here are our choices,
in alphabetical order, for business dining in Sydney.  1. Aria: 1 Macquarie St., East Circular Quay, Sydney.
Information: +612-9252-2555;  http://www.ariarestaurant.com   What: Contemporary Australian.  Why: Matt Moran is a household name in Australia thanks to
his television shows. Fortunately, his day job hasn’t suffered.
Aria remains one of the best places to dine, especially for
international guests who can nibble crisp-skinned barramundi or
roasted venison with cabbage and black pudding in view of the
Opera House and Harbour Bridge.  Where: Overlooking the Sydney Opera House.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday, dinner Monday to Sunday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Closely packed tables mean conversations of
fellow diners can intrude: “Oooh! Look at the view!”  2. Azuma: Level 1, Chifley Plaza, 2 Chifley Square, Sydney.
Information: +612-9222-9960;  http://www.azuma.com.au/   What: Japanese, popular with bankers.  Why: Deliciously fresh sushi and sashimi, with plenty of
more substantial offerings. Downstairs for the likes of UBS and
Morgan Stanley, Azuma is ideal for quick quality lunches.  Where: In Chifley Tower.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday, dinner Monday to Saturday.  Bar: No.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Chatty.  3. Bilson’s: Radisson Plaza Hotel, 27 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Information: +612-8214-0496;  http://www.bilsons.com.au   What: Contemporary French.  Why: Tony Bilson, the “Godfather of Australian cuisine,”
offers a menu is bursting with surprising flavors. His waiters
are among the city’s most knowledgeable, and his dining room
among the city’s classiest. Together with Chef de Cuisine Diego
Munoz (fresh from a stint with El Bulli’s Ferran Adria), Bilson
has revamped his menu with five degustation offerings, from the
15-course, four-hour ‘Epiphanie’ (A$405 per-head with wine) to
the seven-course ‘Petit’ (A$145 without wine).  Where: In the Radisson Hotel, opposite Australia Square.  When: Lunch on Friday, dinner Tuesday to Saturday.  Bar: No.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Reserved and refined, with comfortable spacing
between tables for hushed negotiations.  4. Bistrode CBD: Level 1, Corner of York and King Street,
Sydney. Information +612-9240-3000;
 http://www.merivale.com/#/cbd/bistrodecbd   What: Modern British.  Why: A more casual alternative to some of the other options
on this list, with the jovial mood of the downstairs bar flowing
to the chic eatery upstairs. A playful menu adds to the appeal,
with ‘The Other Bits’ offering dishes like ‘Hearts and Minds’
(lamb heart and crumbed brain), luring diners into more
adventurous selections.  Where: Close to the retail end of town.  When: Lunch and dinner Monday to Friday.  Bar: Yes, downstairs.  Private Room: No.  Sound level: Noisy on some Friday lunch visits, with a bar-
like feel and chatter.  5. Cafe Sydney: Level 5, Customs House, 31 Alfred St., Circular
Quay. Information: +612-9251-8683;  http://www.cafesydney.com   What: Contemporary Australian.  Why: This rooftop eatery has influences from around the
globe, allowing diners to jump from offerings such as grilled
quail with pear to Tandoori-roasted Tasmanian Ocean Trout, all
while enjoying the harbor views.  Where: On top of the Customs House building near Circular
Quay train station.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday and Sunday, dinner Monday to
Saturday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Comfortably chatty, with backing vocals from
the occasional ferry horn.  6. Chophouse: 25 Bligh St., Sydney. Information: +1300-246-748;
 http://www.chophouse.com.au/   What: Steak.  Why: Exposed beams and stripped-back decor appeal to your
inner carnivore. Flavor-packed steaks, speedy service and the
hum of conversing diners give this New York-inspired eatery a
comfortable feel that will have you planning your next visit as
soon as you pick up the check.  Where: Close to the bank-filled Chifley and Governor
Phillip Towers.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday, dinner Tuesday to Saturday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Rooms: Yes.  Sound level: On the noisier end of the spectrum, with
closely packed tables of predators devouring prey.  7. Est.: Level 1, 252 George St., Sydney. Information: +612-
9240-3010;  http://www.merivale.com   What: Contemporary Australian.  Why: Along with Bilson’s, this is international top-end
dining at its finest. No need for harbor views or tricky flavor
combinations when the ingredients are this fresh and deftly
handled. A varied menu with items such as steamed snapper fillet
with shaved abalone or pan-roasted lamb rib eye and an extensive
wine list should please all palates.  Where: Just down from Martin Place.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday, dinner Monday to Saturday.  Bar: Downstairs.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: A dignified hum.  8. Guillaume at Bennelong: Sydney Opera House, Bennelong Point,
Sydney. Information: +612-9241-1999;
 http://www.guillaumeatbennelong.com.au   What: Contemporary French.  Why: Paris-born Chef Guillaume Brahimi’s fare lives up to
the setting within Jorn Utzon’s famous building. Booths and
well-spaced tables give privacy, while dishes like scallops with
pea and smoked ham hock puree delight the taste buds. No other
Sydney restaurant can match the sense of occasion one gets from
dining here, especially for visitors to the harbor city.  Where: Inside the sails of the Opera House.  When: Lunch Thursday or Friday, dinner Tuesday to Saturday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Mezza voce. The sail-setting gives a
cathedral-like serenity to the chatter of fellow diners.  9. Number One Wine Bar: 1 Alfred St., Sydney. Information: +612-
8252-9296;  http://www.numberonewinebar.com   What: Half bar, half cozy diner.  Why: This is Tony Bilson’s informal offering and he’s
filled the gap between the city’s high-end dining scene and
overcrowded pub market perfectly. Shared meat platters, great-
value mains and an affordable wine and drinks menu make this a
great alternative when seeking a relaxed meal or late night
glass of scotch.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday; dinner Monday to Saturday.  Sound level: Buzzing when crowded at peak times.  10. Pier: 594 New South Head Road, Rose Bay. Information: +612-
9327-6561;  http://www.pierrestaurant.com.au   What: Seafood.  Why: The only non-CBD (Central Business District)
restaurant on this list, Pier justifies the 10 minute cab or
ferry ride east of the city center. The owner and chef, Greg
Doyle, is famous for giving up his top status in Sydney’s
leading good-food guide so he could simplify the menu and
service and bring back local customers from the restaurant’s
wealthy neighborhood. Fish are brain-spiked to ensure optimum
freshness, and deftly handled in the kitchen to speed them to
your plate.  Where: Overlooking the glittering waters of Rose Bay.  When: Lunch and dinner Monday to Sunday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: The long, narrow shape mean diners are
positioned on either side of a main walkway, keeping out the
conversations of fellow diners.  11. Quay: Upper Level, Overseas Passenger Terminal, West
Circular Quay, The Rocks, Sydney. Information: +612-9251-5600;
 http://www.quay.com.au   What: Modern Australian.  Why: Chef Peter Gilmore has cemented Quay’s status as
Sydney’s No. 1 diner, with a lengthy waiting list to prove it.
Textures are mixed as adroitly as flavors, with liberal use of
nuts, seeds, flowers and pulses juxtaposing succulent quail,
fish or milk-fed lamb. If that’s not enough, it also serves up
Sydney’s best view.  Where: At the top of the Overseas Passenger Terminal,
across Circular Quay from the Opera House.  When: Lunch Tuesday to Friday, dinner seven nights.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Average.  12. Rockpool Bar & Grill: 66 Hunter Street, Sydney. Information:
+612-8078-1900;  http://www.rockpool.com/sydney/bar-and-grill   What: Steaks, Seafood.  Why: Chef Neil Perry has created the eatery for all
occasions. One of Sydney’s most versatile and extensive menus
accommodates Sterling caviar with toast and creme fraiche (125
grams for A$600), with beef and Guinness pie and mushy peas
(A$29). The 167-page wine list is just as diverse, from a
A$49,600 1971 Romanée-Conti to a 2009 Hunter Valley Chardonnay
for A$46.  Where: In a former black-spot of Sydney’s culinary map,
near the Wentworth Hotel.  When: Lunch Monday to Friday, dinner Monday to Saturday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: A good selection of them.  Sound level: Stone surfaces and an open kitchen make this a
noisy place to dine.  13. Tetsuya: 529 Kent Street, Sydney. Information: +612-9267-
2900;  http://www.tetsuyas.com   What: French/Japanese  Why: No list of Australian eateries would be complete
without Tetsuya Wakuda’s Japanese-inspired cuisine enlivened by
French techniques. There’s the freshness of chilled cucumber
soup with sheep yoghurt ice cream, or the depth of slow-roasted
breast of duck with smoked eschallots and foie gras.  When: Saturday lunch, dinner Tuesday to Saturday.  Bar: Yes.  Private Room: Yes.  Sound level: Average.  ( Malcolm Scott  writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own. This report is the eighth of the 2011
series of Bloomberg Dine & Deal. The articles survey top cities
and offer informed tips on good restaurants for business and
pleasure. For more Dine & Deal reviews, click here.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Malcolm Scott in Sydney at 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 