-- 
Chan Loses Grip on Sino-Forest 22 Years After Tiananmen Square ‘Nightmare’

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-30T15:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/chan-loses-sino-forest-grip-22-years-after-tiananmen-square-nightmare-.html
Allen Chan ’s resignation as chief
executive officer of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , which is accused of
exaggerating timber holdings, marks the second time in 22 years
the Chinese entrepreneur has lost control of a company he
founded.  Chan stepped down Aug. 28 as chief executive officer, two
days after Canada’s main securities regulator suspended trading
in the shares. His previous business raising funds for
infrastructure projects in China collapsed after the
government’s crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in
Beijing’s Tiananmen Square spurred foreign investors to flee.  That failure 22 years ago when he was 37, making him about
59 today, led to a breakdown that left Chan physically
incapacitated, before he recovered and transformed himself as a
forestry mogul capitalizing on land reforms in the world’s most
populous country. Another comeback may be unrealistic.  “For the rest of his career he’s going to be tainted,”
said Eric M. Jackson, president and founder of Ironfire Capital,
a Naples, Florida-based hedge fund that specializes in Chinese
stocks.  The Ontario Securities Commission said Aug. 26 that Sino-
Forest officers and directors may have engaged in acts “related
to its securities” that they “knew or should have known”
perpetuated a fraud. Sino-Forest has fallen 67 percent in
Toronto since short seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC
research firm said in a June 2 report that the company was
overstating its assets. Investors including hedge fund firm
Paulson & Co. have lost C$3.3 billion ($3.4 billion).  ‘Convoluted Story’  Sino-Forest has rejected Muddy Waters’ allegations and has
assigned an independent committee to investigate the claims,
hiring PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. Chan was named
chairman emeritus of Sino-Forest and will remain available to
assist the probe, the company said. Chan also resigned as
chairman of Greenheart Group Ltd., Sino-Forest’s Hong Kong-
listed unit.  Stan Neve, a New York-based Sino-Forest spokesman, declined
to comment or make Chan and other executives available.  “It’s pretty clear that this is at best a convoluted story
that defies easy explanation, and at its worst it’s a massive
fraud,” said  John Stephenson , a Toronto-based  money manager  who
helps oversee C$2.7 billion at First Asset Management Inc.  Chan studied sociology at Hong Kong Baptist University and
graduated in 1979. He joined a Hong Kong restaurant operator
owned by billionaire casino owner  Stanley Ho , as corporate
secretary, according to a 2004 interview with World Executive
Group’s CEO magazine.  ‘Totally Paralyzed’  Chan started his project-finance business in 1984. His
first project raised $39 million for a hotel in Shenzhen,
earning him a $200,000 fee, he said in the interview. Success
evaporated after the Chinese crackdown.  “It was like a nightmare that you plunged into darkness
with little to hold on to, with no voice to scream and totally
paralyzed,” he told CEO magazine in an article published in
Chinese. “I regretted and doubted myself. I couldn’t
communicate with others. I couldn’t read in the first year. I
could only sunbathe and listen to music.”  The failure cost Chan HK$10 million ($1.3 million), which
took him six years to repay, he told the  South China Morning
Post  in August 2003. Chan considered leaving  Hong Kong  to study
sociology in the U.S., he told Canada’s Financial Post magazine
in 2007. Instead he stayed and began writing a column for the
Hong Kong Economic Journal.  “My rationale was that you should stand up where you fall
down,” Chan told the Financial Post.  Canadian Listing  Chan founded Sino-Forest in 1992 to exploit an increasing
domestic shortage of wood by tapping foreign capital to acquire
timberland. His business partner Kai Kit Poon, a former employee
of the Guangdong Forest Bureau, brought industry experience,
said Yajie Song, a research scholar at the Yale School of
Forestry & Environmental Studies.  “Allen is a very picky person,’” Song, who worked with
Sino-Forest to train some of its workers, said in an interview.
“He gets what he wants when he jumps to another area to do
something.”  Sino-Forest stepped up the acquisition of forest rights,
benefiting from rule changes allowing the buying and selling of
leases controlled by rural communes and municipalities. The Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company listed in  Canada  in
1994 through the reverse takeover of a dormant company on the
Alberta Stock Exchange. It has raised C$2.99 billion from
investors since 2003, according to the OSC.  ‘No Hucksterism’  The shares, which traded as high as C$26.15 in October 2007
in Toronto, closed at C$4.81 on Aug. 25. Stock traded over the
counter in the U.S. fell 72 percent to $1.38 on Aug. 26 before
being suspended.  Chan comes across in person as “very mild-mannered, no
hucksterism at all,” said First Asset’s Stephenson, who said he
sold his Sino-Forest shares before the Muddy Waters report
because he heard  hedge funds  were short-selling the stock.  “You weren’t buying the story for management,” Stephenson
said. “You bought it because you believed it was a growth
story. It was a way to play  China  in  North America .”  In May, the month before the Muddy Waters report was
released, Sino-Forest slid 18 percent.  Robert McWhirter , a
Toronto-based money manager at Selective Asset Management Inc.,
questioned Chan at a May 30 dinner for investors at Canoe
restaurant of the 54th floor of the TD Bank Tower in Toronto’s
financial district.  Reforestation Concerns  While Chan wasn’t evasive, McWhirter said he came away from
the dinner feeling uneasy about the apparent slow pace of the
company’s reforestation efforts.  “Based on the sheer number of acres they are alleged to
have owned, the amount that they were replanting wasn’t”
sufficient, McWhirter said. Understanding the company “is kind
of trying to nail jello or grab a greased pig.”  Muddy Waters raised concerns about Sino-Forest’s complex
structure, including its sales via so-called “authorized
intermediaries,” which Block says were a means to avoid taxes.
Sino-Forest has declined to name the intermediaries.  “I personally stand by and guarantee that the audited
financial statements and the reports filed are accurate,” Chan
said in a June 14 conference call.  Sino-Forest said Aug. 16 it will take until the end of the
year to complete an independent probe. Chan may have to wait
till then to find out what comes next.  “It will be difficult for public stockholders to ever buy
into one of his future vehicles,” Ironfire’s Jackson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 