-- 
China Stocks, Bonds Drop on Measures to Curb Bank Credit; Rate Swaps Jump

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T07:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/china-stocks-drop-on-policy-concerns.html
China ’s stocks and  government bonds 
slumped while interest-rate swaps jumped to a one-month high
after banks were ordered to set aside more reserves to curb
credit growth and tame inflation.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.4 percent to 2,576.41
at the 3 p.m. close, the biggest loss in more than a week, after
reserve requirements were extended to customers’ margin
deposits. Lenders led declines with Huaxia Bank Co., partly
owned by Deutsche Bank AG, falling more than 4 percent after
Bank of America Corp. said the move may drain about 900 billion
yuan ($140 billion) from the financial system over six months.  “The broadening of the base for reserve requirements is
big negative news for investors because the effect is equivalent
to three increases in banks’ reserve ratios,” said  Wang Zheng ,
Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment
Management Co., which manages about $120 million. “Monetary
policies are getting tighter instead. Investors are more worried
about the growth rate of the economy amid such a harsh policy.”  The central bank has increased its reserve-requirement
ratio nine times since September 2010 and raised  interest rates 
five times to curb inflation that reached a three-year high last
month. Reserve requirements force commercial banks to park a
proportion of their deposits with the central bank, reducing the
amount of money available for lending.  The six largest Chinese banks need to start setting aside
cash equal to as much as 21.5 percent of their margin deposits
from Sept. 5, said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Mizuho Securities  Asia , citing information obtained from his
investor contacts. Smaller banks will be given a requirement of
19.5 percent starting Sept. 15, with a five-month grace period,
he said. A central bank press official declined to comment.  Inflation Risk  Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to sustain the nation’s expansion
while containing the risks from record credit growth. China has
already raised reserve ratios to a record 21.5 percent for the
biggest banks. Fighting inflation will remain the top priority
in the second half of this year and monetary policy will remain
“prudent,” the central bank said in its quarterly monetary
policy report on Aug. 12.  The broadening of the reserve-ratio base is a signal that
tightening will continue, according to Samsung Securities.  Bank stocks may see “weak investment sentiment” with
valuations providing support, Sandra Cai, an analyst at Samsung
Securities, said in a report. The move will be most negative for
small- and mid-size banks because they rely more heavily on
margin deposits, analysts led by May Yan at  Barclays Capital 
wrote in a report dated yesterday.  Bank Stocks  A gauge of 52 financial stocks slumped 2.6 percent today,
the most among the CSI 300 Index’s 10 industry groups. Huaxia
Bank slid 4.5 percent to 10.73 yuan. China Merchants Bank Co.
slid 2.9 percent to 11.77 yuan.  Shenzhen Development Bank Co. (000001) 
lost 3.8 percent to 16.72 yuan.  The central bank’s move will cut lenders’ profits by an
average of 1.36 percent, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. Shenzhen Bank will be hurt most with net income
reduced by 7.11 percent, analysts led by Dong Liang at the
brokerage, wrote in a report today.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose 29 basis points to 4.36 percent
as of 3:19 p.m. in Shanghai. The rate earlier touched 4.37
percent, the highest level since Bloomberg began to track the
data in May 2006. The yield on the 3.99 percent government debt
due June 2021 increased 11 basis points to 4.1 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center.  Tighter Liquidity  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 33 basis points,
or 0.33 percentage point, to 4.40 percent in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  “Margin deposits are at around 4.4 trillion yuan, so the
requirements would effectively lock up a fifth of that, or 880
billion yuan,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “Liquidity is still a
problem, especially asset-price bubbles which could lead to
social unrest.”  --Zhang Shidong in Shanghai and Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore .
With assistance from Helen Sun, Helen Yuan and  Judy Chen  in
Shanghai. Editors: Allen Wan,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  