-- 
China Eastern Air Boosts Profit 30% on Domestic Flights, Yuan

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-29T12:55:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/china-eastern-air-boosts-profit-30-on-domestic-flights-yuan.html
China Eastern  Airlines Corp., the
nation’s third largest carrier by market value, said first-half
profit jumped 30 percent on rising domestic travel and a
stronger yuan.  Net income rose to 2.28 billion yuan from 1.76 billion yuan
a year earlier, the Shanghai-based carrier said in a filing to
the Shanghai stock exchange today, using international
accounting standards. That compares with the 2.1 billion yuan
median of three analyst estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  China  Eastern boosted passenger numbers 10 percent in the
period as it added more planes to support demand stoked by the
nation’s economic growth. The carrier, along with rivals China
Southern Airlines Co. and Air China Ltd. also benefited from the
Chinese currency’s about 5 percent gain in the year ended June,
which pared the value of dollar-denominated debts built up from
buying aircraft.  The airline flew 33.2 million travelers in the first half,
according to its monthly traffic data. Its passenger load factor
was 78 percent, compared with 75.8 percent a year earlier.  The airline advanced 3.3 percent to HK$3.72 at the 4 p.m.
close in  Hong Kong  trading today, before the earnings
announcement. It has lost 5.6 percent this year, compared with a
14 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The carrier, the largest operator of Shanghai-Beijing
flights, may be the biggest beneficiary among the nation’s
airlines from disruption on China’s high-speed railways because
its network has the biggest overlap with the train system,
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Ingrid Wei and Sam Lee wrote in
an Aug. 15 note.  The government has slowed trains nationwide following a
fatal crash last month, while services on the Beijing-Shanghai
line have been curtailed following a locomotive recall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  