-- 
China Speeds Up Welfare Coverage Program as Inflation Climbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T05:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/china-speeds-up-welfare-coverage-program-as-inflation-climbs.html
China  has accelerated a program
giving subsidies to low-income households to help maintain
social stability as the fastest inflation in three years erodes
consumers’ spending power.  The government has brought forward a deadline for local
authorities nationwide to link a range of welfare payments for
low-income families to local inflation rates, the state-run
 People’s Daily  reported today, without saying where it got the
information. A government notice released in March set the
deadline for the end of this year.  Faster inflation in the aftermath of an unprecedented
monetary expansion during the last global slump is adding to
living costs and eroding the savings of China’s 1.3 billion
people. The government must improve citizen’s livelihoods as
many unfavorable causes may affect economic stability in the
second half, the People’s Daily, a publication of the ruling
Communist Party, wrote in a front-page  commentary  today.  “Consolidation of the good economic momentum is closely
linked with a harmonious and stable social environment,” the
People’s Daily wrote. China is facing “brand-new challenges”
including the “polarization of social classes,” “accelerated
social change” and “a mix of new and old conflicts,” the
newspaper said, without elaborating.  Rising prices have triggered strikes and unrest in several
towns and cities this year. Taxi drivers in Hangzhou, the
capital of eastern Zhejiang province, went on strike this month
to protest that fares haven’t been increased even as food,
gasoline and housing prices surged, the official Xinhua news
agency reported on Aug. 23. The government promised to boost
charges and give temporary subsidies to drivers, the agency said.  Minimum-Wage Increases  By the end of this month, 27 provincial governments will
have linked their low-income subsidies to inflation, the
People’s Daily said today. The program will cover more than 90
million people across the nation, Zhou Wangjun, an official with
the National Development and Reform Commission, said July 22.  A total of 13 provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of the year by an average 20.6 percent, the official
Xinhua news agency reported in April, citing a spokesman for the
labor ministry. Governments in 28 out of 31 provinces raised
minimum wages last year by more than 20 percent, Zhou said last
month.  Inflation in China, the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July
and has breached the government’s 2011 target of about 4 percent
every month.  Overall food prices have climbed by more than 10 percent
each month this year and rose 14.8 percent in July from a year
earlier, driven by a 57 percent surge in pork prices, according
to statistics bureau data.  It will be difficult to meet this year’s inflation target,
Xinhua reported on Aug. 25. citing Zhang Ping, head of the top
economic planning agency. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in June he was
confident consumer-price gains this year could be held within 5
percent.  --Li Yanping. Editors: Nerys Avery, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  