-- 
China Faces Dwindling Labor Supply

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T09:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/china-faces-upgrade-or-die-deadline-as-one-child-policy-saps-labor-supply.html
Lin Chang Jie is battling to save a
family business making towels, cushions and robes in the eastern
Chinese city of Ningbo as a dwindling supply of workers forces
him to pay higher wages.  “I have to find a new way,” says Lin, 29, who is turning
his Dejin Textile Co. into an online fashion retailer to cut
costs and keep the business from closing. “Wages are going up,
up, up. If we don’t like somebody’s work we can’t say anything,
in case they leave.”  China ’s three-decade-old, one-child policy will accelerate
declines in the workforce, forcing companies to upgrade to
higher-value products in the way Japan did in the 1960s and 70s.
China may have as little as five years to make the transition to
avoid a slump in economic growth, according to Sun Mingchun, an
analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets in Hong Kong and former
economist at China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange,
part of the central bank. He said growth may decline in 2016-20
as low-cost producers fail and investment falls away.  “This is the big issue in China on which everything will
turn,” said Barry Eichengreen, an economics professor at the
University of California at Berkeley and former senior policy
adviser to the  International Monetary Fund , who contributed to
the 2010 book: “Emerging Giants: China and  India  in the World
Economy.” “China needs to really accelerate this transition.”  Factory Workers  The pool of 15 to 24-year-olds, a mainstay for factories
making cheap clothes, toys and electronic products, will fall by
almost 62 million people to a total of 164 million in the 15
years through 2025, United Nations projections  show . The
demographic shift is a result of the one-child policy
implemented in 1979.  Products such as clothes, shoes and furniture that the
General Administration of Customs doesn’t classify as “high-
tech,” accounted for about 68 percent of China’s exports last
year, or $1.09 trillion, little changed from the 71 percent
share in 2005, when they were worth $544 billion, the agency’s
figures show. Exports account for more than a fifth of China’s
gross domestic product. High-tech industries include aerospace
and aviation, medical instruments, software, computers and
telecommunications.  “The low-end manufacturing industry is tough and will be
getting tougher day by day as both labor and land costs are
rising,” says Xu Hui, 39, the owner of Wenzhou Dazhan
Photoelectricity Co. in Zhejiang province, south of  Shanghai .
She’s switched to making LEDs and solar parts after starting off
in the 1990s manufacturing sunglasses that sold for a dollar or
two. “Either you go for high-tech, high value-added industry or
you just perish.”  Japan  in 1969  China’s income growth and stage of economic development is
similar to Japan in 1969 and  South Korea  in 1988, before their
rates of expansion fell, according to Morgan Stanley. Japan’s
growth slid to an average 5.2 percent in 1970-79 from 10.4
percent in the previous decade, the bank said. South Korea’s
expansion cooled to 6.3 percent in 1989-98, from as much as 12.3
percent during the previous decade, government data shows.  Only five economies -- Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong
Kong and  Singapore  -- have moved from middle-income nations to
developed country status while maintaining relatively high
growth rates, according to Nobel laureate Michael Spence, a
professor of economics and business at New York University’s
Stern School of Business.  ‘Inflation is Serious’  China’s economic growth may ease to 9.2 percent this
quarter from 9.5 percent in the previous three months, the China
Securities Journal reported Aug. 16, citing the State
Information Center. The country’s inflation may rise to about
6.2 percent in the same period, from 5.7 percent in the previous
quarter, the report said.  “Inflation is serious now,” said Chen Mei, 23, during her
lunch break in the southern manufacturing city of Dongguan. Chen,
a migrant, said she’s earning about twice the monthly minimum
wage of 1,100 yuan ($172) and expects pay at the garment factory
where she works to keep rising as prices increase.  The yuan’s gain of about 7 percent against the dollar since
June last year has intensified cost pressures faced by China’s
exporters, which price their products in the American currency.
The yuan closed at 6.3805 per dollar in Shanghai today, close to
a 17-year high.  While the bulk of China’s producers have yet to upgrade,
high-technology exports are rising, recording a 31 percent jump
in 2010 to $492 billion. That’s more than double the $218
billion in 2005 and almost a third of total shipments, according
to the customs bureau.  Investment Theme  Economists including Deutsche Bank AG’s Ma Jun say
companies that successfully make the transition will reap huge
benefits.  “The single most important investment theme for China’s
manufacturing sector over the next five years is its
upgrading,” said Ma, Hong Kong-based chief China economist for
the bank and a former researcher for China’s State Council.
Investors have yet to price in the “potential outperformance”
of the sector, he said.  Companies such as machinery makers Sany Heavy Industry Co.
and Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology
Development Co., will “emerge to be major winners not only
domestically but internationally” said Diane Lin, a  fund
manager  with Sydney-based fund Pengana Capital Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion in global assets.  ‘Forget Textiles’  “Forget textiles and all that, this is the future of
China,” said Lin. “If you go and look back to Japan in the
early 1970s it was a net importer of machinery as well, and
within only three to four years it overtook the U.S. and became
a net exporter.”  Shares in Zoomlion will double to HK$24 ($3.08) by July
next year, according to Zhang Zharlen, an analyst with KGI
Securities in Shanghai. Lin said she plans to buy shares of
companies including Zoomlion once sentiment improves from the
effect of government measures to cool the property market.  Twenty-two years after starting as a welding factory, Sany
Heavy has four billionaires on the board, more than 68,000
workers and sells products including concrete pumps and road
rollers in 120 countries.  “For ages, people believed that Chinese can only make
stuff like toys, clothes and hand torches -- all cheap and of
bad quality,” Sany’s Senior Vice President Zhao Xiangzhang said
in an interview in Changsha, the capital city of the southern
Hunan province. “Our dream is to change this bad image.”  Expanding in  Germany   Sany opened an industrial park in June in Bedburg in
Germany, home country of machinery makers  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 ThyssenKrupp AG. (TKA)  The company also supplied a pump that helped
cool the crippled No. 4 reactor at Japan’s Fukushima nuclear
plant after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Chinese equipment manufacturers will be among the nation’s
best performers over the next five years, according to Deutsche
Bank. They have taken market share from competitors including
South Korea’s Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and Doosan Infracore
Co., Japan’s  Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  and U.S.-based Caterpillar Inc.,
Pengana’s Lin said.  “We would avoid Komatsu because we think that Chinese
companies will increase their competitiveness over the medium
term,” Lin said. Komatsu is the world’s second-largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, trailing Caterpillar.  Other potential “global losers” from Chinese competition
include telecommunications companies Ericsson and Nokia Corp.,
industrial machinery maker  Alstom SA (ALO)  and General Electric Co.,
Deutsche Bank said in a report last year.  Lower-Cost Regions  The bank recommended buying Chinese equipment makers and
avoiding “material- and labor-intensive companies” such as
casual footwear maker Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd. and
VTech Holdings Ltd., a maker of cordless telephones and
electronic learning products.  Rising labor and other costs may force manufacturers to
move production of some consumer goods to lower-cost regions
including western China, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Indonesia to
keep prices down.  “I don’t believe consumers in the  United States  or  Europe 
are prepared to pay more,”  Bruce Rockowitz , the chief executive
officer of Hong Kong-based Li & Fung, the world’s biggest
supplier of toys to retailers, said in May.  Cai Fang, a member of the Standing Committee of the
National People’s Congress, said China’s leaders have not yet
fully accepted that the so-called demographic dividend is
declining. The economic benefit arises after a country’s birth-
rate falls -- creating a few decades when there are a higher
proportion of working-age citizens and less need to spend on
children and education.  Xi’s Task  Cai, a director of the Institute of Population and Labor
Economics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences who helped
draft the nation’s five-year plan through 2016, said advisers
are “comforting” China’s policy makers with arguments that the
dividend can last another 20 years or more.  The task of managing the transition in  China’s economy  may
fall to Vice President Xi Jinping, who is expected to assume
leadership of the Communist Party next year and succeed Hu Jintao as president in 2013. The new leaders will oversee a
five-year plan that aims to boost  consumer spending  and
“strategic emerging industries” such as biotechnology, new
energy and advanced equipment manufacturing.  In the Pearl River Delta next to  Hong Kong , the cradle of
China’s industrial transformation, the government said this
month it will set up a zone covering nine cities in Guangdong
province to help companies upgrade. The  statement , posted on the
commerce ministry’s website on Aug. 22, proposes tax breaks and
other incentives to help boost technology and research and
development within three years.  In Ningbo, Dejin Textile’s Lin is preparing for his own
upgrade: a new line of women’s clothes to be sold online and in
two local stores, a “huge risk” that he says keeps him awake
at night.  “In five years we may have a very big retail business,”
he says. “Or we may be closed.”  Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Lifei Zheng, Victoria Ruan
Sophie Leung, Li Yanping and Penny Peng. Editors: Paul
Panckhurst, Adam Majendie.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on +86-10-6649-7573 or
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Paul
Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  