-- 
Roger Federer, Venus Williams Win in Their Thirties on U.S. Open First Day

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T05:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/cilic-defeats-wild-card-harrison-tipsarevic-wins-on-day-one-of-u-s-open.html
Roger Federer  made it a night for
the ages at the U.S. Open, winning his first Grand Slam match as
a 30-year-old and joining  Venus Williams , 31, in advancing to
the second round.  Switzerland’s Federer, the third seed, defeated Colombia’s
Santiago Giraldo 6-4, 6-3, 6-2 last night at the National Tennis
Center in  New York  three weeks after his 30th birthday.  The victory moved the five-time U.S. Open champion into a
tie with  Andre Agassi  for second place among men in Grand Slam
wins since the Open era began in 1968. Federer and Agassi have
224 wins, trailing only Jimmy Connors’s 233.  “This place is very special to me and where I usually play
my best tennis,” Federer said in a news conference. “It’s
always one of those moments you train for, is to get maybe the
first night at the  U.S. Open .”  Williams defeated an opponent whose arrival at the season’s
final Grand Slam tournament was delayed until a few hours before
the first-round match by visa and weather problems.  Williams, who took the championship in 2000 and 2001, won
6-4, 6-3 against  Russia ’s Vesna Dolonts, who said in a televised
pre-match interview that she only received a visa three days
before the match and then had a flight into New York canceled by
Hurricane Irene.  Williams, ranked 36th on the WTA Tour, is unseeded at the
tournament for the first time since 1997 and hadn’t played since
losing in the fourth round at Wimbledon. She was sidelined for
several weeks by illness.  “I just want to play tennis,” Williams said in a news
conference. “It doesn’t matter what the tournament is.
Obviously, the Open is huge, but I just want to play.”  No. 1 Seeds  Both No. 1 seeds play today, as well as defending men’s
champion Rafael Nadal of  Spain  and three-time women’s champion
 Serena Williams  of the U.S. All four matches are on the main
Arthur Ashe Stadium court.  Men’s top seed  Novak Djokovic , who has won the Australian
Open and Wimbledon while compiling a 57-2 record this year,
plays Ireland’s Conor Niland. Women’s No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki 
of Denmark, still seeking her first major title, faces Nuria
Llagostera Vives of Spain. At night, Nadal takes on Kazakhstan’s
Andrey Golubev and Williams faces Bojana Jovanovski of  Serbia .  Serbia’s Djokovic said the shoulder injury that forced him
to retire from the Aug. 21 Cincinnati final is “feeling fine”
and that he’s been “playing 100 percent” in his preparation.  Attendance for the opening day session of the tournament
was 32,909, as compared with 36,082 last year. Many New Yorkers
were cleaning up yesterday from the rain and wind that pelted
the area a day earlier.  Wimbledon Champion Loses  Wimbledon women’s champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech
Republic was upset by unseeded Romanian Alexandra Dulgheru. The
fifth-seeded Kvitova, who in July claimed her first Grand Slam
title, made 52 unforced errors in the loss.  Mardy Fish, the top-seeded American as the men’s No. 8, won
6-2, 6-2, 6-1 against  Germany ’s Tobias Kamke.  Seventh-seeded Gael Monfils of  France , No. 9 Tomas Berdych
of the Czech Republic and No. 13 Richard Gasquet of France all
won in straight sets. The only men’s seed ousted was No. 15
Viktor Troicki of Serbia, who lost in five sets to Alejandro
Falla of  Colombia .  American Ryan Harrison dropped his serve seven times in a
6-2, 7-5, 7-6 (8-6) loss to Croatia’s Marin Cilic, the 27th
seed, as play began on schedule following minimal weekend damage
from Hurricane Irene.  “It’s obviously pretty disappointing to be out of here,
you know, when half the people haven’t even arrived yet with the
hurricane,” Harrison said at a news conference.  Zvonareva and Sharapova  Women’s seeds advancing included No. 2 Vera Zvonareva and
No. 5 Maria Sharapova of Russia, No. 8 Marion Bartoli of France
and No. 9  Samantha Stosur of  Australia .  No. 12 seed Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland defeated younger
sister Urszula 6-2, 6-3. It was the 19th time sisters have met
in a Grand Slam match in the Open era, and the first time since
1993 that sisters other than Venus and Serena Williams have met
in a major tournament. Katerina Maleeva defeated sister
Magdalena in the 1993 U.S. Open.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ; 
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 