-- 
Citigroup Targets Indonesia Investment Banking After Credit-Card Crackdown

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-08-29T01:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/citigroup-targets-indonesia-investment-banking-after-crackdown.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , stung by a crackdown
on its wealth management unit in Indonesia, expects corporate
and investment banking to account for a larger share of revenue
in the country as companies buoyed by economic growth raise
capital and make acquisitions.  Corporate and investment banking may account for as much as
30 percent of Citigroup’s revenue in Indonesia within five
years, up from 20 percent now, said Tigor Siahaan, the bank’s
chief country officer, in an interview in Jakarta. New York-
based Citigroup posted revenue of 5.9 trillion rupiah ($689
million) in Indonesia last year.  Indonesia’s central bank in May barred Citigroup from
issuing new credit cards for two years and from adding wealth
management clients for 12 months after a local employee
allegedly stole money from customers and a credit-card client
died at a branch. Even so, the government last week picked
Citigroup to help sell as much as $1 billion of Islamic bonds,
said a person familiar with the matter.  “The setbacks from a few months ago have not really
impacted our client relationships,” Siahaan said. “Over the
past few months, we’ve been winning new mandates.”  Siahaan, who replaced Shariq Mukhtar in June after the
central bank ban, said Citigroup plans to hire three more
executives for its 15-person global banking team in  Indonesia  in
the coming year. Citigroup aims to be among the top three
advisers on stock and bond offerings and mergers in the country
within 18 months, he said.  Underwriter Rankings  Citigroup is fifth in arranging stock and rights offerings
in Indonesia so far in 2011, up from 18th position last year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank ranks sixth in
advising on mergers and acquisitions involving Indonesian
companies, the data show. Citigroup didn’t feature on the M&A
league table in the country last year.  The lender’s position in arranging international bond sales
in Indonesia slipped to fourth this year from third in 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  Citigroup was among banks that helped arrange rights offers
for PT Bank Danamon Indonesia and PT Bank Mandiri this year. The
bank also helped sell $1.5 billion of global bonds for PT
Pertamina, the country’s state oil and gas company.  Siahaan said Citigroup is also focusing on expanding in
other areas of the retail business, such as loans. Citigroup
employed almost 6,000 people in Indonesia at the end of last
year, according to its latest annual report.  Grow With Caution  “We’re stepping on the gas pedal but I don’t want to do
this over-aggressively,” he said about the corporate and
 investment banking  operations in Indonesia. “I want to do it in
a balanced way, with the right customers, right sectors, right
amount of products, right amount of credit exposure.”  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  has focused
on developing economies, which are growing on average at three
times the pace of Western nations, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Indonesia is the world’s fourth-
biggest country, with a population of 240 million and an economy
that’s expected to expand as much as 6.8 percent this year.  “In the next five to 10 years, this is the place to be,”
said Siahaan. “We’re seeing a lot of the companies starting to
grow bigger. Not only will they need bank facilities, they’ll
need equities, debt, advisory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  