-- 
Coal-Mine Systems to Protect U.S. Workers From Machines Proposed

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-08-29T20:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/coal-mine-systems-to-protect-u-s-workers-from-machines-proposed.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration said it will propose requiring detection systems
for automated coal-cutting machines to prevent them from
crushing miners.  The rule from the U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration would make companies install the programming on
self-propelled equipment that rips ore from the rock face and
loads the chunks onto conveyors or into shuttle cars, according
to a statement posted today on the agency’s website. When the
system senses a miner within five feet (1.5 meters), it would
sound a warning or flash a visual signal. Within three feet, it
would halt the device.  From 1984 through 2010, 30 miners were killed and 220
injured when such machines pinned or struck them, the agency
said. Two deaths occurred in 2010 and one so far this year, the
mine-safety administration said.  “Some underground coal-mine operators already are using”
the technology, Joseph A. Main, assistant Labor secretary for
mine safety, said in the statement. “And we know that it saves
lives.”  Companies would be able to phase in the upgrades over 18
months after the rule is final, according to the proposal.  Systems developed by Nautilus International Control and
Engineering Ltd. of Burnaby, British Columbia; Strata Products
LLC of Sandy Springs, Georgia; and Matrix Design Group Inc. of
 Colorado Springs , Colorado, have been approved by the agency,
and at least 35 continuous-mining machines in the U.S. have them
installed, according to the statement. Mines in  South Africa 
already use them, the agency said.  The agency said it was proposing the rule rather than
issuing an emergency temporary standard so that public comment
can be solicited to be consistent with Obama’s executive order
to make the regulatory process more practical.  Public hearings are scheduled in Denver; Charleston,  West
Virginia ; and  Washington ,  Pennsylvania , in October, according to
the proposed rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  