-- 
Commission Claims $30 Billion of Waste in Iraq, Afghan Contracts

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-29T18:26:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/commission-claims-30-billion-of-waste-in-iraq-afghan-contracts.html
More than $30 billion has been
wasted from U.S.-funded Iraq and Afghanistan contracts,
according to the final report of a congressionally mandated
commission.  That’s about one in every six dollars of the $192.5 billion
spent on contracts and grants from fiscal 2002 to the middle of
fiscal 2011, according to the  Commission  on Wartime Contracting.
Expenditures are expected to reach $206 billion by the end of
this fiscal year on Sept. 30, according to commission figures.  An additional $30 billion of the total spending “could
again turn into waste if the host governments are unable or
unwilling to sustain U.S.-funded projects after our involvement
ends,” co-chairmen Christopher Shays and Michael Thibault  wrote 
in a Washington Post column today.  “Those sobering but conservative numbers” reflect dollars
wasted “through poor planning, vague and shifting requirements,
inadequate competition, substandard contract management and
oversight and subpar performance or outright misconduct by some
contractors and federal employees,” they wrote.  Shays and Thibault highlighted the key findings of the
panel’s final report scheduled for release Aug. 31.  The commission’s findings build on those of Special
Inspector General For Iraq Reconstruction Stuart Bowen. He’s
estimated that between 2003 and 2009 as much as $4 billion of
the $21 billion Congress approved since 2003 for Iraq
reconstruction has been wasted on excessive payments to
contractors and poorly designed facilities.  The commission was established by the fiscal 2008 defense
bill at the insistence of Senate Armed Services Committee
members  James Webb  of  Virginia  and  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri .
Both remain on the panel and are in position to push as
amendments to the pending fiscal 2012 defense budget some of the
15 commission’s recommendations.  ‘Not an Attack’  One recommendation calls for setting up a permanent
inspector general’s office for wartime contracting staffed by a
team of investigative personnel ready to deploy “to monitor
preparedness” to enter into contracts.  Shays and Thibault wrote the final report “is not an
attack on contractors.”  “In general, contractors have provided essential and
effective support to U.S. personnel but the costs have been
excessive, largely because of a shrunken federal acquisition
workforce and lack of effective planning to use contractors and
the discipline of competition,” they wrote.  Pentagon spokesman Colonel  David Lapan  told reporters today
he wouldn’t directly comment on the report’s findings until it
is released and officials review it.  The commission is one of many independent bodies to make
recommendations, Lapan said.  “We are well aware of some of the deficiencies over the
years in how we worked contracts,” he said. “We have worked
hard over those years to try and correct those deficiencies when
we come across them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  