-- 
Consumer Spending in U.S. Climbs More Than Forecast on Purchases of Autos

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-29T20:41:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/consumer-spending-in-u-s-climbed-more-than-forecast-in-july-on-car-buying.html
Consumer spending  climbed more than
forecast in July as Americans dipped into savings to buy cars
and cool their homes, showing the biggest part of the economy is
holding up.  Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the biggest gain since
February, after a 0.1 percent decline the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington. Incomes grew 0.3
percent and the savings rate dropped to a four-month low.  Demand may moderate as a 17 percent plunge in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index from July 22 through Aug. 8, wrangling over
the federal budget and the first U.S. credit-rating downgrade in
history sent  consumer confidence  tumbling this month. At the
same time, the recent drop in fuel prices may help stem cutbacks
by households struggling with 9.1 percent unemployment.  “It may be tough to repeat that strong a performance,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York . Still, he said, “the decline in gasoline
prices is a positive for the economy and the consumer in
particular.”  Stocks climbed, extending the first weekly gain since July
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The gauge rose 2.8 percent
to 1,210.08 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.26
percent from 2.19 percent late on Aug. 26.  Fewer Contracts  Another report today showed the number of contracts to
purchase previously owned homes fell in July for the first time
in three months, a sign that lower prices and borrowing costs
are failing to lure buyers. The 1.3 percent decrease in the
index of pending home sales followed a 2.4 percent gain the
previous month, the National Association of Realtors said today
in Washington.  “Housing is still on the ropes,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief
U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New
York, said in a note to clients. Shepherdson said he was
concerned that “the chaos in the stock markets might have
persuaded a greater proportion of buyers to walk away after
signing contracts,” leaving sales short of the level implied by
the pending data.  The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 0.5 percent increase in consumer spending.
Projections ranged from increases of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.
The Commerce Department revised the June spending figure from a
previously reported 0.2 percent decline.  Because incomes rose less than spending, the savings rate
fell to 5 percent, the lowest level since March, from 5.5
percent in June. The 0.5 percentage point drop was the biggest
since October 2009.  Inflation Accelerates  The report also showed inflation accelerated. The gauge
tied to consumer spending patterns rose 0.4 percent from the
prior month and increased 2.8 percent from July 2010. It was the
biggest 12-month gain since October 2008.  Rising inflation hurt consumer buying power. Real
disposable income, or the money left after taking out taxes and
adjusting for inflation, dropped 0.1 percent, the first decrease
since September 2010.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 12.2 million seasonally
adjusted pace of in July, up from 11.4 million in June,
according to industry data. The rate trails the 12.6 million
average pace through the first half of the year, according to
Autodata Corp. Deliveries at Detroit-based General Motors Co.
climbed 7.6 percent from the same month in 2010.  Excluding Inflation  Today’s report showed spending adjusted for inflation,
which are the figures used to calculate gross domestic product,
climbed 0.5 percent, the biggest gain since December 2009.
Price-adjusted purchases of durable goods like cars advanced 2
percent, the most since October. Outlays on services increased
0.5 percent.  Temperatures soared across the U.S., with July records in
Texas and  Oklahoma , according to the National Climatic Data
Center. Last month, temperatures were “above normal” or “much
above normal” in 41 of the 48 contiguous U.S. states, it said.  “The spending numbers were clearly good, some of that due
to higher spending on utilities because July was so hot,”
JPMorgan’s Feroli said.  The economy grew at a 1 percent annual rate from April
through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter,
capping the weakest six months of the recovery that began in
mid-2009, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Household spending rose 0.4 percent, the weakest performance
since the last quarter of 2009.  Confidence Wanes  A slump in confidence threatens to trim gains. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment fell
in August to the weakest reading since November 2008.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, said profit in its fiscal 2011 will be less than it
previously projected as sales drop at stores open more than a
year.  “Recent headlines regarding slowing growth and the U.S.
credit rating downgrade underscore the continued weakness in the
 U.S. economy ,” Robert A. Niblock, chairman and chief executive
officer, said on an Aug. 15 conference call. “The volume of
negative news and the unsettling impact on equity markets is
having a significant effect on an already fragile consumer
mindset.”  “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has been
much less robust than we had hoped,” Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at the central bank’s annual
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , symposium. “Economic growth has, for the
most part, been at rates insufficient to achieve sustained
reductions in unemployment.”  The economy failed to create enough jobs in August to trim
unemployment, economists in a Bloomberg survey said before a
Labor Department report to be released Sept. 2. The jobless rate
held at 9.1 percent and payrolls increased by 75,000, down from
a 117,000 gain in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  