-- 
Crude Oil Trades Near Three-Day High; Gasoline Slides as Irene Downgraded

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-08-29T10:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/crude-in-new-york-climbs-0-4-on-outlook-for-demand-brent-pares-decline.html
Oil traded near a three-day high in
 New York  as investors speculated that growth will recover in the
U.S., spurring demand in the biggest crude consumer. Gasoline
slid as Irene was downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone.  Crude climbed as much as 0.6 percent after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 26 that growth is safe in the
long run and the central bank can still aid the recovery.
Refineries along the East Coast were operating at or near normal
levels after Irene weakened. London’s Brent dropped as Libyan
rebels claimed full control of oilfields.  “If the boost from Bernanke’s speech on Friday starts to
loose some of its punch due to its very cautious language on
further monetary action, there should be some downside action in
 Brent crude ,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, Stockholm-based chief
commodities analyst at SEB AB, today in a note. He forecast the
price of Brent will average $105 a barrel in the fourth quarter.  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $85.47 a barrel, up 10 cents, at 11:07 a.m.
London time. It gained as much as 55 cents earlier. The contract
rose 7 cents on Aug. 26 to $85.37, the highest level since Aug.
23. Prices have advanced 15 percent during the past year.  Brent Premium  Brent oil for October settlement was down 33 cents at
$111.03 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark traded at a premium of $25.56
to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.21 on Aug. 19. The
premium shrank the most in five weeks on Aug. 22 after rebels in
 Libya  entered Tripoli, paving the way for the country’s oil
production to resume.  Irene was 100 miles (160 kilometers) northwest of Houlton,
 Maine  with maximum winds of 35 miles per hour and was moving
into Quebec and  Newfoundland , according to an advisory issued by
the National Hurricane Center before 5 a.m. East Coast time. The
storm killed at least 18 people from  Puerto Rico  to  Connecticut ,
sent rivers to near-record heights and knocked out power to more
than 4 million customers.  Hess Corp. said its Port Reading refinery in New Jersey
returned to normal rates while NuStar Energy LP aimed to start
its Paulsboro, New Jersey, plant today, the company said. PBF
Energy Co. said it ran its  New Jersey  and Delaware plants “all
through the storm.” ConocoPhillips’s 238,000 barrel-a-day
Bayway plant in New Jersey remained shut and Sunoco Inc. ran its
Philadelphia and Marcus Hook facilities at reduced rates.  Gasoline Price  Gasoline for September delivery dropped as much as 2
percent today to $2.8765 a gallon in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, extending a 1.1 percent drop on
Aug. 26. Motor fuel prices climbed 4.7 percent from Aug. 22 to
Aug. 25 on concern the cyclone would damage refineries in the
U.S.’s biggest consuming area, home to about 65 million people.  Gasoline’s crack spread, the product’s premium to West
Texas crude oil, declined 5.8 percent to $29.81 a barrel after
climbing 8.1 percent in the lead up to the storm.  Nouri Balroin, the head of Libya’s National Transitional
Council’s production unit, said some lost output will start
within three weeks,  Al Jazeera  reported Aug. 27. A three-stage
plan will restore the flow of oil to 1.6 million barrels a day
within 15 months, he said, according to the Qatar-based network.  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 100,000 barrels a
day last month, a Bloomberg News survey showed. That’s less than
10 percent of the 1.6 million barrels the nation pumped in
January, before the uprising.  Net-long positions in crude oil traded in New York gained
0.3 percent to 143,195, the first increase after four weeks of
declines, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Aug. 26 Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  