-- 
Crude Oil Rises to One-Week High in New York After Consumer Spending Gains

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-08-29T19:53:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/crude-oil-rises-for-third-day-in-new-york-after-consumer-spending-gains.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
more than a week in  New York , climbing with equities on optimism
that the economy will expand and a report that U.S.  consumer
spending  gained in July.  Futures jumped 2.2 percent after the Commerce Department
said purchases increased the most since February. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , that the economic recovery is likely to improve in the
second half of the year. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced as much as 2.8 percent.  “The consumer spending numbers looked better than
expected,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in Washington. “People interpreted Bernanke’s
comments positively because the chairman is not pushing the
panic button.”  Crude for October delivery rose $1.90 to $87.27 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since
Aug. 17. Prices have fallen 4.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement gained 52 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $111.88 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark traded at a premium of
$24.61 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures, compared with a
record $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Consumer Spending  The July increase in spending followed a 0.1 percent
decline in June. The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent advance. Incomes grew
0.3 percent and the savings rate fell to a four-month low.  “As long as we look like we’re on the road to recovery,
crude is going to be on the road to $100 once again,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research with Blue
Ocean LLC in New York. “We’re seeing a little bit of hope in
the equity market and that’s helping carry us here. Everybody’s
trying to take what Bernanke said on Friday and digest it.”  Bernanke said last week that the central bank still has
tools to stimulate a recovery that has been weaker than
forecast. He didn’t give details on the measures the Fed might
take or signal when or whether policy makers might deploy them.  The  S&P 500  rose 2.7 percent to 1,208.39 at 3:49 p.m. in
New York, and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  advanced 236.13
points, or 2.1 percent, to 11,520.67.  “We’re seeing equities looking up and WTI following
that,” said Matt Smith, a commodities analyst for Summit Energy
Services Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky . “Consumer spending makes
up 70 percent of GDP. It’s an indicator of an expanding economy
which has a positive reflection on oil demand.”  Housing Purchases  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned U.S.
homes fell 1.3 percent in July, the first decline in three
months, in a sign that lower prices and borrowing costs aren’t
attracting buyers. The drop followed a 2.4 percent gain the
previous month, according to a report today from the National
Association of Realtors in  Washington . A 1 percent decline was
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 40 analysts.  Refineries along the East Coast were working to restore
normal operations after Hurricane Irene passed through the
region over the weekend. The storm killed at least 28 people
from Puerto Rico to  Connecticut , sent rivers to near-record
heights and knocked out power to more than 4 million customers.  ConocoPhillips is attempting to start an alkylation unit at
its 238,000 barrel-a-day Bayway refinery in  New Jersey  after
shutting it because of the storm, and Sunoco Inc. shut a crude
unit at its 355,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia refinery yesterday
after pumps in a tank farm that supply the unit flooded because
of Irene, according to a people familiar with the plants’
operations.  Hess, NuStar  Hess Corp. said yesterday its Port Reading refinery in New
Jersey returned to near normal rates. NuStar Energy LP aimed to
start its Paulsboro, New Jersey, plant today, according to the
company. PBF Energy Co. said yesterday it ran its New Jersey and
Delaware plants “all through the storm.”  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said
its Trainer,  Pennsylvania , refinery “continues to operate” in
an update on the company website today.  Some of the Libyan oil output lost during an armed conflict
with Muammar Qaddafi’s regime will resume within three weeks, Al
Jazeera Aug. 27, citing Nouri Balroin, the head of  Libya ’s
National Transitional Council’s production unit. A three-stage
plan will restore the flow of oil to 1.6 million barrels a day
within 15 months, he said, according to the Qatar-based network.  The country’s output fell to 100,000 barrels a day in July,
less than 10 percent of the amount Libya pumped in January,
before the uprising, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Net-long positions in crude oil traded in New York gained
0.3 percent to 143,195, the first increase after four weeks of
declines, according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Aug. 26 Commitments of Traders report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 341,502
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 468,231
contracts Aug. 26, 31 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.48 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 