-- 
Curtis Granderson Takes Home Run Lead as Yankees Split Doubleheader

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/curtis-granderson-takes-home-run-lead-as-yankees-split-doubleheader.html
Curtis Granderson  hit two home runs
to push his Major League Baseball-leading total to 38 as the New
York Yankees beat the Baltimore Orioles 8-3 yesterday to split a
double-header.  Granderson went 3-for-5, with a three-run homer in the
third inning and a solo shot in the seventh at Camden Yards in
Baltimore. He moved one home run ahead of Toronto’s  Jose Bautista  for the major-league lead and his 107 runs batted in
are also the most in baseball.  Ivan Nova won his seventh straight start, becoming the
first rookie pitcher to do so for the Yankees since Vic Raschi
in 1946-47. Nova has won 10 consecutive decisions and has a 14-4
overall record this season.  The Yankees hit five home runs in the second game to snap
the Orioles’ six-game winning streak after losing the opener 2-0.
Zach Britton allowed four hits over seven innings in Baltimore’s
win yesterday, rebounding from a July 30 performance against the
Yankees in which he allowed nine runs and got only one out in a
17-3 loss.  Shortstop Derek Jeter yesterday played in his 2,402nd game
for the Yankees, surpassing  Mickey Mantle  for the most in
franchise history. Jeter didn’t play in the second game after
fouling a ball off his right knee in the opener.  The Yankees are 79-52 and trail the first-place  Boston Red
Sox  by two games in the American League East Division.  The  Texas Rangers  scored five runs in the seventh and
eighth innings last night to beat the Los Angeles Angels 9-5 and
extend their AL West lead to three games. Ian Kinsler, Josh Hamilton and Endy Chavez all had run-scoring singles in the
seventh inning as the Rangers snapped a 5-5 tie.  The Tampa Bay Rays beat the Toronto Blue Jays 12-0
yesterday as  David Price  had a franchise-record 14 strikeouts in
seven innings and Desmond Jennings hit two home runs.  Former Yankee Ian Kennedy became the first 17-game winner
in the National League, pitching the Arizona Diamondbacks to a
6-1 win over the  San Diego Padres . It was the sixth straight win
for Arizona, which extended its NL West lead to four games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  