-- 
Da Vinci Extravaganza, Soviet Fantasy, 1980s Redux: Fall Preview

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-08-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/da-vinci-extravaganza-soviet-fantasies-reviving-the-80s-martin-gayford.html
Nobody ever acquired more fame with
fewer actual paintings than Leonardo. He makes even the ultra-
rare Dutch master Vermeer seem prolific.  This autumn, the  National Gallery  in  London  shows almost
all the authentic pictures from his sojourn in northern  Italy 
(1482-1499) in “ Leonardo da Vinci : Painter at the Court of
Milan” (Nov. 9-Feb. 5, 2012, sponsored by  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) ).  It is an astonishing curatorial coup. These are among the
most precious and fragile works of art in existence; almost all
are on panels and so until recently would not have been allowed
to travel. In the exhibition, only the “Last Supper,”
immovably attached to a Milanese wall, is missing (and that will
be represented by drawings and an early copy).  The “Virgin of the Rocks” from the  Louvre  will be seen
side by side with the later London version of the same subject.
Three great portraits, including the graceful “Lady With
Ermine” from Krakow, will hang together in a remarkable
exercise in compare and contrast. It is a fair bet that in terms
of public interest, this will be the art exhibition of the year,
if not the decade.  “Degas and the Ballet: Picturing Movement” at the  Royal
Academy  (Sept. 17-Dec. 11, sponsored by  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK) ) is also likely to pull the crowds. These ballerinas in
frilly dresses and pastel colors approach Monet’s water lilies
in popular appeal. The argument of the show is that Degas’s
interest in dance was almost scientific, a parallel to early
photographic and cinematic images of moving figures. In other
words, this work was not chocolate-box but, for the late 19th
century, hi-tech.  Lurid Apocalypse  Coming to  Tate Britain  is a show devoted to  John Martin 
(1789-1854), a painter who combined an apocalyptical
imagination, a lurid sense of color and a slick technique. The
result was paintings that are at once wide-screen visions of the
end of the world and the fall of civilizations and -- if you are
not a fan -- a bit like Regency comic-book kitsch (Sept. 21-Jan.
15, 2012).  There was a touch of science-fiction fantasy about the
early 20th-century Russian avant-garde, the subject of
“Building the Revolution: Soviet Art and Architecture 1915-
1935” in the Sackler Galleries at the  Royal Academy  (Oct. 29-
Jan. 22, 2012). One of the greatest projects, never built, was
Vladimir Tatlin’s “Monument to the Third International,” a
colossal early modernist version of the Tower of Babel. To
coincide with the show, a reconstruction will be made in the RA
courtyard.  Modernist Masters  In Paris, at the  Grand Palais , there is a look at other
pioneer modernists, notably Picasso, Matisse and Cezanne, and
their links with the Steins -- Gertrude and her siblings -- who
were avant-garde patrons extraordinaire (Oct. 5-Jan. 16, 2012,
supported by  State Street Corp. (STT) , with Aurel BGC).  At  Tate Modern , the major event will be “ Gerhard Richter :
Panorama” (Oct. 6-Jan. 8, 2012), a survey of the painter’s work
over five decades, coinciding with his 80th birthday. In other
ways the timing is not ideal, because there was a big Richter
show at the  National Portrait Gallery  in 2009, and one at the
Serpentine.  These days, the cycle of fashion seems to revolve ever
faster. Already, the 1980s are being revived and V&A is hosting
“Postmodernism: Style and Subversion 1970-90” (Sept. 24-Jan.
15). Po-Mo, as a style, was itself a wild and eclectic revival,
not to say mish-mash, of just about anything that had gone
before. At 20 years distance it may look attractively nostalgic
or, for those who loathed it in the first place, possibly not.  The  British Museum  is giving the run of its collections to
a contemporary transvestite potter in ‘Grayson Perry: The Tomb
of the Unknown Craftsman” (Oct. 6-Feb. 19, 2012), supported by
AlixPartners, with  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ). Perry
has selected pieces made by anonymous, ancient hands, which will
be shown beside his own textiles and naughtily inscribed
ceramics. Will the  Rosetta Stone  ever seem the same after we’ve
seen Perry’s “Rosetta Vase”?  Information:  http://www.nationalgallery.org.uk/ 
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk/   http://www.tate.org.uk/britain/ 
 http://www.grandpalais.fr/   http://www.tate.org.uk/modern 
 http://www.vam.ac.uk/   http://www.britishmuseum.org   (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 