-- 
Defense Contractors Face Withheld Payments Over ‘Significant’ System Flaws

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-29T10:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/defense-contractors-face-withheld-payments-over-significant-system-flaws.html
The Pentagon is imposing a new
contract provision which calls for withholding as much as 10
percent of payments to defense companies when it finds
“significant” shortcomings in any of six business systems used
to track performance and cost of weapons programs or services.  The measure is intended to protect taxpayers from
overbilling. It focuses on the systems that companies such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the No. 1 defense contractor, use to
estimate costs for bids, purchase goods from subcontractors or
manage government property and materials.  A rule, which took effect Aug. 16, requires that all new
contracts include language that spells out the potential for
withholding payments due to deficiencies, such as those
involving the standard “Earned Value Management”  system  used
to determine whether companies are meeting cost and schedule
goals.  As initially drafted, the Pentagon would have been
empowered to withhold as much as 20 percent of billings. After
industry complaints, that was cut to a 10 percent maximum in the
fiscal 2011 defense policy bill.  The rule resulted from an August 2009  hearing  of the
congressionally mandated  Commission on Wartime Contracting  at
which major business-system deficiencies were described within
companies working in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  “These changes are long overdue and reflect potential risk
associated with longstanding and continuing contractor business
system deficiencies,” said commission Co-Chairman  Michael
Thibault  in an e-mail.  Impact Minimal to Substantial  The regulations impact will be “minimal” on contractors
with “well-documented and effective systems,” he said. The
impact will be “substantial” for contractors having
deficiencies, he said.  The regulation covers all defense contracts issued after
Aug. 16, including those that reimburse companies for costs, pay
incentive fees for hitting cost and schedule targets, payments
for progress during a specified time frame or those that base
payments on time, materials or labor hours.  About 20,000 contractors under the jurisdiction of the
 Defense Contract Management Agency  “can be subject to withholds
provided the clauses are in their contracts and a determination
has been made that a system is disapproved,” said agency
spokeswoman Jacqueline Noble in an e-mail statement.  “System disapproval will be based upon one or more
significant deficiencies defined as a ‘shortcoming’ that
materially affects the ability” of U.S. officials to rely on
the information for management purposes, she said.  ‘Significant Deficiencies’  If withholding is warranted, the government contracting
officer would stop five percent of progress payments and other
performance-based disbursements while directing the contractor
to withhold submitting five percent of billings on vouchers for
cost, labor-hours and time and materials contracts, she said.  The combined withholds would continue under the Pentagon
determined the contractor “has corrected all significant
deficiencies,” she said.  Professional Services Council  Executive Vice President Alan Chvotkin said in an e-mail the group’s members are seeing these
clauses included in new solicitations.  “Many of the attributes for some of the business systems
have been in place for some time and are already being complied
with by contractors,” he said. “Many others are new and
require contractors to modify their systems to come into
compliance -- and those actions are under way but cannot be
accomplished instantly.”  “I would not expect contractors to be held accountable for
instant compliance with all of these new system requirements nor
to see funds withheld under this rule,” Chvotkin said.  ‘Fair and Timely’  The DCMA and Defense Contract Audit Agency continue to
develop a final version of their internal audit procedures and
workforce guidance to align with the new rule, he said.  The Defense Department has assured the council that
“updating their guidance is a top priority and is under way but
may not be finished for several months,” he said.  Thibault agreed, saying the regulation will require “fair
and timely audit evaluation” to assure that unnecessary
contractor expenses are not incurred.  The aeronautics unit of Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin, which makes the F-16 and F-35 jets, has a deficient
“earned value” system that makes the unit candidate for
potential withholds from new contracts after Aug. 16.  The contract management agency in October decertified the
Earned Value system used by the Fort Worth, Texas, aircraft unit
to track costs and schedules. The company’s system was deficient
in 19 of 32 areas, a Pentagon spokeswoman said at the time.  Lockheed Comments  The decertification remains in effect until the company
demonstrates compliance during the next review in the first four
months of 2012, Noble said.  Lockheed Martin spokesman Joe Stout said in an e-mail that
“we are committed to having the best and most highly rated EV
system in the industry.  “We’re now well into implementing” corrective actions
that include rewriting all the processes that relate to EVMS in
our media library and developing new computer-based tools for
our users, in addition to extensive training of employees,”
Stout said.  “We expect to be ready for a re-audit in early 2012,”
Stout said. “We have not been notified of any withholding or
plans for withholding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  