-- 
Yen, Dollar, Franc Fall as Stock Gains Curb Demand for Haven; Aussie Gains

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-29T21:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/dollar-holds-loss-before-data-to-show-slowing-economy-correct-.html
The Swiss franc, yen and dollar
dropped against most major counterparts as stocks and
commodities climbed on speculation the world will avoid a return
to recession, reducing demand for refuge.  Currencies of higher-yielding countries gained as U.S.
consumer spending rose more than forecast. The franc was the
worst performer, falling to a seven-week low versus the euro
amid rising appetite for riskier assets after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the  U.S. economy  hasn’t
deteriorated enough to warrant immediate additional stimulus.  “Riskier currencies are doing better because the market is
buying riskier today,” said Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal. “We’re seeing
broad-based dollar weakness across the board and strength in
commodities and commodity currencies.”  The franc fell 1.3 percent to 1.1838 per euro at 5 p.m. in
New York, from 1.1690 on Aug. 26. It touched 1.1973, the weakest
level since July 11. The Swiss currency slid 1.2 percent to
81.58 centimes per dollar, from 80.63 at the end of last week.
The greenback dropped 0.1 percent to $1.4511 versus the euro,
compared with $1.4499. The yen fell 0.3 percent to 76.83 per
dollar, compared with 76.64. The euro strengthened 0.3 percent
to 111.49 yen.  The South African rand climbed 1.3 percent to 7.0530 versus
the dollar, from 7.1476.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the
kiwi, added 0.6 percent to 84.61 U.S. cents, from 84.07.
 Canada ’s dollar gained as much as 0.7 percent to touch a three-
week high of 97.41 cents to the greenback.  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.8 percent, and the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
strengthened 0.6 percent. U.S. stock, bond and commodity markets
were open as usual today after  Manhattan  was spared the worst of
Hurricane Irene.  The kiwi gained 1.1 percent over the past week versus nine
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes, the best performance. The franc was the worst
performer, with a 3.4 percent loss. The dollar fell 0.3 percent.  Bernanke, speaking at an economics conference Aug. 26 in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , sought to reassure investors and the
public that U.S. growth is safe in the long run. While he said
the Fed still has tools to aid the recovery if needed, he
stopped short of indicating that the central bank will move
ahead with a third round of government bond-buying.  Aug. 9 Discussion  The Fed chief said policy makers discussed at their Aug. 9
meeting the “relative merits and costs” of tools to provide
stimulus, and scheduled an extra day for this month’s session to
review “those and other pertinent issues.” The Fed will
release tomorrow the minutes of the August Federal Open Market
Committee meeting, at which policy makers pledged for the first
time to keep  interest rates  at a record low through mid-2013.
Three members of the committee dissented from the decision.  “Stocks are up, so the dollar is weaker across the
board,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in New York. “The FOMC minutes tomorrow are going to
give us the flavor of the debate that Mr. Bernanke alluded to.”  The greenback remained lower as Commerce Department data
showed U.S. consumer spending rose 0.8 percent in July, the
biggest gain since February, after a 0.1 percent decline the
prior month. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
projected a 0.5 percent increase.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
policy makers are reviewing their assessment of inflation risks
after growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed.  He spoke to the
European Parliament’s economic committee during a special
session called to discuss the debt crisis.  ‘Under Study’  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for  price stability  are
under study in the context of the ECB’s staff projections that
will be released early September,” he said.  The comment contrasted with Trichet’s last policy statement
on Aug. 4, when he said risks to the inflation outlook were “on
the upside.”  A switch in the ECB’s language on price risks may herald a
change in its policy stance. The central bank, which has raised
its benchmark interest rate twice this year, to 1.5 percent, is
unlikely to increase it again until 2013, Citigroup Inc.
economists said last week.  The franc also weakened versus the euro on speculation
Swiss policy makers will introduce new measures to cap the
currency’s gains.  Technical Level  The Swiss currency may decline to a level against the
dollar last seen in May after ending the day weaker than a key
technical level, according to Citigroup Inc.  A daily close weaker than the 55-day moving average of
80.99 centimes per dollar indicates the franc may slump to the
200-day moving average, wrote  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief technical
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , in a research note to
clients today. The franc last broke 89.29 centimes, now the 200-
day moving average, in mid-May.  European stocks rose as Alpha Bank SA,  Greece ’s third-
largest lender, said it will buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA in a
deal that will create the nation’s biggest lender. The Stoxx
Europe 600 climbed 1.2 percent in its first gain in three days.  The yen fell against higher-yielding currencies as Japanese
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who has overseen three
currency-market interventions in the past year, was chosen to
succeed Prime Minister  Naoto Kan .  Noda was elected head of the ruling  Democratic Party  of
 Japan , paving the way for the 54-year-old official to become the
third premier since the party took power two years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  