-- 
Noda, Kaieda Contest Run-Off Vote in Japan

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-29T05:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/dpj-rejects-japan-public-s-pick-for-leader-as-noda-kaieda-contest-run-off.html
Japan ’s ruling party rejected the
candidate for prime minister who garnered the most public
support, with the current trade and finance ministers winning
the first round of voting to succeed  Naoto Kan .  Banri Kaieda, the trade chief endorsed by former  Democratic
Party of Japan  leader and indicted campaign-finance power broker
 Ichiro Ozawa , will run off against Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in the second ballot of DPJ lawmakers today. Left by the
wayside is ex-Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , who would have
been Japan’s youngest postwar premier and had 48 percent backing
from the public in a Yomiuri newspaper poll released today.  The vote underscores parallels with the Liberal  Democratic
Party , which dominated Japan for half a century until it was
unseated by the DPJ in 2009 and regularly eschewed voter
opinion, according to  Jesper Koll  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  DPJ
support has dipped below the LDP in polls after it failed under
Kan to rally the public behind efforts to overhaul nuclear
policy and rebuild from Japan’s record earthquake and tsunami.  “This is backroom dealing within the Democratic party --
unfortunately it’s very, very close to what we used to have with
the LDP leadership,” said Koll, head of equity research at
JPMorgan in Tokyo. “That was always in smoky back rooms where
decisions were made, rather than out front by the people.”  Kaieda garnered 143 votes to Noda’s 102, while Maehara got
74 votes. The DPJ is electing its third leader since taking
power two years ago after Kan announced his resignation last
week. The lower house of parliament, where the DPJ holds a
majority, will vote on the new prime minister as early as
tomorrow.  Tax Increases  Maehara was four times more popular than Kaieda, according
to the Yomiuri poll which gave the trade minister 12 percent
support and Noda 9 percent. The paper polled 1,055 voters on
Aug. 27 and 28, and didn’t provide a margin of error.  The DPJ’s support in the Yomiuri poll was at 21 percent.
The opposition LDP got 23 percent, while 46 percent of the
public supported no party.  Noda and Kaieda clashed in two leadership-candidate weekend
debates over how to fund rebuilding from the earthquake and
tsunami, with Noda advocating higher taxes and Kaieda calling
for issuing bonds rather than raising taxes to pay for
reconstruction. The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen
($248 billion) over the next five years to rebuild, including 6
trillion yen from Kan’s two economic stimulus packages.  Credit Rating Cut  The selection comes less than a week after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating one step to Aa3,
citing political instability and “weak” prospects for economic
growth that will make it difficult for the government to contain
the world’s largest public debt burden.  Noda said there should be no retreat from a pledge to
double the  sales tax  to 10 percent by the middle of the decade.  Kaieda, who as trade minister helped oversee the response
to the Fukushima atomic power plant meltdown, said Japan should
reduce its dependence on nuclear energy over time and increase
the use of renewable energy.  Maehara had favored holding off on any tax increases to pay
for reconstruction. Signaling that he aimed to be the pro-growth
candidate, Maehara in an Aug. 27 debate urged a “large-scale”
extra budget to stimulate the economy.  “Right now I don’t think that within the party they are
ready for that sort of ambition,” Koll said. “He’s the next
generation.”  Noda, a lawmaker serving his fifth term in the Diet’s more
powerful lower house, is a native of Chiba prefecture east of
 Tokyo  and a graduate in political economy from Tokyo’s  Waseda
University .  A five-term lawmaker and Kendo enthusiast, Kaieda is a
graduate of Tokyo’s Keio University who helped form the DPJ with
Kan and former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  