-- 
Medvedev Urges ‘More Modern’ Democracy to Drive Russian Economy

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-29T14:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/medvedev-urges-more-modern-democracy-to-drive-russian-economy.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  called for
a “more modern” form of democracy in  Russia , arguing that
political competition will help drive the economy.  “We should aim toward a more modern model of democracy,”
he told party leaders in the southern resort of Sochi today.
“Competition and rivalry, of course, will in the long term help
advance the state and society and determine the rate of economic
development.”  Medvedev, 45, a former corporate lawyer, is promising to
loosen political controls if he wins a second term in the March
election. In June, he submitted a law that will make it easier
for smaller parties to enter parliament, reversing limits
imposed by his predecessor, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.  The legislation would cut the barrier for parties to win
seats in the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, to 5
percent from 7 percent now. The change would apply after the
next parliamentary vote, scheduled for December.  Putin centralized power and sidelined opposition after he
became president in 2000. Pro-government parties control 87
percent of seats in the Duma, while the remainder is held by the
Communist Party. Putin, 58, a former KGB colonel, has remained
at the center of decision-making after handing the presidency to
Medvedev in 2008.  Neither Medvedev nor Putin has ruled out running for
president next year. Putin can return to the Kremlin without
violating the constitutional ban on three consecutive terms.  No Seats  Two pro-democracy parties, the now defunct Union of
Rightist Forces, or SPS, and Yabloko, failed to win any seats in
the Duma in 2007 elections after Putin’s government raised the
barrier and abolished single-mandate constituencies that allowed
individual lawmakers to garner seats outside of party lists.  SPS, which later merged with other parties into a pro-
business grouping called Pravoye Delo, or Right Cause, won 0.96
percent of the vote in the December 2007 election. Yabloko got
1.59 percent of the vote.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  assumed the leadership of
Pravoye Delo in June and is campaigning on a pro-democracy and
business ticket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Sochi, Russia, at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  