-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rise Most in Three-Months on U.S. Economic Outlook

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-08-29T21:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/emerging-markets-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-bernanke-buoys-u-s-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
driving the benchmark index up the most in three months, after
the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  is gradually
recovering and a report showed consumer spending increased more
than forecast.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 2.9 percent to
1,004.57 at 5:22 p.m. in  New York , the biggest daily climb since
May 26. Gauges for Brazil,  Russia ,  Hungary ,  South Africa , India
and South Korea each jumped more than 2.6 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index dropped on concern  China  is further tightening
monetary policy.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on Aug. 26 at Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, he is “more optimistic” about the long-term
prospects for the U.S. even amid challenges from the slumping
housing market and financial-market volatility. The U.S. won’t
slip into recession after Bernanke said the central bank has
more tools to support the economy, according to Templeton Asset
Management’s  Mark Mobius .  “What the Fed has clearly signaled is if they believe more
needs to be done, they will do more,” said  Markus Rosgen , chief
Asian strategist at Citigroup Inc., in a Bloomberg Television
interview from  Hong Kong  today. “And you can’t ask for more
than that.”  MSCI’s emerging-market index has dropped 13 percent this
year, more than the 7 percent retreat in the MSCI World Index of
developed stocks. Companies on the emerging-market gauge are
trading at 10.4 times estimated earnings, less than the four-
year average multiple of about 12 times.  Bernanke’s Tools  Bernanke didn’t provide details or signal when or whether
policy makers might deploy tools to stimulate growth. He said
that a second day has been added to the next Federal Open Market
Committee meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion”
of the economy and possible policy responses. The world’s
biggest economy expanded less than previously estimated in the
second quarter, a government report on Aug. 26 showed.  “It’s very clear that he’s not going to preside over a
severe economic downturn if he can help it,” said Mobius, who
oversees about $50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton’s
emerging-markets group. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg
News before a speech to journalists in Hong Kong. “We’re not
going to see a recession. He’s still got policy tools
available.”  A report today showed U.S.  consumer spending  climbed more
than forecast in July, signaling the biggest part of the economy
is holding up. Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the biggest gain
since February, after a 0.1 percent drop a month earlier, the
Commerce Department said. The median estimate of 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent increase.  Russia, Hungary  Russia’s Micex Index advanced 3.7 percent as oil, the
country’s main export earner, climbed. OAO Novatek, Russia’s
second-biggest natural-gas producer, climbed 4.1 percent to
353.94 rubles. The company may increase its first-half dividend
by 67 percent to 7.59 billion rubles ($264 million) after profit
rose. OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, led the BUX
Index 2.7 percent higher.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index jumped 2.8 percent, the most in two
weeks, boosted by the U.S. consumer spending data and after the
government raised its target for the 2011 budget surplus before
interest payments by 11 percent to 91 billion reais ($57
billion).  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-owned oil producer,
increased 3 percent, as crude prices advanced. Homebuilder PDG
Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes and retailer B2W Cia.
Global do Varejo both jumped 7.9 percent, leading gains by
companies that depend on domestic demand.  Taiwan’s TAIEX Index gained 1.8 percent. Memory-chip makers
 Inotera Memories Inc. (3474) ,  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)  and  Powerchip
Technology Corp. (5346)  surged by their daily limit in Taipei trading
after the price of DDR3 2-gigabit dynamic random-access memory
rose 6.2 percent in the past two sessions, the biggest back-to-
back gain since March 15, according to data by TrendForce
Corp.’s DRAMExchange.  Currencies, Bonds Gain  Most currencies in developing economies strengthened versus
the dollar. The South African rand rose 1.3 percent, the most
among 25 most-actively traded emerging-market currencies.
Turkey’s lira followed with an appreciation of 1.2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries tumbled 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 3.61 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of credit-default swaps
for emerging  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa  trimmed one
basis point to 267, according to CMA in  London .  Vietnam  Vietnam’s VN Index closed at the highest level since July
20 after a government statement on Aug. 27 said a meeting
between the central bank and 12 commercial banks on Aug. 26
concluded with an agreement that lending rates for the
manufacturing industry should be lowered to help address
difficulties faced by businesses trying to borrow capital.  The Shanghai Composite slid 1.4 percent, its largest drop
since Aug. 18. Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the
world’s biggest lender by market value, slid 1.9 percent in
Shanghai after economists from brokerages including Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. said banks have been ordered to set aside reserves on a
broader range of deposits. A central bank press official
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  