-- 
Men Who Sleep Light Have Increased Risk of High Blood Pressure, Study Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-08-29T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/men-who-sleep-light-have-increased-risk-of-high-blood-pressure-study-says.html
Older men who are light sleepers are
at increased risk for developing  high blood pressure , according
to a study that adds to the growing body of research about the
importance of a good night’s rest.  Men who spent the least amount of time in slow-wave sleep,
marked by synchronized brain waves and a deep sleep from which
it’s hard to wake up, were 83 percent more likely to develop
hypertension during the three-year study. The findings remained
consistent even after the researchers took weight, race and age
into account, according to the report in  Hypertension: Journal
of the  American Heart Association .  Men are more likely to have high blood pressure than women,
and poor sleep quality may help explain why, according to the
researchers led by  Susan Redline , a professor of sleep medicine
at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and  Harvard Medical School  in
 Boston . The findings add to previous reports that show  deep
sleep  is important for learning and memory and may play a role
in  diabetes , cardiovascular disease and changes in metabolism.  “People should recognize that sleep, diet and physical
activity are critical to health, including heart health and
optimal blood pressure,” Redline said in a statement. “Our
study shows for the first time that poor quality sleep,
reflected by reduced slow-wave sleep, puts individuals at
significantly increased risk of developing high blood
pressure,” she said. “Although the elderly often have poor
sleep, our study shows that such a finding is not benign.”  Men who had less slow-wave sleep during the study also got
fewer hours of rest, woke up more frequently and had worse sleep
quality. The study included 784 men, on average 75 years old,
who didn’t initially have high  blood pressure . Additional
studies are needed to see if changes in slow-wave sleep patterns
can improve a person’s health, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  