-- 
Endorsing a Blank-Check Company Requires a Leap of Faith: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/endorsing-a-blank-check-company-requires-taking-a-big-leap-of-faith-view.html
It’s easy to see why corporate
bosses who get squeezed out of power are tempted to set up so-
called blank-check companies as part of a comeback strategy.
What’s baffling is why stock-market investors should back these
propositions.  Blank-check companies raise money in initial public
offerings before they have any operating assets. The funds are
meant to be spent on an acquisition that hasn’t yet been
specified. Investors are essentially betting on the deal-making
savvy of management. Notable creators of such vehicles include
Gil Amelio, former chief executive officer of Apple Computer
Inc., and  Tony Hayward , one-time CEO of BP Plc, whose new blank
check entity, Vallares Plc, is the subject of an article in the
current issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine. Earlier this
summer, Vallares raised $2.15 billion through an IPO on the
London Stock Exchange.  For blank-check companies to succeed, all hopes must come
to fruition. Management must find a suitable acquisition
candidate and negotiate a bargain price. Operators must run the
enterprise well. The stock market must support a rising
valuation for the acquired company. All of these bits of good
fortune rarely coincide.  More often, something goes wrong. Some blank-check bosses
can’t find a willing target and must return the money to
investors. Those who can strike a deal face other hazards, such
as management turbulence. Or they may overpay for their
acquisitions, leaving IPO investors with big losses.  Record of Underperformance  Since 2003, a total of 98 U.S. companies set up to make
such special-purpose acquisitions have completed a takeover,
according to SPAC Investments Ltd., which provides analysis and
recommendations for investors. The average annualized return of
such so-called SPACs in the stock market since 2003: negative
18.4 percent. By contrast, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
returned an average of 6.7 percent annually in that period.  The history of blank-check companies is riddled with
scandals, and U.S. regulators have repeatedly tightened rules on
how these businesses can operate. Acquisitions now can’t proceed
without shareholder approval. Managers are precluded from paying
themselves excessive fees before they have done any work, or
frittering away IPO proceeds in ways that shareholders wouldn’t
welcome. Such safeguards protect U.S. investors to some extent
and should be extended to other countries’ markets.  The most decisive way to regulate the blank-check business
would be to make such offerings off-limits to anyone except the
sorts of wealthy investors who already participate in  hedge
funds  and private equity. Such rules would be an especially
valuable safeguard for blank-check deals that let risky foreign
companies trade on U.S. or European exchanges without passing
usual listing requirements.  Global capital markets already provide plenty of other ways
for the best corporate acquirers to ply their craft. At a time
when more transparency and disclosure are crucial to rebuilding
public confidence in the markets, the inherently opaque nature
of blank-check companies strikes a discordant note.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 