-- 
Kenneth Lay, Deceased Enron CEO, Triumphs Over IRS in Tax Court

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-30T16:50:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/enron-ceo-kenneth-lay-bests-irs-in-tax-court.html
Kenneth Lay, the deceased chief
executive officer of Enron Corp., defeated the  Internal Revenue
Service  in the agency’s bid to collect $3.9 million from his
estate and his wife, the  U.S. Tax Court  ruled.  The case decided yesterday involved transactions among Lay,
his wife, Linda, and Enron that were executed on Sept. 21, 2001.
The Lays sold $10 million in annuities to Enron as part of an
agreement for him to retake the CEO position, under the
stipulation that the annuities would be returned to Lay if he
worked a 4.25-year term. The company didn’t survive that long,
and it filed for  bankruptcy protection  in December 2001.  The IRS contested the Lays’ contention that the annuities
were sold to Enron for no gain, according to the Tax Court
decision by Judge Joseph Goeke. In 2009, the IRS filed a notice
of tax deficiency for $3.9 million, arguing that the Lays should
have reported the $10 million as income in 2001. Instead, they
reported that they sold the annuities to Enron at their cost
basis, generating no taxable income.  Goeke wrote in the decision that the agency’s position was
incorrect, and he ruled for Linda Lay and for  Kenneth Lay ’s
estate. The transactions, he wrote, were legitimate, and neither
of the Lays nor the estate received any distributions or death
benefit from the annuity.  “The annuities transaction is well documented, and all
actions of the parties to the transaction reflect that Enron
purchased the annuity contracts for $10 million,” he wrote.
“The Lays properly reported the transaction on their 2001  tax
return  as a sale of the annuity contracts.”  Tax Dispute  Charles Egerton , the attorney who represented the estate
and Linda Lay in the tax case, said in a telephone interview
today that the dispute over the annuity lingered after other
issues regarding the Lays’ taxes were resolved. He described his
client as delighted.  “She’s been through an awful lot over the past 10 years,”
said Egerton, an attorney at Dean, Mead, Egerton, Bloodworth,
Capouano & Bozarth P.A. in  Orlando ,  Florida .  Lay, who died in 2006 at age 64, was convicted in May 2006
by a federal jury in Houston. He and the company’s former CEO,
 Jeffrey Skilling , were found guilty of deceiving shareholders
about Enron’s financial condition by hiding debt and losses in a
series of off balance-sheet entities.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when the world’s largest energy trading
company plunged into bankruptcy, following revelations of
widespread accounting fraud.  Conviction Thrown Out  Lay’s convictions were later thrown out because he didn’t
have a chance to appeal the cases before he died.  Enron’s creditors, the government, Lay’s estate and Linda
Lay have been involved in a variety of lawsuits since the
company’s demise.  The U.S government continues to pursue a $12.6 million
civil forfeiture case against Linda Lay, which was initiated
three months after her husband’s death. The  Justice Department 
sued to recover $10.1 million from a family investment
partnership, as well as $22,680 in cash and at least $2.5
million from the couple’s penthouse condominium in Houston.  Linda Lay has been trying to sell the 12,827-square-foot,
Italian Renaissance-inspired condo unit since 2009. The property
is now priced at $7.99 million, according to a Houston real
estate-listings website, a significant increase from the $4.75
million valuation it carried on local tax rolls in 2007, the
year after Ken Lay died.  Alisa Fanelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for the status of the
government’s forfeiture case against Linda Lay.  ‘Criminal Proceeds’  The government claims Lay “derived more than $95 million
in criminal proceeds from trading Enron stock, manipulating his
Enron line of credit and receiving an incentive bonus” as the
company was spiraling into insolvency, according to court
filings in the forfeiture case.  An FBI agent who investigated Lay claimed Enron’s founder
paid off the remainder of his Houston mortgage with “million-
dollar payments of criminal proceeds” less than a week after
Enron’s bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  