-- 
Merck, Reynolds, Wells Fargo, BofA, Allstate in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-29T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/merck-reynolds-wells-fargo-bofa-allstate-in-court-news.html
Merck & Co. doesn’t have to pay a
$32 million jury award to the family of former user of the
company’s Vioxx painkiller who died of a heart attack, the Texas
 Supreme Court  ruled.  The court said on Aug. 26 that the family of Leonel Garza
didn’t produce adequate evidence showing Vioxx caused the heart
attack. Merck, the second biggest U.S. drugmaker, agreed in 2007
to pay $4.85 billion to settle thousands of injury claims over
the drug.  Lawyers for the Garzas “did not present reliable evidence
of general causation and therefore are not entitled to recover
against Merck,” the state’s highest court concluded in an 18-
page decision.  Kathy Snapka , one of the Garza family’s lawyers, didn’t
immediately return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment on the
Supreme Court ruling.  Officials of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck
pulled Vioxx off the market in 2004 after researchers linked it
to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke. Former users
also criticized the company for downplaying the drug’s health
risks and manipulating studies to help promote the drug.  Merck officials countered that Vioxx wasn’t the cause of
users’ heart attacks and that the company had properly warned
doctors and consumers about the painkiller’s risks.  Merck won 11 of the 16 cases over Vioxx that went to trial
starting in 2005. Under the November 2007 settlement, Merck
excluded some of the cases it lost, including Garza’s, from
being included under the accord.  A jury in Rio Grande City, Texas, ruled in April 2006 that
Merck failed to warn doctors of Vioxx’s risks and that the drug
caused the fatal heart attack of Garza, 71, in 2001. The jury
awarded $32 million to Garza’s widow, which Judge Alex Gabert
cut to $8.73 million because of a state cap on punitive damages.  “Today’s decision reaffirms that there is simply no
reliable scientific evidence that Vioxx caused” Garza’s heart
attack, Ted Mayer, a lawyer for Merck, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Garza v. Merck & Co., 03-84, 229th Judicial
District Court, Starr County, Texas (Rio Grande City).  Trials/Appeals  Star Scientific Loses New Trial Bid in Reynolds Tobacco Case  Star Scientific Inc. tumbled the most in two years after
losing a bid for a new trial in its decade-long effort to
extract patent royalties from  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  on a way to
reduce carcinogens in cigarettes.  While the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  on Friday  upheld  the validity of two Star patents,
the panel said there was no need to retry the infringement case
that Star lost in 2009. Chief Circuit Judge Randall Rader said
in the 2-1 opinion that a new trial wouldn’t change the outcome
as “there was substantial untainted evidence before the jury to
support a verdict of non-infringement.”  The patents cover a curing process that prevents
“bacterial activity” in tobacco leaves, resulting in the
lowest levels of cancer causing nitrosamines, according to Star.
The money-losing company, which had less than $1 million in
sales last year, has “not been able to monetize their only
asset,” Martin Shkreli, chief investment officer of New York-
based hedge fund MSMB Capital Management, said after the ruling.  The Glen Allen, Virginia-based company said it’s
considering options for “further appellate review.” Star said
the validity ruling will allow it to pursue claims “against all
prior and future infringers,” including another case it has
against Reynolds that had been put on hold pending this appeal.  “We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual
property, which we consider to be among our corporate crown
jewels,” Star Chairman and President Paul L. Perito said in a
statement on Friday.  Star had claimed Reynolds was unable on its own to reduce
nitrosamines in tobacco as much as Star could. Star said
Reynolds then chose to use the technology without permission as
part of an effort to “neutralize” competition. Reynolds denied
the claim, challenging validity of the patents.  August Borschke, chief patent counsel for R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco, said in an e-mail, “R.J. Reynolds did not infringe
Star’s patents.”  The case is Star Scientific v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
10-1183, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)  v.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 01cv1504, U.S. District Court,
District of Maryland (Greenbelt).  Court Affirms Dismissal of Interpharm’s Wells Fargo Lawsuit  A federal appeals court in  New York  affirmed the dismissal
of a lawsuit against  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  by the former generic-
drug maker Interpharm Inc. over claims the bank used restrictive
credit agreements and exorbitant fees to force the company into
an unprofitable sale.  Interpharm, which sold most of its assets in June 2008,
sued Wells Fargo in December 2008, saying it lost about $40
million of value when the San Francisco-based company reduced
its credit limit based on allegedly erroneous income
projections.  The U.S. 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals in an opinion dated
Aug. 26 affirmed U.S. District Judge Richard J. Holwell’s
decision to dismiss the case in May, saying that Wells Fargo
wasn’t obligated to extend any further credit to Interpharm
after the drugmaker defaulted on a credit agreement.  “To the extent it agreed to do so in a series of
forbearance agreements imposing stricter conditions and costs on
Interpharm, these demands by a lender otherwise under no
obligation to continue extending credit cannot constitute the
‘wrongful threat’ required to establish economic duress under
New York law,” Circuit Judge Reena Raggi said in the opinion.
“Nor can a wrongful threat be based on Wells Fargo’s exercise
of discretion specifically conferred by the Credit Agreement.”  The case is Interpharm Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 08-cv-
11365, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The appeal is Interpharm Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank
NA, 10-1801-cv, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New York).  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Must Face Claims Over Mortgages, Court Says  Morgan Stanley must face a mortgage-servicing company’s
claims that it violated an agreement to repurchase faulty home
loans, a court ruled.  Central Mortgage Co.  can move forward with a lawsuit
accusing New York-based Morgan Stanley of reneging on a contract
requiring the securities firm to repurchase mortgages that
hadn’t been properly screened before being sold to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, the Delaware Supreme Court concluded. The
ruling reversed a lower-court judge’s decision to throw out the
suit.  Central Mortgage’s allegations that a Morgan Stanley unit
didn’t live up to its agreement satisfied “the minimal
standards required at this early stage of the litigation,”
Chief Justice Myron Steele said Aug. 18 in a 21-page decision.  The decision is part of a round of litigation among
lenders, mortgage servicers and investors over the handling of
flawed home loans that have contributed to the decline in the
U.S. real estate market over the past three years.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest  U.S. bank , has offered
to pay $8.5 billion to settle bondholders’ claims over soured
mortgages overseen by the lender. Some state attorneys general
have objected to the accord, saying it doesn’t provide enough
for investors.  Sandra Hernandez , a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, couldn’t
immediately comment on the court decision on Friday.  The case is Central Mortgage Co. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage
Capital Holdings LLC, 595-2010, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  For more, click here.  Cordish Allowed to Press Suit Against Indianapolis Downs CEO  Cordish Co., a real-estate developer building a casino near
Baltimore, can pursue a defamation lawsuit against the chief
executive officer of its bankrupt former business partner,
Indianapolis Downs LLC, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon, in
Wilmington, Delaware, ruled on Aug. 26 that CEO Ross J. Mangano
can’t delay a lawsuit against him in Maryland in order to
concentrate on reorganizing Indianapolis Downs. The lawsuit,
which had temporarily been on hold, can proceed 30 days from
now, Shannon said.  “Involving him in this litigation is not going to affect
the debtor’s ability” to reorganize, Cordish attorney Kenneth
Oestreicher said in court Friday.  After Indianapolis Downs, based in Shelbyville Indiana,
filed for bankruptcy in April, Shannon temporarily halted the
Cordish litigation against Mangano. That protection is no longer
necessary, Shannon said Friday.  Cordish sued in February, claiming it was defamed by
competing casino companies and their executives, including
Mangano and horse-track owner  Frank Stronach .  Mangano and Stronach allegedly were “part of an ongoing
campaign designed to smear, defame and otherwise falsely portray
the Cordish Entities for the purpose of harming them
economically and influencing both the Maryland State legislature
and lottery commission.”  Indianapolis Downs denied Cordish’s allegations in court
papers. In a statement in February, Stronach’s company, MI
Developments Inc., called the suit meritless.  The temporary restraining order case is Indianapolis Downs
LLC v. Power Plant Entertainment Casino Resorts, Indiana, LLC
11-51996. The bankruptcy case is In re: Indianapolis Downs LLC.
11-11046. Both are in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Ex-Marvell Technology Accountant Ng Released on $50,000 Bond  Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  accountant Stanley Ng,
charged in a nationwide crackdown on insider trading, made an
initial court appearance in New York on Aug. 26 and was released
on a $50,000 bond.  Ng, 42, didn’t enter a plea Friday at his first federal
court appearance in Manhattan. U.S. Magistrate Judge James Francis agreed to release Ng on a bond secured by one
financially responsible person and his California home and
ordered him to surrender his passport. Both Ng and his lawyer,
Silvia Serpe, declined to comment after court.  He was arrested Aug. 10 for allegedly leaking material non-
public information to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with
expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC. He’s charged
with one count of conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud
and faces as long as five years in prison if convicted.  Jiau, 43, was convicted in June of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud after being caught in Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s probe of insider trading involving
so-called expert networking firms and hedge-fund managers.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Suits  Fannie Mae Investors Sue Conservator Over Limits on Recovery  Fannie Mae’s conservator was sued by a group of pension
fund investors over a rule that could limit their recovery for
damages stemming from securities fraud.  The  Ohio Public Employees Retirement System  and the  State
Teachers Retirement System of Ohio  asked a federal judge in
Washington Aug. 26 to throw out the Federal Housing Finance
Agency rule, which sets the priority for payment of unsecured
claims against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the home mortgage
finance companies now under government control.  The pension funds argue that the rule, which took effect
July 20, violates the Appointments Clause of the U.S.
Constitution and the Housing and Economic Recovery Act because
Edward DeMarco, FHFA’s acting director, who imposed it, has been
in his position for almost two years without Senate
confirmation.  The pension funds are the lead plaintiffs in a lawsuit
filed in 2004 related to a $6.3 billion overstatement of
earnings. The defendants include Fannie Mae, its former
chairman, two other former executives and KPMG, a former company
auditor.  Stefanie Johnson, an FHFA spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment on
the filing.  In the rule, FHFA subordinated certain claims, including
damages arising from shareholder lawsuits.  Richard Cordray , then
Ohio’s attorney general, raised objections to that design when
it was under consideration last year.  When it issued its final rule in June, the FHFA called
shareholder plaintiff concerns “unfounded.”  The case is Ohio Public Employees Retirement System v.
Federal Housing Finance Agency, 11-cv-01543, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Investors Seek to Move Venue of BofA Mortgage-Bond Accord  An investor group challenging Bank of America Corp.’s
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement is seeking to
move the case to federal court from state court.  Walnut Place LLC and related entities that would be bound
by the proposed deal filed a notice of removal of the case to
U.S. District Court in Manhattan. The case was first filed in
state court, where a judge is scheduled to consider approving
the agreement in November.  A change in venue that extends how long the case takes may
mean a longer period of concern among Bank of America
shareholders about whether the settlement’s costs will increase.
It may also give bondholders seeking a large payout more time to
organize their efforts and strengthen their objections,
according to  Bill Frey , head of investment and brokerage firm
Greenwich Financial Services LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut, who
advises mortgage-securities investors.  Under the proposed settlement, Bank of America would pay
$8.5 billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial mortgage bonds. It was negotiated with a group of
institutional investors and would apply to investors outside
that group.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the settlement, will
seek to move the case back to state court, Kevin Heine, a bank
spokesman said.  “This tactical maneuvering at the deadline for objections
has no impact on the underlying merits of the agreement,” Bank
of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said in an e-mailed
statement.  David Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  Court Filings  Allstate’s Suit Against Goldman Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  A lawsuit accusing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  of fraudulently
selling more than $100 million in mortgage-backed securities to
Allstate Insurance Co. was the most-read litigation docket on
the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Allstate asked for damages including the lost market value
of the securities, plus principal and interest payments in the
complaint filed Aug. 15 in New York state Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  The insurer, based in Northbrook, Illinois, has filed
similar suits against JPMorgan Chase & Co. over $700 million of
mortgage-backed securities the bank sold the insurer;  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  units for more than $231 million of the
securities; Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit over some
$167 million;  Citigroup Inc. (C) , over more than $200 million and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , over about $185 million. Allstate said the
banks misrepresented underwriting standards, owner occupancy
data and loan-to-value ratios.  Goldman knew these types of securities were “junk,”
“dogs,” “crap” and “lemons,” according to the suit, which
claims the words are Goldman’s own, recently revealed in
governmental investigations, to describe them.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for Goldman, declined comment
on the suit.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Goldman Sachs & Co.,
652273/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  