-- 
Merkel Tells Voters Germany to Emerge Stronger From Sovereign-Debt Crisis

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-08-29T22:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/merkel-tells-voters-germany-to-emerge-stronger-from-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that
Germany will emerge stronger from the sovereign debt turmoil, as
she sought to rally support for her crisis-fighting strategy
ahead of elections in her home state in five days.  Merkel, in the first of five campaign appearances this week
in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania before a regional vote on Sept.
4, acknowledged voter concern about the impact of the crisis on
the euro, while saying that such fears are misplaced.  “Many are worried, but they don’t need to be because the
currency is stable,” Merkel told a rally of her Christian
Democratic Union yesterday in Schwerin, the state capital.
“It’s our aim to come out of this stronger than we went into
it, as we did during the banking crisis. I said that in 2009,
and look at where the economy is in 2011. This can be achieved
again.”  Almost two years after the debt crisis erupted in Greece,
Merkel is seeking to allay coalition and voter concerns over the
impact on  Germany . With Berlin also holding a city vote next
month, Merkel has turned her anti-crisis strategy -- including
opposition to joint euro-area bonds -- into a campaign theme.  “Some people tout them as being the solution to the
crisis,” Merkel said of euro bonds, citing the main opposition
 Social Democratic Party . “Putting the debt all in one pot,”
while allowing others to live beyond their means and expect a
bailout “is against all common sense.”  Polls suggest the SPD may again win the election with the
CDU as its junior coalition partner in the state.  Party Conclaves  The three parties in Merkel’s national government are
holding separate meetings this week to discuss their responses
to the euro-area debt crisis. Merkel’s Cabinet will meet in
Berlin tomorrow to back a reworked European Financial Stability
Facility and a second aid package for  Greece . Merkel is
traveling to Slovenia, a euro member, today for talks on the
crisis with Prime Minister Borut Pahor.  In a radio interview yesterday, the chancellor sought to
defuse a coalition revolt over bailouts, saying that she
understood lawmakers’ frustration as they prepared to debate the
changes to  Europe ’s rescue fund and more aid for Greece.  While coalition members used weekend interviews to set out
conditions for expanding the scope of the 440 billion-euro ($638
billion) EFSF, they indicated that they would probably back the
bill when it goes to a vote in the lower house, or Bundestag.  The upper and lower houses are now likely to finish voting
by Sept. 30, one week later than planned, to avoid clashing with
a Sept. 23 visit to Berlin by  Pope Benedict XVI , CDU spokesman
Dominik Geissler said by telephone.  In a letter to Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ,  Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman for Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc, and his counterpart from the CDU’s Free Democratic Party
coalition partner,  Otto Fricke , urged the government to
“substantially improve” consultations with parliament over any
planned changes to the EFSF.  Merkel said that aid will still be available for indebted
euro-area countries so long as they commit to “do better in the
future.”  “Whoever does that deserves our solidarity, will get our
support,” Merkel said in Schwerin. “That’s the way out of this
crisis. It’s a long, arduous path, but it’s the way we’ll go
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Schwerin via 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  