-- 
Metro-North Resumes Full Service on 2 Lines

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-08-29T20:28:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/metro-north-resumes-full-service-on-2-lines.html
The  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority  resumed full rail service on its  New Haven  and Hudson
lines, and was running Harlem trains as far north as  White
Plains  as it recovers from Hurricane Irene.  The biggest U.S. transit agency said it was operating on a
Sunday schedule for those routes, according to an e-mailed
statement. The upper Harlem,  New Canaan , Danbury and Waterbury
lines remained suspended, as do the Port Jervis and Pascack
Valley lines, the MTA said.  “Metro-North crews continue to work around-the clock,
assess conditions, clear the tracks and repair the
infrastructure,” the MTA said.  The Harlem line, which connects Grand Central to the
Westchester towns of Scarsdale and Chappaqua, suffered damage to
transmission poles and flooded substations, said Marjorie Anders, an MTA spokeswoman. Parking lots adjacent to stations
are inundated, while local streams and the Bronx River continue
to overflow their banks.  “We are still shoveling out,” she said in an interview.
“We have parking lots suitable for boating.”  Rail service on  New Jersey  Transit, which serves 285,000
riders daily, remained shut “until further notice” except for
the Atlantic City line that runs to Philadelphia, according to
its website. Buses and light rail were operating on a modified
schedule. PATH trains operated by the  Port Authority  of New York
and New Jersey were running under the  Hudson River  between
 Manhattan  and northern New Jersey.  Commuter Reaction  Mark Wuest, 54, a director with Barclays Plc’s credit-
restructuring advisory group, said he was more upset about a
lack of information from Metro-North than the interruption in
service.  Wuest, who lives in New Haven, Connecticut, and takes a
6:56 a.m. train to his office in Manhattan, didn’t receive an e-
mail alert from the railroad about service suspension until 6:12
a.m. today, he said.  “That’s kind of ridiculous,” Wuest said in an interview.
“A lot of people try to catch a train before I catch it.”  On the MTA’s Long Island Railroad, six of 11 lines have
been fully or partially restored, Anders said. Disruptions
remain on the Rockaway,  Long Beach , Montauk and the Ronkonkoma-
to-Greenport lines, she said.  New York  subways reopened this morning after the first
shutdown since a strike in 2005, and buses started returning at
4 p.m. yesterday, making “slight detours” today, said Judy
Glave, a spokeswoman for the MTA, in a phone interview.  ‘The Foresight’  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who took the Lexington Avenue
subway to  City Hall  from his home on the Upper East Side, lauded
the MTA for getting the subways and buses running for the work
week.  “Had they not moved all of that equipment they wouldn’t
have been able to get it back this morning, and fortunately they
had the foresight to do it,” Bloomberg said at a news
conference on  Staten Island . He is the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Metro-North brings  286,000 commuters  on an average weekday
to New York from the city’s northern suburbs and  Connecticut .
The MTA cleared a 10-foot-deep mudslide that covered two tracks
at the Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx only to have the mud
come down again, Anders said.  The transit agency is concentrating its Metro-North cleanup
efforts in the suburbs closest to New York City and has begun
testing the rails to make sure they’re safe, Anders said.  Amtrak Trains  Amtrak trains between Washington and  Boston  weren’t running
because of “extensive flooding, debris on tracks and power
issues,” the carrier said on its website.  The storm left roads flooded across the region by midday
today, according to Shadow Traffic in Rutherford, New Jersey.  In northern New Jersey, Route 287 is closed northbound in
Parsippany, where the Rockaway River overflowed its banks,
washing away the right-hand lane. Route 17 is closed in the
Hasbrouck Heights and Wood-Ridge areas. Main arteries in New
Jersey including the Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway are
open, as are all crossings to  New York City .  North of the city, the  Saw Mill River Parkway  is closed
between Manville Road and the Cross County Parkway in both
directions, and the Bronx River Parkway is shut from the New
York City line to Kensico Circle.  The Taconic State Parkway is closed both ways from the
Kensico Circle to the Sprain Brook Parkway, as is the New York
State Thruway in Rockland County between Exits 7 and 15 from
Newburgh to Suffern, Shadow Traffic reported.  In Connecticut, all major roads are open, and there don’t
appear to be any major closures on Long Island highways,
although local roads along the Atlantic coast may be flooded,
Shadow Traffic said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 Mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 