-- 
EU Considers Expanding Companies' Hostile-Takeover Defenses

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-29T15:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/eu-regulator-reviews-whether-to-expand-corporate-hostile-takeover-defenses.html
The European Union may consider
expanding options available to companies to block hostile
takeovers as part of a review of legislation on corporate
acquisitions.  The European Commission in Brussels is examining whether
firms have too little power to use defensive measures such as
share-transfer restrictions or multiple  voting rights  to prevent
a hostile takeover, according to a letter from the regulator
obtained by Bloomberg News.  EU regulators have struggled to clarify how far companies
can go under existing law to protect themselves against unwanted
takeovers.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the maker of Birkin bags,
won a waiver of French market rules to shield itself against a
possible bid from  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  earlier
this year.  The commission will examine “control structures and
barriers to takeovers,” according to the letter, sent to law
firms and trade associations earlier this month. It will also
examine how EU rules on issues such as treatment of minority
shareholders during an acquisition compare with those in other
regions.  The review is being carried out to satisfy a requirement
that it assess how well a 2004 law on takeover bids is working.
Under the legislation, the commission has until this year to
assess the rules and propose revisions, “if necessary,” the
letter says.  Capital Markets  The commission’s review will determine how existing EU law
has achieved its aims of promoting “the integration of European
capital markets,” the commission said. This should be achieved
through “efficient takeover mechanisms and strong rights for
shareholders,” it said.  The study is part of an early fact-finding process, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European Commission, said in an e-
mail. The results will be available by the end of this year, he
said.  The commission will examine its options during 2012 on
“what needs to be done, if anything at all,” Bailly said.  “The most sensitive issue is obviously to what extent
listed companies should be able to defend themselves against
takeovers,” Jaap Winter, a partner at law firm De Brauw
Blackstone Westbroek, said in a telephone interview.  Cross-Border Takeovers  EU nations “weren’t willing to facilitate cross-border
takeovers in 2004, I don’t see any indication they’ve become
more willing to do so,” said Winter, who was formerly chairman
of a group of company law experts set up by the commission.
“The current populist sentiments about the European Union make
it unlikely that at this stage governments would opt to weaken
takeover defenses.”  The U.K. Takeover Panel earlier this year proposed changes
to its merger rules including a  28-day window for potential
buyers to “put up or shut up” by giving their firm intention
to bid.  Last year’s takeover of Cadbury Plc by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  has
been criticized by  Vince Cable , the U.K.’s business secretary,
who said in June that there were “too many company takeovers
which reduce or destroy value and are driven by the fat fees
earned by the lawyers and banks who facilitate them.” Kraft was
also criticized by U.K. authorities for misstating plans to keep
a plant open as part of its acquisition of Cadbury.  The commission should examine how widely voluntary rules
limiting defenses in the current legislation have been applied,
Winter said.  The measures include allowing a buyer who has accumulated
75 percent of a firm’s share capital to break through takeover
defenses and a requirement for a target company’s board to be
neutral in the face of a takeover bid unless it has been
authorized to block it by shareholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 Awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 