-- 
Johnson: Euro’s Appeal Masks the Gathering Storm

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/euro-s-appeal-masks-gathering-storm-in-europe-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Is the economic and financial
situation in Western  Europe  largely under control, as many
prominent Europeans contend? Or is it poised to move into a new
and more difficult phase?  The crisis feels unreal to some people in the same way that
war felt phony to some Britons from September 1939 through
spring 1940. In contrast to previous crises in emerging markets,
Europe hasn’t moved precipitously toward collapse. But the main
element that lets the European crisis unfold in slow motion --
the existence and appeal of the euro -- also explains why a
great deal of volatility lies ahead. The storm is gathering.  In a classic emerging markets crisis --  Asia  in 1997-98 or
 Latin America  many times in the past -- there is a loss of
confidence in the ability of local borrowers to repay their
foreign creditors. Many debts are denominated in foreign
currencies and, as confidence declines, the exchange rate drops,
making debt payments that much harder. If  interest rates  are
raised in an attempt to stabilize the currency, the borrower’s
burden increases. If companies default, the solvency of local
banks and governments becomes a concern. The resulting rush for
the financial exits tramples on a great deal of wealth, and many
ordinary citizens suffer disproportionately.  The big difference with the European situation today is the
euro. As the world’s No. 2 reserve currency after the dollar,
euro assets are in demand by investors around the world. This
means that almost all euro-zone corporate, household and
government borrowing is in euros, making the classic downward
emerging market spiral unlikely.  Euro Depreciation  If the euro depreciates, debt burdens don’t increase. In
fact, euro depreciation mostly helps the real economy by
increasing exports and making it easier to compete against
imports.  But a run is still possible within the euro area. If you
have a euro deposit in a Greek, Spanish or Italian bank, you can
transfer the funds to a German or other bank. A euro is a euro;
with some small transaction costs, you can move money to
whichever part of the euro zone is more convenient or seems safe
on any given day.  This doesn’t happen in the U.S. Even if you were convinced
that a state was about to suffer a severe financial disruption,
deposits would still be backed at the federal level. Runs in the
U.S. can occur, of course: In the fall of 2008, there was a run
out of money market mutual funds and away from the likes of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley. But these were
moves out of broad asset classes or away from specific
institutions.  Running Uphill  In Europe, any run would be within the euro zone and across
banks, not out of the euro or away from a pan-European asset
class. It would be running uphill to escape whatever flood one
imagines is coming to a particular country or bank.  The shift now taking place in euro balances toward more
Germanic areas -- besides  Germany , this includes the Netherlands
and Luxembourg, among others -- wouldn’t be a problem if the
banks receiving funds were willing to hold the same portfolio of
assets in peripheral countries as the banks that are losing
deposits. But they aren’t.  In addition to the lack of full financial integration --
meaning that German banks are, almost by definition, not as
present in  Italy  as are Italian banks -- the unfortunate system
of risk weights under Basel II plays a compounding role by
encouraging European banks to lend excessively to local
governments, making conditions ripe for this specific kind of
run.  Basel Fallacy  The most important fallacy within the Basel framework is
that AAA-rated securities and sovereign debt (when less than
AAA) are regarded as zero-risk. In most instances, banks have
the lowest risk weight on debt issued by their own government --
Greek bank lending to the Greek government, Italian bank lending
to the Italian government, and so on. (For more background on
capital regulation and Basel in general, see this excellent
 paper  by Martin Hellwig.)  An example, and one that deliberately avoids some of the
more precarious financial institutions, is the balance sheet of
the Belgian group Dexia SA. ( Here  is the news release of second-
quarter results; start on page 11.) On June 30, Dexia had total
assets of just over 517 billion euros. But its total weighted
risks -- assets that regulators say must have a cushion of
capital underpinning them -- amounted to only 127 billion euros.
Does Dexia have a lot of debt relative to equity? If we evaluate
the balance sheet as we would for any nonfinancial company, the
answer is an unambiguous yes: Assets are 74.5 times total
shareholders’ equity.  Riskless Assets  Yet according to the  Basel II  agreement -- and reinforced
by the new Basel III deal that bank regulators negotiated last
year -- Dexia is a well-capitalized bank because so many of its
assets are regarded as essentially riskless. This logic assumes
that the weights correctly assess government debt as having
precisely no risk of default or loss of value. Even a 1 percent
fall in the value of its zero-risk assets would almost wipe out
Dexia’s shareholder equity.  Under the risk-weighting system, we can safely presume
Dexia holds a great deal of Belgian government debt. To be
clear:  Belgium  does not have an immediate government solvency
issue, although some flags have been raised. Dexia is just an
example of how a flawed view of risk has created both
macroeconomic vulnerability -- encouraging lending by local
banks to weak economies like Greece and  Portugal  -- and the
potential for disruptive bank runs within the euro zone.  Credit Contraction  Such runs will tighten the credit available to
troubled sovereigns and tend to push up the interest rates at
which they have to borrow.  As deposits flow from the troubled periphery to the
Germanic core, there will naturally be a contraction in credit -
- and growing concerns about liquidity of peripheral banks.
Stress across the bank funding market can be counterbalanced
only by European Central Bank loans. The ECB will increasingly
be called upon to lend to governments that can no longer place
debt easily with their own banks.  The loss of liquidity for both banks and governments is
just a symptom of an underlying malaise. Too much moral hazard
crept into the European financial system and the run-up in debts
was unsustainable. As I argued in a recent Peterson Institute
for International Economics policy  paper , written with Peter Boone, a visiting fellow at the  London School  of Economics,
Europe must choose between restructuring debts in a systematic
fashion or issuing a great deal of money, increasing the moral
hazard and possibly creating significant inflation.  So far this summer, European policy makers have headed
further down the road to easing monetary conditions, while
refusing to discuss the real causes of their situation with any
degree of frankness. An anchor of global stability is beginning
to slip.  ( Simon Johnson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 