-- 
Europe Stocks Rise on U.S. Consumer Spending, Greek Bank Merger

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-29T16:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/european-stock-index-futures-gain-as-stoxx-600-is-poised-to-extend-rally.html
European stocks rose after two days
of losses dragged equities near to the cheapest valuation in
more than two years and a report showed U.S. consumer spending
gained in July.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and Alpha Bank SA jumped by the
maximum 30 percent after agreeing to merge to create Greece’s
biggest bank, driving the ASE Index to the biggest gain in 21
years.  Munich Re  and Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s largest
reinsurers, advanced more than 4 percent as the damage from
Hurricane Irene in the U.S. was less severe than estimated.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 1.2 percent to 228.28 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has still fallen 22
percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 17 as European and U.S.
economic reports trailed forecasts, adding to concern that the
global economic recovery is at risk. The decline has left the
measure trading at 9.5 times estimated earnings, near the
cheapest since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “When U.S. consumer spending data is improving, it’s a
very good indicator that the  U.S. economy  is improving,” said
Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “Today’s personal-spending numbers give further
justification that the market is oversold, and signals the
economy is recovering stronger than expected.”  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the western
European markets that were trading today as U.K. equities were
closed for a holiday.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 2.2 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX Index advanced 2.4 percent.  Greece ’s ASE soared 14
percent, the most since 1990.  ‘Great News’  The merger of Eurobank and Alpha Bank is “great news,”
said Jacques Porta, a  fund manager  at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris,
who helps oversee about $400 million in stocks. “Investors are
waiting for a restructuring of the financial system so it’s very
positive, especially as the merger is taking place in the
country that was the most affected by the crisis.”  The Stoxx 600 advanced for the first week in five last week
as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the
economy isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant any immediate
stimulus. He said a second day has been added to the next policy
meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the
economy and the Fed’s possible response.  Investors are paying less for U.S. equities than they have
during every recession since  Ronald Reagan  was president amid
growing concern that the economy is on the edge of another
recession. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has lost 13 percent
in the past five weeks, sending its price-earnings ratio down to
12.9. That’s 3.5 percent less than the average multiple during
the 10 contractions since 1949 and a level last reached in 1982,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Economy  A report today showed U.S. consumer spending climbed more
than forecast in July. Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the biggest
gain since February, after a 0.1 percent decline the prior
month, according to Commerce Department figures. The median
estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 0.5 percent increase. Incomes grew 0.3 percent, pushing the
savings rate to a four-month low.  Eurobank and Alpha Bank, Greece’s second- and third-biggest
banks, rallied 29 percent to 2.24 euros and 30 percent to 2.47
euros, respectively. The gains were the biggest allowed in one
day on the Athens exchange.  Alpha, Eurobank  Alpha Bank will acquire Eurobank as they seek to ride out a
deepening recession and the country’s sovereign debt crisis.
Alpha offered Eurobank shareholders five new shares for each
seven they hold, or 0.714 Alpha shares for each Eurobank share,
according to a statement today.  The combined company, to be known as Alpha Eurobank, will
implement a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.7 billion) effort to strengthen
its finances, including a 1.25 billion-euro rights offer, a 500
million-euro convertible note to be taken up by Qatari-backed
Paramount Services Holding Ltd. and 2.1 billion euros of
internal measures.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s largest bank,
surged 29 percent to 3.59 euros while  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  jumped 29
percent to 72 euro cents. Public Power Corp. SA, Greece’s
biggest electricity producer, rallied 24 percent to 6.81 euros.  Munich Re gained 4 to 89.17 euros, and Swiss Re advanced
4.4 percent to 41.48 Swiss francs.  Hurricane Irene’s estimated cost to insurers fell to about
$2.6 billion in the U.S. as the storm lost strength en route to
 New York , according to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a firm that
predicts the effects of disasters. That compares with a
projection last week from the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based
company of as much as $14 billion.  Holcim, Vinci  Construction companies posted the best performance among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx 600 as  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s
second-biggest cement maker, rallied 4.4 percent to 48.29 Swiss
francs and Vinci SA, Europe’s largest builder, rose 4.2 percent
to 35.39 euros.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  soared 6.9 percent to 12.63 euros
as Germany’s biggest private broadcaster said it will repurchase
up to 2.5 million non-voting, preferred shares.  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  added 2.4 percent to 1.15 euros as
 Italy ’s fifth-biggest bank approved a plan to merge some units
into the holding company as part of measures to increase
efficiency and reduce costs. The lender said second-quarter net
income fell 63 percent to 131.4 million euros.  Nordea AB rose 3.5 percent to 57.50 kronor. The Nordic
region’s biggest bank said it plans to cut a total of 2,000
workers and has started talks with unions on the reductions to
trim costs and boost profits.  Roche Rises  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  gained 1 percent to 137.90 Swiss francs.
The company said it expects government austerity measures to
boost its medical-diagnostics unit in the next three to five
years thanks to broader use of tests to see which patients
should use expensive treatments.  Landi Renzo SpA (LR)  slid 3.5 percent to 1.64 euros, the lowest
since the company’s initial public offering in June 2007, as
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research downgraded the Italian maker
of injection systems for alternative fuels to “underperform”
from “buy.” Intermonte SIM SpA also cut its recommendation on
the stock to “underperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 