-- 
FDIC Objects to BofA’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Settlement

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/fdic-objects-to-bank-of-america-s-proposed-8-5-billion-mortgage-bond-pact.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
filed an objection to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with investors, joining
investors and states that are challenging the agreement.  The FDIC, the receiver for failed banks, owns securities
covered by the settlement and said it doesn’t have enough
information to evaluate the accord, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Under the agreement, Bank of America would pay $8.5 billion
to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp.
mortgage bonds. The settlement was negotiated with a group of
institutional investors, including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. LLC, and would apply to investors
outside that group.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the agreement, has
asked a  New York  state judge to approve the settlement in
November. An investor group is trying to move the case to
federal court, which Bank of New York opposes.  Investors that would be bound by the settlement, including
American International Group Inc., have criticized the deal and
Bank of New York’s role representing investors in the mortgage
bonds. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  have sought to intervene in the case
and asked the court to reject it.  FDIC’s Involvement  The FDIC’s involvement may make it more difficult for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America to get approval
for the settlement, said Bert Ely, a bank-industry consultant in
Alexandria, Virginia.  “You would think as a regulator or as an investor or both
that they would be kept apprised of what was going on,” he
said. “Any time you hold up a deal it becomes more likely it
doesn’t happen.”  If the settlement doesn’t get court approval and Bank of
America goes back to the negotiating table, it will become more
expensive for the bank,  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “If the judge accepts it, then that’s going to be a big
positive, because that starts to ring-fence those private-label
losses, and we can start to move forward and say ‘This is what
we think the losses are going to be,’” he said.  Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
FDIC generally doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  “This filing is simply a formal notice to preserve our
right to make claims as a part of the settlement and seeks
additional information to evaluate those potential claims,”  he
said. “It is not an evaluation or opinion on the settlement
itself.”  ‘Trustee Acted Reasonably’  “We believe that the trustee acted reasonably in entering
into the settlement, and that there are compelling reasons why
the agreement should receive judicial approval,” Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
the company had no comment.  The state case is In the matter of the application of The
Bank of New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County ( Manhattan ). The federal case is In the
Matter of the Application of Bank of New York Mellon, 11-cv-
5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at
   dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 