-- 
Fillon Says France Wants Nuclear Crisis Management Center

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-29T14:42:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/fillon-says-france-wants-nuclear-crisis-management-center-1-.html
France wants an international
nuclear-crisis management center that could deploy experts and
specialized equipment to the scene of an atomic accident like
that in Fukushima,  Japan , Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said.  “We want cooperation to go further,” Fillon said today
during a visit to Electricite de France SA’s Bugey reactor in
eastern France.  The country is also pushing for an international training
center for atomic crisis management and ways to cooperate on
atomic oversight and norms, he said.  France’s nuclear authority is overseeing safety audits of
the country's reactors and uranium treatment facilities to
determine whether they can withstand floods, earthquakes and
loss of power and cooling, as happened when Japan was struck by
a temblor and tsunami March 11, triggering a meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. France depends on nuclear for about
three-quarters of its power needs, the most of any country.  Operators including EDF, which runs the country’s 58 
reactors, Areva SA and state-owned research body CEA must 
report to the watchdog by the middle of next month on how they 
fared during the so-called stress tests, which are being carried 
out across the European Union.  Safety ‘Convergence’  Fillon today called for “convergence” on safety standards
around the world through structures such as the crisis
management mechanism, which could be overseen by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency . “After Fukushima we have to
reconsider every way we manage crisis,” he said. “Governments
must protect their populations.”  EDF said last month that annual spending on reactor
maintenance and upgrades may more than double. The utility
faces increasing costs to ensure safety, on top of technical
enhancements needed to prolong the lives of aging plants.  EDF needs to improve maintenance and oversight of
contractors, Andre-Claude Lacoste, head of France’s Autorite de 
Surete Nucleaire, has said. EDF’s failure to provide timely 
safety assurances led to a 20-month shutdown of the Bugey Unit 3 
reactor, he said at a parliamentary hearing in March.  Unit 5 of the Bugey plant is halted for a four-month safety
inspection by regulators to determine whether it can operate for 
another decade. The site has four 900-megawatt generators that 
began operations in 1979 and 1980.  France ’s oldest nuclear 
reactor is located at Fessenheim and came online in 1978.  Lacoste, who was also on the Bugey visit, said today that
safety at the plant was above the national average for French
reactors. While Bugey’s reactors are among the oldest, their age
doesn’t mean they’re unsafe, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  