-- 
Finland’s Collateral Demand Leaves EU Faced With Rewarding Bailout Fatigue

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-30T13:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/finland-collateral-demand-fueled-by-bailout-fatigue.html
Finland’s demand for collateral on
new Greek loans leaves European leaders with two choices: accept
the AAA rated nation’s terms and risk the rescue plan, or reject
collateral and help bring Finnish euro-skeptics to power.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  “can’t back down on the
collateral demand as his government would likely collapse,”
said Timo Tyrvaeinen, Chief Economist at Aktia Oyj in Helsinki.
“That could mean new elections quite soon” and risk the euro-
skeptic Finns party, which has rejected all bailouts, coming to
power.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who also
chairs the euro-area finance meetings, said yesterday he was
“confident” an agreement could be reached by mid-September,
while criticizing the call for collateral. “I don’t like this
mechanism and I don’t like the bilateral arrangements,” he told
the European Parliament’s economic committee in Brussels. The
matter may take just days to resolve, Katainen told Finnish
online news portal Verkkouutiset.fi today.  “I can’t say that it will be today, but this is a matter
of days, weeks because other countries’ parliaments will start
to discuss the Greek bailout package,” Katainen told
Verkkouutiset. “The collateral issue must be resolved before
that.”  ‘Fatal’ Accords  Collateral accords would be “fatal” for bailout aid, said
Michael Meister, the senior finance and economy spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats, in Berlin
today. Euro-area governments “must talk to Finland” about its
demands, he said.  The collateral flap reflects the bailout fatigue that is
spreading in the more fiscally prudent countries of northern
 Europe , fueling support for political parties opposed to aid to
the region’s more profligate members. National politics is
increasingly at odds with efforts to forge European unity,
complicating a comprehensive response to the debt crisis that
now threatens Spain, Italy and  France .  Finland’s anti-bailout party, The Finns, this month polled
as the country’s most popular, according to broadcaster YLE. The
party saw its backing surge fourfold in the April vote, making
it parliament’s third-biggest. The party’s leader  Timo Soini  has
railed against the costs of funding bailouts and rejects
Europe’s ambition of preventing a Greek default.  Civil Servants  Political discussions at an informal meeting of euro zone
finance ministers are needed to resolve the issue, Austria’s
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in Vienna today. “It is
emerging that the civil servants alone aren’t coming up with a
solution.”  EU leaders initially agreed toKatainen’s demands for
protection at the July 21 summit that hashed out the 159
billion-euro ($231 billion) rescue for  Greece . Then details of
the collateral deal Finland negotiated with Greece emerged this
month, triggering a backlash and demands for similar treatment
from nations including Austria and the Netherlands, threatening
to delay or scupper the Greek plan.  Far from resolving the debt crisis, contagion continued
after the summit and the  European Central Bank  began buying
Spanish and Italian bonds to help bring down yields that reached
euro-era records. Divisions over collateral contributed to a
further slump in Greek bonds with the yield on the country’s
two-year notes topping 45 percent yesterday.  Rescue ‘At Stake’  “What’s at stake is ultimately, if you were to put this to
the extreme, the entire second rescue package for Greece by the
euro area,” Frank Engels, co-head of European economy at
 Barclays Capital  in  Frankfurt , said by phone on Aug. 26.  Merkel also faces a growing storm in her coalition over the
bailouts of Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland. Her Free Democratic
Party coalition partner has threatened to oppose the start of a
permanent EU bailout mechanism set to take effect in 2013.  Anti-bailout forces were already on the ascendency in
 Finland  prior to the new Greek deal. It took Katainen two months
and he needed backing of six parties to build a ruling coalition
after winning elections in April that saw a surge in support for
the Finns party. Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, who heads
the  Social Democrats , campaigned on the collateral issues as she
tried to beat back the challenge from the Finns, who emerged as
the third-biggest party in the vote.  It would be “totally irresponsible” of the Finnish
government “to throw in the towel” and back down on its
demands, Urpilainen said on Aug. 25. Her Social Democratic party
is the second-biggest in the coalition.  ‘Blow Up’  Finland responded to the criticism from its EU partners, by
offering to broaden a collateral deal to include other nations
who might want similar protection.  Extending the deal could “blow up” the rescue plan,
 Austria ’s Fekter said on Aug. 18. European Commission spokesman
 Amadeu Altafaj  said on Aug. 19 that the EU must avoid
“excessive collateralization” in the Greek bailout.  All discussions on resolving the issue of collateral will
be in line with July 21 decisions, the Greek Finance Ministry
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Greece received a three-year, 110 billion-euro rescue in
2010 from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
that anticipated the country returning to financial markets next
year. With its 10-year bond yielding about 18 percent, financing
in the markets proved unrealistic and the EU was forced to draw
up a second rescue package to fully fund Greece for three years.  “It’s getting very tight in terms of the time lines” for
approving the economic measures to stabilize the region, Engels
said. “By end September we could be very close to agreement on
all this and then move forward, if there is a willingness to
agree on this, that is a big ‘if’ I think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  