-- 
France Won’t Build Nuclear Reactors to Make Up for Shutdowns in Germany

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-29T12:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/france-won-t-build-nuclear-reactors-to-compensate-for-german-halts.html
France , which depends on nuclear
reactors for about three-quarters of its power needs, won’t
build new atomic plants just to compensate for closures in
 Germany , Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said today.  “France’s goal is first of all to ensure its energy
independence,” Fillon said during a visit to Electricite de
France SA’s Bugey nuclear site in eastern France.  “France’s goal isn’t to build nuclear reactors for
Germany. I’m not saying there won’t be energy exchanges between
France and Germany but what must be made clear is that the
solution to Germany’s energy future isn’t in the building of
nuclear reactors in France,” the prime minister said.  Following the Fukushima reactor disaster in  Japan , the
French government reiterated its support for atomic energy,
unlike Germany, where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided in March
to shut more than 25 percent of the country’s nuclear capacity
and phase out atomic energy completely by 2022.  Merkel’s decision forced  Europe ’s biggest economy to import
more nuclear power from France, which was a net exporter to
Germany for a fourth straight month in July, according to grid
operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite, a unit of EDF.  EDF is also pushing ahead with construction of a new
reactor, the country’s 59th, at Flamanville in Normandy. The
utility has plans for similar model at Penly in northern France.  Irreplaceable Nuclear  “Over the past months we have clearly reaffirmed our
choice for nuclear energy and its key place in our economy and
daily lives,” Fillon said today. “It is irreplaceable.”  Francois Hollande , a contender for the Socialist Party’s
2012 presidential nomination, has said France should get only 50
percent of its power from nuclear plants by 2025, down from
about 75 percent currently. Speaking two days ago at the party’s
gathering in La Rochelle in western France, he said EDF’s
Fessenheim reactor, the country’s oldest, should be dismantled.  “France needs nuclear power,” Fillon said today, adding
that the country also needs to develop renewable energies. The
nation now spends as much on research and development in wind
and solar as on atomic energy, according to the prime minister.  Fillon declined to say whether France will build more
Evolutionary Power Reactors, the type being built at
Flamanville, once that and the Penly project are completed. The
Flamanville plant is due to start commercial operations in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  