-- 
LG Display May Reduce Spending Next Year as TV Demand Slows

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-29T08:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/lg-display-may-reduce-spending-next-year-as-tv-demand-slows-1-.html
LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, may cut spending next
year as slowing flat-screen television sales damp demand.  The company may spend about 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion)
in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Kwon Young Soo said. Kwon’s
comments, made to the Korea Times in an interview, were
confirmed by Son Young Jun, a LG Display spokesman in  Seoul . It
plans to spend about 4 trillion won this year.  LG Display, whose second-quarter profit slumped 96 percent,
won’t be building any new plants next year, Kwon said, as
consumers hold off from purchasing new 3-D and Internet-enabled
TVs. LG Electronics Co. and Sony Corp. are among TV makers who
have cut sales forecast this year and restructuring the business
as slumping prices push the industry into a loss.  “Key set makers are lowering their sales targets and
restructuring their key businesses, and that will have a
negative impact on manufacturers of key components, including
display panels,” Nam Dae Jong, a Seoul-based analyst at HI
Investment Securities Co., wrote in an Aug. 24 report.  LG Display may report an operating loss this year as demand
for flat screens is unlikely to pick up in the second half,
according to Nam.  A cut in spending for 2012 would follow a reduction in the
proposed investment for this year. The company lowered capital
expenditure for this year by more than 1 trillion won from its
previous plan of about 5 trillion won, Chief Financial Officer
James Jeong said last month.  The company’s plan to build a $4 billion factory in  China 
is on hold, he said at that time.  Sony,  Japan ’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
said this month it is planning an overhaul of its television
operations as the business faces an eighth consecutive year of
losses. In July, the company cut its full-year target for TV
sales by 19 percent to 22 million units.  LG Electronics, the world’s second-largest TV maker, also
lowered its TV-sales goal by 20 percent, Korean-language online
news provider Edaily reported Aug. 18. The company declined to
comment on the production cut.  Shares of LG Display gained 5.5 percent, the most since
Aug. 10, to 21,100 won at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Seoul.
They have dropped 47 percent this year, underperforming the
benchmark Kospi index, which has fallen 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  