-- 
Clooney, Madonna Get Behind Camera, Premiere at Venice: Preview

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-08-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/george-clooney-madonna-to-get-behind-camera-premiere-at-venice-preview.html
George Clooney , Madonna and  Al Pacino  will present movies of their own making at this year’s
 Venice Film Festival , starting tomorrow.  Sharing the spotlight is Roman Polanski, whose “Carnage”
-- with Jodie Foster and Kate Winslet -- is about two sets of
parents squabbling over a fight involving their kids.  More than 20 movies will jostle for Venice’s top honor, the
Golden Lion, during the 11-day festival on Venice’s Lido island.
The seven-person jury, led by “ Black Swan ” director Darren Aronofsky, includes musician David Byrne.  One contender for the Golden Lion is the opening movie:
Clooney’s “The Ides of March,” starring Ryan Gosling, Clooney,
Philip Seymour Hoffman and Paul Giamatti. In it, Clooney runs
for president: He’s a suave, silver-haired candidate with a
fresh-faced press aide (played by Gosling) who he calls “my
brain trust.”  Clooney “knew exactly what he wanted, and he was very
specific,” Gosling told New York magazine in an Aug. 21
interview. “A lot of directors aren’t so clear.”  Gosling likened Clooney to  Michael Jackson  in the movie
“This Is It,” where Jackson is “trying to explain to a
keyboard player how to play a certain part -- even in the sea of
parts being played, he can pick that out. That’s kind of what
George is like.”  Madonna’s “W.E.” is an exploration of desire inspired by
the story of King Edward VIII and the American divorcee Wallis Simpson, for whom he gave up the throne. In the movie, a
Manhattan-based woman, trapped in an unhappy marriage, develops
a fixation for Mrs. Simpson, and finds herself another man.  Polanski Arrest  While Madonna’s movie is not in the race for the top prize,
Polanski’s is. “Carnage” marks the Polish-born director’s
return to the big screen. He was freed from house arrest in July
2010 after Swiss authorities refused to extradite him to
 California , where he is wanted for sentencing in a case
involving unlawful sexual conduct with a 13-year-old girl.  Also premiering at Venice is Pacino’s “Wilde Salome,”
inspired by Oscar Wilde and his play “Salome.” Pacino co-stars
with  Jessica Chastain  (recently in Terrence Malick’s “The Tree
of Life.”)  The U.K. artist-director Steve McQueen will be in
contention with “Shame” -- the story of a promiscuous young
man whose errant little sister ( Carey Mulligan ) moves in. The
lead is played by  Michael Fassbender , who was Bobby Sands in
McQueen’s previous work, “Hunger,” about Northern Ireland.  Out of the official competition is director Steven Soderbergh with “Contagion,” an action movie about a deadly
global pandemic.  Matt Damon , Winslet and Jude Law star.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  Venice  at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 