-- 
Germany’s Hoyer Tells Finns to ‘Not Rock the Boat’ on Euro

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-08-29T11:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/germany-s-hoyer-tells-finns-to-not-rock-the-boat-on-euro-1-.html
German Deputy Foreign Minister
Werner Hoyer warned euro-area countries not to destabilize the
currency after  Finland  demanded collateral in return for
agreeing to a second Greek aid package.  The euro is “of utmost importance to all of us in  Europe ,
in particular for countries like Finland and Germany,” Hoyer
told reporters at a joint news conference in Helsinki today with
Finnish Foreign Trade Minister Alexander Stubb. “So let us not
rock the boat.”  Hoyer was speaking after euro-area countries including
 Austria  criticized the bilateral deal on collateral, unveiled on
Aug. 16, struck by Finland with  Greece . Hoyer reiterated
Germany’s position that any solution must be approved by all
euro-area governments.  Germany is “approaching the question with care” and will
wait to see the outcome of the collateral model that transpires,
Hoyer said. “Finland doesn’t have the reputation as a
troublemaker, so I’m very optimistic.”  Euro countries are “all in the same boat,” Stubb told the
same briefing.  “We are not there to cause problems, we are there to solve
problems,” Stubb said. “Never underestimate the pragmatism of
a country like Finland or the inventiveness of an institution
like the EU.”  Hoyer said that his “main concern for now” was to secure
a majority in  Germany ’s lower house of parliament, the
Bundestag, for proposed changes to the European Financial
Stability Facility. The package is due to go to Cabinet on Aug.
31, then will be introduced to the Bundestag on Sept. 5 with the
aim of being passed by the end of that month.  There are “some very difficult decisions to be taken in
the next weeks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  