-- 
Inflation in Germany Slowed More Than Forecast in August on Oil Decline

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-08-29T12:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/german-inflation-slowed-more-than-economists-forecast-in-august.html
Inflation in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed more than economists forecast in August
as seasonal food and energy prices declined.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, fell to 2.4 percent from 2.6 percent in July, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
predicted the rate would ease to 2.5 percent, according to the
median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices
declined 0.1 percent in the month.  Crude  oil prices  have retreated 25 percent since breaching
$114 a barrel in late April as economic growth cools around the
globe. That may reduce the need for the  European Central Bank  to
raise  interest rates  again this year to contain inflation in the
17-nation euro region.  “We’ve probably seen the peak in German inflation,” said
Lothar Hessler, an economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in
Dusseldorf. “The ECB can sit back for now and wait and see.
Slower inflation in  Germany  suits them quite well at the
moment.”  Euro-area inflation, which the ECB aims to keep just below
2 percent, probably held at 2.5 percent in August, a Bloomberg
survey of economists shows. Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release that
data on Aug. 31.  ECB Policy  The ECB raised borrowing costs twice this year, bringing
its benchmark rate to 1.5 percent. Economists now expect the
Frankfurt-based central bank to keep rates on hold until the
second quarter of next year as Europe’s debt crisis and the
global economic slowdown curb price pressures, another Bloomberg
survey shows.  The German economy almost stalled in the second quarter,
expanding just 0.1 percent from the first.  France ’s recovery
unexpectedly ground to a halt and  Greece ’s economy contracted.  The  Federal Reserve  this month pledged to keep interest
rates near zero for another two years to bolster a U.S. recovery
that’s moving “considerably slower” than expected.  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation slowed to 2.3
percent from 2.4 percent and consumer prices fell 0.1 percent in
the month, the statistics office said.  German inflation will probably stay above 2 percent in
coming months, economists at Commerzbank AG wrote in a note to
investors today, adding that the ECB’s key rate remains “too
low” for Germany. “Even if the economy slows significantly, as
many expect, inflation risks will remain considerable,” they
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  