-- 
Four German States Report Moderating Inflation on Decline in Energy, Food

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-08-29T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/germany-s-saxony-says-inflation-slowed-as-energy-costs-declined.html
Inflation in five German states
slowed in August as seasonal food and energy prices fell.  The inflation rate decreased to 2.2 percent from 2.3
percent in Bavaria and to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent in North
Rhine-Westphalia, the states’ statistics offices said today. The
rates in Hesse, Saxony and Brandenburg also eased.  Economists forecast that German inflation, calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, will decelerate to 2.5
percent from 2.6 percent, the median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. The Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden will release that report, based on data from six
states, later today.  Crude  oil prices  have retreated 25 percent since breaching
$114 a barrel in late April as economic growth cools around the
globe. While European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
on Aug. 4 said euro-region inflation will stay “clearly above”
the central bank’s 2 percent limit in coming months, he
emphasized that uncertainty about the economic outlook is
“particularly high.”  “Energy prices are bringing some relief from price
pressures at the moment,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at
NordLB in Hanover. “Inflation will trend toward 2 percent by
the end of the year and that’s a positive environment for the
ECB to follow a steady-hand policy.”  Rates Near Zero  The ECB raised borrowing costs twice this year, bringing
the benchmark rate to 1.5 percent. Economists expect the
Frankfurt-based central bank to keep  interest rates  on hold
until the second quarter of next year as the economic slowdown
contains inflation, a Bloomberg survey shows.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, almost stalled in the
second quarter as the region’s sovereign debt crisis weighed on
confidence.  France ’s recovery unexpectedly ground to a halt and
 Greece ’s economy contracted. The  Federal Reserve  this month
pledged to keep interest rates near zero for another two years
to bolster a recovery that’s moving “considerably slower” than
expected.  In Hesse, consumer prices fell 0.2 percent from the
previous month, today’s report showed. Heating oil costs
declined 4.7 percent from July and fuel was 3.1 percent cheaper.
Prices for seasonal foods such as fresh fruit and vegetables
were 6.1 percent lower in the month and fell 7 percent in the
year.  In the euro region, inflation probably held at 2.5 percent
in August, a Bloomberg survey shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  