-- 
German Bunds Fall as Trichet Says Inflation May Stay Above ECB’s Ceiling

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-08-29T15:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/german-bunds-decline-snapping-two-day-advance-as-stocks-rally-worldwide.html
German bonds fell as European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said inflation will
stay above the 2 percent ceiling “for some months” and as
stock gains reduced demand for the safety of government debt.  The 10-year bund also halted a two-day advance after a U.S.
report showed  consumer spending  climbed more last month than
economists forecast. Trichet told the European Parliament that
the central bank is reviewing its assessment of inflation risks
after growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed. Quicker
inflation reduces the purchasing power of the fixed payments
from bonds.  “What Trichet said, though offering few surprises, is seen
as being on the hawkish side,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of
fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The
market has pared back rate-hike expectations and some people may
have been caught wrong footed.”  The yield on the 10-year bund rose seven basis points to
2.22 percent as of 4:21 p.m. in  London , climbing further from
the record low 2.03 percent set Aug. 18. The 2.25 percent
security due September 2021 dropped 0.60, or 6 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,450) face amount, to 100.225. Bund futures maturing in
September fell 0.6 percent to 134.45.  Two-year yields increased by as much as 12 basis points to
0.77 percent, before trading nine basis points higher at 0.75
percent. They dropped to 0.54 percent on Aug. 18, the lowest
level since June 30, 2010.  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares rose 1.8
percent, the Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 1.3 percent, and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.6 percent.  ‘Solid Anchoring’  “Everybody understands that particularly in the present
situation that the ECB would maintain a solid anchoring of
inflation expectations,” Trichet told the European Parliament’s
economic committee during a special session called to discuss
the debt crisis. “All countries would be hampered” if they
became unanchored, he said.  Euro-area inflation, currently at 2.5 percent, will stay
above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for several months and the
central bank will ensure price expectations remain contained,
Trichet said. He added that risks to the euro-area inflation
outlook were “under study” as growth slowed and will be
released early next month.  Slower Inflation  Bunds earlier pared losses after a report showed German
inflation slowed more in August than economists predicted as
seasonal food and energy prices declined.  Inflation across the nation, calculated using a harmonized
European Union method, cooled to 2.4 percent from 2.6 percent in
July, the Federal Statistics Office said. Economists predicted a
decline to 2.5 percent, according to the median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  European bonds also declined after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the world’s biggest economy is
gradually recovering. The Fed still has tools to stimulate the
economy, Bernanke said at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
on Aug. 26. He declined to say what measures they were or when
policy makers may use them.  U.S. consumer spending climbed 0.8 percent last month, the
biggest gain since February, after a revised 0.1 percent drop
the previous month, the Commerce Department said today.  Greek Bonds  Greek two-year notes fell, with yields rising 169 basis
points to 45.64 percent. Ten-year rates increased 26 basis
points to 18.12 percent. The extra yield, or spread, that
investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt instead of similar-
maturity German bunds widened 17 basis points to 15.87
percentage points.  Greek stocks rallied, with the benchmark ASE Index climbing
the most in more than 23 years, as EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA and
Alpha Bank SA announced a merger.  Italian bonds fell before debt sales tomorrow, pushing 10-
year yields up two basis points to 5.09 percent. The yield
earlier climbed to 5.12 percent, before paring its advance amid
speculation the ECB bought Italian debt today.  Italy  seeks to raise as much as 8 billion euros from
selling a new 10-year benchmark bond and debt maturing in 2014
and 2018. The auction will be a test of debt for the securities
after the ECB started buying the country’s bonds on the
secondary market on Aug. 8 to curb gains in yields.  “This is where the litmus test comes, the test to see
whether the ECB’s buying power can hold yields where they are,”
said Shahid Ikram, head of sovereigns at London-based Aviva
Investors, which has some of its $440 billion of assets invested
in Italian bonds. “You are going to see more volatility in the
Italian yield, some concession will be required and then it’s
just a case of what real demand there is.”  German  government bonds  have returned 5.7 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, lagging behind
Treasuries which have gained 7.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  