-- 
Give Karl Marx a Chance to Save the World Economy: George Magnus

-- B y   G e o r g e   M a g n u s
-- 
2011-08-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/give-marx-a-chance-to-save-the-world-economy-commentary-by-george-magnus.html
Policy makers struggling to
understand the barrage of financial panics, protests and other
ills afflicting the world would do well to study the works of a
long-dead economist:  Karl Marx . The sooner they recognize we’re
facing a once-in-a-lifetime crisis of capitalism, the better
equipped they will be to manage a way out of it.  The spirit of Marx, who is buried in a cemetery close to
where I live in north  London , has risen from the grave amid the
financial crisis and subsequent economic slump. The wily
philosopher’s analysis of capitalism had a lot of flaws, but
today’s global economy bears some uncanny resemblances to the
conditions he foresaw.  Consider, for example, Marx’s prediction of how the
inherent conflict between capital and labor would manifest
itself. As he wrote in “ Das Kapital ,” companies’ pursuit of
profits and productivity would naturally lead them to need fewer
and fewer workers, creating an “industrial reserve army” of the
poor and unemployed: “Accumulation of wealth at one pole is,
therefore, at the same time accumulation of misery.”  The process he describes is visible throughout the
developed world, particularly in the U.S. Companies’ efforts to
cut costs and avoid hiring have boosted U.S. corporate profits
as a share of total economic output to the highest level in more
than six decades, while the  unemployment rate  stands at 9.1
percent and real wages are stagnant.  U.S. income inequality, meanwhile, is by some measures
close to its highest level since the 1920s. Before 2008, the
income disparity was obscured by factors such as easy credit,
which allowed poor households to enjoy a more affluent
lifestyle. Now the problem is coming home to roost.  Over-Production Paradox  Marx also pointed out the paradox of over-production and
under-consumption: The more people are relegated to poverty, the
less they will be able to consume all the goods and services
companies produce. When one company cuts costs to boost
earnings, it’s smart, but when they all do, they undermine the
income formation and effective demand on which they rely for
revenues and profits.  This problem, too, is evident in today’s developed world.
We have a substantial capacity to produce, but in the middle-
and lower-income cohorts, we find widespread financial
insecurity and low consumption rates. The result is visible in
the U.S., where new housing construction and automobile sales
remain about 75% and 30% below their 2006 peaks, respectively.  As Marx put it in Kapital: “The ultimate reason for all
real crises always remains the poverty and restricted
consumption of the masses.”  Addressing the Crisis  So how do we address this crisis? To put Marx’s spirit back
in the box, policy makers have to place jobs at the top of the
economic agenda, and consider other unorthodox measures. The
crisis isn’t temporary, and it certainly won’t be cured by the
ideological passion for government austerity.  Here are five major planks of a strategy whose time, sadly,
has not yet come.  First, we have to sustain aggregate demand and income
growth, or else we could fall into a debt trap along with
serious social consequences. Governments that don’t face an
imminent debt crisis -- including the U.S.,  Germany  and the U.K.
-- must make employment creation the litmus test of policy. In
the U.S., the employment-to-population ratio is now as low as in
the 1980s. Measures of underemployment almost everywhere are at
record highs. Cutting employer payroll taxes and creating fiscal
incentives to encourage companies to hire people and invest
would do for a start.  Lighten the Burden  Second, to lighten the household debt burden, new steps
should allow eligible households to restructure mortgage debt,
or swap some debt forgiveness for future payments to lenders out
of any home price appreciation.  Third, to improve the functionality of the credit system,
well-capitalized and well-structured banks should be allowed
some temporary capital adequacy relief to try to get new credit
flowing to small companies, especially. Governments and central
banks could engage in direct spending on or indirect financing
of national investment or infrastructure programs.  Fourth, to ease the sovereign debt burden in the  euro zone ,
European creditors have to extend the lower  interest rates  and
longer payment terms recently proposed for  Greece . If jointly
guaranteed euro bonds are a bridge too far, Germany has to
champion an urgent recapitalization of banks to help absorb
inevitable losses through a vastly enlarged European Financial
Stability Facility -- a sine qua non to solve the bond market
crisis at least.  Build Defenses  Fifth, to build defenses against the risk of falling into
deflation and stagnation, central banks should look beyond bond-
buying programs, and instead target a growth rate of nominal
economic output. This would allow a temporary period of
moderately higher inflation that could push inflation-adjusted
interest rates well below zero and facilitate a lowering of debt
burdens.  We can’t know how these proposals might work out, or what
their unintended consequences might be. But the policy status
quo isn’t acceptable, either. It could turn the U.S. into a more
unstable version of  Japan , and fracture the euro zone with
unknowable political consequences. By 2013, the crisis of
Western capitalism could easily spill over to  China , but that’s
another subject.  ( George Magnus  is senior economic adviser at UBS and author
of “Uprising: Will Emerging Markets Shape or Shake the World
Economy?” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 