-- 
Goldman, HSBC Submit Bids to Advise VietinBank on Bond Sale

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T09:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/goldman-hsbc-submit-bids-to-advise-vietinbank-on-bond-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG are among 13 financial institutions
that submitted bids to advise  Vietnam  Joint Stock Commercial
Bank for Industry & Trade on its planned $500 million overseas
bond sale, according to Deputy General Director Le Duc Tho.  Others that sent in bids include HSBC Holdings Plc,
Standard Chartered Plc, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. and BNP Paribas SA, Tho said in a telephone interview
today.  The sale would be the first international offering of
Vietnamese notes this year and will test investor confidence in
the country, which has struggled to damp  Asia ’s fastest
inflation as its currency slid to the worst-performing in Asia.  “They need a good, recognizable name to help them with the
bond sale,” said Francois Chavasseau, Ho Chi Minh City-based
head of fixed income research at Sacombank Securities Joint
Stock Co. “Vietnam is still viewed as quite a risky place at
the moment by foreign investors. Whether a big name will be
enough to win more confidence, I’m not sure.”  The country’s second-largest listed lender by market value,
commonly known as VietinBank, has sought approval from the
country’s central bank to sell $500 million of bonds overseas
later this year, Tho said earlier this month. The sale would be
the first of dollar-denominated notes for the bank, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Non-Performing Loans  Vietnam’s banking system is weak and non-performing loans
are “heavily understated” in official data,  Fitch Ratings  said
in an Aug. 8 note. The extra yield investors demand to own
dollar debt sold by Vietnam instead of similar-maturity
Treasuries has risen 110 basis points this quarter to 445 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit Index.  VietinBank is rated at B by Fitch, the fifth-highest non-
investment grade rating, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Tho said in May the lender planned to sell between
$500 million and $1 billion of bonds late in the third quarter
or early in the fourth quarter of the year. It opted for a lower
amount after reassessing its financial needs and due to global
market conditions, Tho said Aug. 22.  The lender’s shares gained 2 percent to 25,900 dong at
close on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange today. The dong,
has slid 6.4 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was devalued by about 7 percent in February, the
most since at least 1993.  Vietnam’s inflation accelerated to 23 percent this month,
the highest rate among 17 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  VietinBank has the equivalent of $374 million of bonds and
loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  