-- 
Google Sued by Investor Over Ads for ‘Illegal’ Online Canada Drug Imports

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/google-sued-by-investor-over-ads-for-illegal-online-canada-drug-imports.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and its directors were
sued by a shareholder who claims they breached their fiduciary
duty by facilitating illegal imports of prescription drugs,
leading to a $500 million settlement with the U.S. government.  Chief Executive Officer Larry Page and the company’s board
knew or should have known it was illegal for pharmacies outside
the U.S. to ship prescription drugs into the country, according
to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , by a Pennsylvania woman who owns Google shares. The
so-called derivative lawsuit was filed on behalf of the company
and its investors.  The company was on notice as early as 2003 that online
Canadian pharmacies were advertising  prescription drugs  to
Google users through its AdWords advertising program, according
to the complaint, which cited a non-prosecution agreement
between Google and the Justice Department.  Google’s annual reports from 2003 to 2009 were false and
misleading because the company didn’t disclose revenue from the
improper advertising, according to the complaint, which seeks
unspecified damages.  The $500 million settlement announced Aug. 24 represents
revenue that Google generated from the ads and that Canadian
pharmacies reaped from online drug sales to American consumers,
the Justice Department said.  Aaron Zamost, a Google spokesman, said the company hadn’t
seen the complaint and had no immediate comment.  Google had $29.3 billion in revenue last year, more than 96
percent of it from advertising, according to Bloomberg data. The
 Mountain View , California-based company said in May that it had
set aside $500 million to resolve an investigation of its ad
business.  The case is McKenna v. Page, 11-04248, U.S. District Court,
District of Northern California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  