-- 
U.S. Markets Open, Libor, Insider Trading, BofA: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-29T11:50:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/libor-insider-trading-bofa-morgan-stanley-impala-compliance.html
U.S. stock, bond and commodity
markets will open as usual today after Manhattan was spared the
worst of Hurricane Irene, avoiding the first shutdown due to
weather since 1985.  NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group, Bats Global Markets and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC -- the largest operators of equity
exchanges in the world’s biggest capital market -- sent
statements saying they plan normal trading sessions today. The
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
recommended no change to bond-market schedules, and  CME Group
Inc.  said the  New York  Mercantile Exchange will open.  While the public face of U.S. equity trading is the New
York Stock Exchange in Manhattan, about 13 percent of the
nation’s volume took place on that venue in the past year.
Almost all of the rest is handled electronically, with orders
matched in data centers in  New Jersey  and elsewhere.  Irene struck  New York City  with winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) an hour, the National Hurricane Center said in a
special advisory at 9 a.m. local time. A storm surge of 3.8 feet
was reported at New York Harbor and total water levels of almost
8.6 feet, or moderate-stage flooding, were reported at Battery
Park City in lower Manhattan before receding, the hurricane
center said.  For more of this story, click here.  RBS Received Requests From EU, U.S. Regulators on Libor Rates  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, received requests for documents from
U.S. and European Union regulators investigating whether the
London Interbank Offered Rate was manipulated.  The  European Commission , the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and Department of Justice sought “documents and
communications related to the process and procedures for setting
Libor,” Edinburgh-based RBS said in a regulatory filing Aug.
26.  Regulators in the U.S., EU, U.K. and  Japan  are examining a
possible breach of rules governing Libor, the rate of interest
at which banks borrow funds from each other in the London
market.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have said they
received requests for information in the probes.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, said last month it was granted
conditional immunity from some agencies, including the
Department of Justice.  “RBS Group is cooperating with these investigations and is
keeping relevant regulators informed,” the bank said. “It is
not possible to estimate with any certainty what effect these
investigations and any related developments may have on RBS.”  Several class-action, or group, lawsuits have been filed in
the U.S., alleging banks manipulated the rate and prices of U.S.
dollar Libor-based derivatives, UBS said in July.  Libor rates, a benchmark for more than $350 trillion of
financial products worldwide, are based on data from banks
reflecting how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for various periods of time in currencies including dollars,
euros and yen. The rates are compiled daily by Thomson Reuters
Corp. for the British Bankers’ Association.  Compliance Action  Trading Firm Fails to Block FSA Market Abuse Fine Report  The president of defunct trading firm Swift Trade Inc.
failed in a bid to stop the U.K. Financial Services Authority
from publishing details of an 8 million-pound ($13 million)
market abuse fine.  Judge Wyn Williams refused to block the U.K. financial
watchdog from releasing a decision notice about the May 2011
fine, saying it was already public knowledge.  The Toronto-based company, which was dissolved in December,
was fined for engaging in “layering” in which multiple buy
orders for shares are submitted and withdrawn to manipulate the
price of a security, according to the judge.  “It is in the public domain that they were thought to be
engaged in the practice of layering, and that was thought to be
market abuse,” said Williams Aug. 26. “It is not appropriate
to grant the injunction.”  The FSA can now release a detailed report on the fine,
which it had planned to do at the end of August, when an earlier
injunction won by Swift Trade expired.  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman, declined to comment.  Peter Beck, who was president of Toronto-based Swift Trade
until its collapse, argued an FSA announcement would reduce the
value of his shares, damage his reputation and breach his human
rights, said Philip Engelman, Beck’s lawyer.  Swift Trade and Beck, who was not present at court, were
also found to have breached securities laws by the Ontario
Securities Commission, providing software and an electronic
trading system for around 4,500 unregistered traders in 2008,
according to a March  report . The firm failed to establish proper
controls and supervision, adequately monitor its clients’
trading, and produce accurate trading records, the OSC said.  Ex-Marvell Technology Accountant Ng Released on $50,000 Bond  Former  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  accountant Stanley Ng,
charged in a nationwide crackdown on insider trading, made an
initial court appearance in New York on Aug. 26 and was released
on a $50,000 bond.  Ng, 42, didn’t enter a plea Friday at his first federal
court appearance in Manhattan. U.S. Magistrate Judge James
Francis agreed to release Ng on a bond secured by one
financially responsible person and his California home and
ordered him to surrender his passport. Both Ng and his lawyer,
Silvia Serpe, declined to comment after court.  He was arrested Aug. 10 for allegedly leaking material non-
public information to Winifred Jiau, a former consultant with
expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC. He’s charged
with one count of conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud
and faces as long as five years in prison if convicted.  Jiau, 43, was convicted in June of one count each of
conspiracy and securities fraud after being caught in Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s probe of insider trading involving
so-called expert networking firms and hedge-fund managers.  The case is U.S. v. Ng, 11-02096, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  FCC Restarts 180-Day Clock on Review of AT&T Bid for T-Mobile  The Federal Communications Commission on Aug. 26 restarted
its informal clock for reviewing  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase
of T-Mobile USA Inc. after receiving new evidence from AT&T
about the deal’s public benefits.  The FCC’s 180-day timeline for examining the $39 billion
transaction was halted on July 20 after AT&T announced that it
intended to submit new economic models of the deal’s impact on
consumers and competition. AT&T submitted the new data July 25.  The review clock resumed on Friday, after agency officials
and third parties had the chance to examine AT&T’s new
assessments, Rick Kaplan, chief of the FCC’s wireless bureau,
wrote in a letter to lawyers representing AT&T. The letter was
posted Friday on the FCC’s website.  “The engineering and economic models we have provided the
Commission confirm the extensive capacity gains and
corresponding consumer benefits that the combination of AT&T’s
and T-Mobile’s complementary assets will produce,” Bob Quinn,
senior vice president of AT&T’s federal regulatory division,
said in an e-mail.  If completed, the merger proposed March 20 would combine
the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new market
leader, ahead of current No. 1 Verizon Wireless. The FCC and the
Justice Department are vetting the deal in a review that AT&T
officials estimate will last until early 2012.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the nation’s third-largest wireless
provider, urged U.S. regulators during an Aug. 16 meeting to
ignore AT&T’s new filings. Sprint opposes the merger, saying it
would damage competition.  The FCC has no further comment beyond its letter, Neil
Grace, a spokesman for the commission, said in an interview.  IRS Extends Offshore Disclosure Deadline to Sept. 9, Cites Storm  The Internal Revenue Service extended the deadline for U.S.
taxpayers to declare their offshore accounts until Sept. 9,
citing the potential impact of Hurricane Irene, the agency
announced on Aug. 26.  The deadline was Aug. 31.  Romania’s Right to Trade Carbon Emission Surplus Was Suspended  Romania’s right to trade its surplus of carbon emission
certificates was suspended by the Kyoto Protocol Committee after
the country broke the reporting rules on emissions, the
Environment Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  Romania is working on preparing a new reporting system on
carbon emissions and plans to solve the problems in the
“shortest period of time,” so it can be able to ask for a
restarting of the trading, according to the statement, which was
released yesterday in Bucharest.  Compliance Policy  Impala Says  Zimbabwe  Law Blocks $10 Billion Investment  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest
producer of the metal, may invest as much as $10 billion in
Zimbabwe to expand production if the government backs down on a
demand that its business there be controlled by black citizens
of the country.  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s largest platinum reserves
after South Africa, passed a law earlier this year to force
foreign companies to cede at least 51 percent of their local
assets to black Zimbabweans. Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the
world’s largest platinum producer, and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) ,
also mine the metal in the southern African country.  “It would run into the billions of dollars, probably
between $5 and $10 billion,” Chief Executive Officer David Brown said in an interview in Johannesburg Aug. 25, where the
company is based. “Fifty-one percent equity just does not
work.”  Impala first invested in Zimbabwe in 2001 when it bought 30
percent of Zimbabwe Platinum Mines Ltd. for the equivalent of
$47 million and later took control of the company. It is now the
biggest investor in Zimbabwean mining, with the country in the
third year of recovery from a decade-long recession sparked by
the seizure of white-owned commercial farms for redistribution
to black subsistence farmers.  The unit, now known as  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , produced
182,100 ounces of platinum in the year to June 30 and is in the
midst of a $460 million expansion of its Ngezi mine, southwest
of the capital Harare to boost output to 270,000 ounces in 2014,
according to a company statement.  “It’s a huge disappointment that we find ourselves in this
position - we’ve been a model investor in this country,” Brown
said in the interview. Impala believes “an appropriate level of
ownership will be the final result” of talks with the
government, Brown told investors. The ownership rule could
“retard” investment in mining and other industries at a time
when it’s needed, he said.  Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said he could not comment yet
because he had not heard about the possible investment, when
Bloomberg News reached him by phone in Harare. Calls to
Indigenization Minister Saviour Kasukuwere’s office in the city
weren’t answered.  China  Widens Reserve Ratio to Limit Inflation, Analysts Say  China broadened the base of reserves it requires commercial
lenders to deposit with the central bank to control liquidity
and limit inflation, economists said.  Reserve requirements are being extended to customers’
margin deposits, a move that may drain 900 billion yuan ($140
billion) from the banking system over six months, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting said in an e-mailed note
on Aug. 26. Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. cited similar
information. A central bank press official declined to comment.  China has already raised reserve ratios to a record 21.5
percent for the biggest banks to counter the fastest inflation
since 2008. London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said that the
reported move may mean no further increases this year, after
previously anticipating another 1 percentage point gain by the
end of December.  For more, click here.  Courts  Investors Seek to Move Venue of BofA Mortgage-Bond Accord  An investor group challenging  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement is seeking to
move the case to federal court from state court.  Walnut Place LLC and related entities that would be bound
by the proposed deal filed a notice of removal of the case to
U.S. District Court in Manhattan. The case was first filed in
state court, where a judge is scheduled to consider approving
the agreement in November.  A change in venue that extends how long the case takes may
mean a longer period of concern among Bank of America
shareholders about whether the settlement’s costs will increase.
It may also give bondholders seeking a large payout more time to
organize their efforts and strengthen their objections,
according to Bill Frey, head of investment and brokerage firm
Greenwich Financial Services LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut, who
advises mortgage-securities investors.  Under the proposed settlement, Bank of America would pay
$8.5 billion to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial mortgage bonds. It was negotiated with a group of
institutional investors and would apply to investors outside
that group.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the settlement, will
seek to move the case back to state court, Kevin Heine, a bank
spokesman said.  “This tactical maneuvering at the deadline for objections
has no impact on the underlying merits of the agreement,” Bank
of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said in an e-mailed
statement.  David Grais, a lawyer for Walnut Place, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Must Face Claims Over Mortgages, Court Says  Morgan Stanley must face a mortgage-servicing company’s
claims that it violated an agreement to repurchase faulty home
loans, a court ruled.  Central Mortgage Co.  can move forward with a lawsuit
accusing New York-based Morgan Stanley of reneging on a contract
requiring the securities firm to repurchase mortgages that
hadn’t been properly screened before being sold to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, the Delaware Supreme Court concluded. The
ruling reversed a lower-court judge’s decision to throw out the
suit.  Central Mortgage’s allegations that a Morgan Stanley unit
didn’t live up to its agreement satisfied “the minimal
standards required at this early stage of the litigation,”
Chief Justice Myron Steele said Aug. 18 in a 21-page decision.  The decision is part of a round of litigation among
lenders, mortgage servicers and investors over the handling of
flawed home loans that have contributed to the decline in the
U.S. real estate market over the past three years.  Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. bank, has offered
to pay $8.5 billion to settle bondholders’ claims over soured
mortgages overseen by the lender. Some state attorneys general
have objected to the accord, saying it doesn’t provide enough
for investors.  Sandra Hernandez , a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, couldn’t
immediately comment on the court decision on Friday.  The case is Central Mortgage Co. v. Morgan Stanley Mortgage
Capital Holdings LLC, 595-2010, Delaware Supreme Court (Dover).  For more, click here.  Court Affirms Dismissal of Interpharm’s Wells Fargo Lawsuit  A federal appeals court in New York affirmed the dismissal
of a lawsuit against  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  by the former generic-
drugmaker Interpharm Inc. over claims the bank used restrictive
credit agreements and exorbitant fees to force the company into
an unprofitable sale.  Interpharm, which sold most of its assets in June 2008,
sued Wells Fargo in December 2008, saying it lost about $40
million of value when the San Francisco-based company reduced
its credit limit based on allegedly erroneous income
projections.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York, in an opinion dated
Aug. 26, affirmed U.S. District Judge Richard J. Holwell’s
decision to dismiss the case in May, saying that Wells Fargo
wasn’t obligated to extend any further credit to Interpharm
after the drugmaker defaulted on a credit agreement.  “To the extent it agreed to do so in a series of
forbearance agreements imposing stricter conditions and costs on
Interpharm, these demands by a lender otherwise under no
obligation to continue extending credit cannot constitute the
‘wrongful threat’ required to establish economic duress under
New York law,” Circuit Judge Reena Raggi said in the opinion.
“Nor can a wrongful threat be based on Wells Fargo’s exercise
of discretion specifically conferred by the Credit Agreement.”  The case is Interpharm Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 08-
cv-11365, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The appeal is Interpharm Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank
NA, 10-1801-cv, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(New York).  Comings and Goings  Russia Central Banker Melikyan to Step Down Sept. 9, RIA Says  Georgy Melikyan, a central bank first deputy chairman
responsible for banking oversight, has had his request to step
down accepted and will leave his post on Sept. 9, RIA-Novosti
reported, citing a source it didn’t identify at the regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 