-- 
High Rare-Earth Prices Force Hitachi, Toyota to Find Alternative

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-08-29T00:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/high-rare-earth-prices-force-hitachi-metals-toyota-to-find-alternatives.html
Japanese rare-earth buyers are
switching to quarterly sales contracts and looking for
alternative sources after China curbed shipments, increasing
prices for the materials used in hybrid cars and missiles.  Prices have increased by as much as three times since May,
hurting companies such as  Hitachi Metals Ltd. (5486) , which makes
magnetic and electronic materials, said  Shinya Yamada , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Credit Suisse AG. Higher costs may drive users
to avoid applications based on the 17 chemically similar
elements entirely, Yamada said.  China produces more than 90 percent of the world’s rare
earths, used in Apple Inc. iPads, Boeing Co. helicopter blades,
Raytheon Co. missiles,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  hybrid cars and wind
turbines. The nation has curbed output and exports since 2009,
saying it wanted to conserve resources and protect the
environment. Japan is the top buyer of rare earths.  “China changed its strategy from limiting export quotas to
tightening regulations for digging and refining,” Fujinori Sato,
deputy manager at the electro materials section of  Sojitz Corp. (2768) ,
said Aug. 25. “Prices may go up further later this year.”  Dysprosium and neodymium, used in automotive and wind-power
applications, soared more than threefold since May to $3,500 per
kilogram and 62 percent to $450 a kilogram respectively,
according to Sojitz data. Trading houses Sojitz and Sumitomo
Corp. import most of Japan’s rare-earth requirements.  ‘Beyond Expectation’  “The prices have jumped beyond our expectation and the
current levels will worsen our earnings,” said Takakazu
Momozuka, general manager of the financial and accounting
department at  TDK Corp. (6762) , a major Japanese producer of power
supplies, transformers and magnets.  Processors will switch to quarterly based sales contracts
from six-month contracts in October with users such as
automakers and electronics makers because of soaring prices,
said Kenichi Nishiie, a spokesman at Hitachi Metals.  China’s output of dysprosium is about 500 metric tons a
year and combined demand between China and  Japan  is about 2,500
tons a year, Sojitz’s Sato said. The trading house has been
investing rare-earth mines in Australia and  Brazil .  China’s policies on exports of rare earths don’t violate
 World Trade Organization  rules and the nation will appeal a
finding that its export controls over raw materials violate
global rules, Shen Danyang, spokesman for the Ministry of
Commerce, said on Aug. 24.  WTO Ruling  Xinhua news agency said on July 6 the Chinese government
was evaluating the report of a WTO panel released the previous
day that found duties and quotas on the export of raw materials
violate global trade rules.  To cope with surging prices, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co. plans
to raise its procurement rate of raw materials from recycling to
30 percent from 10 percent, spokesman Tetsuya Koishikawa said.
TDK will cut the usage of rare earths in its magnet products by
50 percent from next year and sell those products free from rare
earths after five years, Momozuka said.  Aichi Steel Corp., which buys all its requirements from
China, plans to increase purchases from  South Africa  to reduce
its dependency to 50 percent, said Yoshinobu Honkura, senior
managing director of the company, which is 23.7 percent owned by
Toyota Motor.  Toyota is developing an alternative motor for future models
and electric cars that doesn’t need rare earths. Toyota
engineers are working on a so-called induction motor that’s
lighter and more efficient than the magnet-type motor now used
in its Prius, company spokesman  John Hanson  said in January.  China Minmetals Non-Ferrous Metals Co., a rare-earth
producer owned by the nation’s biggest metals trader, has halted
production to meet government requirements to limit output. The
company also called for domestic producers to voluntarily stop
output from early August to ensure a stable rare-earth market
and to protect  China ’s strategic resources, it said on Aug. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  