-- 
India Consumer Stocks ‘Insulated’ From Uncertainty, Motilal Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-08-29T09:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/india-consumer-stocks-insulated-from-uncertainty-motilal-says.html
Nitin Rakesh, chief executive
officer of Mumbai-based Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co.,
comments on the outlook for Indian stocks.  The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index jumped
3.4 percent to 16,394 at 2:32 p.m. in Mumbai, the steepest gain
in six months, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the  U.S. economy  is gradually recovering.  On global slowdown:  “There is still a fair amount of uncertainty. There’s a
relief in Indian markets that QE3 didn’t get announced because
it would mean a flood of liquidity and pressure on commodity
prices. Inflation won’t be addressed in short run if QE3 comes
back. It doesn’t look like the U.S. is keen to launch QE3
because its balance sheet is bloated.”  On investment strategy:  “At these levels we think there’s a margin of safety in
the market. Risk-reward is favourable because we’re already
coming toward low valuations. It’s hard to say whether the worst
is behind us, but definitely there’s margin of safety.  ‘‘We like telecom and consumer sectors, especially those
focussed on rural consumption like two-wheelers and tractors.
These are the best sectors to collect because they are most
insulated from what’s going on, domestically or globally.  ‘‘We want to see a lot more domestic macro events go away
before we start looking at real estate, construction or capital
goods. These are sectors we don’t like.”  On inflation outlook:  “I think the  Reserve Bank  will pause based on what is
going on globally. It is unlikely rates will increase.”  The central bank will make its next policy announcement on
Sept. 16. It has raised rates 11 times since the start of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  