-- 
Ingenico Said to Weigh Purchase of Hi-Media’s Payment Business

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-29T16:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/ingenico-said-to-weigh-purchase-of-hi-media-s-payment-business.html
Ingenico (ING)  SA is considering a
purchase of  Hi-Media SA (HIM) ’s electronic-payment business, said a
person with direct knowledge of the matter.  A deal related to the unit may be announced Aug. 31, when
Paris-based Hi-Media reports earnings, and may involve a sale or
joint venture, according to a second person, who declined to be
named because the talks are private. Hi-Media said in December
it was working with NIBC Bank NV to review options for the Hipay
electronic-wallet and the Allopass micropayment platform.  Hi-Media generated half of its 222 million euros
($322 million) in sales last year from the electronic-payment
unit, which lets consumers send and receive money online and via
phones. The business would help an acquirer gain share in the
global mobile-payments market, which Juniper Research expects
to reach  $670 billion  by 2015.  “You are buying a company with a lot of volume in Europe
that’s making money and is already profitable,” said Pierre Bernardin, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  or a private-equity firm might want
to buy the business to expand in mobile payments, he said. Hi-
Media may be able to command a price of at least 120 million
euros -- or more from a buyer well-positioned to quickly use the
purchase to grow in new markets, he said.  Koen van Zijl, a spokesman for NIBC in the Netherlands, and
Nathan Tyler, a Google spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment. Ingenico spokesman Svy Nekrasas and Jerome
Dangu at Hi-Media declined to comment, as did EBay spokesman
John Pluhowski.  Allopass Service  Allopass is available in 65 countries and is used for more
than 8 million transactions a month, according to Hi-Media’s
 website . Hi-Media’s business also includes the Hipay electronic
wallet and a phone-based billing service.  In February 2010, Hi-Media opened an office in San
Francisco to expand its U.S. business. Since then, Google has
teamed up with companies such as  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  to
introduce a so-called mobile wallet, which enables phones to be
used for payments.  Verizon Wireless , AT&T Inc.,  T-Mobile USA 
also started a joint venture called Isis to provide a similar
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles@bloomberg.net  