-- 
Innkeepers Hotel Operator Sues Cerberus, Chatham for Breach of Commitment

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-29T21:55:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/innkeepers-hotel-operator-sues-cerberus-chatham-for-breach-of-commitment.html
Innkeepers USA Trust , an operator of
Residence Inns, Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns, sued Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) , saying its
agreement to sell 64 hotels to Cerberus and Chatham can’t be
called off due to market conditions or a change in its business.  The operator of 71 hotels, expected to exit bankruptcy in
July, will go back to court to resolve the dispute. The lawsuit,
filed in  Manhattan  bankruptcy court today, says there has been
no change in Innkeepers business since a binding agreement was
signed May 16.  “General market volatility is wholly irrelevant here,”
lawyers for Innkeepers wrote.  Innkeepers said in a statement that the attempt to
terminate the deal is a “calculated effort to apply leverage”
to renegotiate the terms. The lawsuit seeks to hold Cerberus and
Chatham to their commitment, and seeks damages for potentially
more than their $20 million deposit.  Innkeepers won final court approval of a Chapter 11
reorganization plan June 29 that rested on the sale to Cerberus
and Chatham.  Cerberus and Chatham said Aug. 22 that they’d
ended the $1.1 billion agreement, citing a possible adverse
change that could affect Innkeepers’ long-term business. They
didn’t state what the change was.  On Hold  “The plan is on hold until this is resolved,” said  Evan Flaschen , chairman of the restructuring group at Bracewell &
Giuliani LLP, who isn’t involved in the case.  Possible
resolutions include a settlement under which Cerberus and
Chatham agree to do the deal at a different price. Depending on
how radical any changes are to the sale, Innkeepers could need
to renegotiate its entire reorganization, he said.  The material adverse change clause in Innkeepers’ agreement
allowed Cerberus and Chatham  to pull out of the deal for  “any
condition, change or development that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, liabilities or operations, condition or prospect” of
Innkeepers.  The generalizations of such clauses can lead to legal
disputes, as in the bankruptcy of Solutia Inc.. The plastics
maker was close to exiting bankruptcy in February 2008 during
the credit crunch when lenders cited a material adverse change
clause to pull out of a deal to fund a $2 billion loan.
Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG
ended up settling with Solutia after a four-day trial in
 bankruptcy court , and funding a revised loan.  Apollo Management   Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, filed
for bankruptcy on July 19, 2010, with a pre-arranged
reorganization plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman Ali, a unit of
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which was rejected by
creditors.  Cerberus and Chatham later won an auction to acquire the 64
hotels after topping a $970.7 million offer from Lehman Ali and
Five Mile Capital Partners. According to that agreement, which
also had a material adverse change clause, the termination date
on the offer isn’t until Sept. 15.  The sale to Cerberus and Chatham would have allowed
Innkeepers’ secured creditors to be repaid in full. Midland Loan
Services, servicer of an $825 million mortgage loan, would have
gotten a debt instrument of $723.8 million, and cash of $12.8
million. Another mortgage covered by the deal, known as the
floating rate mortgage, would have gotten a cash payment of
about $233 million, and the floating rate mezzanine loan would
have gotten a cash payment of about $2.6 million.  Innkeepers, based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , has 71 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states. Chatham, a Palm Beach-based hotel investment company,
owns properties under Hilton brands including DoubleTree and
Hampton Inn, and Marriott brands including Courtyard and
Residence Inn, according to its Web site. Cerberus, a private
equity investor, is based in  New York .  Innkeepers’ initial Chapter 11 petition listed assets of
$1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 