-- 
Pricing, Deregulation Key to Japan Clean Energy After Bill

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-08-30T05:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/investors-need-clarity-changes-in-japan-s-renewable-energy-law.html
Japanese companies may wait to
invest in clean energy technology until the government
determines renewable energy tariffs and a framework for
deregulating the nation’s power industry, long monopolized by
regional utilities.  The country’s parliament on Aug. 26 passed a clean energy
 bill  that guarantees above-market rates for wind, solar and
geothermal energy and will take effect in 10 months. The so-
called feed-in tariff created a race to install solar panels
when implemented in Germany and  Spain .  “Though symbolically ground-breaking, there remain some
unanswered questions regarding cost, surrounding infrastructure
and regulation,”  Naomi Fink , a Japan strategist at Jefferies
Japan Ltd., said in a report on Aug. 25. on the bill.  The nuclear disaster at  Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant has turned public opinion against atomic energy,
according to newspaper polls. The passage of the bill is one of
the first steps by Japan to expand its renewable  energy industry 
into a 10 trillion yen ($130 billion) market by 2020 from 1
trillion yen in 2009.  Under the law, the trade and industry minister will set
preferential rates and periods each year for renewable energy
purchases. The bill that passed doesn’t include what the rate
will be when the law comes into force on July 1, 2012.  Solar Rates  The rate for solar energy could be higher in light of a
plan introduced in 2009 to buy excess power generated from
sunlight. Currently, the tariff for surplus solar power
generated by homes is 42 yen per kilowatt-hour, while
electricity produced by businesses is 40 yen.  Even without price clarity, the industry expected to
benefit is solar power.  “This law will help strengthen the competitiveness of the
Japanese solar power industry and jump-start regional industries
and job creation,” Sharp Corp. President Mikio Katayama said on
Aug. 26 at a press conference by the Japan Photovoltaic Energy
Association. He is also chairman of the association.  Analysts said one provision in the law allows regional
power monopolies to skirt a requirement they buy electricity
from renewable suppliers by citing concerns over smooth
transmission.  The issue of access to power grids also needs to be
addressed, Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, an analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said. The law doesn’t say who would bear the
cost of building new transmission and distribution lines or
increasing grid capacity, he said.  Kan Victory  Passage of the legislation was a victory for  Naoto Kan ,
Japan’s departing prime minister. He campaigned for less
dependency on nuclear energy after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami crippled Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant.  Japan gets about 9 percent of its electricity from low-
carbon sources. Kan has called for that level to increase.
Before the crisis, atomic plants supplied about 30 percent of
the country’s electricity.  Sharp and another solar cell maker  Kyocera Corp. (6971)  are near-
term beneficiaries of feed-in tariffs, said Pranab Kumar Sarmah,
an analyst with Daiwa Capital Markets. Asian solar companies may
start penetrating the Japanese market from 2013, he said in a
report on Aug. 12.  “Unlike individual roof-top system buyers, who rely on
brand awareness and after-sales service, solar-farm operators
rely on performance at lowest cost,” Sarmah wrote, adding that
 China ’s Suntech Power Holdings Co. may expand its business in
Japan.  Loosening Controls  Analysts and industry officials are calling for
deregulation to loosen the controls that the 10 regional power
companies enjoy in each region they cover, including setting how
much electricity from  wind turbines  is used.  “Japan’s utilities limit how much wind they allow onto the
grid in order to maintain stability of power supply,” Yugo Nakamura, an analyst for New Energy Finance said. “By the time
cumulative capacity of solar and wind reaches 10-13 gigawatts,
the government will have to decide whether to change existing
connection rules to accommodate additional clean power
generation,” he said in a report Aug. 29.  Japan ’s current capacity for solar and wind generation is
3.5 gigawatts and 2.4 gigawatts, respectively.  The volume of power exchange between regions is low, said
Yoko Monoe, a research analyst for the Daiwa Institute of
Research. She said power grids need to be upgraded so produced
power can have multiple destinations.  Easing Guidelines  Fink of Jefferies said Japan should ease factory site
guidelines that concern solar power producers. Under the current
law, 50 percent or less of factory sites may be used for
production facilities and that could “push up the acquisition
or lease-cost of the land,” she wrote.  As for geothermal, Japan limits the  land use  in national
parks where about 80 percent of the nation’s geothermal
resources are concentrated. The Geothermal Research Society of
Japan said a thorough review of regulations is needed so that
the country can develop projects of a size that is on par with
other countries.  There are also concerns how much of the current push for
renewable energy will last after Kan stepped down.  Yoshihiko Noda was elected head of Japan’s ruling party
yesterday, paving the way for the 54-year-old finance minister
to replace Kan. The DPJ used its majority in the lower house to
appoint him as premier today.  Shifting Gears  “This direction won’t change” after Kan steps down, DPJ
lawmaker Nobumori Otani said. “Japan has clearly shifted gears
to promoting renewable energy.”  A total of 68 percent of respondents to an Asahi newspaper
poll published Aug. 8 said they want Kan’s successor to continue
his policy of phasing out atomic energy.  Softbank Corp. (9984)  Chief Executive Officer Masayoshi Son plans
to invest about 80 billion yen to build 10 solar farms. Son’s
plans have conditions: he needs access to transmission networks
and agreement from the 10 regional utilities to buy his
electricity.  Japan’s power industry plans to develop and implement
transmission management systems so  utility companies  can
accommodate the volume of power generated from renewable
sources, the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan
said in a statement on Aug. 26 after the bill was approved.  The country is also pinning hopes on clean energy to help
the recovery in the devastated areas in northern Japan after the
quake and tsunami ravaged many farming and fishing towns.  It is important to combine reconstruction efforts with
regional energy management, according to Kazuhiro Ueta, a
professor of environmental economics at  Kyoto University .
“Renewable energy utilizes regional resources. The more you use
it, the less you need to buy fossil fuel,” Ueta said.  The feed-in tariffs will need tuning along the way and
Japan should learn lessons from other countries, Nakamura said.
“The purpose of the law is not to fix tariffs at a high level
and produce expensive power,” he said. “The goal is to bring
down the total costs of clean energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  