-- 
Lithuania Revises GDP Growth Higher as Consumption Recovers

-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-08-29T09:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/lithuania-revises-gdp-growth-higher-as-consumption-recovers.html
Lithuania ’s economy expanded at a
faster rate in the second quarter than previously estimated,
driven by recovering consumption and the construction industry.  Gross domestic product grew 6.3 percent from the same three
months of 2010, compared with a preliminary estimate of 6.1
percent released on July 28, the Vilnius-based  statistics office 
said in an e-mailed statement today. Output rose a seasonally
adjusted 0.4 percent from the previous quarter.  Lithuania’s economy, part of the Baltic region that
suffered the world’s deepest recession in 2009, is growing at
the second-fastest rate in the European Union after Estonia,
driven by foreign demand for its products and strengthening
domestic consumption. The central bank and  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  both
raised their 2011 GDP forecast for Lithuania in the past month.  “Unsurprisingly, private consumption continued to grow
briskly, while export and import growth slowed, but remained at
good levels,”  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst with
Nordea Markets, said in an e-mailed note. “We remain confident
with our forecast of around 6 percent growth this year, as the
domestic economy continues to gain strength and exports are
still doing well.”  The yield on Lithuania’s 10-year dollar bond rose 0.01
percentage point to 5.21 percent today.  Central Bank  The central bank raised its 2011 economic growth forecast
to 6.2 percent this year, compared with a May estimate of 5.6
percent.  Lietuvos Bankas  said on Aug. 11 that growth may slow to
4.8 percent in 2012. Swedbank raised its estimate to 6.3 percent
on Aug. 23 from a previous forecast of 4.2 percent.  The value created by the  construction industry  increased
the most, expanding by 16.3 percent in the second quarter from
the same period last year, while output created by manufacturing
rose 9.3 percent, the statistics office said in today’s report.
Household spending grew 6.7 percent in the second quarter and
capital formation jumped 23.1 percent, it said.  “Gradually, the slowdown in global growth is also expected
to weigh on Lithuania, and combined with a higher base from this
year, 2012 is expected to see slower growth as still-fragile
domestic demand is unlikely to be able to fill the gap from
weaker export demand,” Lindblad said.  Retail Sales  Retail sales advanced 23.9 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier as consumers spent more on cars, fuel and
food. Vehicle sales tripled, driven by demand from neighboring
Belarus.  Exports, which make up about 65 percent of total economic
output, grew 11 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three-month period. Industrial output, representing about 20
percent of the economy, increased 10.4 percent in the second
quarter on the year.  Austerity measures adopted in Lithuania,  Latvia  and  Estonia 
are a lesson for the European periphery as it struggles through
a sovereign-debt crisis,  Fitch Ratings  said on Aug. 25.  “In 2011, their economies are recording fast rates of GDP
growth, driven by a strong export performance. External
competiveness and confidence in their solvency have also been
restored,” Fitch said in the report.  Neighboring Latvia grew 5.3 percent in the second quarter,
while Estonia expanded at an 8.4 percent rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 