-- 
Mitsubishi’s Property Unit to Raise 15 Billion Yen for Mezzanine Loan Fund

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-08-29T02:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/mitsubishi-s-property-unit-to-raise-15-billion-yen-for-mezzanine-loan-fund.html
Diamond Realty Management Inc. , a
unit of  Japan ’s biggest trading house, aims to raise as much as
15 billion yen ($194 million) for a fund that provides loans for
property acquisitions and refinancing in the country.  The unit of  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which has 330 billion yen in
assets under management, plans to complete the fund raising from
institutional investors in Japan by the end of March 2012, said
Naoshi Ogikubo, president and chief executive officer of Tokyo-
based Diamond Realty. The fund will target annual return of
about 6 percent, he said.  Diamond Realty is starting the fund to lure investors who
are seeking safer and more stable investments following the
recent market rout this month triggered by U.S. credit downgrade
and  Europe ’s sovereign debt concerns. The fund invests in
mezzanine loans, which typically bridge the gap between the
senior-class mortgage and the buyer’s equity, for real estate
investors and owners seeking to refinance their assets.  “This will be a good investment with very low risks,”
said Ogikubo in an interview in  Tokyo . “By looking at the real
estate cycle, the chances for property values to drop another 25
percent is low and there are few players who provides such
lending.”  The fund’s mezzanine loans, paid after senior debt in case
of default, will represent as much as 10 percent of acquisition
price, Ogikubo said. Banks typically offer as much as 65 percent
of financing and the fund aims to provide the rest up to 75
percent of total property value, he said.  ‘Good Properties’  Prices for office buildings in Tokyo fell as much as 50
percent since their peak in 2007, according to an estimate by
Los Angeles-based CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. The  MSCI World (MXWO) 
Index, tracking shares in 23 developed nations, dropped 9.9
percent so far this month amid concerns about the  U.S. economy 
and European debt crisis.  Diamond Realty plans to increase its assets under
management by 52 percent to 500 billion yen by March 2013
through funding from its parent, Ogikubo said.  “We will use the balance sheet of Mitsubishi this year to
acquire good properties first while investors are on the
defensive right now,” said Ogikubo.  Diamond Realty said Aug. 15 it started a 25.8 billion yen
fund that invests in datacenters, the country’s first.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  