-- 
Jain Fails to Repeat Deutsche Bank Debt Success With Equity

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-08-30T15:52:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/jain-fails-to-replicate-deutsche-bank-debt-dominance-with-equity-trading.html
Anshu Jain, the head of  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ’s investment-banking division, earned a promotion to co-
chief executive officer of  Germany ’s biggest bank last month by
cementing its status as a debt-trading powerhouse.  He’s had less success in a seven-year effort to turn the
equities unit, which sells and trades stocks and equity-linked
derivatives, into a global leader, a performance that may haunt
the Frankfurt-based company as higher  capital requirements 
threaten to make fixed-income businesses less profitable.  “Jain’s track record is pretty good in terms of bringing
businesses he’s managing to a top-three position, though he
hasn’t done that with equities so far,” said Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in  London .
“The market will clearly shift away from the relative
importance of fixed income compared with underwriting, advisory
and equities. It’s clear that Deutsche Bank has to move over to
these businesses.”  Deutsche Bank fell to seventh in equities in the first half
of this year from fourth in 2004, based on its share of revenue
generated among the nine biggest investment banks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from company reports. That compares
with a second-place ranking in overall sales and trading
revenue, which also includes fixed income, currencies and
commodities, up from third in 2004.  The decline occurred as Jain overhauled his equities
strategy and management after losses during the credit crunch in
2008, changing his focus from bets with the bank’s own money to
trading for customers, a shift mirrored by competitors amid a
regulatory crackdown on proprietary trading.  Co-Chief Executive  Jain, 48, oversees more than 60 percent of Deutsche Bank’s
revenue and 80 percent of its pretax earnings as head of the
corporate and investment bank. The unit comprises trading,
underwriting, corporate finance, mergers advice and transaction
banking, which includes cash management and trade finance.  The India-born Jain will share the CEO role with Juergen Fitschen, 62, who is responsible for Germany, after Josef Ackermann, 63, steps down on May 31. Jain declined to comment
for this story.  Deutsche Bank rose 0.4 percent to 27.50 euros in  Frankfurt 
trading, while the 46-company Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index gained 1.7 percent. The bank, which
fared better than European competitors such as UBS AG and Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in the credit crisis of 2008, was up
7.9 percent from the end of that year through yesterday,
compared with an 11 percent decline in the banking index.  ‘Massive Role’  “If you look at Jain’s performance throughout the
financial crisis and earnings over the years, he played a
massive role in where Deutsche Bank stands today,” said Michael Rohr, an analyst at Sylvia Quandt Research GmbH in Frankfurt.
“It would be desirable for Deutsche Bank to build its strength
in equities, but not if that requires exaggerated costs.”  Higher earnings from equities would help the bank counter
the effect of stricter capital requirements agreed to by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that may cut returns from
fixed-income businesses. The profitability of a trading unit
often rises with market share, so climbing in the equities
rankings may help Jain sustain returns for shareholders.  “Typically at 10 you lose money, at seven you just about
cover your cost of capital,” Jain  told  investors in London on
June 1, speaking of industry rankings. “You start to return to
shareholders at five; at three, you become hugely profitable.”  “That pressure to be top-three will be the difference
between an acceptable ROE and the one that isn’t,” particularly
under Basel III rules, he said, referring to return on equity.  ‘800-Pound Gorilla’  While Deutsche Bank has gained market share in U.S. and
Asian cash equities, the bank remains “underweight” in these
areas, along with equity derivatives trading, Jain  said  in June,
citing data from market-research firms.  The U.S. cash-equities business, or carrying out stock
transactions on behalf of corporate and institutional clients,
is the hardest to crack. The German bank aims to reach the top
five, and is seventh now, according to Jain’s presentation.  “The U.S. market is the 800-pound gorilla and represents
about 50 percent of the global commission pool in equities,”
said John Colon, a consultant at Greenwich Associates, a
Stamford, Connecticut-based market research and advisory company
for financial-services firms. “Whoever leads in the U.S. will
look like a global leader.”  Higher Returns  The Basel committee is changing rules on how much capital
banks need to hold for their operations. Regulations on trading
assets to be implemented by the end of this year, as well as
additional changes that come into effect by 2019, will shave
between 13 percentage points and 14 percentage points from
pretax return on equity at Deutsche Bank’s investment bank,
according to slides Jain presented in June.  An additional 3 percentage points to 4 percentage points
may disappear because of regulations such as the Volcker rule,
which prohibits proprietary trading, the slides showed.  Deutsche Bank plans to counter that by selling some assets,
cutting costs and capturing a greater market share to keep
pretax ROE above 20 percent, compared with 28 percent in 2010,
Jain said. Equities and advisory businesses can produce higher
returns because they are less capital intensive and will be less
affected by Basel rules.  Had the stricter requirements been in effect in 2010, the
average return on equity in fixed-income businesses on  Wall
Street  would have been 5.7 percentage points lower at 8.3
percent, while ROE in equities would have been reduced 2.6
percentage points to 16.5 percent,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts led
by Huw van Steenis estimated in January.  Revenue Pool  “Equities-geared banks are best positioned for Basel
III,” Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a paper with  New York- 
based Oliver Wyman Group in March. “Little wonder so many firms
are trying to enter or beef up their equities divisions.”  The analysts forecast that the fixed-income revenue pool
may shrink this year, while equities may start recovering. Total
equities revenue generated by the nine biggest firms in the
first half of this year rose 7.9 percent from the same period of
2010, while revenue from fixed income, currencies and
commodities fell 18 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Deutsche Bank’s strategy a few years back was to
prioritize fixed income versus equities,” said Jeremy Sigee, an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. “They took a more
negative view on equities and tried to approach the business
differently. More recently they’ve come back a bit and said we
do need a more prominent equities business, partially because of
the capital rules.”  ‘Fixed-Income House’  Jain, who started his career as a derivatives strategist at
Merrill Lynch & Co. and was brought to Deutsche Bank in 1995 by
Edson Mitchell, was charged with revamping the bank’s equities
business in 2004 as analysts including Stuart Graham, then at
Merrill Lynch, criticized the firm’s reliance on bonds. While
the criticism died down as the fixed-income revenue pool grew 67
percent from 2004 to 2010, that dependence increased.  Fixed income, currencies and commodities contributed 61
percent of the securities unit’s revenue in the first half of
this year, up from 55 percent in 2004, company reports show. The
share produced by equities trading fell to about 15 percent from
22 percent during the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Deutsche Bank remains first and foremost a fixed-income
house,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution at
MF Global Ltd. in London.  Gaining Share  The bank rose in the rankings for revenue from stock and
bond underwriting and advising clients on mergers, the data
show, benefiting from an expansion under Michael Cohrs, who
retired in 2010. The company hired 141 managing directors and
directors in corporate finance between 2008 and 2010, according
to Jain’s presentation.  Deutsche Bank captured the sixth-biggest portion of revenue
from underwriting and advisory work among the nine largest banks
in the first half of 2011, up from eighth in 2009. Since the
financial crisis, Jain also boosted the bank’s portion of
revenue from fixed income, currencies and commodities, ranking
second behind  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the first half of this
year, the data show.  The gain is partly the result of the bank’s expansion in
commodities, a division Jain began bolstering in 2006 with the
hiring of David Silbert from Merrill Lynch as global head of the
business. By 2009, revenue from commodities more than doubled,
and the bank is now one of the top five firms with an 11 percent
market share, according to Jain’s June presentation.  Prop Trading  When Jain took charge of the equities business in 2004, he
combined the unit with fixed income to cut costs in research and
technology and replaced senior managers. At that time, about
half of equities revenue came from proprietary trading and
retail structured products.  Jain kept the proprietary business to avoid losing top
traders to hedge funds and tried to boost Deutsche Bank’s
revenue by focusing on more complex products, rather than on
plain-vanilla trading of stocks for clients.  The equities business suffered during the  crisis , posting
losses of 1.7 billion euros ($2.5 billion) in stock derivatives
and 413 million euros in proprietary trading in the fourth
quarter of 2008.  After the losses, Jain decided to reengineer the business
to gain more market share from providing services to clients and
less from taking positions in the market. The firm appointed
Michele Gissi and Roger Naylor to run global equity derivatives
in November 2008 and a month later named Garth Ritchie and
Robert Karofsky co-heads of equities to replace Yassine Bouhara.
Karofsky left in June 2010.  ‘Work in Progress’  The contribution to total equities revenue from proprietary
trading fell to about 10 percent in 2009 from 21 percent in
2005, and the business was shut in the third quarter of last
year. Pablo Calderini, head of equity proprietary trading, left
to join a hedge fund.  “Jain inherited a business that was over-dependent on
proprietary trading, structured equity derivatives and arbitrage
strategies,” said  Kinner Lakhani , a London-based analyst at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  “Equities remains a work in progress, but Jain
deserves some credit for reshaping the business.”  Since early 2009, Deutsche Bank has hired 150 people in
equities across research, sales and trading, with a focus on
 North America  and  Asia . The bank climbed to the seventh and
third rankings in U.S. and Asian cash equities, respectively,
from the ninth and 10th spots in 2007, according to Jain’s June
presentation. It ranks first in Europe.  Credit Suisse  Deutsche Bank has also been trying to win more business
from hedge funds and was ranked the fourth-biggest prime broker
by hedge-fund assets and voted the best by respondents in a
survey by  Global Custodian , a securities-industry magazine.  The gains in market share haven’t yet translated into
higher revenue. Deutsche Bank’s portion of the total equities
revenue pool shrank to 8.6 percent in the first half of the year
from 11 percent in all of 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Some competitors fared better in equities after the credit
crisis.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which had about the same revenue
from equities as Deutsche Bank in 2007, also suffered losses
from proprietary trading and equity derivatives in the fourth
quarter of 2008. The Zurich-based bank said in February 2009 it
would shut some businesses, reduce risk-taking and focus on
client business. By the end of that year, Credit Suisse had the
second-largest share of equities revenue after  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse
ranked third in the first half of this year behind New York-
based Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  Thinner Air  Gaining market share in equities requires significant
investments in research and advisory, as well as infrastructure
and technology, said  Greenwich  Associates’ Colon.  “Deutsche Bank has made real strides,” he said. “But the
mountain only gets steeper and air only thinner as you move
up.”  Jain said in June he is “committed and determined” to
make it into the top five in U.S. cash equities. A revamp of the
bank’s electronic trading platform to improve order-management
systems is scheduled to be completed by the end of the year.  The bank’s performance eliminated any doubts that it would
become a “significant equities firm,” Jain said at the time.  “It’s execution, execution, execution,” he said. “Gone
are the days when  investment banking  was such a good game that
just by showing up and becoming the seventh- through ninth-
ranked player you were still giving your shareholders an
adequate return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 