-- 
Japan’s New Leader May Soften Anti-Nuclear Stance of Predecessor

-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-08-29T10:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/japan-s-new-leader-may-soften-anti-nuclear-stance-of-predecessor.html
Yoshihiko Noda, who was elected
today as the head of  Japan ’s ruling party, may represent a
departure from the anti-nuclear policy of his predecessor,
according to a statement made before he was elected.  “I will set up a nuclear safety agency to consolidate the
regulatory framework and regain public trust in atomic power
generation,” Noda said in the policy statement on Aug. 27.  His comments suggest a softer stance towards nuclear energy
than outgoing Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  who called for Japan to
end its reliance on atomic power after the worst nuclear
accident in 25 years. The government imposed the first mandatory
power savings in the country since the 1970s after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami damaged the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “Japan will overcome energy shortages and guarantee the
stable supply of power by utilizing nuclear plants after
confirming their safety,” Noda said in his policy statement.  Less than a quarter of Japan’s 54 reactors are operating
either because they were shut down by the disaster or because of
scheduled maintenance. Nuclear energy provided about 30 percent
of Japan’s electricity before the crisis.  Democratic Party  of Japan lawmakers today voted 215 to 177
for Noda, whose main policy aim is to increase taxes to help pay
for reconstruction. The DPJ will use its majority in the lower
house to appoint Noda as premier to succeed Kan tomorrow.  Kan’s plan envisioned a move away from atomic power towards
alternate sources including wind and solar in three stages, the
first being the next three years, then by 2020 and 2050. Sixty-
eight percent of respondents to an Asahi newspaper poll
published on Aug. 8 said they wanted his successor to continue
the policy of phasing out atomic energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  