-- 
Japan’s Bonds Climb, Erasing Losses, as Noda Win Boosts Reform Prospects

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-08-29T06:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/japan-bonds-climb-erasing-loss-as-noda-win-boosts-fiscal-reform-prspects.html
Japan ’s bonds gained as Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  won a party election to become the
nation’s next prime minister, stoking speculation he’ll pursue
fiscal reforms outlined by his predecessor.  Democratic Party  of Japan lawmakers voted 215 to 177 for
Noda, who defeated Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  in a run-off
after public favorite Seiji Maehara was rejected on the first
ballot. Noda has said he supports raising taxes to pay for
earthquake reconstruction and rein in the world’s biggest debt
burden. Bonds declined earlier as Asian stocks extended a global
rally, sapping demand for the relative safety of debt.  “Noda was the bond market’s favorite choice among the five
contenders as he puts an emphasis on achieving fiscal health,”
said Naoki Tsuchiyama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Securities Co., one of the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at
the government’s debt sales. “Bonds are being bought because of
the unexpected, yet most positive, result.”  The 10-year yield dropped two basis points to 1.015 percent
as of 3:03 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent security due
June 2021 gained 0.179 yen to 100.757 yen. The yield earlier
reached 1.05 percent, the highest level since Aug. 12.  Thirty-year yields fell to 1.99 percent after touching
2.025 percent earlier today and closing at 2 percent last week.  Ten-year bond futures for September delivery added 0.25 to
142.56, reversing an earlier drop, at the 3 p.m. close of the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks
advanced 1.5 percent after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gained 1.5 percent Aug 26.  Kaieda, Maehara  The DPJ is set to use its majority in the lower house to
appoint Noda as prime minister to succeed  Naoto Kan  as soon as
tomorrow. Noda and Kaieda clashed in two leadership-candidate
weekend debates over how to fund rebuilding from the earthquake
and tsunami that struck in March.  Noda said that the DPJ had let the country down, and called
for honoring Kan’s proposal to raise taxes to pay for
reconstruction and shore up the welfare system. Kaieda called
for issuing bonds rather than raising taxes to pay for
reconstruction.  “Noda was seen among the candidates as the hawk,”  Naomi Fink , head of Japan strategy at Jefferies Japan Ltd., said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television before the result of the
run-off was announced. Japan is “much more likely to see fiscal
tightening under Noda than Kaieda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 