-- 
Japan’s Jobless Rate Rises, Retail Sales Drop as Noda Picked for Premier

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-08-30T10:28:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/japan-july-jobless-unemployment-rate-rises-to-4-7-statistics-bureau-says.html
Japan’s jobless rate rose for a
second month and retail sales dropped, underscoring the
challenge for incoming Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in securing
Japan’s recovery from the March 11 earthquake.  The  unemployment rate  rose to 4.7 percent in July as
payrolls fell by 40,000 from a month earlier, the statistics
bureau said today in Tokyo. Retail sales slid a seasonally
adjusted 0.3 percent from June, a Trade Ministry report showed.  Noda, who was elected premier by the lower house of
parliament today, inherits a recovery under threat from an
advancing yen and a global slowdown. A weakening economy will
complicate his task of funding the next reconstruction package,
according to economist  Yoshimasa Maruyama .  “Today’s reports show Japan’s recovery is leveling off in
the middle of the post-earthquake rebound,” said Maruyama, a
senior economist at Itochu Corp. in  Tokyo . “Noda wants to raise
taxes next fiscal year but that may have to be postponed. The
economy won’t be strong enough.”  Noda is the sixth prime minister in five years. As finance
minister, he advocated raising taxes to fund quake relief. The
previous two packages totaled 6 trillion yen ($78 billion), or
about a third of the 16.9 trillion yen in damages from the
disaster, according to Cabinet Office estimates.  Missing Forecasts  The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for the jobless rate to remain unchanged at 4.6 percent.
Retail sales advanced 0.7 percent in July from a year earlier,
today’s report showed. That was less than the 1.3 percent gain
that analysts expected.  “The new government needs to undertake reconstruction
measures as soon as possible to support the economy, especially
when overseas demand is slowing,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist
at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Companies will have little choice but
to stop hiring or cut jobs” if the recovery doesn’t pick up,
she said.  The government last week unveiled a $100 billion program to
aid exporters and spur overseas purchases as the yen’s 5 percent
advance against the dollar in three months threatens exporters’
sales and profits. Japan’s currency traded at 76.86 per dollar
at 10:17 a.m. in Tokyo.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, has said
it may revise its full-year profit forecast, depending on U.S.
market turmoil. Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike told
reporters Aug. 9 that he’s concerned the yen may strengthen to
the low 70s against the dollar, further hurting the company.  Japan ’s gross domestic product shrank for a third
consecutive quarter in the three months ended June 30 after the
earthquake damaged exporters’ factories. GDP will probably drop
0.2 percent this year, marking “a full year recession,”  David Rea, a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd. said in
a report Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  