-- 
JPMorgan Waives Fees for Tri-State Customers Affected by Irene

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-08-29T19:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/jpmorgan-waives-fees-for-tri-state-customers-affected-by-irene.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, is waiving some late fees for
customers affected by Hurricane Irene.  JPMorgan won’t charge people in New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut for late payments of credit cards, business and
consumer loans, or overdraft-related fees from today through
Sept. 4, according to an e-mail sent to customers by the New
York-based bank. The message was sent to millions of people this
morning, said spokesman  Thomas Kelly .  The bank also will waive early withdrawal fees on
certificates of deposit “to help customers with their cash
flow” if needed, according to the e-mail. It won’t charge
consumers for using another bank’s automated teller machine and
will extend hours at branches in affected areas this week, the
e-mail said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. bank, will help
customers facing financial hardship on a case-by-case basis,
Kelli Raulerson, a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company, said in an e-mail. “Mobile ATM units
are being deployed to support customers where most significant
needs exist due to storm impacts,” Raulerson said.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  offers different financial recovery
assistance options and the bank will work with customers
depending on individual circumstances, said Sean Kevelighan, a
spokesman for the New York-based bank.  ATM Fees  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will waive fees for customers in New
York, New Jersey and Connecticut today through Sept. 2 when they
use another bank’s ATM, according to an e-mail from Kevin
Friedlander, a spokesman. Customers of Wells Fargo and JPMorgan
may incur fees from the other banks operating the ATMs. Wells
Fargo, based in San Francisco, also won’t charge early
withdrawal fees on CDs, Friedlander said.  The average ATM fee charged by a bank for going outside its
network is $1.41, according to  Greg McBride , senior financial
analyst at Bankrate.com, a unit of Bankrate Inc. The average
surcharge assessed by the bank operating the ATM on non-
accountholders is $2.33, McBride said in an e-mail.  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  is encouraging its customers
affected by the hurricane to reach out in person at a branch,
via phone or online, if they’re having issues with their credit
card or banking needs, Stephen Schooff, a spokesman for the
McLean, Virginia-based lender, said in an e-mail.  “We have policies in place to assist those customers on a
case-by-case basis to include fee waivers, APR reductions,
payment plans, etc.,” Schooff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 