-- 
U.S. Judge Blocks Enforcement of Alabama Illegal-Immigration Crackdown

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T21:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/judge-stops-enforcement-of-alabama-immigration-law-doesn-t-rule-on-merits.html
Alabama ’s new immigration law,
giving police the power to verify the immigration status of
people stopped for questioning, was temporarily blocked by a
U.S. judge three days before it was scheduled to take effect.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham
today barred enforcement of the law that includes provisions
requiring police to verify the status of people stopped whom
they suspect may be in the country illegally. The law also makes
it a crime to knowingly rent housing to unlawful immigrants.  Christian clergy, the federal government and the  American
Civil Liberties Union  asked Blackburn to halt the measure’s
enforcement. Alabama deputy attorneys general John Neiman and
Misty Fairbanks said the state has the right to police people in
its own borders.  “In entering this order, the court specifically notes that
it is no way addressing the merits of the motions,” Blackburn
said in her two-page decision.  The judge said she’ll determine the legality of the act no
later than Sept. 28 and that her order remains in effect until
Sept. 29 or until she issues that ruling.  State Attorney General Luther Strange declined to comment
on today’s decision, said a spokeswoman, Suzanne Webb.  Federal Database  Alabama Governor Robert Bentley signed the law broadening
police powers on June 9, following Arizona Governor Jan Brewer
in requiring local authorities to identify illegal immigrants.  The law, which had been set to take effect on Sept. 1, also
requires businesses to use the federal E-Verify database to
determine whether job applicants are eligible for employment.  Alabama was the fifth U.S. state to adopt laws addressing
illegal immigrants, bringing it into conflict with the federal
government, which maintains that only it has the power to do so.  “Setting immigration policy and enforcing immigration laws
is a national responsibility that cannot be addressed through a
patchwork of state emigration laws,” U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said in Aug. 1 press statement announcing the federal
government’s filing of lawsuit challenging the Alabama measure.  Leaders of three Christian denominations representing
338,000 Alabama residents also filed suit, as did the ACLU. All
three cases were consolidated before Blackburn.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and the ACLU argued Aug. 24 at
a nine-hour hearing that federal law preempts the state measure.  Christian Duties  Birmingham attorney Augusta Dowd, arguing on behalf of the
clergy, said the law interfered with carrying out their
Christian duties, which include clothing and feeding of
undocumented immigrants.  “The U.S. is advocating a dramatic and drastic expansion
of power” by claiming the state doesn’t have any jurisdiction
with regard to illegal immigration, Neiman said then.  Most provisions of the state’s law apply to Alabama
citizens and not undocumented immigrants, Neiman said. The state
has a right to police its own citizens and “respect the law,”
he said.  “My job is to decide if this is constitutional,” Blackburn
told lawyers for both sides that day.  Cecillia Wang, the ACLU attorney who argued before the
court on Aug. 24, today said the organization doesn’t view
Blackburn’s decision as a vindication of their position because
she declined to address the legality of the law.  “The order speaks for itself and no one should try to read
into the order which way the judge will rule,” Wang said.  President  Ronald Reagan  granted amnesty to illegal
immigrants in 1986. The U.S. Justice Department declined to
comment on Blackburn’s order, Xochitl Hinojosa, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 5:11-cv-2484, Parsley v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2736, and
U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 