-- 
Kelly Kraft Wins U.S. Amateur Golf Title Over Top-Ranked Patrick Cantlay

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/kelly-kraft-wins-u-s-amateur-golf-title-over-top-ranked-patrick-cantlay.html
Kelly Kraft  beat top-ranked Patrick
Cantlay to win golf’s U.S. Amateur Championship, earning
invitations to three major tournaments in 2012 and a spot on the
U.S. Walker Cup team.  Kraft won the two-round, match-play final by two holes
yesterday at Erin Hills in Erin, Wisconsin.  Kraft, a 22-year-old from Denton,  Texas , is 47th in the
world amateur ranking, 46 places below Cantlay, who finished
21st at the U.S. Open in June. Kraft was cheered on by students
from  Southern Methodist University , where he recently completed
his senior year. He’s the third golfer in 14 years from the
Dallas school to win the top amateur title, joining Hank Kuehne
(1998) and Colt Knost (2007).  “I had all this support out here from everybody,” Kraft
told the Golf Channel in a televised interview “It’s awesome. I
can’t thank them enough.”  So long as they remain amateurs, both finalists have earned
places at next year’s U.S. Open at the Olympic Club in  San
Francisco . Kraft also gained entry to the 2012 British Open, an
invitation to the Masters Tournament and was informed by U.S.
Walker Cup captain Jim Holtgrieve that he made the team of
amateurs that will compete Sept. 10-11 at Royal Aberdeen Golf
Club in Scotland.  “He walked up to me on the green and told me, ‘See ya in
Scotland,’” said Kraft, whose U.S. squad will face a team
comprised of players from  England , Ireland, Northern Ireland,
Scotland and Wales. “I didn’t know what to say. I just won the
tournament and then they told me this. I about had a heart
attack.”  Neck-and-Neck  Kraft was four up after the first 16 holes and led by two
following the first round. The 19-year-old Cantlay, of Los
Alamitos,  California , pulled even after six holes of the second
round and took the lead two holes later.  Kraft tied it with nine to play and it stayed that way
until Cantlay, a sophomore at the University of California Los
Angeles, made a bogey at the 16th hole to give Kraft the lead
for good. Cantlay, who reached the semifinals last year,
conceded defeat after missing his par putt on the 18th green.  Two weeks after finishing as the highest-placed amateur in
the  U.S. Open , Cantlay shot a 60 in the second round of the
Travelers Championship, the lowest score for an amateur on the
U.S. PGA Tour. He finished the event in a tie for 24th place and
tied for 20th at the AT&T National the following week.  “I’m not really thinking about what I did earlier this
summer right now,” Cantlay said. “I learned a lot about myself.
My game’s obviously good enough to compete with anybody and if I
can put in some hard work and just give myself more
opportunities I’ll be right there.”  First played in 1895, the Amateur Championship is the
oldest golf tournament in the U.S. -- by a single day from the
U.S. Open. Past champions include five-time winner Bobby Jones,
 Jack Nicklaus ,  Arnold Palmer ,  Phil Mickelson  and  Tiger Woods ,
who was the youngest winner and claimed the title for a record
third straight year in 1996.  Erin Hills, about 65 miles from Milwaukee, will host the
2017 U.S. Open. Cherry Hills Country Club in Colorado will host
next year’s U.S. Amateur Championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  