-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Slips Most in Three Weeks on New Interbank, Reserve Rules

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-29T10:17:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/kenya-s-shilling-depreciates-the-most-in-almost-three-weeks-against-dollar.html
Kenya ’s shilling depreciated the
most in almost three weeks against the dollar after the central
bank moved to reduce the rate at which lenders borrow funds.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy lost 1.6
percent to 94.33 per dollar by 11:16 a.m. in Nairobi, the
capital, the biggest decline since Aug. 9, when the shilling
reached 95.1. That was the weakest intraday level since March
1994, when the nation abolished exchange controls.  From today, the central bank will include a factor ranging
from zero to one based on “the specific liquidity conditions in
the  interbank market ” when calculating its overnight discount
rate, it said in an Aug. 26  statement  on its website. The bank
will also use a moving average of interbank lending rates over a
longer, unspecified period to work out its overnight borrowing
rate, instead of applying the previous day’s rate. The bank
stopped publishing the rate on Aug. 19.  “Having previously resolved not to publish the discount
rate, the new circular has introduced yet even greater
uncertainty in the market,” Phumelele Mbiyo, an analyst with
Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
today. The bank’s Aug. 12 resolution resulted in lenders not
being “assured that they would be eligible for funds. The new
circular also ensures that on any day banks will not know what
the current discount window rate is, thereby rendering the
current level of the discount rate irrelevant as a potential
anchor for setting interbank rates.”  Rate ‘Penalty’  The bank on Aug. 12 said it would increase the charges for
banks using its overnight window to tighten  money supply  and
shore up depreciation in the shilling, which reached a 17-year
low on Aug. 9 as the cost of importing food and fuel pushed
inflation to 15.5 percent in July, more than triple the bank’s
target.  Average interbank rates leapt to 26.4 percent by Aug. 25,
compared with 8.34 percent before the new rules were introduced.
The bank started applying a  three percentage-point “penalty” 
on the benchmark rate or the  interbank rate , whichever was
higher, on borrowing from its overnight window starting Aug. 15.  The Aug. 26 rules represent a “relaxation of the monetary
stance,” Mbiyo wrote. “With the shilling failing to receive
much support even as the increase in interbank rates became
disorderly, perhaps due to the policy stance being viewed as not
credible by the market, the shilling is likely to depreciate if
interbank rates decline.”  The central bank loosened the requirement regarding the
value of deposits lenders keep in reserves. Banks will need to
maintain the cash-reserve requirement of 4.75 percent over a
monthly rather than daily basis, as long as daily holdings don’t
dip below 3 percent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  