-- 
NASA’s Hansen Arrested Outside White House at Pipeline Protest

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-08-29T20:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/nasa-s-hansen-arrested-outside-white-house-at-pipeline-protest.html
James Hansen , head of NASA’s Goddard
Institute for Space Studies, was arrested outside the White
House as he joined protesters in urging President  Barack Obama 
to reject  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $7 billion pipeline.  Before he was taken into custody today, Hansen took a
megaphone and implored Obama to act “for the sake of your
children and grandchildren.”  “If Obama chooses the dirty needle it will confirm that
the president was just green-washing all along,” Hansen, 70,
who took a vacation day from his  job  at the  New York  based
institute to participate in the protest, said in an e-mailed
statement.  A State Department  report  last week said that the pipeline
across six U.S. states to carry oil from Alberta,  Canada , to the
Gulf Coast has low environmental risks provided TransCanada
complies with U.S. law and follows recommended safeguards. A
final decision will be made by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  this year, based on whether the project is in the U.S.
national interest.  Environmentalists  oppose the project, citing greenhouse-gas
emissions and risks of a spill along the 1,711-mile (4,346-
kilometer) route. Alberta oil is separated from sand and clay in
a process that uses intense heat, releasing more greenhouse
gases than pumping conventional crude.  The protest isn’t the first for Hansen, who was among
scientists raising concerns about global warming in testimony to
Congress in 1988. He was arrested in 2009 at a West Virginia
coal mine, and issued a  call  in 2008 for executives at oil and
coal companies to “be tried for high crimes against humanity
and nature.”  Hansen was arrested today with 142 other activists. He was
released from police custody within a few hours, according to
Matt Leonard, a protest organizer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ; 