-- 
New York’s Morning Commute to Be ‘Tough’ After Irene, Mayor Bloomberg Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-08-29T00:59:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/new-york-s-morning-commute-to-be-tough-after-irene-mayor-bloomberg-says.html
“It’s fair to say you’re going to
have a tough commute in the morning,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg
warned  New York  City commuters today at a news conference
describing the aftermath of Tropical Storm Irene.  “There’s taxis, and some people can walk,” Bloomberg
suggested.  Irene struck New York City with winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) an hour, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in
a special advisory. A storm surge of 3.8 feet was reported at
New York Harbor and total water levels of 8.6 feet, or moderate-
state flooding, were reported at Battery Park City in lower
 Manhattan  before receding, the center said.  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which operates
bus and commuter lines in and around New York suspended all
service yesterday as Irene approached. MTA  began  today to resume
limited service on bus routes in  New York City , an MTA advisory
said.  New York City subway service will resume at 6 a.m.
tomorrow, although trains will run less frequently and be more
crowded than normal, according to a statement from the office of
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo . The Staten Island Railway will
resume normal service tonight at midnight.  Commuter rail service in and out of the area is being
assessed for damage before a service return schedule is set. MTA
said its workers are walking the tracks to inspect them.  “All we have to do is run down the preliminary assessment
of what’s happening with our services,” MTA Chairman  Jay Walder 
said at the news conference he shared with Bloomberg, the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP. The timing on “restoration of services will be made after
these assessments are completed,” Walder said.  All MTA bridges and tunnels were opened late today.  Metro-North Hardest Hit  A decision made before the storm arrived “to get the buses
out of harm’s way means the equipment is fine,” Walder said.  MTA’s train system may have sustained the most damage,
Walder said.  Metro-North Railroad, the train line fanning out across the
lower portion of New York state and into  Connecticut  has had
widespread flooding, mudslides, and fallen trees hampering the
 New Haven ,  New Canaan , Hudson, and Harlem lines, said Marjorie Anders, a Metro-North spokeswoman.  Water covered the rails and was touching the electrified
third rail at the Valhalla, Cortland and Ossining stations, she
said. The track was washed out on the Port Jervis line between
the Otisville and Middletown stations, she said.  Trees are blocking the tracks at several locations along
the Long Island Railroad and some portions of the system are
flooded, MTA said.  No Game Train  New Jersey Transit Corp. isn’t operating any buses, rail or
light rail trains today, although will resume a “modified
schedule” tomorrow, the agency said on its website. “Rail
service will remain suspended until further notice,” except for
the Atlantic City line, the advisory said.  Some NJTC rail stations are flooded and downed trees are
blocking the tracks at several locations.  There will be no service the Meadowlands Sports Complex for
tomorrow’s  National Football League  game between the  New York
Giants  and the  New York Jets .  The system’s light rail and river lines will each operate
according to the schedules normally used on weekends, NJTC said.  The  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey  said it would
resume rail service in New Jersey and New York City at 4 a.m.
tomorrow. The bi-state agency also said Hudson River crossings
and Staten Island bridges are in full operation and collecting
tolls.  Airports to Open  Newark Liberty and New York’s John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia
airports were closed by the authority as the region braced for
Irene’s arrival. The airports form the busiest U.S. aviation
market, with 104 million travelers in 2010.  JFK and Newark airports will open to arriving flights at 6
a.m. tomorrow with departures set to resume at noon.  LaGuardia
Airport will reopen to both arrivals and departures at 7 a.m.
tomorrow, the authority said in a statement.  The U.S. Coast Guard eased restrictions on operations
within the Port of New York and New Jersey after Irene neared
the U.S.-Canada border.  The port is open to all commercial traffic and ocean-going
vessels, which will begin entering the harbor tonight, according
to a statement from the Coast Guard. The Staten Island Ferry
resumed operations at 3 p.m. today, it said.  Amtrak  said it will operate “most” regional trains
between Philadelphia and  Washington , D.C., starting tomorrow,
although service between Boston and Philadelphia is canceled
because of flooding, power issues and debris on rail tracks.  Acela Express service between Boston and Washington is also
canceled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  