-- 
New York Local Government Leads Record Low Weekly Issuance: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-08-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/new-york-local-government-leads-record-low-weekly-issuance-muni-credit.html
New York Local Government Assistance
Corp.,  State of New York Mortgage Agency  and Tampa,  Florida ,
lead $1.45 billion of municipal bond sales, marking the slowest
week before Labor Day in at least eight years.  Tax-exempt issuers are less likely to add transactions to
this week’s calendar because of Hurricane Irene and the Sept. 5
Labor Day holiday, said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at the Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
in a telephone interview.  “We’re going to have probably one of the weakest calendars
we’ve had in years,” said Howard Mackey, president of the
broker-dealer division at New York-based  Rice Financial Products
Co.  “I think a lot of traders, sales people and customers are
in Labor Day mode.”  A slowing economic recovery is forcing borrowers to
reconsider plans for bond sales, Schankel said. This week’s
scheduled sales are the fewest since Bloomberg began compiling
its index of weekly issuance in 2003.  “The hurricane will limit the opportunity to add deals to
the calendar at the last minute,” Schankel said. “That
atmosphere of volatility gives issuers a lot of hesitancy.
There’s very little chance that there will be anything
significant.”  Three Deals Lead  Tampa, Florida’s third most-populous city, is hoping to
take advantage of year-low  interest rates . The Gulf Coast
community is one of three borrowers scheduled to sell more than
$100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Aug. 26.  Tampa is offering $128.9 million of water and sewer system
improvement and refunding bonds through banks led by Wells
Fargo. New York’s Local Government Assistance Corp. is scheduled
to take bids tomorrow on $191.2 million of revenue bonds. The
 New York State Mortgage Agency , known as Sonny Mae, is scheduled
to sell about $150 million of refunding debt.  Local Government Assistance will refinance obligations and
pay the costs of unwinding interest-rate swaps tied to old
bonds, according to a preliminary offering statement.  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt were 2.2
percent Aug. 26, below the year-to-date average of 2.9 percent,
and higher than the 2.17 percent low for 2011 on Aug. 23. Yields
on top-rated 30-year tax-exempts Aug. 26 were 3.85 percent,
following a year-to-date low of 3.82 percent Aug. 23.  Tampa Retail Pricing  Tampa plans to set yields for individual investors tomorrow
and institutional buyers Aug. 31, said Sonya Little, chief
financial officer for the city. About $14 million of the issue
is money for new projects, $43 million to refinance short-term
debt and $74.4 million will refinance parts of Series 2001A and
2001B fixed-rate debt.  The refinancing is expected to provide a present-value
savings of about 5 percent in debt service, Little said. Present
value is the discounted value of savings in current dollars over
a period of time. The city is watching market movement for other
possible refinancings, she said.  “The interest-rate environment is such that we can
generate savings by doing the refunding,” said Little. “The
timing was also good to take out the short-term notes.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  FULTON COUNTY, GEORGIA, which encompasses Atlanta and is
the state’s most populous county, will sell $257.6 million of
water and sewer revenue refunding bonds as soon as next week.
Previous water and sewer bonds are rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its fourth-highest grade. Citigroup Inc. is
the senior manager of the sale. (Added Aug. 26)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  