-- 
No Need to Panic Over China Local Government Debt, NDRC Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T06:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/no-need-to-panic-over-china-local-government-debt-ndrc-says-1-.html
There’s no need to “panic” about
risks in the debt of  China ’s local government financing vehicles,
the National Development and Reform Commission said today.  China is unlikely to see a default in government debt, Xu Lin, head of the department of fiscal and financial affairs at
the NDRC, the nation’s top economic planning agency, said in a
question-and-answer posting on its website today. Total debts
held by central and local authorities are less than 50 percent
of the nation’s gross domestic product, “far lower” than the
debt levels seen in European countries and the U.S, Xu said.  Local governments in China, barred from directly selling
bonds and taking bank loans, have set up thousands of financing
vehicles to raise money to fund investment in roads, sewage
plants and subways. A report by the nation’s audit office in
June that more than 6,576 local government financing vehicles
had outstanding debt of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) has
raised concerns that many won’t be able to pay back their
borrowings.  China’s rapid economic growth has left the government in a
strong fiscal position, Xu said. “Of course, this does not mean
the government can borrow uncontrollably,” he said. “The key
is to control the investment and debt within reasonable limits,
to prevent systemic repayment risks.”  In the light of widening government debt problems in the
U.S. and  Europe , China should strengthen monitoring over
government debt, he said.  ‘Most Transparent’  As much as 30 percent of lending to local governments may
go sour and become the biggest contributor to banks’ bad debts,
 Standard & Poor’s  estimated in April. The Ministry of Finance
said on Aug. 15 that the debt is controllable.  Bonds issued by companies set up by local authorities are
the “most transparent” and have the “strictest issuance
conditions” among all kinds of borrowing by local government
vehicles, and it’s not necessary to be bearish about them, he
said. Recent concern in the markets about the bonds and doubts
about repayment are “unnecessary,” he said.  The commission gives approval for corporate bond issuance
in China, including most of the debt sold by local government
financing vehicles. It doesn’t let local governments with debts
of more than 100 percent of fiscal revenue sell bonds, he said.  -- Henry Sanderson , Li Yanping. Editors:  Shelley Smith , Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  