-- 
No U.S. Recession on ’Bullish’ Market: Mobius

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T09:22:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/no-u-s-recession-on-bullish-bernanke-mobius.html
The  U.S. economy  will avoid a
recession and  China ’s yuan will be a “major force” as a
reserve currency in five years, predicted Templeton Asset
Management’s  Mark Mobius .  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s speech in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming last week signaled that the central bank
has enough policy tools to support growth if needed, according
to Mobius, who oversees about $50 billion as executive chairman
of Templeton’s emerging markets group. He spoke in an interview
with Bloomberg News ahead of a speech to journalists in  Hong
Kong .  Bernanke is “not going to preside over a severe economic
downturn if he can help it,” Mobius said in the interview.
“We’re not going to see a recession. He’s still got policy
tools available.”  The Fed chairman’s Aug. 26 talk echoed comments from
dissenting members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who said
data aren’t pointing to a recession. He also said that a second
day has been added to the next FOMC meeting in September to
“allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s
possible response.  The Chinese government will likely accelerate efforts to
internationalize the yuan, Mobius said during a talk at the
Foreign Correspondents’ Club. The yuan rose 0.09 percent to
6.3810 per dollar as of 3:42 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The currency gained to 6.3804 earlier, the strongest level
since the country unified the official and market exchange rates
at the end of 1993.  ‘Hot Spots’  Mobius said he increased purchases of Thai stocks as global
equities tumbled. The MSCI World Index has lost 10 percent in
August, compared with a 6.8 percent drop in the SET Index,
 Thailand ’s benchmark equity gauge.  “Looking at Southeast Asia, it’s Thailand and Indonesia,”
he said. “Those are the hot spots where we can find good
opportunities and we’ve seen currency appreciation. This
downturn has given us the opportunity to buy more in Thailand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  