-- 
Noda Faces Short Honeymoon in Drive to Increase Taxes After Succeeding Kan

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-08-30T04:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/noda-elected-leader-of-japan-ruling-party-to-succeed-kan-as-prime-minister.html
Yoshihiko Noda becomes  Japan ’s sixth
leader in five years, seeking a consensus to raise taxes to pay
for rebuilding from the March earthquake and nuclear disaster
and reduce the world’s largest debt. He’s unlikely to get it.  The lower house of parliament elected Noda prime minister
today after the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  yesterday chose
him to succeed  Naoto Kan . As Kan’s finance minister, Noda
advocated an increase in levies to help finance disaster
reconstruction, something opposed by his challengers in the race.  The DPJ’s split over funding will test the political skills
of a five-term lawmaker who built his reputation by meeting with
constituents at local train stations every weekday for a
quarter-century. At stake for the world’s third-largest economy
is paying for rebuilding without sacrificing investor confidence
in the nation’s creditworthiness.  “I don’t think he’s going to get much of a honeymoon,”
said  Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at Tokyo’s
 Sophia University . “Noda will get a bump in the polls, but the
external conditions remain hostile and there are divisions over
what to do about the economy.”  Government reports today showing rising unemployment and
falling retail sales served as reminders to the challenges he
faces. The jobless rate rose to 4.7 percent and payrolls fell by
40,000 in July from June, while retail sales slid 0.3 percent.  Situation ‘Severe’  Speaking today after Kan’s last Cabinet meeting, Noda said
he wants to pass a third post-disaster stimulus plan quickly.
Japan’s fiscal situation is “severe,” and the country can’t
postpone revamping the tax and social welfare system, he said.  Investors reacted positively to Noda’s victory on
speculation he’ll pursue fiscal changes needed to deal with a
debt of about 200 percent of gross domestic product.  Japan’s bonds were little changed after rising yesterday,
when 10-year yields dropped two basis points to 1.010 percent.
Stocks rose for a fourth day, with the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
adding 1.3 percent. The yen was unchanged at 76.88 per dollar.  “Global investors are wondering about the sustainability
of Japan’s finances,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former  Bank of Japan 
official. “Noda is a much better pick compared with other
candidates in terms of fiscal discipline. The results may be
favorable to the Japanese  bond market .”  Early Struggles  Noda, 54, is the DPJ’s third leader since it took power two
years ago. He defeated Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  in a runoff
after former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , whom polls showed
was the preferred choice, was rejected on the first ballot.  The grandson of farmers, Noda recalled yesterday in his
speech to legislators before the vote that his parents were too
poor to pay for their wedding reception. He himself at one point
couldn’t afford clothes for his young children, he said. He
compared his appearance to that of a loach fish, a freshwater
bottom-feeder.  “My approval ratings may not rise as prime minister,”
Noda said. “But I will work and sweat to push down-to-earth
politics.” At a press conference later, he said “there are
issues of timing” in deciding which taxes to increase, adding
he will wait for a government panel to release recommendations.  His selection comes less than a week after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Japan’s credit rating one step to Aa3,
citing political instability and “weak” prospects for economic
growth that will make it difficult for the government to contain
its debt burden.  S&P’s View  Standard & Poor’s  is unlikely for now to change its outlook
for Japan’s credit rating following Noda’s election, said
 Takahira Ogawa , director of sovereign ratings at the company in
 Singapore .  “The key will be how long the new Noda administration
lasts, and whether Noda will change his views as prime minister
from when he was finance minister,” Ogawa said.  A fan of combat sports, including boxing and wrestling,
Noda had no senior cabinet experience when he became the
youngest finance minister in two decades in June 2010. He served
as deputy finance minister starting in September 2009, when the
DPJ took office. Like predecessor Kan and unlike Japan’s four
previous leaders, he is not a descendant of a previous prime
minister.  Along with inheriting an economy that’s shrunk for three
straight quarters, Noda faces the challenge of rebuilding
support for a party that has seen its poll ratings eroded by
political infighting amid the nation’s deepest postwar crisis.  No Retreat  Noda said in an Aug. 28 candidate debate that the DPJ had
let the country down, and called for honoring Kan’s proposal to
raise taxes to pay for reconstruction and shore up the welfare
system. He said on Aug. 13 that there should be no retreat from
a pledge to double the  sales tax  to 10 percent by the middle of
the decade.  “Noda is the most aggressive about tax increases among the
candidates, so his win would fuel expectations that fiscal
reforms will progress,” said Kenichi Kawasaki, senior political
analyst at Nomura Securities Co. in  Tokyo .  The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($248 billion)
over the next five years to rebuild from the earthquake and
tsunami that left 20,000 people dead or missing and devastated
the country’s northeast. Included in the total is 6 trillion yen
from two supplementary budgets enacted under Kan.  Policy makers have also faced a strengthening currency
that’s given companies an incentive to shift jobs and production
overseas. Noda has overseen three interventions in the market in
the past year to address the yen’s appreciation. It has risen
about 19 percent against the dollar since Kan took office in
June last year, reaching a postwar record of 75.95 on Aug. 19.  Restoring Public Faith  Noda, Japan’s  31st  prime minister since World War II, will
have to restore public faith in a party that hasn’t lived up to
campaign pledges to address the challenges of an aging society.
Earlier legislation scaled back subsidies for childcare and the
party failed to overhaul welfare spending.  The DPJ’s support was at 21 percent, according to a Yomiuri
newspaper poll published yesterday. The opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , which governed for half a century before being
ousted by the Democrats in 2009, got 23 percent, while 46
percent of the public supported no party. The paper polled 1,055
voters Aug. 27 and 28 and didn’t provide a margin of error.  “As to whether the public feels the government change two
years ago was good or bad, we’re standing at a cliff,” Noda
said on Aug. 28.  Kan, 64, announced his resignation last week, hurt by
public discontent with his handling of the temblor and the
nuclear meltdown that followed it at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
power plant.  Noda will be the first prime minister who attended the
Matsushita Institute of Government and Management, established
in 1979 by  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  founder Konosuke Matsushita to raise
a new generation of leaders.  A native of Chiba prefecture east of Tokyo, Noda went to
his neighborhood train station every weekday to discuss his
policies with constituents until he became finance minister last
year.  “Noda was the most stable and steady of the candidates,”
said  Yasunori Sone , a political science professor at Tokyo’s
 Keio University . “He may be able to gain approval over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  