-- 
NYSE Euronext Weighed Arca Contingency Plan as Irene Headed for Northeast

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-08-29T14:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/nyse-euronext-weighed-arca-contingency-plan-as-irene-headed-for-northeast.html
As market officials told the public
last week they planned to open after Hurricane Irene, the  New
York  Stock Exchange worked on contingency plans that would have
moved its trading to an electronic venue.  NYSE Euronext prepared to invoke emergency authority it got
in 2009 to declare its electronic exchange, NYSE Arca, the
stand-in for the New York Stock Exchange,  Richard Adamonis , a
spokesman, said in a phone interview. The NYSE market would have
remained open with trades processed through the Arca platform,
which would have been designated the official NYSE exchange.  “NYSE would remain open with the contingency in place,”
Adamonis said. “Effectively, Arca becomes NYSE and it operates
under Arca rules.”  No such action was necessary. U.S. stock markets and the
Securities and Exchange Commission decided yesterday to open
after Irene, once a Category 3 hurricane, was downgraded to a
tropical storm that produced less damage and flooding in
 Manhattan  than anticipated. Should markets have closed, it would
have been the first shutdown due to weather since 1985.  NYSE received powers in December 2009 allowing it to let
Arca operate on its behalf “in the event that an emergency
condition prevents the NYSE from operating normally,”  according
to the rule , which the SEC approved. NYSE’s Rule 49, which has
never been invoked, says the declaration must be necessary for
the securities markets to continue to operate.  NYSE Shares  “If we can open here but none of our customers can get to
their desks, it really doesn’t make a lot of sense to open the
exchange,” Louis Pastina, senior vice president for  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Aug. 26.  Should the NYSE trading floor be closed, Arca would handle
transactions in listed NYSE shares and run the opening and
closing auction process used to set the equity prices at the
start and end of the day, Pastina said in an Aug. 26 phone
interview. Arca, which doesn’t rely on human traders, matches
orders in all U.S. equities. NYSE handles buy and sell requests
only in companies it lists.  NYSE Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global Markets
and Direct Edge Holdings LLC opened for business today, a day
after Irene passed through New York.  The decision to declare Arca the primary market in NYSE’s
stead would have been made by NYSE Euronext Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer , the CEO of NYSE Regulation or one of
their designees, according to a NYSE Regulation  information memo 
from March 2010.  Dow Prices  The owner of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  was ready if
NYSE declared Arca would match orders on its behalf, John Prestbo, executive director of Dow Jones Indexes, said in a
phone interview on Aug. 26. The index provider planned to
compute the level of the benchmark gauge for the 27 stocks
listed on NYSE using prices supplied by Arca, he said.  All except three constituents of the Dow including Armonk,
New York-based International Business Machines Corp. and Johnson
& Johnson in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , list their shares on
NYSE, with that exchange’s prices used through the decades to
tally the DJIA level, Prestbo said. Dow Jones Indexes is 90
percent owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which trades equity index
futures on its Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  “Our systems are flexible enough that we could take other
incoming prices,” Prestbo said. “If there’s trading in the Dow
stocks going on, the Dow would be calculated. If NYSE declares a
designated substitute, that would make it the primary market.”  Proportional Shares  NYSE traded 23.5 percent of total U.S. volume in companies
listed on its market last month, while Arca’s portion of those
stocks was 10.4 percent and Nasdaq Stock Market’s was 14.2
percent, data compiled by Barclays Plc showed. About 55 percent
of U.S. shares traded are in New York Stock Exchange companies.
Nasdaq, NYSE Amex and NYSE Arca also list shares.  NYSE’s contingency plan designating Arca as operating on
its behalf “would have presented unique challenges, but people
were ready to execute” on the plan, Chris Isaacson, chief
operating officer at rival Bats Global Markets, based in Lenexa,
 Kansas , said in a phone interview yesterday.  “Bids and offers entered pursuant to NYSE Rule 49 would be
deemed to be bids and offers of the NYSE,” the exchange said in
the  SEC filing . Transactions in NYSE companies on the Arca
exchange would also be considered New York Stock Exchange
trades, it said. They would get the traditional “N” tags used
for shares that change hands on NYSE. Arca trades are identified
by the letter “P.”  Arca Rules  While Arca would function on behalf of the parent company’s
more-famous exchange, its rules and policies would hold sway.
NYSE’s designated market makers would lose their current status
and operate under Arca’s rules, according to the NYSE filing.
NYSE and Arca employ different ways of prioritizing and matching
buy and sell orders.  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services at New York-based  Nasdaq  OMX, said in a phone interview
on Aug. 27 that the exchanges expected to act in concert in
deciding whether markets would open.  After the terrorist attacks that destroyed the World Trade
Center on Sept. 11, 2001, the exchanges “spent a great deal of
time getting ready and building emergency disaster recovery-type
functionality” aimed at allowing markets to remain open, Noll
said. “The markets are international. Being able to be open and
functioning is important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  