-- 
Princeton’s Krueger, Jobs-Credit Advocate, Picked as Obama’s Top Economist

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-08-29T20:48:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/obama-said-to-choose-princeton-s-krueger-for-council-of-economic-advisers.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
nominating Alan Krueger, a labor economist who has advocated for
a hiring tax credit for businesses and increased infrastructure
spending, to lead the White House  Council of Economic Advisers .  Obama said Krueger will play a central role in developing
policies to spur faster economic growth. The president said
he’ll announce a package of proposals next week to boost hiring.  “Our great ongoing challenge as a nation remains how to
get this economy growing faster,” Obama said at the White
House. “Our challenge is to create a climate where more
businesses can post job listings, where folks can find good work
that relieves the financial burden they’re feeling, where
families can regain a sense of economic security.”  The nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. Krueger,
50, would replace  Austan Goolsbee , who left the administration
earlier this month to return to teaching at the  University of
Chicago . Krueger, who received his Ph.D from Harvard in 1987,
has been at  Princeton University  since last November after
serving as the Treasury Department’s chief economist for two
years.  Krueger would help remake Obama’s economic team ahead of
next year’s re-election campaign as the president seeks to lower
the 9.1 percent unemployment rate.  Jobs Tax Credit  “I favor the idea of having a new jobs tax credit,”
Krueger said in a July 1 interview with Bloomberg radio. “If
companies increase their payroll by an employee, they could get
a $5,000  tax cut  to offset their additional hiring costs.”  “Eventually, companies reach a point where they are so
lean they do need to hire more,” he said. “But they also need
to be more confident that demand will be there for their goods
and services.”  Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton economist and former member of
Obama’s economic advisers’ council, called Krueger “an inspired
choice” by the president.  “He is probably best known for his work on the economic
benefits of schooling and the impact of school quality on
student outcomes, the impact of the minimum wage on employment,
and more recently on measures of individual well-being including
among the unemployed,” Rouse said in an e-mail.  The  Republican National Committee  criticized Krueger,
saying in a statement that he favored raising taxes and was
“wrong” in assessing the stimulus passed in 2009 had helped
turn the economy around.  Team Revamped  Krueger would be Obama’s third CEA chairman in as many
years, joining an economic team that has been almost entirely
revamped in Obama’s first term. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  is the only member of Obama’s original core economic
advisers who remains in the administration.  The president’s first council leader,  Christina Romer ,
returned to teaching at the  University of California  at Berkeley
last September. National Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers  and Office of Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag  left the administration last year. Summers returned to
 Harvard University  and Orszag is now vice chairman of global
banking at Citigroup Inc.  As chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Krueger’s
salary would be $191,300 a year. In his last full year as a
professor at Princeton, Krueger made $369,807, according to his
 financial disclosure  report.  Consulting and Speeches  Krueger supplemented that income with consulting, board
memberships and speeches, including $7,000 from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  for a speech in June 2008. As council chairman,
Krueger would again be working with NEC director  Gene Sperling ,
who left Treasury earlier this year to replace Summers and also
drew money from Goldman before joining the administration,
earning $887,727 for advice on that company’s charitable giving.  At Treasury, Krueger worked on the administration’s first
stimulus package, tax credits for businesses and the Build
America Bond program. As an academic, his work has focused on
the labor market, including studies on long-term unemployment,
which will be one of the issues Obama plans to address in his
jobs speech next week.  Obama will release his jobs plan shortly after the Sept. 5
Labor Day holiday. The president intends to press Congress for
billions of dollars in spending to reduce unemployment as he
also pursues a compromise on long-term deficit cuts.  Jobs Proposal  The proposal will be for “a series of steps that Congress
can take immediately to put more money in the pockets of working
families and middle-class families to make it easier for small
businesses to hire people to put construction crews to work
rebuilding our nation’s roads and railways and airports and all
the other measures that can help to grow this economy,” Obama
said today. The measure should draw bipartisan support, he said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the time and
place for Obama’s address hasn’t been set. It will include
proposals that Obama previously has backed, he said. Those
include extending that temporary cut in employee payroll taxes
and worker retraining programs.  The administration also is set to release its mid-year
budget review this week with projections on growth, unemployment
and the deficit.  Krueger has “not had any role” in shaping the president’s
proposals, Carney said.  Obama’s Popularity  The jobless rate and sluggish growth have driven down
Obama’s popularity. Disapproval of the way he’s handling the
presidency hit a new high of 55 percent in an Aug. 25-27 daily
tracking poll by Gallup. His approval rating was 38 percent,
tying a low.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg puts the  unemployment rate  at 8.2 percent in the third
quarter of next year.  In March, Krueger predicted the jobless rate wouldn’t
increase, as some economists have suggested, as workers feel
more confident about employment and seek full time jobs.  “I suspect a large rise in the  labor force  won’t cause the
unemployment rate to jump,” he wrote on March 30, when the
jobless rate was 8.8 percent, in a Bloomberg opinion piece.
“Instead, I suspect we’re going to see a continuing decline in
the unemployment rate, though there surely will be some blips
along the way.”  That statement was among those cited by the RNC today in
its criticism of Krueger.  Debt Debate  During the debate on the debt ceiling this summer, he
argued that businesses were looking for certainty from the
political process to start hiring. He also called for patience
on the economic recovery and made the case for additional
infrastructure spending.  “The recovery does just take time,” he said in the July 1
interview. “There are some things the government can do that
would also help, like investing in infrastructure.”  “That would help to reduce unemployment among construction
workers and could lead to an increase in consumption and
possible raise confidence and would raise productivity in the
future,” he said.  The three-member  Council of Economic Advisers  was created
by Congress in 1946 to advise the president on preparation of
the White House economic report and to analyze the interaction
between economic trends and developments and administration
policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  