-- 
Oil Near 2-Week High as Spending Counters Forecast Supply Gain

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-08-30T07:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/oil-rises-from-one-week-high-in-new-york-after-u-s-consumer-spending-gain.html
Oil traded near the highest in
almost two weeks in  New York  as signs of a strengthening U.S.
economy countered speculation that crude stockpiles are
increasing in the world’s biggest consumer of the commodity.  West Texas Intermediate, the main grade traded in New York,
fluctuated before an Energy Department report tomorrow that may
show U.S. inventories climbed last week. Oil rose earlier after
a Commerce Department report said  consumer spending  increased
more than forecast in July. Prices also gained as refineries
returned to normal rates after Hurricane Irene passed.  “With the improvement in consumer spending in the U.S.,
one would perhaps think that there may be a glimmer of hope in
confidence returning,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at
Fat Prophets in Sydney, who predicts crude in New York will
average $115 a barrel this year. “All avenues still point to
the price of West Texas and Brent probably moving higher.”  Crude for October delivery was at $87.34 a barrel, up 7
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 5:28 p.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday climbed $1.90,
or 2.2 percent, to $87.27, the highest settlement since Aug. 17.
Prices have gained 17 percent the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement gained 49 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $112.37 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $24.99 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures,
compared with a record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Consumer Spending  The Commerce Department report showed U.S. consumer
spending in July climbed 0.8 percent, the biggest gain since
February. The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.5 percent increase.  PBF Energy Partners LP returned its Paulsboro,  New Jersey 
and Delaware City, Delaware refineries to normal rates,
according to an Energy Department website. ConocoPhillips may
attempt to start an alkylation unit at its 238,000 barrel-a-day
Bayway plant in New Jersey today after shutting the refinery
because of Irene, according to a person familiar with the
plant’s operations.  Buckeye Partners LP said operations on its pipelines to
Auburn and  Brooklyn , New York, resumed and deliveries to
Buffalo, New York, are scheduled to start today. Deliveries to
John F. Kennedy and LaGuardia airports in  New York City  from
storage in Linden, New Jersey, will begin as inventory levels
allow, the Houston-based company said in a bulletin to shippers
yesterday.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude-oil inventories may have climbed by 875,000
barrels last week as refineries cut operating rates in
preparation for Irene and the government released barrels from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, according to the median of
eight analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The release of emergency stockpiles is almost complete. The
department delivered 25.58 million barrels of oil from July 17
to Aug. 28, according to a statement on its website. The
supplies are part of a 30.64 million-barrel sale to companies in
cooperation with the Paris-based  International Energy Agency ,
which sought to counter lost Libyan output from the conflict
between rebels and the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi .  The Energy Department report will show gasoline stockpiles
fell 900,000 barrels last week, according to the survey.
Distillate-fuel inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, probably increased 900,000 barrels.  Force Majeure  The CME Group Inc. declared a force majeure for heating oil
shipments into New York for August because of Hurricane Irene,
the company said in a statement yesterday. The legal clause
allows companies to miss scheduled shipments because of
circumstances beyond their control. Heating oil futures today
climbed 79 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $3.0181 a gallon.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 12 percent in the week ended Aug. 23, according
to data from ICE Futures  Europe . Speculative bets that prices
will rise, in futures and options combined, outnumbered short
positions by 43,489 contracts, the London-based exchange said
yesterday in its weekly Commitment of Traders report. Net-long
positions fell by 6,119 contracts from 49,608 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  