-- 
Lojas Renner Rises to Six-Week High on Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-29T20:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/lojas-renner-rises-to-seven-week-high-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Lojas Renner SA,  Brazil ’s biggest
publicly-traded clothing retailer, rose to its highest price in
six weeks after the government said it will curb spending to
help give the central bank room to lower interest rates.  Shares advanced 4 percent in  Sao Paulo  to 58.25 reais at
4:15 p.m. New York time, the highest price since July 13. The
Bovespa index gained 2.8 percent.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today that Brazil plans
to halt a rise in  government spending  this year, prompting
speculation the central bank may eventually lower interest
rates. Consumer stocks rallied one day before the start of Banco
Central do Brasil’s policy meeting.  “All of the companies in these sectors -- consumer, retail
-- are doing well because the expectation now is that the
government will cut  interest rates ,” Caue Pinheiro, an analyst
at SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo, said by phone. “We don’t know
when they’ll cut, of course, but the expectation now is for a
cut, which is benefitting these stocks.”  Pinheiro rates Lojas Renner shares “buy,” and has a 12-
month target price of 68.39 reais. Porto Alegre-based Lojas
Renner reported a 25 percent increase in second-quarter net
income to 113 million reais ($71 million).  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
Brazil’s biggest retailer, gained 4.3 percent to 61 reais, while
Marisa Lojas SA, a Brazilian apparel retailer, advanced 8
percent to 22.90 reais.  The government raised its 2011 surplus target for its
budget before interest payments to 91 billion reais ($57
billion) from 82 billion reais, Mantega said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  