-- 
Tombstone, Broken Glass Show You Can Make Wine Even in Arizona

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-08-29T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/tombstone-broken-glass-wines-survive-searing-arizona-heat-john-mariani.html
I learned two things by staying in
my room at The Hermosa Inn to avoid the 107 degrees Fahrenheit
temperature outside in Scottsdale,  Arizona . First, daytime TV is
much worse than I imagined. Second, a bottle of Arizona wine
will help you get through it till dinner.  Of course, it is surprising that Arizona makes wine at all,
given the withering heat and arid conditions. In fact, the state
has 45 federally bonded and licensed wineries, many with fine
western names like Tombstone, Bitter Creek and Broken Glass.  While Spanish missionaries made wine here in the 18th
century, modern viticulture with European vinifera grapes like
chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon and grenache only started in 1973
in Sonoita.  Today there’s even an Arizona Vines & Wines quarterly
magazine, whose current edition concentrates on Arizona women
involved in the industry, including Deb Wahl of  Oak Creek
Vineyards & Winery , which produces 1,500 cases a year of
zinfandel, syrah, merlot and chardonnay. Wahl says she moved to
Sedona after 9/11, looking for “somewhere quieter, somewhere
safe to raise my son.”  There are three wine trails to tour, Verde Valley northeast
of Phoenix, Sonoita south of Tucson, and Wilcox southeast of
Tucson. They are all in high desert, at elevations between 3,800
and 6,000 feet -- similar to those of Mendoza,  Chile  -- where
temperatures are 20 to 30 degrees lower than in Phoenix and
Scottsdale. Even so, the few bottles sent out of state, sold via
the Internet, can only be shipped in cooler months.  ‘Arizona Red’  The wine I drank in my room was a  Page Springs Cellars  Vino
del Barrio 2009 ($15). This family-owned winery is just 15
minutes south of Sedona, with a tasting room and weekly tours.
Labeled simply “Arizona Red Wine,” it is a reserve blend of
the winery’s best barrels and varietals.  At a friendly 13.6 percent alcohol, it has a grapey flavor
and an undercurrent of sweetness that would be very good at an
Arizona pork barbecue or with soy sauce-based dishes. A wine
like this loves salt and sweetness.  One night, when the temperature dropped to the chilly 90s,
I went to  FnB , one of Scottsdale’s most popular new restaurants,
where Chef-owner Charleen Badman and partner-sommelier Pavle
Milic are committed to introducing guests to the breadth of
Arizona wines.  The ebullient Milic, who kept calling me “My dear sir,”
arrayed flights of Arizona bottlings that were all clean and
well made, the reds tending to be dense and very full-bodied.  Blind Tasting  “In a blind tasting of red wines from Arizona, California
and  Europe , this wine won out over a Chateau Lynch-Bages, my
dear sir,” he said as he poured a  Keeling-Schaefer  Three
Sisters Syrah 2008 (about $18).  I asked who did the tasting, and he said chefs and wine
experts. I wasn’t entirely surprised. Big, dense reds tend to
dominate more refined Bordeaux in tastings.  Still, the Keeling-Schafer, made “on the western slope of
the Chiricahua Mountains,” was very good -- rich but not
cloying -- and went well with smoky items on FnB’s menu like
lamb tenderloin with summer tabouli, mint and pomegranate.  I also enjoyed a 2008  Dos Cabezas  Toscano Red Blend ($24)
from Cochise County, a mix of sangiovese, cabernet sauvignon and
cabernet franc, which was nice and loose and pretty velvety on
the palate, with a strong finish.  Owned by Todd and Kelly Bostock since 1995, the winery
moved to Sonoita in 2003 and now makes 3,000 cases of wines a
year. At an alcohol level above 15 percent, however, more than
one glass of the Dos Cabezas might require a designated driver
for the night.  Back Lot Blend  As the scent of a mesquite grill floated in the air of the
restaurant, I tried a  Callaghan  “Back Lot” Red Blend 2008
($25) from Cochise County, an unusual combination of mourvedre
and zinfandel that had the flavors of deep cherry and a hint of
chocolate.  My favorite of the whites, “Ann’s Blend” ($22) from the
same winery, was an outstanding accomplishment made with 45
percent grenache blanc, 35 percent verdelho and 20 percent
symphony (a hybrid of muscat and grenache blanc created at the
University of  California  Davis).  Kent Callaghan’s winery started in 1990, the year Phoenix’s
Shy Harbor Airport was shut down by a 120-degree heat wave. Even
at 4,800 feet in Callaghan’s vineyards up in Elgin the
temperature rose to 105, killing thousands of his vines. He
replanted with hearty varietals that could take the high
temperature during the day and the cool desert nights.  Next time I’m in Arizona, I hope it will be in winter. I’ll
light a fire, watch the steaks grilling, pop the cork on an
Arizona wine and wait for the moon to rise over Cochise County.  (John Mariani writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 