-- 
Hon Hai’s Net Income Misses Analysts’ Estimates After Costs Gain

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-08-29T16:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/hon-hai-s-net-income-misses-analysts-estimates-after-costs-gain.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted a
second-quarter profit that missed analysts estimates after costs
increased.  Net income was NT$12.98 billion ($447 million), Hon Hai
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Profit was projected at
NT$14.72 billion, according to the average of 13 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter profit last year
was NT$16.7 billion based on Bloomberg calculations.  Hon Hai, the Taipei-listed flagship of Foxconn Technology
Group which makes  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and Hewlett-Packard Co.
computers, is facing higher costs as it expands in western China
and  Brazil  to be closer to workers. Efficiency gains in
manufacturing the iPad may be offset by higher wages and falling
demand from clients such as HP,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Sony Corp.  “It is virtually impossible for Hon Hai to be immune to
the subdued consumer sentiment and the earnings guidance cut by
its major OEM clients,” Arthur Hsieh, a Taipei-based analyst at
UBS AG who recommends investors “sell” the stock, wrote in a
note yesterday. “The macro uncertainty is increasing and could
weigh on Hon Hai’s potential recovery this year and next.”  Second-quarter revenue rose to NT$785.94 billion from
NT$654 billion, according to Bloomberg calculations. First-half
profit fell 21 percent from a year earlier to NT$27.38 billion
on consolidated sales of NT$1.52 trillion.  Hon Hai closed unchanged at NT$64.20 in Taipei trading
yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The stock has lost
40 percent this year as the benchmark Taiex index declined 16
percent.  IPad Difficulties  Apple’s devices are very difficult to make, Hon Hai
founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Terry Gou told
shareholders on June 8, in response to a stockholder’s question
as to why making iPads didn’t lead to profit gains. Efficiency
improvements will boost the profitability of iPad-making, Gou
said at the time.  Foxconn last year raised the base wage for production
workers at its factory in Shenzhen, southern  China  and announced
plans to move factories inland to be closer to workers’
hometowns.  Sony, which contracts Hon Hai to make its televisions, on
July 28 said shipments of its TVs will be “below expectations”
and Dell on Aug. 16 cut its sales growth outlook because of
weakness in consumer demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  