-- 
Online Ad Industry’s Privacy-Protection Effort Fails, Consumer Group Says

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-08-29T22:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/online-ad-industry-s-privacy-effort-fails-consumer-group-says.html
A privacy-protection program
sponsored by the online advertising industry fails to protect
consumers, highlighting the need for U.S. lawmakers to pass do-
not-track legislation, according to Consumer Watchdog.  The voluntary  program , created by a coalition of online
advertising and marketing groups, is designed to let consumers
avoid being targeted by online ads based on the websites they
visit. By clicking on icons provided by participating websites
and advertisers, consumers can opt out of receiving such online
advertisements.  Consumer Watchdog , a consumer-rights organization founded
in 1985, said that companies participating in the industry
program can still track people and use the personal information
collected for other purposes.  The program “is another example of the failure of self-
regulation to protect consumers from unwanted monitoring of
every move they make on the Internet and their mobile devices,”
Carmen Balber, Washington director of the  Santa Monica ,
California-based group, said in an e-mail today.  In December, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission called for a
do-not-track option for Web browsing and pressed advertisers to
better explain their data-collection practices to consumers.
Lawmakers including Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia
Democrat who leads the Senate Commerce Committee, have
introduced do-not-track and consumer-privacy bills this year.  The Interactive Advertising Bureau, a New York-based group
representing more than 500 media and technology companies, had
set today as a deadline for its members to comply with the
industry program. Bloomberg LP is a member of the IAB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  