-- 
Glencore’s Piruto Unit Acquires 14.1% Stake in South Africa’s Optimum Coal

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-29T16:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/optimum-coal-says-glencore-unit-bought-shares-now-owns-14-1-of-producer.html
Glencore International Plc, the
global commodities trader, acquired 14.1 percent of South
Africa’s  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd. as prices for the power-
station fuel climb.  Glencore’s Piruto BV unit bought AMCI Warrior Mauritius
Ltd.’s holding and other shares on the open market, Jacques de
Bie, a spokesman for Optimum, said today by telephone from  Cape
Town , without disclosing terms. The stake is valued at about
$160 million based on today’s closing price.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, who led
the company to a $10 billion initial public offering in May,
said Aug. 25 he’s “aggressively” seeking acquisitions as
market valuations slide. The transaction with Optimum follows a
39 percent jump in steam-coal prices in the first half at South
Africa’s Richards Bay port, McCloskey Group Ltd. data show.  The Financial Times said Aug. 25 that Glencore was weighing
a bid for Optimum,  South Africa ’s fourth-largest coal exporter,
and the Johannesburg-based company said Aug. 26 it had received
interest from third parties in taking a controlling stake.  “What would they want with a passive holding?” Graeme Korner, an asset manager at Johannesburg-based Korner
Perspective, said today by phone from the city. “It says quite
clearly that they want more.”  Glencore Acquisitions  Since Glencore’s IPO, Glasenberg has already snapped up
mining assets. Last week he offered A$270 million ($287 million)
in cash to buy the rest of Australian nickel producer Minara
Resources Ltd., following a 34 percent plunge in the stock from
its January peak. In July, Glencore bid $475 million for a
Peruvian copper project held by CST Mining Group Ltd.  Optimum rose 1.3 percent to 31.90 rand at the 5 p.m. close
in Johannesburg, extending its seven-day gain to 20 percent.
That gives the company a value of 8 billion rand ($1.1 billion).  Glencore’s interest in Optimum “wasn’t a very well-kept
secret,”  Garth Mackenzie , a trader at Johannesburg Traders’
Corner, said by phone. “The stock had already run,” he said.  Optimum “is still trading under cautionary” and
shareholders should continue to exercise caution when trading
its shares, Optimum said today in a statement.  Simon Buerk , a
spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, said he had
“nothing to add” to the statement when contacted by e-mail.  AMCI Capital  AMCI Warrior Mauritius held 11.9 percent of Optimum as of
Nov. 18, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
a unit of AMCI Capital and Mercuria Energy Group, a commodity
and energy trader based in  Switzerland , Optimum said last year.
Glencore didn’t previously own any Optimum shares, De Bie said.  “We will be making a statement when it’s necessary and if
it’s necessary,”  AMCI Capital  Managing Director and Co-
President Mike Salamon said today by mobile phone. AMCI Capital
has $1 billion of assets under management, its website shows.  Optimum operates South Africa’s third-largest opencast
mine, bought from BHP Billiton Ltd. in June 2008, and has an
allocation to ship 8.44 million metric tons of coal a year
through Richards Bay, the country’s main coal export harbor. Its
Koornfontein and Optimum Collieries are in Mpumalanga province,
where Glencore’s Shanduka Coal operates five mines.  Glencore holds 70 percent of Shanduka Coal, whose mines
have a production capacity of 9 million tons a year, with Europe
the primary market for its sales, according to Glencore’s
website.  Coal at  Richards Bay  traded at an average $121.30 a ton in
the first half, 39 percent higher than a year earlier, McCloskey
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  