-- 
House Tax Chief Pitches No-New-Revenue Plan to Wary Voters

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-08-29T17:06:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/house-tax-chief-pitches-no-new-revenue-plan-to-wary-voters.html
Representative  Dave Camp ’s summer-
recess ritual of visits with constituents at a retirement home,
the Rotary Club and an airport construction site was punctuated
this past week by voters’ misgivings about the deficit fight in
Washington in which Camp plays a central part.  As he crisscrossed his hometown district of Midland,
 Michigan , on Aug. 25, the chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee repeated to residents -- some of whom he has known
since childhood -- his promise not to raise taxes to cut the
deficit. The 11-term Republican House member encountered voters
who supported him while expressing doubt that Congress can
tackle a $1.3 trillion  budget deficit .  “They need to grow up and get together,” John Church, a
retired Midland retailer, said of Congress. Camp, he added,
“has a lot of work ahead of him.”  Camp, who turned 58 in July, discussed the delicate balance
he faces in the months ahead on the panel and as leader of the
tax-writing committee. He insists a tax overhaul shouldn’t
emerge from the supercommittee, though he wants to use his spot
on that panel to keep the issue prominent in 2012. He supports
tax policies being advanced by House Republican leaders while
keeping his focus on a comprehensive rewrite of the U.S.  tax
code .  Rotary Club Speech  Among the stops on Camp’s appointment-packed day with
constituents was one to listen to representatives from companies
including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   press for a tax code more in line with
other countries. At a lunchtime speech to the Midland Rotary
Club, he explained how the supercommittee will work and also
stumped for a tax code overhaul that wouldn’t include revenue
increases.  After the speech, he was asked by a voter whether Congress
should get an overhaul to become more responsive. Camp said he
is optimistic that the supercommittee might emerge as a model
for tackling big issues.  “The question is really how can we reform the process,”
Camp said. “The creation of this joint committee might be a
path forward.”  In a series of interviews over the course of the day, Camp
said his optimism about the panel stems in part from the power
given it to write legislation and that its work is guaranteed a
vote on the House and Senate floors, bypassing committee hurdles
and procedural maneuvers that can hobble most legislation.  ’Something New’  “We’re trying something new here,” he said.  The supercommittee is a product of the legislation that
allowed the debt ceiling to increase and includes automatic
spending cuts that are triggered in 2013 if a majority of the
panel doesn’t reach agreement.  Camp’s constituents in Midland, a town of about 40,000
residents and the headquarters of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , said they
look to Washington with skepticism, though they expressed
support and respect for their hometown congressman.  “They view Congress as being way off and just concerned
with what happens in the Beltway and not what happens in the
hinterlands,” said Sid Allen, the president of the Midland Area
Chamber of Commerce.  As he wrapped up a visit to a retirement home late in the
day, Camp was stopped by a woman who asked whether Social
Security was going to run out in 2015, a prospect that Camp
promised won’t happen. Entitlement programs “are always key on
people’s minds, even more so today,” he said later.  Dow Diamond  Dow is Midland’s largest employer, with a staff of 5,300 in
the county,  according  to Midland Tomorrow, a local economic
development group. The company’s presence is hard to miss. It
donated land for an imposing minor-league baseball stadium,
called Dow Diamond, near downtown. A few miles away, visitors
can browse Dow Gardens, a botanical garden founded in 1899 by
the company’s founder, Herbert Dow.  Camp’s largest campaign donations between 2009 and 2010
came from Dow’s political action committee and company
employees, with contributions totaling almost $46,000,  according 
to the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, which
tracks campaign-finance data.  “It’s obviously important to have a large employer, a
large international company here,” Camp said.  On tax issues, Camp said he usually hears from Dow through
coalitions or trade groups. He said Dow doesn’t get more
attention from him than other businesses in his district.  1990 Election  Camp grew up in Midland, which lies near Lake Huron, about
120 miles northwest of  Detroit . The district, which Camp won
with 66.2 percent of the vote last year, stretches through rural
areas up to Traverse City in the northwestern corner of the
state.  He was first elected to Congress in 1990, entering the
 House of Representatives  in the same freshman class as John Boehner of  Ohio , who is now the speaker of the House.  Camp, a lawyer, rose up through the Ways and Means
Committee and became its top Republican in 2009. He took over as
chairman this year, following the House’s shift to Republican
control in the 2010 elections.  In Congress, Camp generally takes pro-business positions.
He strays occasionally from the majority of  House Republicans .
For instance, last year he was one of six House Republicans who
voted for a bill that provided a tax break to companies for
hiring long-term unemployed workers.  ’Conservative Community’  Jon Lynch, Midland’s city manager, said residents are
paying close attention to Camp’s work on  tax policy . They
recognize that he faces calls from Democrats to raise revenue to
reduce the deficit and aren’t overtly opposed to that if a case
can be made that the money is being put to good use, Lynch said.  “This is a relatively conservative community,” Lynch
said. “I don’t think you hear a strong ‘no taxes for any
reason’ message but people want to know that the resources are
being provided for reasonable services and are being used
wisely.”  Camp is pressing for a tax code overhaul that would lower
the top  tax rate  for businesses and individuals by 10 percentage
points to 25 percent. He is tightly focused on reaching that
goal. Camp wouldn’t say which tax benefits he would eliminate to
offset the cost of lowering rates by that degree.  Repatriation Holiday  Other Republicans, including House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, have called for more immediate
measures, including a repatriation holiday that would allow
companies such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to return as much
as $1 trillion in overseas cash to the U.S. at a lower tax rate.
Cantor also said on Aug. 23 that the House would repeal a law
that imposes 3 percent tax withholding on government contracts.  Camp said he supports each of these policies. He isn’t
leading the Republican effort for them, however, because he
wants to stay focused on a comprehensive tax overhaul, he said.  “I don’t want to get engaged in all these individual tax
provisions because I think the goal ought to be reforming our
fundamental tax system,” he said.  Camp said he is open to including language in the
legislation that emerges from the supercommittee to require
Congress to pass a tax overhaul within a specific time frame. He
said he could see a scenario where the panel calls on Congress
to act in 2012.  Tax Overhaul  “That’s certainly possible,” he said. “You could
certainly have some sort of approach that would have a date
certain for  tax reform  that would be outside of the 100-day
window” for developing deficit reduction legislation.  Camp rejected the idea that it would be impossible to
restructure the tax system during an election year and noted
that President  Bill Clinton  revised welfare laws in 1996 as
Clinton waged a re-election bid. Clinton vetoed two versions of
the welfare overhaul before an agreement was worked out with
Republicans in Congress, providing Camp with a lesson he relies
on as he presses for a new tax code today.  “Don’t give up,” he said. “I don’t think you stop trying
to do the right policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  