-- 
Lowe’s May Gain as Stir-Crazy Irene Victims Crowd Starbucks

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-08-29T20:18:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/lowe-s-home-depot-may-benefit-as-hurricane-irene-victims-clean-up-damage.html
Home-improvement stores selling
emergency supplies and coffee shops providing a break from the
cleanup may benefit from Hurricane Irene, while department
stores shut because of flooding likely lost sales.  The storm may have reduced apparel retailers’ comparable-
store sales by 0.5 percent or less for the month as consumers
stayed home during the critical back-to-school shopping season,
Jennifer Davis, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets, said today
in an e-mail. Grocery stores, drug stores and big-box retailers
likely benefited, she said.  Lowe’s Cos. shipped more than 1,000 extra truckloads of
flashlights, batteries and generators to East Coast stores, said
Katie Cody, a company spokeswoman. The Mooresville, North
Carolina-based company activated its natural-disaster price
suspension plan and didn’t raise the cost of emergency goods in
affected areas, Cody said.  “It was absolutely a crazy time,” Cody said in a
telephone interview. Six Lowe’s stores were closed in  New
Jersey ,  New York  and  North Carolina  during the weekend, and the
Hackettstown, New Jersey, location remains shut today, she said.  Irene killed at least 18 people and caused an estimated $3
billion in damage as it swept from the Caribbean to  New England .
The storm cut power to more than 6 million homes and businesses
along the U.S. East Coast. New York’s subway was shut during the
weekend while flooding and debris affected commuter rail routes
into the city.  Home Depot  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  shipped more than 1,000 truckloads of extra
supplies, said Stephen Holmes, a spokesman. The Atlanta-based
company is seeing a rush in demand for chainsaws, cleaning
supplies and vacuums as people try to repair damage from the
storm, he said today in a telephone interview.  “We’ve begun moving into recovery and clean-up products,”
Holmes said.  More than 30 stores along the East Coast were closed
yesterday, Holmes said. As of this morning, all but five had
opened. Many employees are being shuttled to harder-hit areas to
assist with the extra business, Holmes said.  The  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  cafe in Groton,  Connecticut , had lines
running out of its doors today and is getting about twice as
many customers as usual after being without power from the night
of Aug. 27 through midday yesterday, said Jeremiah Vigue, the
shop’s manager.  “They’re getting stir-crazy and are just wanting to get
something hot,” Vigue, 27, said today in a telephone interview.  Gathering Place  The “vast majority” of Seattle-based Starbucks’ stores on
the East Coast are open, and few sustained damaged, while some
remain closed because of power outages, said Alan Hilowitz, a
company spokesman, adding that he was unable to provide exact
numbers.  “We are trying to get open as quickly as we can, knowing
that people do use Starbucks as a gathering place and for Wi-
Fi,” Hilowitz said.  The Dunkin’ Donuts location in Pawcatuck, Connecticut, is
seeing about 10 percent to 20 percent more business than usual,
said Bruce Thomas, the store’s director of operations.  “People don’t have electricity, don’t have food, don’t
have coffee,” Thomas said today in an interview. “People are
just happy to go some place that has electricity and to go
somewhere that has food.”  He said the store was open all weekend.  Power Outages  “Very few restaurants suffered damage,” Michelle King, a
spokeswoman for Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ Brands Group
Inc., said in an e-mail. “Any closures were due largely to
power outages, and that is rapidly being restored. The majority
of our restaurants are open.”  Papa John’s International Inc. (PZZA) , which closed about 200 of
its East Coast restaurants at the peak of the storm, had about
50 that were restarting operations today as power came back on,
Christopher Sternberg, a company spokesman, said in an
interview. The company has about 3,000 U.S. locations.  Sales and deliveries were up during the weekend, Sternberg
said, while declining to specify how much.  “People at home glued to the TV set watching coverage of
the storm and themselves not wanting to get out -- they
rely on our drivers to bring them a hot meal,” he said.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) ’s flagship store on New York’s Fifth Avenue
was closed the past two days because the subway shutdown made
travel difficult for employees, said Mark Aaron, a spokesman.
All of the New York-based jeweler’s New York and Northeast
stores were closed yesterday and are reopening today, he said.  Effect on Sales  The closings will affect the company’s sales, he said,
adding that he couldn’t estimate the amount today. Other
purchases, such as engagement rings, will simply be delayed, he
said.  Saks Inc. (SKS)  closed seven stores in New York, New Jersey,
Connecticut,  Massachusetts  and  Virginia , in the wake of Irene,
said Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman. The company planned to reopen
its New York headquarters office at 10 a.m. today and is running
its store in Chevy Chase,  Maryland , on backup generators, she
said today in an e-mail.  The company is in the process of determining the impact on
sales and won’t discuss that until Sept. 1, she said. The
company didn’t sustain any material property damage, she said.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
chains, said yesterday that three stores around Wayne, New
Jersey, would remain closed today because of flooding.  Clothing Sales Hurt  “Any store selling non-necessities such as clothing was
hurt this weekend,”  Ellen Davis , vice president of the
Washington-based  National Retail Federation , said today in an
interview. “With bad weather, people aren’t going to be coming
out and buying back-to-school stuff.”  Marcelino Alamar, 29, of Valencia,  Spain , was one of about
200 people waiting outside the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  store on New York’s
Fifth Avenue. The store closed Aug. 27, and he had come twice
since then to see if it opened. He is supposed to fly home
today.  “I had to get here before I leave,” he said, while
carrying an iPad purchased for a friend.  Alamar said he spent much less money than he planned to
because of Irene, which he described as overblown. While walking
around Times Square yesterday, the only shops open were small
electronics stores and the Hard Rock Cafe, which had more than
an hour wait, he said.  Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest casino
company and Atlantic City’s biggest owner with four resorts,
lost about $6 million to $8 million in  cash flow  from $25
million in revenue it would have expected at its New Jersey
shore and Philadelphia properties, Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman told CNBC today.  Times Square  The Applebee’s restaurant in New York’s Times Square
operated uninterrupted throughout the weekend by putting its
staff in nearby hotel rooms, said Keith Hancock, the location’s
manager.  Business “was better-than-expected considering the
conditions,” he said today in an interview. Applebee’s is owned
by Glendale, California-based  DineEquity Inc. (DIN)   “It’s New York, it’s tourists, they are going to go out,”
Hancock said. “Plus, so many flights were canceled that they
were looking for things to do.” 