-- 
Toyota Supplier Denso May Not Boost Forecast as Strong Yen Hurts Recovery

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-08-30T07:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/toyota-supplier-denso-may-fail-to-boost-forecast-on-strong-yen.html
Denso Corp. (6902) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
biggest auto parts supplier, said the strong yen is undermining
its recovery from the March 11 earthquake and may prevent the
company from raising its full-year profit forecast.  Denso raised its half-year net income forecast on Aug. 1 to
9 billion yen ($117 million) from 1 billion yen on a faster-
than-expected recovery and cost-cutting efforts while leaving
its full-year forecast unchanged. The yen trading at 76.71, near
a postwar high, is stronger than its estimate that the Japanese
currency will average 81 yen to the dollar for the full year.  Denso, which makes car air-conditioners, engine parts and
electronic control units for most global carmakers, is hiring
1,200 temporary workers as it helps Toyota make up for weeks of
factory shutdowns. The strong yen cuts the value of repatriated
earnings from exports, which make up about 20 percent of Denso’s
 Japan  production.  “Because of the super-strong yen, manufacturing in Japan
is placed in a very difficult position,” Denso President
Nobuaki Katoh said in an interview on Aug. 24 at company
headquarters in Kariya, Aichi prefecture. “The negative impact
of the yen is offsetting our increase in production.”  Every one yen gain against the dollar cuts Denso’s
operating profit by 2.9 billion yen, the company said.  Denso is expected to post 113.4 billion yen in net income
for the full year ending in March, according to the average of
15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with the
company’s forecast of 98 billion yen.  Supplying Toyota  The partsmaker’s production returned to year-earlier levels
in July, in time for Toyota’s Aug. 23 introduction of its
revamped Camry sedan, the best-selling car in the U.S.  With more new models on the way, including a new version of
the Prius hybrid, Toyota told suppliers it expects to build a
record 8.9 million cars globally in 2012, up 11 percent from a
forecast of 8.04 million this year, Katoh said.  As the yen hurts Denso’s profits, the company is aiming to
cut production costs by up to 30 percent, he said. While it is
able to shift production to overseas plants, it will keep enough
capacity to support Toyota’s pledge to maintain 3 million units
of annual domestic production, Katoh said.  Shares of Denso rose 1 percent to 2,416 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading in  Tokyo . The stock has dropped 17 percent
since March 10, the day before the earthquake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  