-- 
Palestinian Runs Over Two Policemen, Stabs Six in Tel Aviv

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-29T19:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/palestinian-runs-over-two-policemen-stabs-six-in-tel-aviv-5-.html
A Palestinian from Nablus hijacked a
taxi, ran over two policemen and stabbed six people outside a
 Tel Aviv  nightclub early today.  The man, in his 20s, drove the taxi through a police
roadblock in Tel Aviv, then jumped out wielding a knife and
shouting “Allahu Akbar” or “God is great,” Luba Samri, a
police spokeswoman, said by telephone. The cab hit two policemen
and the taxi driver was among the six stabbed by the assailant
before he was subdued and taken into custody, Samri said.  The violence came after eight Israelis were killed on Aug.
18 in attacks near the resort city of Eilat. The bloodshed led
to an escalation in the Gaza Strip, where at least 24
Palestinians were killed in Israeli air strikes, and one Israeli
died from a Gaza-launched rocket attack.  Israel  has said the Islamic militant Hamas that rules Gaza
bears responsibility for the Eilat attacks. Hamas has denied
involvement and last week announced a cease-fire. The movement
is classified as a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland said the U.S.
condemned the attack.  The  Palestinian Authority , headed by President Mahmoud Abbas and based in the  West Bank , condemned the incident in Tel
Aviv today “and all attacks against civilians,” according to a
statement on the website of the Wafa Palestinian news agency.  The army added forces along Israel’s boundary with Gaza and
along the adjacent Egyptian border today in response to
intelligence reports of a possible attack, an army spokesman
said, speaking on condition of anonymity according to military
regulation.  “There is a high alert in the south this morning of a
possible terrorist attack similar to that which occurred 10 days
ago,” Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told reporters during a visit
to the city of Ashdod today, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  