-- 
Pending Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Fell in July

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-29T14:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/pending-sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-dropped-in-july.html
The number of contracts to purchase
previously owned U.S. homes fell in July for the first time in
three months, a sign that lower prices and borrowing costs
aren’t luring in buyers.  The 1.3 percent decrease in the index of pending home
sales followed a 2.4 percent gain the previous month, the
National Association of Realtors said today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 1 percent drop, according to the median
of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Unemployment at 9.1 percent and the prospect of more
foreclosures in the pipeline mean it may take years to clear
the oversupply of houses, a sign the market is struggling to
stabilize. The prospect of contract cancellations due to
stricter underwriting standards and low appraisals means some
signings may not translate into closings.  “Housing is still on the ropes,”  Ian Shepherdson , chief
U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New
York, said in a note to clients. Shepherdson said he was
concerned that “the chaos in the stock markets might have
persuaded a greater proportion of buyers to walk away after
signing contracts,” leaving sales short of the level implied
by the pending data.  Stocks climbed, extending the first weekly gain since July
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The gauge rose 1.9 percent
to 1,199.31 at 10:22 a.m. in  New York .  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to
2.27 percent from 2.19 percent late on Aug. 26.  Survey Results  Estimates for pending home sales ranged from a drop of 4.8
percent to an increase of 3.8 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Pending sales rose 10 percent from July 2010.  Another report showed  consumer spending  climbed more than
forecast in July as Americans dipped into savings to buy cars
and cool their homes, showing the biggest part of the economy
is holding up.  Purchases rose 0.8 percent, the biggest gain since
February, after a 0.1 percent decline the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed. Incomes grew 0.3 percent, pushing
the savings rate to a four-month low.  Pending home sales fell in three of four regions, led by a
4.8 percent drop in the South. They increased 3.6 percent in
the West.  Short of ‘Healthy’  Today’s report showed an 89.7 index level for pending home
sales on a seasonally adjusted basis. A reading of 100 is
consistent with the average level of contracts in 2001, when
record-keeping began, and coincides with “historically
healthy” home-buying traffic, according to the NAR.  Another Realtors’ report, on Aug. 18, showed sales of
previously owned homes, which make up about 95 percent of the
market, dropped in July to a nine-month low. Purchases
decreased 3.5 percent to a 4.67 million annual rate, and 16
percent of real estate agents polled said they had at least one
pending contract canceled last month.  NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in an Aug. 18 news
conference that cancellations in the past two months were up
from about 10 percent last year.  “The market can easily move into healthy expansion if
mortgage underwriting standards return to normalcy,” Yun said
in a statement today. “Other market frictions need to be
addressed, such as assuring that proper comparables are used in
appraisal valuations, and streamlining the short sales
process.”  Fewer Applications  The number of mortgage applications fell in the week ended
Aug. 19 as a measure of purchases slumped to the lowest level
since December 1996, indicating demand remains weak this month,
data from the  Mortgage Bankers Association  showed last week.  Pending sales track contract signings while previously
owned sales reflect the closings a month or two later.  Existing-home sales have fallen since reaching an annual
peak of 7.08 million in 2005, before the housing boom turned
into a subprime-mortgage bust that led to an 18-month
recession. Purchases fell to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last
year.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking last
week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said the housing market was
hampered by “an overhang of distressed and foreclosed
properties, tight credit conditions for builders and potential
homebuyers, and ongoing concerns by both potential borrowers
and lenders about continued house price declines.”  Foreclosure Sales  U.S. homes nearing foreclosure accounted for 12 percent of
total sales in the second quarter as banks agreed to more
transactions at prices below the outstanding mortgage balance,
RealtyTrac Inc. said.  The proportion of sales of homes in default or scheduled
for auction rose from 10 percent a year earlier and was little
changed from the first quarter, the Irvine, California-based
information company said in an Aug. 25 report.  “The U.S. housing market remains under stress,” Frank Blake, chairman and chief executive officer at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
said on an Aug. 16 teleconference with analysts. “We do not
expect any meaningful improvement in the housing market for the
back half of 2011, and events here and across the globe would
suggest that there are more risks to the downside than the
upside on GDP growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  