-- 
Pheasant’s Tears Boost Georgia Wine Fightback on Russia Embargo

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-08-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/pheasant-s-tears-organic-wine-boost-georgian-fightback-on-russian-embargo.html
John Wurdeman uncorks a bottle of
 Pheasant’s Tears , holds it to the sun, and drinks with a smile.  The long-haired American artist, with his imaginatively
named wine, is described by vintners as an unlikely savior of
their industry in the Black Sea country of Georgia. He started
the business after a Russian trade embargo, which threatened the
existence of 35 existing wineries. Georgia makes some 90 million
liters a year and previously exported 80 percent to  Russia .  “There is an 8,000-year wine-making tradition, and there
are 520 wine grapes here,” Wurdeman says. “We have the best
wine story on the face of this planet.”  Georgia, a republic of 4.6 million people on the Silk Road,
expelled four Russian servicemen who it accused of espionage in
2006. In response,  Vladimir Putin ’s government cut road, rail,
air and sea links, blocking imports of mineral water and wine.
Local boutique winemakers are fighting back by making better-
quality products -- what Wurdeman calls “amber wine,” not
white wine -- that can be exported at a premium outside Russia.  He is producing 40,000 bottles a year of his distinctive
wines, named after a legend that only specially made wine can
make pheasants cry. They are for sale at $25 to $45 each in nine
countries, including the U.S.,  Canada  and  Hong Kong . The
company, founded in 2006, plans annual 60,000 bottlings by the
end of 2011 and aims to boost this to 120,000 when possible.  Wurdeman, 35, says it is “a failed strategy” for local
wineries to mass-produce poor copies of Chardonnay,  Cabernet
Sauvignon , Bordeaux or Burgundy.  Wine Vessels  Tourists prefer the products in his organic shop, which
shuns factory methods and uses traditional qvevris, large clay
vessels used to store and ferment, with extended skin contact
for both reds and whites. His dry whites include Rkatsiteli,
Mtsvane and Kisi; the dry reds are called Saperavi and Tavkeri.  Wurdeman is preparing for the September harvest and says
seven varieties of grape are used in Pheasant’s Tears, as well
as an experimental planting of 340 variants. He is busy in his
stone-built estate in Sighnangi, laying tables for visitors in a
small sampling restaurant that serves local cuisine, then
rushing off to Tibaani village, where his vineyards grow.  He has tousled long hair and talks fluent Georgian to his
staff and children. The company also organizes wine tours and
Kakhetian cuisine tasting.  Virginia  Student  Many years before he started making wine, John Wurdeman was
a 15-year-old aspiring artist from Virginia. He was rummaging
through CDs in a record shop hoping to find some alternative
world music when he came across one of Georgian folk songs. The
disc changed his life.  He became fascinated by Georgia, and arrived in Tbilisi in
1995, going to a feast where the same folk group was singing.
Wurdeman is now married to a musician from Kakhetia and they
have two children. He has also made a name as a painter of
vineyards.  Georgia exported 59.3 million bottles of wine in 2005, 80
percent of it to Russia. Exports plummeted 67 percent with the
embargo to 19.5 million bottles and stayed about 11 million a
year since, the Agriculture Ministry reports. The 2010 total was
15 million bottles, up 34 percent on 2009, going to 46
countries. Of the larger companies, Tbilvino sold 2 million
bottles in 2010 and forecasts purchases to rise about 20 percent
this year.  Targeting Aid  President Mikhail Saakashvili said last year that the worst
of the wine crisis was over, Wurdeman says.  Georgia ’s government
says it has invested 600,000 lari ($365,000) into private wine
production since the embargo. Still, Wurdeman says the
government and international financial institutions are spending
money in the wrong places and coordination is lacking.  “Georgia went from a dead frozen situation to a minimal
amount of growth,” he says. “The situation needs nurturing
further.” The money would be well spent, with much more brought
back from wine tourism, he says.  “Georgia is known as a cradle of wine,” Malkhaz
Kharbedia, president of Georgia’s Wine Club, says in an
interview. “I wouldn’t even look at the Russian market anymore;
this is a dead market. The Georgian wine will certainly survive,
however we must not compete with Australian or Chile wine, we
need to retain our distinctive mark in the market.”  Information:  http://www.pheasantstears.com/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 