-- 
Utilities Restore Power to 1.57 Million Customers Left in Dark by Irene

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T20:58:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/power-restored-to-1-57-million-customers-after-irene-as-5-12-million-wait.html
Utility workers restored power to
1.57 million U.S. homes and businesses after Hurricane Irene, as
5.12 million customers continued to wait for the lights to come
back on after the storm moved into  Canada .  New York ,  Connecticut  and  New Jersey  have the most
customers without power, according to a U.S. Energy Department
 report  today. Customers in 10 states and the District of
Columbia have had their power restored after the storm, which
made landfall Aug. 27 as a Category 1 hurricane in North
Carolina and another landfall as a tropical storm in New York.  Connecticut had record power losses, with 702,000, or 44
percent, of customers without electricity, more than the
previous record set by Hurricane Gloria in 1985. Restoring power
may take more than a week, Connecticut Light & Power, a unit of
Springfield, Massachusetts-based  Northeast Utilities , said in
statement.  “The damage from this storm was unprecedented” for the
utility’s service area, Jeff Butler, president of Connecticut
Light & Power, said in the statement today.  Total damage from Irene, which killed at least 31 people
and affected states from  South Carolina  to Maine, may reach
“tens of billions of dollars,” Gabe Grosberg, a New York-based
analyst for  Standard & Poor’s , said in a note to clients today.  No ratings changes are anticipated for utilities hit by the
storm because all are expected to “recover the related costs
from customers,” he wrote.  Utilities Index Rises  “It doesn’t necessarily mean shareholders will be
unscathed,” Paul Patterson, a New York-based analyst for
Glenrock Associates LLC, said in an interview today. “Generally
speaking, it’s perceived as temporary.”  The 33-company S&P 500 Electric Utilities Index, which
includes at least 11 companies affected by Irene, rose 1.9
percent at 4:45 p.m. in New York.  Maryland and  Virginia  had the biggest improvements in
restoring power from the peak recorded figure of customers
without electricity, according to the department’s report. As of
3 p.m. yesterday in  Washington , an estimated 5.94 million
customers were without power.  Dominion Resources Inc. restored power to more than half of
the 1.2 million customers in  North Carolina  and Virginia who had
their electricity cut and is planning to have as much as 95
percent restored by Sept. 2.  Long Island Power Authority is also expecting to have 95
percent of customers restored by that date, Chief Operating
Officer Michael Hervey said on a conference call with reporters
today.  Isabel and Gloria  Irene drew comparisons to hurricanes Gloria in 1985 and
Isabel in 2003, which also struck the mid-Atlantic coast and New
England. About 4.2 million customers lost electricity from
Isabel and 3.2 million from Gloria.  In New York, 890,698 customers were without power as of
12:45 p.m. today, Governor Andrew Cuomo said today in a
statement. About 400,000 of those were on Long Island. Winds
from the back side of Irene pummeled the island hours after the
landfall, causing additional damage and delaying the onset of
repairs, Hervey said.  There was less damage in New York City, where  Consolidated
Edison Inc. (ED)  had restored more than half its customers by noon,
according to Cuomo’s office. Most of the 73,874 remaining
without power at 4:49 p.m. were in suburban Westchester County
where power lines are more subject to damage from trees, the
utility reported on its  website .  Rhode Island  has the biggest percentage of customers
without power, with 65 percent, or 282,280 users lacking
electricity, the department reported. More than 41,000 homes and
businesses were without electricity today in  Vermont , where
Irene caused record flooding before sweeping into Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  