-- 
Prokhorov’s Party Says Russia Is a ‘Parody’ of Soviet Union

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-29T15:58:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/prokhorov-s-party-says-russia-is-a-parody-of-soviet-union-1-.html
Russia is becoming a “farce and
parody of the  Soviet Union ,” stifled by bureaucracy, said the
political party headed by billionaire  New Jersey Nets  owner
 Mikhail Prokhorov .  Authoritarian rule has returned to Russia, Prokhorov’s
Pravoye Delo, or Right Cause, party said in a manifesto entitled
“We Ourselves Are Power,”  published  on its website late Aug.
26.  “We are against the total degradation threatening to
destroy the country,” Right Cause said. The pro-business party
said  Europe  should extend “from Lisbon to Vladivostok,” with
Russian integration into the European economy and currency to
compete with the U.S. and  China .  Prokhorov, 46, was elected chairman of Right Cause on June
25, saying he may seek to become prime minister. Premier
 Vladimir Putin , 58, and his successor President  Dmitry Medvedev ,
45, have said they’ll decide together which of them will run for
president in March.  Prokhorov is spending 2.7 billion rubles ($94 million) of
his personal wealth on the campaign for the December
parliamentary elections, he said today after meeting Medvedev in
the southern resort of Sochi with other party leaders.  ‘Kill Us All’  The manifesto echoes criticism made by  Mikhail Gorbachev ,
who presided over the end of the Soviet Union 20 years ago.
Gorbachev said Aug. 17 that Russia is moving backward under its
current leaders and that Putin shouldn’t run again.  “The bet made by government higher-ups, who are striving
for personal gain, on state monopolies with all the rest of the
economy handed over to the less privileged bureaucrats is
becoming a mass return to the Soviet past,” Right Cause said.
“It will kill us all.”  Medvedev should have spoken out about policies that reduced
democracy, such as the elimination of direct elections for
regional governors and single-seat districts for the lower house
of parliament, Gorbachev also said in July. Both changes were
implemented during Putin’s presidency.  Prokhorov’s party proposed cutting the number government
bureaucrats by half, reinstating mayoral elections and
abolishing the post of presidential envoy in all of Russia’s
regions except the North Caucasus.  The majority party should also limit its number of seats in
the State Duma, the lower house of parliament, for at least two
terms to 226 of the 450 seats, Right Cause said in the document.
Putin’s  United Russia  now holds 315 Duma seats.  Entering Parliament  Gorbachev welcomed Prokhorov’s efforts to revitalize Right
Cause, which is seeking to win more than the 7 percent of votes
needed to gain seats in parliament. He dismissed Prokhorov’s
interest in becoming prime minister as too ambitious.  Putin and Medvedev will probably wait until December to
reveal who will run for president, two people familiar with the
matter said this month. Putin held the post from 2000 to 2008,
serving a maximum two consecutive terms allowed by the
constitution. The election must be called 90 days before the
planned March 4 vote.  Delaying the announcement until December will erode
Medvedev’s chances,  Igor Yurgens , an adviser to the president,
said in an Aug. 16 interview. Putin formed a coalition, the All-
 Russia  People’s Front, in May to rally support for United
Russia.  State Duma elections will be held Dec. 4, according to an
order signed by Medvedev today in Sochi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  