-- 
Put a Percentage in Your Tank to Fix the Motor-Fuels Tax: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-29T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/put-a-percentage-in-your-tank-to-fix-the-federal-motor-fuels-tax-view.html
U.S. highways and mass transit
are supposed to be  federally supported  in a fairly direct
fashion: through a per-gallon tax on motor fuels, imposed
at refineries and passed on to consumers.  The tax has the virtue of fairness in that it
functions close to a user charge and encourages
conservation by promoting mass transit. However, revenue
from the tax is insufficient to sustain the U.S.
transportation network.  The bulk of the charge is set to expire Sept. 30.
Though tax aversion is running high on  Capitol Hill ,
Congress should renew the gas levy. But lawmakers shouldn’t
stop there. They need to get started on overhauling the way
the outmoded tax is assessed, to ensure it raises adequate
revenue in the future.  A little history: Since 2008, the motor-fuels tax has
fallen about 30 percent short of covering the federal
government’s costs of fixing roads, bridges and tunnels and
supporting the country’s mass-transit systems. So, money
has been drawn from general funds (income taxes) to close
the gap.  Why the shortfall? Since the levy was last increased
in 1993 -- to 18.4 cents a gallon for gasoline and 24.4
cents for diesel -- it has lost about a third of its value
to inflation. And since 2008, with the economic downturn,
Americans have been buying fewer gallons of gas, and thus
paying less in taxes.  The improving fuel efficiency of the U.S. fleet has
reduced tax proceeds further. In 1993, when the average new
car in the U.S. got 28.3  miles (45.5 kilometers) per
gallon , the fuel tax amounted to 0.65 cent per mile driven.
Last year, the average mpg for a new car was 33.7, so the
government collected 0.55 cent per mile, 15 percent less.
This trend will continue as gas mileage keeps improving. As
more electric cars hit the roads, proceeds will drop more.  Raising the fuel tax now might damage consumer
spending power. Instead, President  Barack Obama  should
propose that Congress renew it at current levels, but only
for a year at a time, and then, once the economy is solidly
recovering, increase the charge in stages to cushion its
effect on consumers.  It’s also important to change the way the tax is
structured. Instead of being tied to the number of gallons
purchased, it should be levied as a percentage of the value
of  the gasoline purchased.  Today, U.S. consumers pay, on average, $3.68 for a
gallon of regular-grade gas. About $2.87 of that is the
cost of the gas itself, $0.18 is the federal tax, and the
rest is other taxes plus distribution and marketing
expenses. To fill the 30 percent hole in the federal budget
for roads and mass transit, and to build a cushion in case
gas prices dip, Congress could increase the amount the
federal tax brings in by 40 percent. That would translate
to a 9 percent tax on the gas itself. For consumers, such a
change, at today’s prices, would mean paying $3.75 per
gallon at the pump, a 7 cent bump.  Nobody likes paying more for gas. It’s worth pointing
out, however, that the U.S. is the  only country  in the 34-
member Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in which user charges don’t completely cover
government transportation expenditure.  What’s more, Americans pay far less for gasoline than
their counterparts in  Europe . The average cost of a gallon
of gas is $8.47 in the U.K., $8.20 in  Germany  and $8.75 in
 France ; in each of these places, more than half the retail
price is tax. And the effect of such high charges has been
to push consumers to use public transportation more, and to
buy more fuel-efficient cars.  There are other possible solutions. One highly favored
by transportation experts is to charge drivers not by gas
consumed, but by mile driven. Though a promising idea for
the future, this could mean installing in-vehicle meters,
raising concerns about drivers’ privacy.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 