-- 
Qaddafi Son Khamis, Accused of Murdering Detainees, Is Killed, Sky Reports

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-08-29T19:11:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/qaddafi-son-khamis-accused-of-murdering-detainees-is-killed-sky-reports.html
Khamis Qaddafi, youngest son of
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  who commanded a military unit
accused of killing dozens of detainees, has been killed in a
NATO air strike,  Sky News  reported.  The network said a man claiming to be Khamis Qaddafi’s
bodyguard said he was in a Toyota Land Cruiser that was hit by a
missile fired from a NATO Apache helicopter.  Separately, a rebel official, who spoke on the condition he
not be named, said in a telephone interview that the rebels had
almost confirmed Khamis’s death in the Aug. 27 fighting with
rebels near Tarhuna, 80 kilometers (50 miles) southeast of
Tripoli.  In addition, Muammar Qaddafi’s top security adviser,
Abdullah al-Senussi, was killed, he said. Al-Senussi, former
head of military intelligence, was one of Qaddafi’s closest
advisers and was married to the sister of his second wife.  There was no independent confirmation of the claims.  Khamis Qaddafi, a Russian-trained military officer,
commanded an elite battalion dedicated to protecting his father.  Human Rights Watch  today said his Khamis Brigade appears to
have summarily executed detainees on Aug. 23 at a warehouse near
Tripoli, which was subsequently destroyed by fire.  An inspector from the human rights group reported seeing
the charred remains of 45 bodies.  Human Rights Watch said its inspector interviewed a
survivor who said that the building held 153 detainees on that
day, or which 125 were civilians. One building in the compound
had spray-painted on it “32nd Brigade,” the official name of
the Khamis Brigade, according to the rights group based in New
York..  “Sadly, this is not the first gruesome report of what
appears to be the summary execution of detainees in the final
days of the Qaddafi government’s control of Tripoli,” Sarah Leah Whitson,  Middle East  and North Africa director at Human
Rights Watch, said in a statement on the group’s  website .
“These merciless murders took place in the midst of Ramadan and
those responsible should be brought to justice and punished.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  