-- 
Quantum Asset’s Dayal Says ‘Great Time’ to Buy Indian Stocks

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-29T09:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/quantum-asset-s-dayal-says-great-time-to-buy-indian-stocks.html
Ajit Dayal, Chairman of Quantum
Asset Management Ltd., comments on the outlook for Indian
equities. Dayal spoke in an interview with Bloomberg UTV today.  Indian stocks headed for their biggest gain in more than
two years after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the  U.S. economy  is gradually recovering. The Bombay Stock
Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rallied 3.7 percent to
16,435.39 at 2:52 p.m. in Mumbai, poised for the largest
increase since May 2009.  “It’s a very different world out there, from where we were
at the start of the year. People were concerned about inflation
in India and that has brought share prices down. People are now
concerned about sovereign debt crises and that has brought share
prices down. No one is talking about high inflation anymore.”  On the prospects for further U.S. stimulus:  “The U.S. is going through some fundamental changes, where
a country that is used to consumption no longer can afford the
consumption. The easy solution which  Ben Bernanke  gave us, and
 Alan Greenspan  in the decade prior to that, has been to print
money.”  On  India’s economy :  “The Indian economy is indeed relatively decoupled from
rest of the world. It will continue growing at 6.5 percent to 7
percent for the next decade, driven largely by consumption by
the Indian middle class. That is going to be the engine of
growth in India.”  On his investment strategy:  “We are very bullish on India and what you are seeing
again is a dislocation of price. We have often said that the
value of an Indian company is a function of what happens in the
Indian economy. The price of an Indian company’s stock is a
function of what foreigners perceive to be risk or no risk in
the global economy and  India .  Foreigners are now scared like a tortoise. If you take a
tortoise and you scare it, it withdraws into its shell. But when
the grass is nice and green and the leaves look wonderful, they
will come out of that shell. It’s a great time to be buying into
the Indian stock markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  