-- 
Quarterly Growth Data, Weekly Food Inflation: India Week Ahead

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-29T02:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/quarterly-growth-data-weekly-food-inflation-india-week-ahead.html
India ,  Asia ’s second-fastest growing
major economy, is likely to report this week that the pace of
expansion slowed to the least in six quarters in the three
months to June 30 as borrowing costs rose on inflation.  The  Central Statistical Organisation  may say gross domestic
product increased 7.6 percent in the period from a year earlier,
according to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey,
after gaining 7.8 percent in the previous quarter. The data is
due tomorrow at about 11 a.m. in  New Delhi .  The central bank has raised its repurchase rate 11 times
since the start of 2010 to damp living costs that are rising at
the fastest rate among the so-called BRICS nations of  Brazil ,
 Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa . It expects growth will
slow to 8 percent in the year ending March 31, from an estimated
8.5 percent in the previous 12 months. The average pace since
2006 was 8.6 percent, compared with China’s 9.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The commerce ministry is also scheduled to announce trade
data for July on Sept. 1 and food inflation for the week ended
Aug. 20 the same day.  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including rice and wheat rose 9.8 percent in the week to Aug. 13
from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said Aug. 25.  Markets Closed  Financial markets in Mumbai will be closed on Aug. 31 and
Sept. 1 for local holidays.  Indian shares dropped for a fifth week, their longest
losing streak since October, 2008, on concern a global economic
slowdown will erode corporate earnings amid rate increases by
the central bank to tame inflation.  The benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex, slid 1.8 percent
last week. Jaiprakash Associates Ltd., a builder of dams, roads
and bridges, and Tata Steel Ltd., the biggest producer of the
alloy, were the top losers last week.  The rupee declined for a fourth week on speculation slowing
economic growth and inflation that has held above 9 percent this
year will deter investors. The Indian currency fell 0.9 percent
last week to 46.16 a dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The nation’s 10-year bonds completed their first weekly
loss this month after the central bank said efforts by the
 Federal Reserve  to stimulate the  U.S. economy  may boost
commodity prices and fan inflation. The yield on the 7.8 percent
note due April 2021 climbed five basis points last week to 8.3
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  