-- 
Traders Dodge Downed Trees, Forgo Grooming to Reach New York After Irene

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-08-29T20:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/traders-dodge-downed-trees-forgo-grooming-to-reach-new-york-after-irene.html
Wall Street  workers rode five to a
car, dodged downed trees and left makeup for later as exchanges
opened after Hurricane Irene hobbled the nation’s busiest
transit system with  flooding .  New York  City’s subways were only partially open, while  New
Jersey Transit  said rail service was suspended on all but one
line and Metro-North trains were inoperable this morning. Some
financial professionals relied on cars to reach  Manhattan , the
center of the world’s largest capital market -- if they came in
at all.  “The hardest part of getting to work this morning was the
two blocks getting out of our street because there are trees
down and a lot of flooding in New Jersey,” said  Duncan Niederauer , the chief executive officer of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which
owns the New York Stock Exchange.  Niederauer, who lives in Somerset County, New Jersey, spoke
after being dropped off by a black sport utility vehicle at Wall
Street and Broadway at about 6 a.m.  “We told most of our people to stay home and be with their
families, except people who are responsible for the floor
operations because we thought it was important to open the
exchange and have business as usual,” Niederauer said.  Trading volume for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies as
of 4:08 p.m. today was 17 percent less than the 180-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure rose 2.8
percent to 1,210.08, the highest level since Aug. 3.  Limited Schedules  Subways resumed limited schedules, and train lines were
flooded or damaged from  Connecticut  to New Jersey as traders,
brokers and technicians got word stock, bond and commodities
would open as normal in the morning. New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said yesterday that commuters should prepare for a
“tough” time getting to work today. Bloomberg, the majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, had ordered the
evacuation of low-lying areas in the city.  The biggest stock exchange operators in the U.S. -- NYSE
Euronext,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global Markets and Direct
Edge Holdings LLC -- said yesterday that they plan a normal
trading session. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association recommended no change to bond-market schedules, and
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  said the  New York Mercantile Exchange  will open.  “I left my house at 4:30 a.m., and it was 45 minutes to
get in with no traffic,” Marc Peritore, who works at trading-
technology firm iQmedia Networks, said at Wall and Broad
streets. “I took the Holland Tunnel and just parked on the west
side and walked from there. The city seemed empty. I was really
surprised. The highways were really empty.”  ‘Hair’s Not Done’  Susanne Petronella, a floor clerk for GI Brokerage at the
NYSE, lives in the borough of Queens. She drove into the city
with four other people over the Brooklyn Bridge.  “I’m usually still in bed right now,” she said in front
of the NYSE before 7 a.m., while smoking a cigarette. “My
hair’s not done. My makeup’s not done.”  Ridership on the  New York City  subway, which usually runs
all day, topped 1.6 billion last year and averaged 5.1 million
on weekdays, according to  MTA data . The system, which began
service in  1904 , has 468 stations, the most anywhere in the
world, according to MTA’s website.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup Inc., whose offices
are in New York’s evacuation zone, said they escaped major
damage and will resume business today. Goldman Sachs’s
headquarters, located along the Hudson River in  Lower Manhattan ,
was “functioning normally,”  Stephen Cohen , a spokesman, said
in a phone interview yesterday.  Taxis at Goldman  A police officer and men in yellow vests directed cabs
today into the front driveway of 200 West Street, the
headquarters of Goldman Sachs, where workers disembarked.  The building that houses Citigroup’s main trading floors at
388-390 Greenwich St. in the Tribeca area “are fully
functional,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the
firm, said yesterday in an e-mail.  American Express Co. (AXP) ’s
headquarters, across the street from Goldman Sachs, was to
remain closed today and employees of the biggest credit-card
issuer by purchases were asked to work at home.  Almost a quarter of financial companies in the  S&P 500  are
based in New York, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Financial
firms including banks, brokerages and insurers employ 437,600
people in the city, according to July data from the state
Department of Labor.  ‘Empty’  “The trains were empty,” said Dan Kryger, a managing
director and NYSE floor trader at Benjamin & Jerold LLC. He took
his usual 6:01 a.m. train on the Long Island Rail Road from
Massapequa. “I wasn’t sure if they’d be running or sporadic,
but it was OK.”  Phil Prothro lives in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , and left
home at the usual time, arriving in Manhattan by PATH train.  “It was actually a pleasant commute,” said Prothro, who
works at GDS International. “No problems at all. It was on time
and empty, and I was expecting it to be late and full.”  He said Wall Street was more empty than it normally is.  “This is very unusual,” he said, while waiting for an egg
and cheese sandwich from a cart at about 7:40 a.m. “It’s how I
wish it was every day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  