-- 
Rambus Blamed by Intel Trial Witnesses for Doomed Chip

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-08-29T21:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/rambus-blamed-by-intel-staff-for-doomed-chip-in-4-billion-trial.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  can blame itself and not
the semiconductor makers targeted in its $3.95 billion suit for
the failure of a memory chip to become the industry standard,
according to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  managers who worked with the company.  Paul Fahey, an Intel engineer called to testify in defense
of  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and Micron Technology Inc. at an
antitrust trial in state court in  San Francisco , told jurors
that Rambus’s technology was flawed and its engineers less
competent than their peers. Rambus’s insistence on a so-called
guillotine contract also led Intel to conclude its alliance with
the company was “doomed,” William Swope, a former Intel
strategic planning manager, testified.  Rambus engineers “were not as competent and they didn’t
work as hard,” said Fahey, who in 1999 as a program manager for
Intel oversaw the development of Rambus’s version of dynamic
random access memory, or DRAM.  The testimony from Fahey, Swope and at least three other
current and former Intel employees may undermine Rambus’s claim
that Hynix and Micron colluded to drive its DRAM chips, which it
called RDRAM, out of the market. By 2003, Intel abandoned its
work on RDRAM as a solution to a computer-memory bottleneck that
threatened to stymie the growth of the  Santa Clara , California-
based company, the world’s biggest chipmaker.  In the trial that began June 8, Rambus argues that Hynix
and Micron conspired to lower the prices of their own chips and
deserted their commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a
niche role. Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus, which doesn’t
manufacture the chips it designs, contends it would have earned
$3.95 billion in royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under
California law, a jury finding of damages in that amount would
be automatically tripled to $11.9 billion.  ‘Rocky at Best’  Hynix, the world’s second-largest maker of computer memory
chips, and Micron are doing a “great job of using Intel to make
their case by showing that the relationship between Rambus and
Intel was rocky at best,” said  Michael Cohen , the chief
executive officer of Fremont, California-based  MDC Financial
Research LLC , who is following the trial for investor-clients.
“And they’ve showed that Intel may have been willing to move
away from Rambus even had the manufacturers not conspired.”  Rambus Shares  Rambus rose 68 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $11.86 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading today. Since the trial began, the shares
have fallen 14 percent. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell
4.2 percent during that same period.  Linda Ashmore , a Rambus spokeswoman, and  Chuck Mulloy , an
Intel spokesman, declined to comment on the testimony by Intel
employees. Ken Nissly, a lawyer representing Ichon, South Korea-
based Hynix, and Micron spokesman Dan Francisco also declined to
comment. Boise, Idaho-based Micron is the largest U.S. maker of
computer memory chips. DRAM chips are used to store data
temporarily to help devices run multiple programs at the same
time on computers.  Testifying about his work with Rambus, Fahey said he spent
afternoons with the company’s engineers and called suppliers in
 Asia  after hours to work through problems “while the Rambus
people went home.”  “They could have stayed with me on the call,” Fahey said,
adding that he was sometimes the last one to close the doors at
night. “I recall one incidence when I was feeling very sorry
for myself.”  Swope testified that “for years” he was the “biggest
RDRAM advocate businesswise at Intel.”  ‘No Longer Viable’  That view changed by March 1999 when he wrote an e-mail to
 Paul Otellini , then an executive vice president, who became
Intel’s CEO in 2005. Swope said in the message that, after
analyzing technical manufacturing delays in Rambus memory chips
that Intel relied on exclusively for its Pentium 4 processors,
Intel’s dependence solely on Rambus was “no longer viable.”  Swope, who retired in April after working 20 years under
Otellini, testified that he determined Intel’s relationship with
Rambus suffered from the guillotine contract that obligated
Intel to promote RDRAM. If certain conditions weren’t met,
Rambus could block Intel from shipping any processor that relied
on the chip designer’s technology, Swope said.  After failing to reach a compromise with Rambus to
eliminate that provision, Swope said he concluded that the
“entire industry” was threatened by the agreement and that
Intel’s relationship with Rambus was “doomed.”  “My recommendation to Mr. Otellini was that we could not
do business with a company that could put us out of business,”
Swope told jurors.  ‘Huge Win-Win’  Under cross-examination, Swope discussed a January 2000 e-
mail to Rambus’s then-CEO Geoffrey Tate about how to end the
guillotine contract. Bart Williams, a Rambus lawyer, asked Swope
if it was true, as he said in the message, that he remained
convinced Rambus and Intel had a “huge win-win” potential.  “Probably not,” Swope testified. The collaboration was
“never going to win,” he said, citing the “really bad clause
in the contract that was causing such animosity and was causing
such damage. I did not see a way for the two teams to end up
working together.”  In its effort to prove there was a conspiracy to undercut
its memory chip, Rambus has introduced as evidence e-mails from
employees at Intel, as well as at Micron and Hynix, that it says
show a plot to stall production of RDRAM and provide an edge to
competing products.  An internal Intel e-mail in May 1999 described Micron as
trying to “create as much turmoil to prevent RDRAM as
possible.”  ‘Aggressive Pricing’  Pete MacWilliams, an Intel engineer who was one of the
recipients of that message, has been the only Intel employee
called by Rambus to testify.  Micron was advertising for synchronous dynamic random
access memory and double data rate chips that competed with
RDRAM, MacWilliams said. “They were also going out and very
aggressively pricing SDRAM and promising very aggressive pricing
on DDR,” he testified.  At the same time, Micron engineers “weren’t making
progress” on manufacturing the RDRAM chips that it had
committed to, MacWilliams testified.  “They may have been in the market trying to cause turmoil
because they couldn’t build the part,” MacWilliams said. “Or
they may have not been building the part because of their
motivation. It’s not clear to me.”  2005 Guilty Plea  Hynix, in 2005, and some of its employees pleaded guilty to
U.S. charges of fixing prices of some chips. A Hynix lawyer told
the Rambus trial jury that RDRAM chips weren’t among the
products cited in admissions of wrongdoing in the criminal case.  Micron avoided prosecution in the price-fixing probe by
cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department. As a result,
jurors in the Rambus case won’t be told about a Micron
salesman’s 2004 guilty plea to obstructing the government’s
investigation.  Farhad Tabrizi, a former Hynix executive called to the
stand by Rambus, was asked whether he was promoted to vice
president of worldwide marketing after engaging in a campaign
from 1995 to 1998 called “RDRAM killing.”  Tabrizi said the term meant that he promoted an “open
standard” for DRAM in opposition to Rambus’s proprietary and
licensed product.  Rambus lawyer Williams asked Tabrizi about a 1998 e-mail to
a colleague responding to an Intel request for Hynix’s estimates
of its quarter-by-quarter RDRAM production. “My recommendation
is to show bigger number than actual plan, maybe even two to
three times,” Tabrizi wrote in the message.  Overstating Production  Tabrizi testified that, if he provided Intel with the
actual production numbers, Intel would have produced fewer
processors compatible with RDRAM. “Intel wanted to create an
over-supply of RDRAM so the prices go artificially low, and I
didn’t want to give that pleasure to Intel,” Tabrizi said.  Williams asked Tabrizi if he suggested during an October
1998 meeting that representatives of other chip manufacturers,
including Micron, should overstate RDRAM production.  “It’s possible,” Tabrizi said. “I don’t deny it.”  Rambus lawyers presented a 2001 e-mail exchange between
Linda Turner, then Micron’s vice president of international
sales, and members of her staff citing the declining prices of
standardized DDR chips.  In response to a comment that the declining prices were
“scary,” Turner wrote, “No problem! We want DDR to explode
into the marketplace so have actually been requesting Infineon,
Samsung and Hynix to lower their DDR pricing to help it become a
standard (and drive Rambus away completely).”  ‘Totally Sarcastic’  Turner, in videotaped testimony played for the jury, said
her message was “totally sarcastic.” At a time when the memory
chip industry was in “dire straits,” Turner said, what she
suggested in the message was “absolutely ludicrous.”  “Everybody was fighting for pennies and to think they
would go lower in their pricing was crazy,” Turner said.  Cohen, the  MDC Financial Research  CEO, said that in a trial
in which jurors are being asked to piece together “several
mosaics” of sub-plots, the Turner e-mail is “one piece of
evidence where you have everything you need.”  The message shows Micron directing other chip
manufacturers, by name, to lower their prices, and that the
purpose of the coordination was to ruin Rambus, Cohen said. He
said he found Turner’s explanation that the message was
sarcastic to be “unbelievable.”  Hynix and Micron have said they will finish their case by
early September. Rambus will then have another chance to rebut
their evidence.  The case is Rambus Inc. v.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) ,
04-0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  