-- 
Rand Advances to Two-Week High Against Dollar as Stocks and Metals Rally

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-29T14:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/rand-advances-to-strongest-in-week-against-dollar-as-stocks-metals-rally.html
The rand advanced to its strongest
in almost two weeks against the dollar after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  is recovering,
fueling demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The rand appreciated for a third day, increasing as much as
1.5 percent to 7.0443 per dollar, its highest level since Aug.
16. It traded 1.3 percent up at 7.0568 as of 3:17 p.m. in
Johannesburg, bringing its advance since Aug. 24 to 2.6 percent.  Emerging-market stocks rose for a second day, driving the
benchmark index toward the highest level in more than a week,
after Bernanke said the Fed has tools to spur growth. Prices on
the London Metal Exchange climbed for a fourth day, boosting
demand for shares in  South Africa ’s mining companies. The
nation’s stocks gauge surged as much as 2.8 percent, led by
miners including Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd.  “Risky assets recouped some lost ground due to the belief
that the Fed has kept the door open for more monetary
stimulus,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note.
“The rand can recover further.”  The rand may extend its advance to 6.96 per dollar after
breaching 7.06, a so-called resistance level where traders
clustered orders to sell the currency, the Standard Bank
analysts said. The likelihood of the rand trading at 6.96 versus
the dollar in the next week was 58 percent, implied volatility
from options monitored by Bloomberg showed when the rand traded
at 7.05 per dollar.  Bonds gained for a second day before reports tomorrow on
second-quarter gross domestic product growth, July private
sector credit and the government’s budget shortfall in July.  Economic Data  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 15 cents to
93.301 rand, driving the yield down two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.75 percent.  Growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy slowed to 1.6 percent in
the three months through June, from 4.8 percent in the previous
quarter, according to the median estimate of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Private sector credit growth likely slowed to
4.9 percent, from 5.3 percent.  Investors are increasing bets the central bank will cut its
key  interest rate , now at 5.5 percent, as the slowing global
economy drags down growth in South Africa. Three-month forward-
rate agreements starting in December, used to lock in future
borrowing costs, retreated for a second day, losing less than
one basis point to 5.34 percent. Reserve Bank Governor Gill
Marcus said on Aug. 23 the central bank will act
“appropriately” if there is a sustained slowdown in the world
growth.  The  Reserve Bank  may need to cut its outlook for growth
from 3.7 percent this year unless the global growth improves,
Deputy Governor Lesetja Kganyago said on Aug. 26.  “The risk of monetary easing by the Reserve Bank will be
the dominant factor” driving bond market gains, Rand Merchant
Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet said in a research note. The
yield on the 2021 bonds may fall to 7.40 percent, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  