-- 
Treasuries Decline on U.S. Evidence of Resilience, Eased European Concern

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-29T21:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/treasuries-snap-gain-after-bernanke-soothes-concern-of-recession-in-u-s-.html
Treasuries declined for the first
time in three days as America’s economy showed signs of
resilience and European debt turmoil eased, reducing demand for
the safest securities and boosting stocks.  U.S. debt  dropped as a report showed personal spending rose
in July more than forecast and  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the economy isn’t weak enough to warrant
immediate stimulus. Bonds slid earlier today as Alpha Bank SA,
Greece’s third-largest lender, agreed to acquire a rival to
create the nation’s biggest lender and help it ride out the
country’s fiscal crisis.  “The Treasury market is drifting lower with no headline
scares, slightly better economic news and stocks positive,”
said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “As the economic data
gets better, the Treasury 10-year note yield should drift closer
to 3 percent into the end of the year.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 2.27 percent at 5:10 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 fell 21/32, or $6.56 per
$1,000 face amount, to 98 23/32.  The 10-year note yields added 13 basis points last week,
climbing from the record low 1.97 percent set Aug. 18. Yields on
30-year bonds gained six basis points today to 3.59 percent.
Two-year yields rose two basis points to 0.21 percent, compared
with the record low 0.1568 percent reached Aug. 9.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.8 percent today
on the U.S. economic outlook. Futures on crude oil increased 2.4
percent to $87.42 a barrel in New York trading. U.S. bond, stock
and commodity markets opened after  Manhattan  was spared the
worst of Hurricane Irene.  Personal spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
America’s economy, increased 0.8 percent in July after a revised
drop of 0.1 percent in the prior month, the Commerce Department
reported today. The median forecast of 74 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.5 percent.  Treasuries have still rallied this month on concern the
U.S. recovery is stalling and the European fiscal crisis is
spreading to financial institutions. U.S. debt has returned 2.9
percent in August, the most since December 2008, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Bernanke sought in his address on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , to reassure investors and the public that U.S. growth
is safe in the long run. While he said the Fed still has tools
to aid the recovery if needed, he stopped short of indicating
that the central bank will move ahead with a third round of
government bond-buying.  ‘Confidence-Building’ Fed  “Based on the market direction, the Fed, by doing nothing,
looks to have offered the most confidence-building action in
quite some time,” wrote  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , in a note to clients.  Bond investors are supporting Bernanke’s forecast that the
U.S. is not about to tip back into recession.  The economy has never contracted with the difference
between 10- and 30-year Treasury yields as wide as the current
1.34 percentage points, or 134 basis points, since the so-called
long bond was first issued in 1977. The gap, which is more than
double the 49 basis point average of the past 20 years, has
ranged from negative 56 to positive 41.9 at the start of the
last five recessions.  Growth Not ‘Dead’  “There is a lot of fear, but U.S. growth is not dead,”
Andrew Richman, who oversees $10 billion as a strategist in  Palm
Beach ,  Florida , for SunTrust Banks Inc.’s private wealth
management division, said in an Aug. 26 interview. “Eventually,
Treasury yields will have to rise.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told
the European Parliament’s economic committee during a special
session called to discuss the debt crisis that the bank’s
primary objective is to anchor inflation expectations and that
the economy will grow at a modest pace.  The combination of  Greece ’s Alpha Bank and EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA would implement a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.7 billion)
effort to strengthen its finances, including a 1.25 billion-euro
rights offer, a 500 million-euro convertible note and 2.1
billion euros of internal measures, the companies said in a
statement. That would help give the lender a core Tier 1 capital
ratio of 14 percent, even after accounting for writedowns of
Greek  government bonds , according to the companies.  “The focus is back on the euro zone,” said Christian Cooper, head of U.S. dollar-derivatives trading in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that trade
with the Federal Reserve.  The 10-year Treasury yield will advance to 2.72 percent by
Dec. 31, according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of financial companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  