-- 
Reserve Bank Recommends 49% Overseas Ownership Limit for New Indian Banks

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-08-29T10:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/reserve-bank-recommends-minimum-5-billion-rupee-capital-for-new-lenders.html
India ’s central bank said it may cap
foreign shareholding at 49 percent for new lenders for five
years as it considers issuing banking licenses for the first
time since 2004.  New lenders would have to sell shares within two years and
open at least one in four branches in rural areas that have a
population of no more than 9,999 people, the  Reserve Bank  of
India said in draft guidelines  posted  on its website today. The
banks may also need to meet a minimum capital requirement of 5
billion rupees ($109 million).  Companies including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and billionaire
Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group have expressed interest in
licenses to operate in a market with credit growth forecast at
18 percent for the year ending March. New entrants would compete
with Mumbai-based  State Bank of India (SBIN) , which accounts for almost
a quarter of the nation’s loans, and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)   “The guideline asking for a listing within two years
appears to be a bit impractical,” said Hemant Kanoria, chairman
and managing director SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. “It will
be very difficult for branches in the rural areas to start
generating profits in the first two years.”  The company will wait for final guidelines before making a
decision on applying for a license, Kanoria said in a phone
interview today. The regulator is seeking feedback by Oct. 31.  India’s Bankex index, which tracks 14 stocks including
 State Bank  and ICICI, climbed 4.1 percent today, trimming its
loss this year to 20 percent.  Business groups controlled by Indian residents with at
least 10 years of experience may be eligible to set up the
banks, it said. Companies that got 10 percent or more of their
income or assets from real estate or broking in the last three
years won’t be eligible for the licenses, according to the
guidelines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  