-- 
Reserve Bank of India Proposes Tougher Capital, Sale Rules for New Banks

-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-08-30T11:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/reserve-bank-of-india-proposes-tougher-capital-sale-rules-for-new-banks.html
India ’s central bank recommended
tougher capital rules for new lenders and mandatory share sales
within two years as conditions for issuing new licenses for the
first time in seven years.  New private lenders will have to open at least one in four
branches in rural areas that have a population of no more than
9,999 people, the  Reserve Bank  of India said in draft guidelines
 posted  on its website yesterday. The banks may need to meet a
minimum capital requirement of 5 billion rupees ($109 million),
more than double the requirement for banks in 2004. Foreign
shareholding may be capped at 49 percent for new lenders for
five years, the central bank said.  Stringent rules may restrict the number of entrants,
according to Viren H. Mehta, a director at Ernst & Young LLP in
India. The license winners will also face competition from  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , which accounts for almost a fourth of India’s
loans, and  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  Companies including  Larsen & Toubro
Ltd. (LT)  and billionaire Anil Ambani’s Reliance ADA Group have
expressed interest in operating in a market where credit is
forecast to expand 18 percent in the year to March 31.  ‘Serious Players’  “If a business group wants to get into the banking
business, they have to be serious players,” said Mehta.
“Serious enough to even change their group structures to become
eligible for a license,” he said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Religare Enterprises Ltd. (RELG)  said its owners qualify to apply
for the license under the draft guidelines. The New Delhi-based
group, controlled by billionaire brothers Malvinder Mohan Singh
and Shivinder Mohan, plans to set up a panel to help guide the
company, according to a statement today.  “We would align our proposed business model” to comply
with “regulatory intent,” Religare said in a separate
statement yesterday.  New banks will also need to maintain a 12 percent capital
adequacy ratio, compared with the 10 percent mandated by the
regulator when it set guidelines for new lenders in 2001.  The owners of the banks will have to reduce their stake to
40 percent within two years after they are given a license,
according to the central bank. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Aug.
23 said public ownership of banks would inspire confidence in
the financial system and mitigate issues of conflict of interest
between shareholders and depositors in the banks.  ‘Impractical’ Guidelines  “The guideline asking for a listing within two years
appears to be a bit impractical,” said Hemant Kanoria, chairman
and managing director at  SREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. (SREI)  “It
will be very difficult for branches in the rural areas to start
generating profits in the first two years.”  SREI will wait for final guidelines before deciding on
applying for a license, Kanoria said in a phone interview
yesterday. The regulator has sought feedback by Oct. 31.  SREI advanced 5.4 percent to 41.95 rupees at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, while Religare fell 1.3 percent to 415.4
rupees, paring initial gains of over 7 percent.  Companies including L&T Finance Holdings Ltd.,  Bajaj
Finserv Ltd. (BJFIN)  and  Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services (MMFS)  Ltd.
“appear to meet the key criteria,” analysts led by Santosh Singh, at Espírito Santo Investment Bank Research said in a note
today.  “The surprising element was restricting of banking
licenses to private sector companies,” Singh said. That
excludes Rural Electrification Corp., Power Finance Corp. and
“to a certain extent”  LIC Housing Finance Ltd. (LICHF) , he wrote in
the report.  Real Estate  “We want a banking license and the guidelines announced
are positive for us,” R. Sridhar, managing director of Shriram
Transport Finance Co. said in an interview yesterday. “We may
need some time to meet some conditions.”  L&T Finance fell 2 percent to close at 49.8 rupees.
 Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  advanced 1.8 percent to 384.2 rupees.
Bajaj Finserv fell 7 percent to 537 rupees.  India’s Bankex index, which tracks 14 lenders including
 State Bank  and ICICI, climbed 2.2 percent today, trimming its
loss this year to 19 percent.  Business groups controlled by Indian residents with at
least 10 years of experience may be eligible to set up banks,
the central bank said yesterday. Companies that get 10 percent
or more of their income or assets from real estate or broking in
the last three years won’t be eligible for the licenses,
according to the guidelines.  The proposed rules will ensure companies don’t use their
banks as a “private pool of readily available funds,” Subbarao
said on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  