-- 
Rice May Rally 22% by Yearend as Thai Buying Elevates Costs, Curbs Exports

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-29T20:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/rice-may-rally-22-by-yearend-as-thai-buying-elevates-costs-curbs-exports.html
Rice may rally 22 percent by yearend
as  Thailand , the world’s largest exporter, buys the grain from
farmers at above-market rates, pushing up costs for importers
and fanning global inflation even as economic growth slows.  The price of 100 percent grade-B Thai rice, the regional
benchmark, may rally to $750 per metric ton by Dec. 31,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven exporters, traders and millers conducted last week. That
target is $50 higher than the median estimate in a separate
Bloomberg survey undertaken in the first half of this month.  The surge may complicate matters for central bankers and
policy makers around  Asia  who are already struggling to cool
rising prices. Rice was the only grain separating the world from
a food crisis,  Abdolreza Abbassian , senior economist at the
United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization, or FAO, said in
February when worldwide food costs rallied to a record.  “If the sources of supply are actually inflating the
prices for their commodities, regardless whether there’s supply
or not, that’s going to keep prices elevated,”  Abah Ofon , an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said by phone from  Singapore .
“That would keep risks for food inflation elevated.”  Thailand’s 100 percent grade-B variety rallied 6 percent to
$617 per ton in the week to Aug. 24, the highest level since
December 2009, according to the Thai Rice Exporters’
Association. The price hasn’t been more than $750 since
September 2008. Rough-rice futures in  Chicago  rose 23 cents, or
1.3 percent, to close at $17.54 per 100 pounds today, up 23
percent this year.  Rural Incomes  Millers, traders and exporters in Thailand are advancing
purchases as Yingluck Shinawatra -- appointed as prime minister
in early August -- pledges to implement the policy of buying
unmilled grain direct from farmers at 43 percent above market
prices. The plan, designed to bolster rural incomes, may make
Thai shipments less competitive as output in the U.S., the
fourth-largest shipper, is estimated by the Department of
Agriculture, or USDA, to slump by the most since 1984.  While the FAO forecasts global rice production will exceed
demand in 2011-2012, and stockpiles will rise to an 11-year
high, the Thai policy may mean that some of the nation’s
exportable surplus ends up sitting in state warehouses, said
Darren Cooper, a senior economist at the International Grains
Council.  Prices of rice are advancing as the global food market
braces for another year of deficits in corn and wheat, draining
stockpiles of grains. Demand for wheat, used in making bread,
pasta, noodles and mixed in animal feeds, will exceed production
for a second straight year in 2011-2012, while corn stockpiles
will drop to the lowest in five years, according to USDA data.  ‘Danger Zone’  World food prices, as  tracked  by the  World Bank , surged 33
percent in July from a year earlier, boosted by higher costs of
rice, corn, wheat, sugar and soybean oil. Persistently high food
prices and low inventories show “we’re still in the danger
zone,” World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said on Aug. 15.
The FAO’s 55-item World Food Price Index was at 233.84 in June,
the latest reading, after peaking at 237.68 in February.  Exports of Thai rice may tumble 20 percent to 8 million
tons in 2012 as Yingluck’s buying policy reduces the
competitiveness of the nation’s shipments, according to an Aug.
12  report  from the USDA’s  Economic Research Service .  In the U.S., milled-rice output will drop 20 percent to 6
million tons in the season that began Aug. 1, the most since the
season ended 1984, according to USDA data. That will cut the
nation’s shipments 4.5 percent to 3.15 million tons next year.  ‘Wrong Time’  “A significantly smaller U.S. crop comes at the wrong time
for importers, should they be forced to turn to other origins if
Thai availabilities dwindle markedly due to government-
intervention buying,” said Cooper at the Grains Council.  A surge in rice-export prices may encourage  India  to ship
as much as 3 million tons,  Rakesh Singh , a grain trader at
Emmsons International Ltd., said in a phone interview from  New
Delhi . That may slow the advance in prices, he said.  The global trade in rice will rise 1.5 million tons to a
record 32.7 million tons this year, before declining next year
on the lower shipments from Thailand, the USDA said. China and
 Indonesia  are forecast to increase shipments this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  