-- 
Trichet Says ECB Reassessing Inflation Risks

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-08-29T16:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/trichet-says-ecb-reassessing-inflation-risks.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the bank is reviewing its assessment of
inflation risks after growth in the 17-nation euro area slowed.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
are under study in the context of the ECB staff projections that
will be released early September,” Trichet told the European
Parliament’s economic committee in Brussels today. The comment
contrasts with Trichet’s last policy statement on Aug. 4, when
he said risks to the inflation outlook were “on the upside.”  A switch in the ECB’s language on price risks may herald a
change in its policy stance. The central bank, which has raised
its benchmark  interest rate  twice this year to 1.5 percent, is
unlikely to increase it again until 2013, Citigroup Inc.
economists said last week.  “The ECB is preparing the ground for no further rate
increases,” said  Alexander Krueger , head of capital market
analysis at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “Against the
background of the sovereign debt crisis and an easing of the
inflation situation, I can’t imagine them raising rates.”  Euro-area growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.8 percent in the first -- with the German economy
almost grinding to a halt -- as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled
financial markets and weighed on confidence.  Growth, Inflation  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn , speaking to the same parliamentary panel today,
indicated the EU may lower its growth forecasts when it issues
new projections on Sept. 15, saying it is “seriously
concerned” about financial turbulence spilling over into the
broader economy.  “All in all, the short-term growth prospects have somewhat
worsened compared to our spring forecast,” he said. In May, the
EU projected gross domestic product would grow 1.6 percent in
the euro area this year and 1.8 percent in 2012.  “Inflationary risks, which were already low before this
summer’s turmoil, now seem irrelevant,” said Marie Diron, an
economist at Oxford Economics in  London . “In this context, the
ECB needs to make it clear that the outlook has changed and that
it is adjusting policy accordingly.”  German inflation slowed more than economists forecast in
August, with the rate dropping to 2.4 percent from 2.6 percent,
a report showed today.  Expectations  Trichet said euro-area inflation, currently at 2.5 percent,
will stay above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling “for some months”
and policy makers are determined to ensure that price
expectations remain contained.  ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview
published Aug. 27 that he sees no upward pressure on inflation
expectations.  In June, the ECB forecast inflation would average 2.6
percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. It predicted economic
growth would slow to 1.7 percent next year from 1.9 percent in
2011. The central bank updates its projections every three
months.  “Looking ahead, we continue to see the euro-area economy
growing at a modest pace in a context of overall relatively
sound economic fundamentals for the euro area as a whole,”
Trichet said. “At the same time, not least because of the
recently re-emerged tensions in financial markets, uncertainty
remains particularly high.”  Bond Purchases  Trichet defended the ECB’s purchases of  government bonds  on
the secondary market, saying they are aimed at restoring the
transmission of monetary policy and are not a substitute for
fiscal discipline.  The ECB was forced to start buying Italian and Spanish
securities on Aug. 8 after politicians failed to convince
investors they could contain the region’s debt crisis.  The bank said today it settled 6.65 billion euros ($9.7
billion) of purchases in the week through Aug. 26, down from
14.3 billion euros in the previous week and a record 22 billion
euros the week before that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  