-- 
Romanian Official Resigns Following Climate Permits Sanction

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-08-29T13:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/romanian-official-resigns-following-climate-permits-sanction.html
The head of  Romania ’s Environment
Protection Agency resigned today after a United Nations panel
suspended the nation’s right to sell surplus carbon permits.  Iosif Nagy, who led the agency responsible for preparing
papers to allow Romania to trade the carbon certificates, will
be replaced by Abos Gabor, Environment Minister Laszlo Borbely
said at a news conference in Bucharest. The east European
country lost its right to trade the permits known as Assigned
Amount Units after the environment agency failed to report the
national greenhouse-gas emissions correctly.  Romania was deemed not in compliance with the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol  after an Aug. 27 decision by the Enforcement Branch of
the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change  in
Bonn, according to a  UN website.  The branch also made a
preliminary decision sanctioning Ukraine on Aug. 25.  “We are planning to have all the problems solved by the
end of the year and we have all the confidence that the trading
rights will be restored in the shortest period,” Borbely said
today from Bucharest by phone while discussing the resignation.  By law, the prime minister must agree on the replacement.  A nation deemed out of compliance cannot sell spare permits
under rules of the protocol. Romania, which plans to prepare a
new emissions-reporting system, will seek to sell some of the
300 million spare AAUs, each representing one metric ton of
carbon dioxide, “depending on market conditions,” Borbely
said.  Under the protocol, developed countries with targets must
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an average 5.2 percent from
1990 levels over the five years through 2012. Each of those
countries has been allocated tradable AAUs representing their
targets, and those countries with surplus permits may sell them
to other nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  