-- 
Rubber Gains on Supply Concern, Optimism on Recovery

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-08-29T05:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/rubber-gains-on-supply-concern-optimism-on-recovery-correct-.html
(Corrects price move in second paragraph.)  Rubber advanced on concerns that
heavy rains in  Thailand , the largest producer, may lower
production and after fears the  U.S. economy  will stall were
allayed, boosting optimism the global recovery is intact.  January-delivery rubber rose as much as 1 percent to 362.60
yen per kilogram ($4,727 a metric ton). The most-active contract
gained 1.9 percent last week, the first advance since the week
of July 29.  Asian stocks climbed for a third day today, joining an
advance in U.S. and European equities after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he is “more optimistic” about
the long-term prospects of the U.S. economy. The extended
Federal Open Market Committee meeting in September will “allow
a fuller discussion” of the economy and the central bank’s
possible response, he said Aug. 26.  “Bernanke’s speech helped boost sentiment to  commodities
markets ,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior marketing official at
Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from Bangkok. Rubber also
advanced on concerns that production may decline in Thailand
after heavy rains persist, disrupting latex tapping, she said.  A monsoon covering the Andaman Sea and the Gulf of Thailand
has intensified, causing heavy rains, Thai Meteorological
Department said on its website today.  The cash price of Thai rubber added 0.2 percent to 139.25
baht ($4.64) a kilogram on Aug. 26, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand. The price will be updated around
midday.  In Shanghai, rubber for January delivery little changed at
33,055 yuan ($5,178) a ton at 10:06 a.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  