-- 
United Co. Rusal Expects to Complete Debt Refinancing Talks in Four Weeks

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-08-29T13:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/rusal-says-it-seeks-to-complete-debt-refinancing-talks-in-four-weeks.html
United Co. Rusal expects to complete
debt refinancing talks in about four weeks, allowing the world’s
largest aluminum maker to start paying dividends for the first
time since it listed, said Deputy Chief Executive Officer Oleg Mukhamedshin.  “The company is eager to refinance all of its debt by the
end of September,” Mukhamedshin said today on a conference
call. “From a technical view, the company will be in a position
to start paying dividends.”  Rusal in 2009 went through the biggest corporate debt
restructuring in  Russia  as the global crash in commodity prices
coincided with Rusal’s increased borrowing to finance expansion.
The company sold shares in Hong Kong in January 2010, the first
placement of stock by a Russian company in the city.  Rusal this month hired banks including BNP Paribas SA and
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  to arrange a $4.75 billion loan to refinance debt
to international lenders, which may be increased to no more than
$5 billion, Rusal said today.  The loan will be split into two tranches of as much as
$4.25 billion and as much as $1 billion. The rate will be no
more than 285 basis points above the three-month  London 
interbank offered rate on the first tranche and fixed at 3.85
percent for the second, Rusal’s report  shows .  Paying Back Prokhorov  The loan will also be used to pay back debt to Mikhail Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, owner of 17.02 percent of Rusal, the
documents shows. As of July 31, Rusal’s debt to Onexim was $560
million.  The company is waiting for capital markets to recover from
recent volatility to start the sale of 30 billion rubles ($1
billion) worth of bonds, Mukhamedshin said.  Rusal is refinancing its loans to secure lower  interest
rates  as its ratio of earnings to debt declines. Net debt
dropped to $11.4 billion as of June 30, compared with $12.2
billion a year earlier and close to $17 billion in 2008.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, agreed to refinance
$460 million of debt for 4.5 percent above the one-year London
Interbank Offered Rate, Rusal said today in a  presentation . A
$655 million loan with OAO Gazprombank will have interest of 4.5
percent above the three-month Libor. Both loans will mature in
2016, according to the presentation.  Talks with VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank, are at
an “advanced stage,” Mukhamedshin said.  Sberbank Loan  Sberbank agreed to refinance a separate $4.6 billion loan
earlier this month, lowering the rate by 50 basis points to 4.5
percent above the one-year Libor.  Rusal gained 3.6 percent to HK$8.29 at 1:53 p.m.  Hong Kong 
time after dropping as much as 2.8 percent earlier.  Rusal today reported a 70 percent decline in second-quarter
net income to $339 million, after prices dropped and a one-time
gain from asset revaluations wasn’t repeated. That missed the
$436 million median forecast from six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The year earlier profit number included a one-
time gain of $740 million, Troika Dialog said last week.  Adjusted net profit fell to $243 million from $352 million
a year earlier, Rusal said.  Prices Declining  “The results look broadly in line with our forecasts, with
better cost performance in the aluminum segment offset by higher
general and administrative and interest expenses and taxes,”
Erik Danemar, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a note to
investors today. “The key concern is the outlook for aluminum
prices.”  Rusal’s costs for the second half of the year are
“stabilizing” at the second-quarter levels, Chief Financial
Officer Evgeny Kornilov said on the conference call.  Three-month aluminum futures slumped in the second quarter
as demand for commodities fell amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
concern the  U.S. economy  is stagnating.  Aluminum traded in London dropped 4.4 percent to $2,532 a
metric ton in the three months to June 30. Three-month futures
have averaged $2,551 this year.  “We still believe that the price of aluminum can be in
between $2,500 and $2,600 for the remaining period of the year,
even closer to $2,600,” Mukhamedshin said.  Lowered Forecast  Rusal, which today halved its forecast for 2011 aluminum
production growth to 1 percent, has tumbled 30 percent this
year, compared with the 14 percent drop in the Hong Kong
benchmark index.  Rusal’s sales rose 11 percent to $3.33 billion in the
second quarter, while adjusted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization fell 12 percent to $743 million.
Ebitda as a percentage of revenue shrank to 22.3 percent from
28.1 percent a year earlier.  Separately, Rusal has “no information about any of our key
shareholders’ intention to sell shares” in the company, Vera
Kurochkina, head of communications, said. She was responding to
last week’s report in Vedomosti newspaper that Chairman  Viktor
Vekselberg  may be ready to sell his stake.  Norilsk’s board on Aug. 24 approved an $8.75 billion offer
to buy 15 percent of the nickel producer’s shares from Rusal.  Rusal has also “not considered yet” the offer made by
Norilsk to buy out the aluminum maker’s holding in the nickel
producer, Kurochkina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  