-- 
Russian Envoy in Syria Urges Assad to Stop Violence Immediately

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-08-29T16:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/russian-envoy-in-syria-urges-assad-to-stop-violence-immediately.html
A Russian envoy called on Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to halt violence against protesters
immediately and implement promised political changes.  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov delivered
the demands in a message from President  Dmitry Medvedev  at a
meeting today with Assad in Damascus, the Kremlin said in a
 statement  on its website.  “From the Russian side, the need was stressed for an
immediate and complete halt to violence by all parties and the
immediate implementation of reforms promised by the Syrian
leadership,” the statement said. Bogdanov also called on the
Syrian opposition to accept the government’s offer of dialogue,
the Kremlin said.  Russia, which has maintained close ties with  Syria  since
the Soviet era, earlier this month rejected demands from the
U.S. and the European Union for Assad to step down because of
his regime’s crackdown on protests that began five months ago.
Russia also opposes an initiative by the U.S., Britain and
 France , to impose United Nations sanctions on Syria. The UN puts
the death toll at more than 2,200.  Vitaly Churkin, Russia’s ambassador to the UN, told
reporters in  New York  on Aug. 26 that his country was starting a
diplomatic initiative to halt the violence in Syria.  UN Resolution  Churkin also introduced a draft resolution in the UN
Security Council that “calls on the Syrian government to
expedite the implementation of the announced reforms in order to
effectively address the legitimate aspirations and concerns” of
Syria’s people.  “Russia is looking for ways to get Syria out of the
crisis,” Churkin said. “We are concerned about what is going
on. This is a situation where some sort of continued activity by
the  Security Council  might be helpful, if it is pushing the
parties in the right direction.”  Efforts by the West to force regime change in Syria after
intervening to oust Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  risk
triggering the country’s collapse and further instability in the
 Middle East , Konstantin Kosachyov, the head of the Russian lower
house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said last week.  Russia maintains its only military facility in the Middle
East in Syria, a servicing point for visiting navy vessels in
the port of Tartus, which was a permanent base for Soviet
warships in the Mediterranean during the  Cold War .  Russia also has weapons contracts with Syria worth at least
$3 billion, according to Ruslan Pukhov, director of the Moscow-
based Center for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies.
The orders include Yakhont anti-ship cruise missiles, MiG-29
fighter jets and Pantsir short-range air-defense systems.  Russia ’s diplomatic move followed the introduction last
week of a U.S. and European draft UN resolution that would
freeze the foreign assets of Assad, his brother Maher, who
commands a Syrian army division, and 21 other senior government
officials. That resolution would also impose an arms embargo on
Syria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  