-- 
SABMiller Bid Drives Up Foster’s Default Swaps to Record: Australia Credit

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-08-30T05:07:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sabmiller-bid-drives-up-foster-s-default-swaps-to-record-australia-credit.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s hostile A$9.5
billion ($10.1 billion) bid for  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  is sending
the price to insure the debt of  Australia ’s biggest beermaker to
a record.  Credit-default swaps on Foster’s bonds rose 39 basis points
this month to 130 basis points, exceeding a gauge of global
brewers for the first time since at least May 2009 when
Bloomberg started compiling the data. Foster’s stock rose 2.2
percent above the offer price today, indicating SABMiller may
have to raise its bid after taking the all-debt offer to the
Melbourne-based company’s shareholders to bypass the board’s
rejection.  “There are obviously concerns -- they overpay and they
over-lever to get there,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit
research at ING Investment Management in Sydney, which manages
about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets. “If you go hostile
in a takeover, you’re always going to end up paying a bit more,
so that adds an element of risk.”  SABMiller, the London-based maker of Miller Lite, hired
banks to raise $12.5 billion loans for the bid, a person with
knowledge of the deal said last week. The financing, the largest
for a European acquirer since Paris-based drugmaker Sanofi-
Aventis obtained $15 billion in October to buy Genzyme Corp., is
being sought as increased credit-market stress forces European
banks to pay the most in a year to borrow in dollars.  Credit-default swaps on Foster’s debt have reached the
highest since April 2009 and were above an index of food and
beverage companies that includes Heineken NV and Carlsberg A/S
for a sixth consecutive trading day yesterday, according to CMA
prices and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Annual Loss  Foster’s last week reported a second straight annual net
loss and said it will return at least A$500 million to investors
as it resists SABMiller’s bid. The Australian brewer’s board
says the offer is too low and comes after natural disasters and
stalling Australian  consumer spending  dented demand.  Government bond yields dropped this month while corporate
default-swaps and debt spreads surged on concern that global
financial turmoil will crimp the Australian economy’s recovery
from floods at the start of this year in Queensland state that
were the country’s most expensive natural catastrophe.  The Australian 10-year government yield fell one basis
point to 4.41 percent at 2:16 p.m. in Sydney. The rate has
fallen 39 basis points, or 0.39 percentage point, in August,
heading for the longest stretch of declines since 1991. The
spread to U.S. Treasuries has widened to 220 basis points from
201 on July 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Sensible’ Bid  Yields on Australian non-financial corporate bonds widened
21 basis points this month to 224 basis points more than
government debt yesterday and touched 227 on Aug. 19, the
highest level since Oct. 12, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Australian Industrial Index shows.  The cost of insuring the debt of SABMiller increased 44
basis points in August to 130 basis points, and touched 134.5 on
Aug. 24, the highest since June 2009, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. Credit-default swaps on food
and beverage companies increased 27.7 basis points to 127.3
basis points in the period, Bloomberg data show.  Chief Executive Officer  John Pollaers  said in an Aug. 24
interview that Foster’s, the world’s most profitable independent
major brewer and the maker of Victoria Bitter, is prepared to
discuss a “sensible” bid from SABMiller. Foster’s shares rose
to A$5.01 at 2:08 p.m. in Sydney today, more than the A$4.90 per
share all-cash offer.  ‘Higher Offer’  “The market does look like it’s pricing in a higher
offer,” said Nathan Zaia, an analyst at Morningstar Inc. in
Sydney with a “hold” rating on Foster’s. “The share price is
saying it’s not going to go ahead at this price.”  To fund a takeover, SABMiller has agreed to pay interest of
about 90 basis points more than the London interbank offered
rate for a five-year portion of the financing, two people
familiar with the situation said. The debt also consists of
three-year term loans and a revolving  credit line , the people
said. The financing includes $8 billion of 18-month bridge loans
to be refinanced with bonds, a person said.  Bond Drought  Companies are shunning Australia’s bond markets as
declining retail sales and rising unemployment fuel concern that
the developed world’s highest benchmark  interest rates  and the
Australian dollar’s climb to a record are retarding growth
outside the  mining industry .  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, climbed 20 percent over the past year and touched
$1.1081 on July 27, the most since exchange controls were
scrapped in 1983. The currency traded at $1.0663 as of 2:52 p.m.
in Sydney today.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised interest rates by 175
basis points between October 2009 and November 2010 to cool
inflation amid the country’s biggest mining boom in more than a
century. The central bank aims to keep inflation at an annual
average of between 2 and 3 percent.  Bond investors are estimating annual consumer-price gains
will average 2.60 percent over the coming five years, based on
the gap between yields on inflation-linked debt and notes that
aren’t indexed.  ‘Taking a Punt’  Andrew Butcher, an external spokesman for Foster’s at
Butcher & Co. in  Melbourne , declined to comment. Jim Kelly, a
spokesman for SABMiller at its public relations firm in
Australia, FTI Consulting, made no immediate comment.  Under SABMiller’s proposed takeover, the company’s net debt
would climb to about 3 times earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortization from about 1 times Ebitda, then-
Chief Financial Officer Malcolm Wyman said in June. That’s
higher than the company’s optimal ratio of between 2 and 2.5, he
said.  SABMiller would be left with an “investment grade” credit
rating after buying Foster’s, said Wyman, who retired last
month. Moody’s Investors Service rates Foster’s Baa2, two levels
above junk status. SABMiller is rated one level higher at Baa1.  Without a recommendation from the Foster’s board, SABMiller
may not have a clear picture of the nature of the business,
increasing the risks associated with the deal, said Rundell at
ING Investment Management.  “If you’re a hostile bidder, you don’t always know what
the exact assets looks like,” said Rundell. “You’re taking a
bit of a punt. Bridging loans are a bit more expensive up front,
but allow you to get in there and have a look, figure out the
asset profile, and how your debt profile needs to look with
Foster’s as a part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  