-- 
Pemex to Boost Repsol Stake After Signing Accord With Sacyr Vallehermoso

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-08-29T21:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sacyr-vallehermoso-pemex-sign-accord-on-repsol-ypf-pemex-to-boost-stake.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned
oil producer, agreed to increase its stake in  Repsol YPF SA (REP) 
after an accord with  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  to seek to revise
the roles of top management in Spain’s largest  oil company .  Mexico City-based Pemex will buy an additional 5 percent
stake in Spain’s Repsol within a month, taking its holding to
9.8 percent, while Sacyr, a Spanish builder, will maintain a 20
percent stake, the companies said in a filing in Madrid today.
After combining voting rights, the companies consider it
“positive” to split the chairman and chief executive roles,
both of which are now held by Antonio Brufau.  Pemex and Sacyr said they want to increase their board
representation, while they don’t plan to gain control of the
Madrid-based oil producer. They didn’t specify the amount of the
increase. CaixaBank, the commercial lender owned by  La Caixa ,
has a 13 percent stake in Repsol.  The companies said Repsol’s shares aren’t “appropriately
valued” and aim to improve the efficiency of management. Repsol
has fallen 22 percent in the past six months, valuing the
company at 23 billion euros ($33.4 billion). Spain’s benchmark
index, IBEX, has dropped the same amount during the period.  No one was available to comment at Repsol in Madrid.  Pemex expects a solid return from the investment and shares
a common vision with Sacyr for the Spanish oil company, said a
Pemex press official who declined to be identified, citing
company policy.  Repsol’s American depositary receipts rose 5.7 percent, the
most since March 17, to $27.92 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. In  Madrid  trading, the company’s shares
closed with a 3.7 percent gain before the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  