-- 
Saks CEO Sadove Tightens Inventory So Recession Wasn’t Wasted

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-08-29T20:10:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/saks-ceo-sadove-tightens-inventory-so-recession-wasn-t-wasted.html
Saks Inc. (SKS) ’s Stephen Sadove, whose
luxury department stores had to slash prices as inventory built
up in the last U.S. economic slump, says he is not letting that
“good recession go to waste.”  The 60-year-old chief executive officer protected profit
margins by keeping stockpiles tight, so Saks had the smallest
inventory growth to sales growth ratio among department stores
in the most recent quarter. That’s a switch from 2008, when Saks
had the biggest inventory imbalance among its peers and resorted
to 70 percent markdowns.  “It was a very tough period,” Sadove said in an
interview. “We don’t want to get into a situation again.”  Saks Fifth Avenue ,  Neiman Marcus  Group Inc.,  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) 
and Bloomingdale’s owner  Macy’s Inc. (M)  limited their orders from
vendors even as luxury retailers enjoyed a two-year boom. With
economists saying chances of a double-dip recession have grown,
holiday sales may be in doubt, raising the specter of excess
items piling up in stores again.  “Luxury retailers’ inventories are cleaner now, and they
have ordered conservatively for holiday,” said Carla Casella, a
New York-based fixed-income analyst with JPMorgan Securities
LLC. “That means that post-holiday clearance merchandise should
be more manageable this year compared with 2008.”  Sales at stores open at least a year at the luxury chains
climbed 8.8 percent in the six months through July from a year
earlier, as shoppers snapped up $3,330 Fendi satchels and $895
Christian Louboutin peep-toe platform pumps, while those at
discounters rose 3.3 percent, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers , a New York-based trade group.  Sales Growth  Saks had the fastest sales growth and the second-largest
profit gain among nine department-store peers in the most recent
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Balancing inventory purchases can be tricky, hampered by
six-month lead times for delivery of expensive goods.  Saks’s second-quarter revenue gained 13 percent while its
inventory as of July 30 had grown 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, the chain reported Aug. 16. Saks forecast sales growth
that is faster than or aligned with inventory growth for the
second half, helping it to sell goods for full price and
expanding its gross margin, the portion of revenue left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, by 40 to 70 basis points.  The strategy was to allocate inventory more to growing
categories like online sales, which soared 50 percent in the
latest quarter, as well as women’s shoes, handbags and
contemporary apparel, Sadove said. The retailer also learned how
to better allocate merchandise to the right stores, he said.  Reducing Expenses  The chain reduced its expenses by cutting its headcount by
15 percent in the spring of 2009, added more store-label and
exclusive items, improved sales training, paid down debt and
closed seven stores in the past year and a half, lowering the
store count to 46.  “Not letting a good recession go to waste was our mantra
through that entire period,” said Sadove. “Clearly, we didn’t
let it. We learned a lot.”  Sadove has said Saks was “the poster child” of excess
inventories during the recession. In the third quarter of 2008,
when the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy up-ended the financial
markets and luxury consumers’ confidence, Saks’s inventory
climbed 4 percent as its revenue sank 12 percent, knocking 640
basis points off its gross margin.  “That’s a dramatically different place,” Sadove said.  Sales Versus Inventory  Other high-end retailers also have been lifting sales
faster than inventory, though the gaps are smaller than what
Sadove has managed at Saks.  Seattle-based Nordstrom on Aug. 11 reported a 12 percent
increase in revenue and a 9.2 percent acceleration in
inventories. A day earlier, Macy’s, the second-largest
department store chain after  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , reported a
7.3 revenue gain on a 6.8 percent climb in inventory.  Cincinnati-based Macy’s inventory pace “positions us well
for the back half of the year,” Chief Financial Officer Karen Hoguet said on a conference call.  Closely held Neiman Marcus, based in  Dallas , followed the
trend, estimated Grant Jordan a high-yield analyst with  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  The lessons from the 2008 slump may come in handy soon. The
Standard & Poors’ 500 Index has dropped 13 percent since July
22. Confidence among U.S. consumers declined in August to the
lowest level since November 2008, and the  U.S. economy  grew 1
percent in the second quarter, less than the 1.3 percent
previously estimated, data released Aug. 26 showed.  Slim Purchase  Saks shares jumped 58 cents or 6.3 percent to $9.74 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. They fell 31
percent from July 22 through Aug. 18, a decline that the
retailer’s biggest investor saw as a buying opportunity. Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim  last week boosted his investment in Saks
for the first time since 2009, increasing it to 16.2 percent
from 15.7 percent.  “We bought simply because we thought it was a good moment
because of the price,” said  Arturo Elias , Slim’s spokesman.  Saks is better-positioned than three years ago, said
Michael Exstein, a Credit Suisse analyst.  The company is “much more fundamentally sound,” New York-
based Exstein wrote in a report. “It is far more prepared for
an economic downturn (should there be one) than it was in
2008.”  Robert Drbul, a Barclays Capital analyst in New York, said
he was encouraged by Saks’s “strong” inventory and expense
management. The company “should realize the benefits from its
productivity and profitability initiatives longer term,” Drbul
wrote in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 