-- 
Saudi Skyscraper Architect Grapples With Wind at 3,000 Feet

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-08-30T10:33:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/saudi-skyscraper-architect-smith-grapples-with-the-wind-at-3-000-feet.html
Kingdom Tower, Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal’s project to erect the world’s tallest building in
Jeddah, is designed to imitate the contours of a sprouting
desert plant. Adrian Smith’s task is to make sure it doesn’t
sway in the wind like one.  The American architect has the right resume for the job. He
already grappled with effects like horizontal wind divergence
and negative pressure high above the Persian Gulf desert when he
designed Dubai’s  Burj Khalifa , today’s highest tower.  “Wind can move the tower from side to side and when the
movement is rapid, people inside will feel it,” Chicago-based
Smith, 67, said in a telephone interview. “We design to reduce
that effect.”  Kingdom Tower will rise from three separate bases in
continuous slopes that end at different heights, helping to
balance the building’s weight and stabilize it against winds
that can reach 120 miles per hour at the top. The 1,000-meter
(3,281-foot) structure will cost $1.2 billion to build over the
next five years and will include a Four Seasons hotel,
apartments, offices, three lobbies on the upper floors and the
world’s highest observation deck on the 157th level.  Wind is the enemy of tall buildings, Smith said. The  Burj
Khalifa  was designed as a collection of tubes reaching various
heights around the central core to help “confuse” the wind by
preventing it from forming whirlpools of air, he said.  Fooling the Wind  “We learned from  Burj Khalifa  that the more steps you
have, the better you shed the vortices, and that helps stabilize
the building against any horizontal wind divergence,” Smith
said. “Kingdom Tower will do that by having a continuous series
of slopes to the top, which is more effective but more
expensive.”  The tower is designed to move about 1 meter side-to-side at
500 meters in the most severe storms that occur once every 50
years or so, he said. The movement will be much less in more
typical weather conditions.  Smith worked at Skidmore, Owings and Merrill LLP when he
designed the  Burj Khalifa , which opened in January 2010. Now a
partner at  Adrian Smith + Gordon Gill Architecture  in Chicago,
the architect says his passion for reaching new heights hasn’t
diminished.  “I’ve been drawing tall buildings since I was a child in
 California ,” he said. “Each building that gets designed and
built in the super-tall tower range adds about 10 percent to the
whole base of knowledge for all architects out there,” he said.
Kingdom Tower will be about 50 floors higher than Burj Khalifa
and its design will constantly evolve, Smith said.  High Hurdles  Filling a giant tower is another matter. Apartment owners
in the Burj Khalifa were forced to slash rents by 40 percent
after the building failed to attract tenants, Better Homes, a
broker that marketed the properties, said in October.  “This is about making a statement and not addressing any
real needs in the market,” said Majed Azzam, a real-estate
analyst at AlembicHC Securities in Dubai. “However, there is a
lot of concentrated wealth in  Saudi Arabia  and there will be
enough take-up in such a large country.”  Apartment prices in Kingdom Tower will probably be
comparable to luxury homes in Dubai and a two-bedroom apartment
will probably sell for around 3 million riyals ($800,000), which
is very high for Saudi Arabia, Azzam said. Private developers
prefer the upper end of the market, where profit margins are
higher, than the needs of the wider population, which are hard
to resolve without an active government role, he said.  The project’s owners haven’t provided any estimates of
property prices in the tower.  No Helicopter Parking  Designing the world’s tallest buildings presents numerous
challenges beyond high winds. The observation deck will stick
out from the building in an 80-foot-wide disc that was
originally designed as a helicopter-landing platform, Smith
said. The idea was abandoned after several pilots judged that
landing there would be too risky.  Water must be pumped up the 163-floor Kingdom Tower in
stages, using holding tanks at various levels, to avoid too much
pressure building up in the pipes and causing them to burst,
Smith said.  Evacuation also requires special planning. The Jeddah tower
will have emergency refuge rooms every 20 floors, where people
can stop to get water and protection as well as emergency
instructions while descending to the ground. Smith said he’s
looking at ways to use the elevators in emergencies rather than
following the common practice of banning their use.  In Case of Fire  “Any time you are fighting a fire in a tower, it’s
localized to a particular floor or part of the building,” Smith
said. “You don’t have to completely evacuate the building and
the structure will be very robust here. It’s all concrete and
the walls are 2-feet thick for the most part, so fire won’t
bring it down.”  Smith’s design includes a system that collects moisture out
of the air and from mechanical systems within the tower,
producing enough fresh water each year to fill 14 Olympic-size
pools. Summer temperatures in Jeddah, the gateway to Islam’s
holiest sites in Mecca and Medina, can soar to 104 degrees
Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) with 80 percent humidity.  The Kingdom Tower’s exterior walls will be made of glass
with insulation behind it to help the structure control the
heat, Smith said.  “We use glass because it’s easy to maintain and has
longevity,” he said. “It also reflects the sky and helps the
tower feel lighter and more elegant.”  Cleaning Windows  Washing the tower’s windows will be a much simpler task
than on the Burj Khalifa because it doesn’t have as much
“complex exterior geometry,” Smith said. Still, it would take
crews working around the clock for at least three months to
clean the exterior because of the sheer size.  Residents and visitors will be carried by 59 elevators that
travel 10 meters per second, including five double-deck
elevators. For the first time, three-level elevators may be used
to take visitors to the sky lobbies, observation deck and
offices at the top of the tower.  The Burj Khalifa has the world’s highest swimming pool, on
the 76th floor. Smith decided not to repeat the feat in Saudi
Arabia, where at least two pools would be required because of
the strict separation between the sexes.  Saudi Binladin Group, the country’s biggest construction
firm, has been hired to build the tower as the centerpiece of a
100-billion-riyal development in Jeddah known as Kingdom City.
The group will own 17 percent of Jeddah Economic Co., the
project’s owner. Alwaleed’s Kingdom Holding and Abrar
International Holding Co. each hold a third of the company and
Abdurrahman Sharbatly owns the remaining 17 percent.  Mosque Builders  Binladin Group, which expanded the holy mosque in Mecca and
built large projects across the  Middle East , is owned by the
family of deceased al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  Alwaleed, whose assets include stakes in Citigroup Inc. and
 News Corp ., ranks 19th on Forbes magazine’s list of the world’s
richest people. The 65-year-old owns 95 percent of Kingdom
Holdings, which was listed on the Saudi stock exchange more than
three years ago and has a market value of 27 billion riyals.  Smith said he’s confident Kingdom Tower will attract
tenants, citing market studies by the developer. While the
building itself may not generate a lot of profit for its owners,
it will raise the profile of the whole Kingdom City project,
attracting buyers and boosting values, he said.  Apartments, Offices  The design includes about 120 serviced apartments and 385
condominiums, although that number may change as the plan
progresses. The building will include 54,000 square meters
(581,000 square feet) of  office space  distributed between the
lower and upper floors.  Saudi buyers may use apartments in the tower as vacation
homes to take advantage of Jeddah’s mild winter weather, Smith
said. They also may rent properties out to visitors who come for
the annual pilgrimage to Mecca and want to extend their stay in
the kingdom, Smith said.  “Saudi Arabia is ambitious about opening up to private
business in a much more business-friendly environment,” he
said. “In order to do that, you need all types of housing.”  Smith prefers living closer to earth -- choosing a house
over a high-rise apartment block -- though his office is 23
floors up in downtown  Chicago ’s Harris Bank building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 