-- 
SEC Sues Florida Men for Bilking Teachers in $22 Million Scam

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-29T20:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sec-sues-florida-men-for-bilking-teachers-in-22-million-scam.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued two  Florida  men, claiming they defrauded
teachers and retirees in a $22 million  Ponzi scheme  by posing as
a private-equity fund while enriching themselves.  James D. Risher and Daniel Sebastian fraudulently lured
more than 100 investors with promises of annual returns of as
much as 124 percent, the SEC said today in a lawsuit filed in
U.S. District Court in Florida. Risher, who spent 11 of the past
21 years in jail, spent customers’ funds on jewelry, gifts and
real estate in  North Carolina  and Florida, the SEC said.  “Risher, who masqueraded as a highly successful equity
trader, teamed up with Sebastian to tout sophisticated trading
strategies they claimed would generate substantial profits,”
Eric Bustillo, head of the SEC’s regional office in Miami, said
in a statement. “Instead, Risher and Sebastian used investors’
life savings and retirement nest eggs to line their own
pockets.”  Sebastian attracted clients from his prior job as an
insurance broker, persuading at least one investor to liquidate
an annuity and invest the proceeds in the fund, according to the
SEC. The two men paid themselves millions of dollars in fees and
sent customers false account statements, the SEC said.  Burton Wiand, Sebastian’s attorney, said in a telephone
interview that his client had been “deceived” by Risher and
voluntarily reported the scheme to the SEC and criminal
authorities once it became evident to him. Sebastian has since
cooperated with government officials as well as attorneys
representing former clients, Wiand said.  Risher was indicted on related criminal charges June 29. A
phone call to Adam Allen, a public defender who has represented
Risher in the criminal matter, wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  