-- 
Sino-Forest Trading Suspension, CEO Resignation Underscore OSC ‘Urgency’

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-29T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sino-forest-suspension-ceo-resignation-underscore-osc-urgency-.html
The moves by Canada’s main
securities watchdog to suspend trading in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and
the subsequent resignation of the chief executive officer
underscores the “urgency” of the probe by the Ontario Securities
Commission into the company it says may have committed fraud.  “This is unusual where they do something like this,”
Edward Waitzer, a partner at Toronto law firm Stikeman Elliott
LLP and a former OSC Chair, said in a telephone interview.
“They only do it when they think there’s some urgency.”  CEO  Allen Chan , who  co-founded  Sino-Forest in 1992,
voluntarily resigned yesterday. William Ardell, the lead
director of an independent committee reviewing the allegations,
has been named chairman, while vice chairman Judson Martin will
be CEO, the company said in a statement. Sino-Forest has also
placed three employees on leave after “certain information”
was uncovered by the committee, it said.  The trade suspension may signal a more proactive OSC under
new Chairman Howard Wetston, who took over the post in October,
said Bill Black, a professor of economics and law at the
University of Missouri- Kansas City  School of Law in Kansas City,
 Missouri .  “Is this the signal flare that there’s a new sheriff in
town?” Black said. “Time will tell.”  The OSC has “definitely” taken a more aggressive stance
with Sino-Forest than the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said Dirk Matten, a professor at York University’s
Schulich School of Business in Toronto.  The OSC sanctions follow a warning from the SEC in June
about buying stakes in companies that gain listings on its
exchanges through reverse takeovers. Sino-Forest listed on the
Toronto Stock Exchange in that same way.  Sino-Forest Review  The Canadian watchdog said in July it was probing the
disclosures, auditing and underwriting of Ontario companies
listed in  Canada  that have significant emerging-markets presence.
It didn’t name Sino-Forest at the time.  “Investors need to feel confident to participate in the
economy of a country,” Wetston said in a  speech  to Canadian
Lawyers Abroad in June. “Clear rules that govern business
transactions are an important part of fostering the rule of law
and also investor confidence.”  Sino-Forest shares have plunged since short seller Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said in a June 2 report that the
company overstated forestry holdings. The shares were suspended
in Toronto Aug. 26, and plunged 72 percent to $1.38 in U.S.
trading. The stock traded as high as $26.64 in March.  The company may have engaged in non-arm’s length
transactions contrary to Ontario securities laws and the public
interest, the OSC said.  “This is a positive for investors,” Block said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “The important thing is here
that they suspended the stock so this way investors are not
going to make uninformed decisions.”  ‘False or Misleading’  Sino-Forest officers and directors “appear to have
misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated some of
its timber holdings,” the regulator said. The company provided
information that “may have been false or misleading in a
material respect,” the OSC also said.  Still, the regulator overstepped its authority by trying to
force five Sino-Forest executives, including Chan, to resign,
Schulich’s Matten said. The OSC rescinded that part of its order
after it was “persuaded” that it doesn’t have the right to
force resignations.  Wendy Dey, an OSC spokeswoman, declined to elaborate on the
rescission, adding that the regulator is still investigating
Sino-Forest.  “Making decisions about who steps down and gets appointed,
that’s beyond the reach of a regulator,” Matten said. “To
order that was outlandish and is now embarrassing to retract
it.”  Independent Probe  Sino-Forest, which has denied the claims made by Block,
commissioned an independent investigation and hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. Stan Neve, an external
spokesman for Sino-Forest, declined to comment.  Chinese companies have used such takeovers to list shares
in the U.S., avoiding the regulatory and investor scrutiny of an
initial public offering. The Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers
Index, which lists 76 members, has fallen 55 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sean B. Pasternak in
Toronto at   spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 