-- 
Sinopec to Bet on Shale for Growth to Offset Refining Losses

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T09:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sinopec-to-bet-on-shale-gas-for-growth-to-offset-refining-losses.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, will collaborate with overseas companies
to step up its search for shale gas resources as it seeks to
diversify away from unprofitable crude processing.  “Future growth will mainly come from unconventional gas,”
Fu Chengyu, chairman of the company known as Sinopec, said in
Hong Kong yesterday. “Our technology and experience still lags
behind western  oil companies , but we don’t have to wait until
our technologies mature. We can hire them to work for us.”  Sinopec will join rival PetroChina Co.’s parent and  Cnooc
Ltd. (883)  to seek technology through partnerships as China, estimated
to hold more gas trapped in shale than the U.S., opens new areas
to exploration. Results of 20 experimental shale-gas wells
Sinopec has drilled in  China  are “better than expected,” and
it will increase investments over the next decade, Fu said.  “It’s going to take two to four years before they know how
to do shale gas, or to find out if there’s anything useful
there,” said Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Gas itself is so small for Sinopec
that the impact on overall business won’t be there for many
years. Beyond 2015, shale gas may become a growth driver.”  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or
12 times the country’s conventional natural gas deposits, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration  said  in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  Shares Rise  Sinopec has climbed more than 21 percent in Hong Kong
trading in the past year compared with a 2.6 percent drop in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The stock rose 0.8 percent to HK$7.55
today. It gained 6.7 percent yesterday, the most in 20 months,
after the Beijing-based company posted a record first-half
profit that beat analyst estimates.  State-controlled Sinopec said on Aug. 28 net income rose 12
percent to 41.17 billion yuan ($6.5 billion) after it minimized
refining losses by keeping oil costs in check while increasing
fuel output. The refiner’s 12.2 billion yuan loss from turning
crude into gasoline and diesel was about half of PetroChina’s
even as it processed 62 percent more oil than its rival.  Earnings from refining may improve in the second half after
crude fell 12 percent from its peak in April. Analysts expect
inflation to ease, allowing the government room to increase
domestic fuel prices that have trailed crude costs.  ‘Trying to Lose Less’  “We are trying to lose less when everyone is losing money
in” refining, Fu said at a media briefing. “When the industry
recovers you will see where our core competitiveness lies. We
will make more profit than any of our competitors in China.”  Refining and marketing accounted for 58 percent of
Sinopec’s revenue in the first half, while exploration and
production had a 5.2 percent share.  China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent, agreed
in June to form a venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc to improve
its drilling efficiency after taking 11 months to complete the
country’s first shale well. Baker Hughes Inc., the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider,  says  it has helped U.S.
shale developers to cut drilling time to about 16 days a well.  Overseas explorers, barred from bidding in Chinese auctions
of shale areas, are in discussions to forge local ventures.
Chevron Corp. and BP Plc are in talks with Sinopec and its
parent, China Petrochemical Corp. Norway’s Statoil ASA is in
negotiations to buy stakes in shale-gas assets in China.  China currently doesn’t produce any shale gas. Annual
shale-gas output in China may reach 20 billion cubic meters (706
billion cubic feet) by 2020, Pan Jiping, a researcher at the
land ministry in Beijing, said in June.  Shale-rock formations require injection of water, sand and
chemicals to release gas. Environmental groups have opposed
using the process called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking.  “In China, unconventional will surpass conventional gas,”
Fu said yesterday.  --Chua Baizhen and Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong . Editors: Amit Prakash, Ryan Woo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Guo Aibing in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 