-- 
SIPC Says Madoff Suit Involving Bank Medici Founder Shouldn’t Be Dismissed

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sipc-says-madoff-suit-involving-bank-medici-founder-shouldn-t-be-dismissed.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp. said it opposes the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by the
liquidator of Bernhard Madoff’s investment firm against Bank
Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Lawyers for SIPC said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in  Manhattan  that, as the agency charged with the
administration of the Securities Investor Protection Act and as
an adviser to the court, it opposes UniCredit’s and the related
defendants’ request to dismiss trustee  Irving Picard ’s common
law claims, including those for unjust enrichment.  “There is no legal barrier to the trustee’s pursuit of his
common law claims to recover customer property,” according to
the SIPC filing. “The fact that customers have assigned their
claims for such recoveries to the trustee merely bolsters his
standing.”  UniCredit last month asked a district judge to dismiss
Picard’s “hollow” racketeering claims seeking $59 billion from
the bank, or three times what investors lost in the  Ponzi
scheme .  Picard named Milan-based UniCredit and its Bank Austria
unit in a December complaint against Bank Medici, Kohn and
dozens of other Austrian and Italian parties. He demanded $19.6
billion -- his estimate at the time of all principal lost by
Madoff investors -- using the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act to triple the amount.  The claim is the largest of more than 1,000 filed by
Picard.  In yesterday’s filing, SIPC said that while Picard in his
opposition to the motion to dismiss focuses on the RICO claims,
it seeks to support his common law claims. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff last month ruled that Picard didn’t have standing to
pursue common law claims against London-based HSBC Holdings Plc.  The SIPC lawyers said they respectfully disagree with that
ruling, which they said is inconsistent with the provisions and
purposes of the Securities Investors Protection Act and will
undermine future applications of the law in lawsuits.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  