-- 
SMA Solar May Set Up Manufacturing Plant for Inverters in Asia

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T12:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sma-solar-may-set-up-manufacturing-plant-for-inverters-in-asia.html
SMA Solar Technology AG (S92) ,  Germany ’s
biggest solar company by market value, is considering setting up
a manufacturing base in  Asia  closer to a growing market for its
solar inverters.  “We know that just operating out of Germany may not be the
only way of doing business,” said Rakesh Khanna, head of the
company’s India unit. “We’re reviewing it from an Asia-Pacific
perspective, and India is one of the preferred locations.”  The Niestetal-based company is the largest maker of solar
inverters, devices that convert electricity generated in solar
panels for the grid. It has a 10-gigawatt plant in Germany, a 1-
gigawatt plant in Denver and is setting up a facility in
Ontario,  Canada , according to its  2010 annual report .  India , which is building its first batch of solar projects
awarded under a national auction, could grow into a 3.5-gigawatt
market by 2014, Khanna said. SMA aims to take 40 percent of that
in line with its global market share, he said.  The company has already won 200 megawatts of orders for
projects in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Orissa states and set up a
unit in the South Asian nation this month to boost its service
and maintenance capacity. Its customers include  Azure Power , an
Indian solar project developer backed by the  World Bank , which
announced an agreement last year to buy inverters from SMA for
10 megawatts of projects.  Banks in India have been wary of lending to solar projects,
citing concerns that a technology that’s new to the country may
not perform as expected. SMA is considering modifications to
help the equipment better cope with dust, high temperatures and
India’s electricity grid, Khanna said. The company sell its
inverters with a 20-year guarantee, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  