-- 
Solar May Produce Most of World’s Power by 2060, IEA Says

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-29T12:10:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/solar-may-produce-most-of-world-s-power-by-2060-iea-says.html
Solar generators may produce the
majority of the world’s power within 50 years, slashing the
emissions of  greenhouse gases  that harm the environment,
according to a projection by the  International Energy Agency .  Photovoltaic and solar-thermal plants may meet most of the
world’s demand for electricity by 2060 -- and half of all energy
needs -- with wind, hydropower and biomass plants supplying much
of the remaining generation, Cedric Philibert, senior analyst in
the renewable energy division at the Paris-based agency, said in
an Aug. 26 phone interview.  “Photovoltaic and concentrated solar power together can
become the major source of electricity,” Philibert said.
“You’ll have a lot more electricity than today but most of it
will be produced by solar-electric technologies.”  The solar findings, set to be published in a report later
this year, go beyond the IEA’s previous forecast, which
envisaged the two technologies meeting about 21 percent of the
world’s power needs in 2050. The scenario suggests investors
able to pick the industry’s winners may reap significant returns
as the global economy shifts away from fossil fuels.  The 17 members of the Bloomberg Large Solar Energy Index
have a combined market value of about $27 billion compared with
the $2.2 trillion of the MSCI World Energy Index’s 119 member
companies.  Under the forecasted scenario, which Philibert will set out
in more detail at a conference in Kassel,  Germany , on Sept. 1,
most heating and transport will switch from dirtier fossil fuels
to cleaner electric power. Carbon dioxide emissions from the
energy sector would fall to about 3 gigatons per year compared
with about 30 gigatons this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  