-- 
Solar Purge Drives Weakest Into Buyouts, to Spur More Deals

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-08-30T17:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/solar-purge-drives-weakest-into-bankruptcy-buyouts-with-more-deals-coming.html
The solar-equipment industry has
begun its biggest consolidation in at least two years as
photovoltaic systems plunge in price, forcing weaker companies
to team with competitors or close shop.  Mergers and acquisitions announced so far total $3.3
billion, up 33 percent from the $2.47 billion in all of last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR) 
today set a Sept. 20 meeting in a Delaware court for creditors
owed $456 million. German solar-panel maker  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , which
has convertible bonds trading at a 64 percent discount to face
value, has said it’s open to takeover bids.  Tumbling solar-cell prices are provoking deals. Their 42
percent drop in 2011, stemming from tougher Chinese competition
and declining solar-energy incentives in  Europe , contributed to
 California ’s  Sunpower Corp. (SPWRA)  and  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  of  Germany 
agreeing to takeovers. Ascent Solar Inc. took a Chinese partner.  “Weaker companies who did not get their product costs down
to competitive levels are going to disappear,” said Christopher Blansett, an analyst for JP Morgan Securities LLC. “They’ll be
bought up. They’ll go away. There is significantly more supply
of solar modules than demand.”  A sell-off in solar stocks has made acquisitions cheaper.
The Bloomberg Industries Global Large Solar Index dropped 36
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 3.8 percent
decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in that period.  The pace of acquisitions is the fastest since 2009, when $6
billion were recorded. The biggest deals that year involved GCL-
Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., the Chinese maker of polysilicon.
That’s the raw material used in solar cells, which are combined
into modules, or panels, that convert sunlight into power.  ‘Ripe for Consolidation’  “The industry is ripe for consolidation,” Michael Schostak, director of business development and communications at
 Auburn Hills , Michigan-based  Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER) , a
maker of thin-film solar laminates, said in an interview.  Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital Partners in New
York, put Energy Conversion on his list of vulnerable companies.
Aaron Chew, an analyst at New York-based Maxim Group LLC, named
 Daystar Technologies Inc. (DSTI)  and Q-Cells.  Energy Conversion and Daystar Technologies are U.S.
manufacturers that have both lost more than 80 percent of their
market value this year through yesterday. Energy Conversion had
112 days of inventory in the second quarter, the most of any
company in Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar index, according data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Up for Auction  Evergreen said it plans to sell itself at an auction.
Hopewell Junction, New York-based cell maker SpectraWatt Inc.
this month also filed for protection from creditors.  Q-Cells, once the world’s largest maker of solar cells,
hired investment bank and bankruptcy adviser  Houlihan Lokey  to
look at financing options, it said last week.  “It’s totally feasible that Q-Cells goes under,” Chew of
the Maxim Group said in an interview. The company’s shares
reached a record low Aug. 10 after forecasting a “three-digit
million-euro” loss for the year.  Q-Cells spokeswoman Ina von Spies said the company is
“well-positioned” to compete. She said it has an established
brand, an innovative portfolio of solar cells and modules,
technological know-how and a strategy to “continuously drive
down costs,” in e-mailed comments yesterday. Q-Cells “has
already led talks with potential partners, which haven’t
resulted in an agreement.”  Other Struggling Companies  Other German solar companies are struggling.  Solon SE (SOO1)  said
on Aug. 16 that it will cut 15 percent of its jobs after
inventory rose 45 percent in the first quarter to 160 million
euros ($230 million) from a year earlier.  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , a German developer of solar-thermal
 power plants , said today it’s seeking a strategic investor to
buy as much as 25 percent of the company, and it’s talking to
banks about arranging bridge financing.  Roth & Rau, the German maker of solar-cell manufacturing
equipment, agreed in April to a takeover by Swiss competitor
Meyer Burger Technology AG, after first-quarter inventory more
than tripled to 97 million euros.  Schostak of Energy Conversion said the most likely takeover
targets offer commodity crystalline silicon products and that
his company is talking to potential partners about integrating
its flexible cells into products from roofing tiles to
backpacks. He didn’t name the companies.  Daystar Technologies, a Milpitas, California-based maker of
thin-film solar cells, is “in discussions” with potential
investors to “provide financing, manufacturing capabilities or
other opportunities,” Chief Financial Officer Chris Lail said
in an interview.  ‘Laggards and Innovators’  “U.S. solar manufacturing consists of legacy laggards”
and innovators that have “stuff so new that it’s not even on
the shelves,” Chew said. “The question is, will the shakeout
result in consolidation or closures?”  The survivors likely will be companies with proprietary
designs that improve efficiency, while those that focus on low-
cost manufacturing strategies may be less appealing to potential
buyers and investors, Krop said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  