-- 
‘Blade Runner’ Eliminated at World Championships; Robles Is Disqualified

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-08-29T14:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/south-africa-double-amputee-pistorius-is-eliminated-at-world-championships.html
Oscar Pistorius, the first amputee
athlete to compete at the  track and field world championships ,
was eliminated after finishing last in his 400-meter semifinal
heat in Daegu,  South Korea .  The 24-year-old South African, who runs with J-shaped
carbon fiber blades, finished in 46.19 seconds, more than a
second slower than his personal best. Also today, Dayron Robles
of Cuba was stripped of his gold medal in the 100 meters hurdles
for obstruction and 400-meter runner Amantle Montsho took
Botswana’s first gold medal at the biennial championships, first
held in 1983.  Pistorius was running at his first elite event since the
Court of Arbitration for Sport in 2008 overturned a ban on him
by track and field’s ruling body. The IAAF had ruled the blades
give him an advantage. He finished third in his preliminary heat
yesterday to reach the semifinals.  “It has been a dream absolutely come true,” Pistorius
said, according to the championship website. “I have learnt a
lot and I am sure I will be able to use this experience and
implement it in my races in the future.”  Pistorius was born without fibulas and had both legs
amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. He had
advanced to the semifinals by finishing third in a preliminary
heat yesterday. He is also scheduled to run for  South Africa ’s
team in the 4x400-meter relay.  Disqualification  Robles was disqualified an hour after winning the 110-meter
hurdles final for obstructing  China ’s Liu Xiang, giving the gold
medal to the U.S.’s  Jason Richardson  and silver to Liu. Robles
touched Liu’s hand, disturbing the Chinese as he appeared set to
win the race.  Richardson said he heard of the decision while speaking to
reporters after the race.  “I never wanted to win on a technicality,” Richardson
told Eurosport television. “But I’ve done the work to get
here.”  A day after former champion and world record holder Usain
Bolt was disqualified for a false start in the 100-meter final,
Carmelita Jeter won the women’s version in 10.9 seconds.
Jamaica’s Veronica Campbell-Brown took silver and Kelly-Ann
Baptiste of Trinidad and Tobago bronze.  Jeter, a bronze medalist in 2007 and 2009, told Eurosport
she had to look up to the television monitor to check she had
won this time.  Waving Flag  Botswana’s Montsho held aloft her nation’s light-blue flag
after holding off the U.S.’s Allyson Felix by 0.03 seconds in
the women’s 400 meter final. Anastasiya Kapachinskaya of  Russia 
took the bronze medal.  Valerie Adams of  New Zealand  set a championship record of
21.24 meters with her sixth and final throw as she successfully
defended her women’s shot put title.  Japan ’s Koji Murofushi won the men’s hammer throw title
with a mark of 81.24 meters. Poland’s Pawel Wojciechowski took
the men’s pole vault by clearing 5.90 meters, beating Lazaro
Borges of Cuba -- who set the same mark -- to the gold medal
because he had  fewer failed clearances .  To contact the reporters on this story: Alex Duff in  Madrid 
  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  