-- 
South Africa Considering Removing Horns From Its Rhinos to Reduce Poaching

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-29T11:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/south-africa-considers-dehorning-rhinos-curb-on-hunting-to-stem-poaching.html
South Africa , home to 93 percent of
the continent’s rhinoceros population, is studying whether to 
dehorn the animals to make them less attractive to poachers.  Poachers have killed at least 279 rhinos this year, adding
to the record 333 that died last year, government data show.
Most rhino horns make their way to east  Asia , where they are in
demand for their supposed aphrodisiac properties as well as
other medicinal uses. They are also used as dagger handles in
Yemen and Oman.  “We will do everything in our power to deal with the
scourge of rhino poaching,” Water and Environmental Affairs
Minister Edna Molewa told reporters in the capital,  Pretoria ,
today. A study on whether to go ahead with the plan has been
started and will be concluded within three months, she said.  The government is also considering placing a moratorium on
rhino hunting to halt abuse of the permit system and studying
whether legalizing trade in rhino horn in South Africa would
curb poaching, Molewa said.  South Africa has a population of about 19,400 white rhinos
and 1,678 black rhinos, according to the parks department. Of
those, 12,000 white rhinos live in the  Kruger National Park , a
reserve in the northeast of the country that borders on
 Mozambique .  Poaching Declines  In November 2009, the Cabinet decided to deploy soldiers to
patrol the borders, a measure that has helped reduce poaching in
South Africa’s largest conservation area. Kruger has also hired
57 rangers this year.  “Over the last two weeks we have lost about four rhinos,
but in totality the number of incidents have decreased quite
tremendously” in Kruger Park, David Mabunda, chief executive
officer of South African National Parks, told reporters. “That
has resulted in the displacement of poaching activities to other
areas” such as private reserves and game farms.  White rhinos may take their name from a mispronunciation of
the Dutch word for wide, as a description of their lip. They
weigh as much as 2.7 metric tons (5,952 pounds) while black
rhinos weigh up to 1.35 tons. There are also three Asian species
-- Javan, Indian and Sumatran.  In 2009, the  United Nations’ Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species  estimated that rhino poaching
globally was at a 15-year high. Rhino poaching is also a problem
in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Mozambique,  Zimbabwe ,  India 
and Nepal.  South African police have arrested 155 people in connection
with rhino poaching this year, adding to the 165 detained in
2010, Molewa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  