-- 
Korean Won Gains Most Since June, Bonds Fall on Current-Account Surplus

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-08-29T06:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/south-korean-won-gains-government-bonds-fall-on-surplus-bernanke-speech.html
South Korea ’s won rose the most
since June and government bonds fell as the current-account
surplus hit a nine-month high and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  expressed confidence in the U.S. economy.  The Bank of Korea said today the current-account surplus
rose to $4.94 billion in July, from a revised $2.03 billion in
June. Bernanke said the “growth fundamentals” of the U.S.
economy haven’t been altered by the shocks of the past four
years, adding that the Fed has tools to spur expansion, in a
speech to central bankers in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug. 26.  “The won gained as Bernanke’s speech shifted  market
sentiment  to more risk-taking,” said David Choi, head of
trading at Hana Bank in  Seoul . “Exporters’ selling dollars to
convert income near the end of the month also supported the
currency.”  The won strengthened 0.8 percent to close at 1,073.78 per
dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the biggest gain since June 30. The currency reached 1,072.93
today, the strongest level in more than a week.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said today that inflation may
remain high in August before moderating to a 3 percent range
next month. Bahk said “downside risks” to the economy are
building, indicating the government may have to cut this year’s
growth forecast.  Bernanke stopped short of giving details as to when and how
the Fed will consider stimulus to bolster the economy, contrary
to last year when the Fed signaled further asset purchases at
the same meeting.  South Korea’s three-year  government bonds  declined for a
second day. The yield on the 3.5 percent debt due June 2014 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.51 percent,
according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  