-- 
SPAIN DAYBOOK: Spain Reports Mortgage Lending, Retail Sales

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-08-29T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/spain-daybook-spain-reports-mortgage-lending-retail-sales.html
Spain ’s National Statistics
Institute is scheduled to report details for the number of
mortgages and capital lending in June. The government agency
known as INE will also release retail sales data for July.  WHAT TO WATCH:  *INE publishes mortgage lending and retail sales data at
about 8 a.m. CET.  *Funespana SA,  Natraceutical SA (NTC)  and  Telecomunicaciones y
Energia (TEC)  SA are scheduled to release second-quarter earnings.  ECONOMY:  * The number of foreign tourists visiting Spain this year
will reach 57 million, Efe reported, citing Industry Minister
Miguel Sebastian. That compares with an estimate of 56 million
visitors set by the ministry earlier this year, said Sebastian,
according to the Madrid-based newswire.  EQUITIES:  * Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Argentine workers began a strike at oil
fields operated by the country unit of Spain’s largest oil
company and took over a storage plant, newspaper La Nacion
reported, citing a union official.  * Almirall SA (ALM) , The pharmaceutical company’s biggest
shareholders Antonio Gallardo and Jorge Gallardo, as well as
Daniel Bravo, intend to buy as much as 1.5 percent of the shares
during the six months starting Aug. 29, according to a
regulatory filing.  * Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente SA (SLR) , the solar power
producer said in a filing it obtained certification from Italian
authorities that will allow it to earn 10 percent more in
subsidies for its solar power plants in the country.  MARKETS:  *The  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  fell 1.4 percent to 8,185.5.  *The spread between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing
costs widened to 284.3 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  