-- 
Spain’s Proposed Fiscal Rule Is ‘Credit Positive’ for Debt, Moody’s Says

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-29T13:10:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/spain-s-proposed-fiscal-rule-is-credit-positive-for-debt-moody-s-says.html
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s plan to enshrine budget rules in  Spain ’s constitution
is “credit positive,” Moody’s Investors Service said, as
unions planned protests to force a referendum on the amendment.  Moody’s, which placed Spain’s Aa2 rating on review for a
possible downgrade on July 29, said it will take the amendment
into account in that review. The proposal, backed by the
opposition  People’s Party , shows “broad consensus” on budget
discipline, the company said in a statement today.  Even as the two largest parties drafted the amendment, it
has prompted criticism among members of the ruling Socialists.
Trade unions plan protests this week urging lawmakers to reject
the amendment and force a referendum on the issue, said Ramon
Gorriz, deputy leader of Comisiones Obreras, one of Spain’s two
largest unions.  Zapatero’s proposal, made two weeks after the  European
Central Bank  began buying Spanish debt, includes locking the
“principle of budget stability” in the constitution and
requires governments to meet European Union limits on debt. The
amendment is set to be debated in Parliament tomorrow and Sept.
2, less than three months before general elections that polls
suggest the ruling Socialists will lose.  ‘Permanent Threat’  “It is going to be a permanent threat to the subsidies and
institutions of the welfare state,” Gorriz said in Madrid
today. Protests will be held across the country on Aug. 31 and
Sept. 1, before the final vote in the lower house on Sept. 2.  The Socialist government has rejected calls to hold a
referendum on the amendment, saying constitutional law doesn’t
require it to be put to a popular vote. Spain’s constitution has
only been changed once since it was approved in 1978.  “The hypothesis of a referendum would create more
uncertainty precisely among those to whom we are trying to
transmit certainty,” Marcelino Iglesias, a deputy leader of the
Socialists, told reporters. The amendment “sends a very strong
message of unity to the economic world in the face of the
turbulence we may see in the autumn.”  Zapatero proposed the amendment on Aug. 23 as part of his
efforts to rein in a surge in borrowing costs that prompted the
ECB to start buying Spanish bonds. The plan follows similar
moves by Germany, France and  Italy  as the euro region tries to
stem contagion from the sovereign debt crisis.  ECB Backing  The constitutional amendment should “ensure continued
European Central Bank support,” Moody’s said.  The extra yield on Spanish debt over German equivalents was
unchanged today at 284 basis points. That compares with an
intraday euro-era record of 418 basis points on Aug. 5, before
the ECB started buying Spanish bonds on the secondary market.  The amendment calls for public debt not to exceed 60
percent of gross domestic product, though the ceiling may be
breached in the case of “natural catastrophe, economic
recession or emergencies,” according to the text distributed
last week by the Socialist party.  The country’s two biggest political parties also pledged to
pass a separate law by June 2012 that will set a maximum
“structural deficit” of 0.4 percent of GDP to be met by 2020,
the same year the debt limit comes into effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  