-- 
Sprint, Not Saunter, Is Key to Longer Life: Study

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-08-29T12:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sprint-not-saunter-is-key-to-longer-life-study.html
Intense exercise adds more years to
your life than more moderate activity, researchers said after
studying the bicycle commuters who fill Copenhagen’s streets.  Men who described themselves as vigorous cyclists lived 5.3
years longer than self-described dawdlers in a 5,106-person
study, scientists said at the  European Society of Cardiology 
conference in Paris today. The difference was less pronounced
for women, with fast bikers outliving slow ones by 3.9 years.  The study results add to a growing body of evidence that
public health authorities should change recommendations to call
for some vigorous instead of moderate daily exercise, lead
researcher Peter Schnohr, a professor at  Bispebjerg University
Hospital  in Copenhagen, told reporters today.  “You have to do some bursts where you are breathless” to
improve the heart’s oxygen intake, Schnohr said in an interview.
The return on that investment is “more than putting your money
in the bank,” he said.  Schnohr’s team has followed about 20,000 people since 1976
in the  Copenhagen City Heart Study . Today’s results were based
on follow-up from assessments done on healthy people as old as
90 years of age between 1991 and 1994.  The researchers didn’t try to quantify intense exercise,
leaving it up to participants to say what qualified as vigorous
for them. The cycling results match an earlier analysis of
walking speeds done in the Copenhagen heart study, Schnohr said.  Self-described average-speed cyclists also saw a benefit,
with men living 2.9 years longer and women 2.2 years longer than
their slower peers.  The best results came from vigorous daily exercise of
between a half hour and an hour, the study shows. People who
biked fast for more than an hour saw a smaller benefit.  Copenhagen has one of the highest rates of bicycle
commuting in  Europe , with people cycling an average 1.21 million
kilometers (750,000 miles) a day last year, according to a
 report  compiled by the mayor’s office every two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Paris at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  