-- 
Star Scientific, Burberry, In-N-Out, Nu Image: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-29T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/star-scientific-burberry-in-n-out-intellectual-property.html
Star Scientific Inc., a maker of
smokeless tobacco products, tumbled the most in two years after
losing a bid for a new trial in its patent-infringement case
against  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)   The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington said Aug. 26 there was substantial evidence to
support a lower court’s finding that Reynolds didn’t infringe
Star’s patents for reducing carcinogens in cigarettes. The
Federal Circuit said the trial judge should have reversed a
jury’s findings that the patents were invalid.  While siding with Star on the issue of validity, Chief
Circuit Judge Randall Rader said a new trial “would not have
changed the result in this case because there was substantial
untainted evidence before the jury to support a verdict of non-
infringement.” The patents cover a curing process that prevents
“bacterial activity” in leaves, resulting in the lowest levels
of tobacco-specific nitrosamines, according to Star.  “This is a complete loss for Star and basically makes
their business worthless,” said Martin Shkreli, chief
investment officer of New York-based hedge fund MSMB Capital
Management who has trading positions that bet on the stock
falling. “Investors have been down this litigation road with
Star for five to 10 years and it’s never been fruitful.”  Star, which has less than $1 million in annual sales, has
“not been able to monetize their only asset,” Shkreli said.  Star whipsawed in Nasdaq Stock Market trading after the
ruling was made public, rising as much as 32 percent before
tumbling the most since June 2009. The shares closed at $1.81
Friday.  Star had claimed Reynolds was unable on its own to reduce
nitrosamines in tobacco as much as Star could.  Glen Allen ,
Virginia-based Star said Reynolds then chose to use the
technology without permission as part of an effort to
“neutralize” competition. Reynolds denied the claim,
challenging validity of the patents.  The Federal Circuit ruling was 2-1, with Judge Timothy Dyk
agreeing with the finding of non-infringement, while saying the
patents were invalid.  Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds, the second-
largest U.S. tobacco company, makes Camel, Winston and Salem
brand cigarettes.  The case initially had been thrown out in June 2007 after
U.S. District Judge Marvin Garbis said Star deceived the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office to obtain formal rights to the
invention. The appeals court reversed that order, setting the
stage for the 2009 trial.  The case is Star Scientific v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.,
10-1183, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is  Star Scientific Inc. (CIGX)  v.
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 01cv1504, U.S. District Court,
District of  Maryland  (Greenbelt).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Burberry, Vuitton Cardboard Items for Funerals Attract Raid  In a raid aimed at enforcing trademarks belonging to such
producers of high-end  consumer goods  as  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , police hit a shop in
 Manhattan ’s Chinatown that specializes in selling paper copies
of luxury items to be burned as part of Chinese funeral
practices, the New York Times  reported .  A worker at Fook on Sing Funeral Supplies was arrested for
selling cardboard handbags and shoes bearing Louis Vuitton and
Burberry marks, according to the Times.  Following the raid, store employees covered up a mark
resembling a  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  BMW trademark on a
cardboard sports car, the newspaper reported.  New York City Councilwoman Margaret Chin told the Times the
Chinese practice of burning offerings for the dead “has been
going on for hundreds of years” and that she would have
expected the police to be more culturally sensitive.  In-N-Out Burger Sues Grab-N-Go Burgers Over Trademark  In-N-Out Burger , a closely held Southern  California 
hamburger chain, sued what it said was a look-alike operation in
Maryland for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint, filed Aug. 17 in federal court
in Baltimore, Grab-N-Go Burgers of Aberdeen, Maryland, is
accused of infringing the Irvine, California chain’s trademarks.
This includes a similar logo, typeface, and design elements. In-
N-Out also complains that Grab-N-Go’s menu boards and the décor
of its interior walls copy the California chain’s trade dress.  Although In-N-Out does not have a Maryland operation, the
company said its www.in-n-out.com website received more than
600,000 hits from those in the State of Maryland between June
2010 and July 2011, and the company says it sold almost $30,000
worth of merchandise from its online store to Maryland
residents.  The California chain claims it’s harmed by Grab-N-Go’s
actions, which allegedly cause “confusion, mistake or
deception.” It asked the court for an order for destruction of
all infringing promotional materials and for money damages,
including the Maryland restaurant’s profits attributable to the
alleged infringement. Additionally, it asked for awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs, and asked that the award of
Grab-N-Go’s profits to tripled to punish the company for its
actions.  Grab-N-Go has not yet responded to the complaint. Gus
Siperko, comptroller for the Maryland restaurant,  told the
Orange County Register  Aug. 26 that his company is “livid”
about the suit and that the two interiors were “vastly
different.”  In-n-Out is represented by  Joshua A. Glikin  of  Bowie &
Jensen LLC  of Towson, Maryland.  The case is In-N-Out Burger v. Grab-N-Go Burgers, 1:11-cv-
02296-RDB, U.S. District Court, District of Maryland
(Baltimore).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Infringement Suit Against AP,  Getty Images  Approaches Settlement  A copyright infringement case against  Associated Press  and
Hellman & Friedman’s Getty Images is near settlement, according
to an Aug. 22 court filing.  Patricia Ann Lopez , an artist who specialized in courtroom
sketches, sued the two entities in federal court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , in April. She claimed they made use of some of her
courtroom sketches without authorization and compensation.  The artist, based in Okhay Owingeh,  New Mexico , has covered
a number of significant trials in federal court in which cameras
are not permitted. Among the trials where she’s served as a
sketch artist are the 1998 trial of Timothy McVeigh for the
 Oklahoma City bombing , the 2001 murder  trial of Andrea Yates ,
and the 2005  Abu Ghraib-related court martial trials .  She says she maintains the copyrights to her drawings and
licenses them to the media, while retaining future rights.  In her court filing she said AP and Getty had been offering
for sale or license “hundreds” of her drawings, charging as
much as $12,000 for a one-month license.  The two defendants never filed answers to her complaint. In
a request for an extension of the deadline for them to respond,
counsel for Lopez said that settlement discussions are underway.
According to that filing, the artist “believes such
negotiations are more likely to prove fruitful if they can be
conducted prior to defendants being required to prepare and file
answers.”  The request was unopposed by counsel for AP and Getty. The
court responded in an Aug. 24 filing, granting the request for
extension and saying the reasons for seeking the later date were
“meritorious.”  Lopez is represented by H. Jay Spiegel of H. Jay Spiegel &
Associated PC of Mt. Vernon, Virginia.  The case is Patricia Ann Lopez v. Associated Press, 1:11-
cv-00437-CMH-JFA, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Nu Image Drops ‘Expendables’ Infringement Case Against 23,322  Nu Image Inc., the studio that made the film “The
Expendables,” has dropped the copyright infringement suit it
filed against more than 23,000 defendants.  The Los Angeles-based studio, known for the “Conan” and
“Texas Chainsaw Massacre” films, filed the suit in federal
court in  Washington  D.C. in February 2011. At that time Nu Image
sued 6,500 defendants. All were accused of using the BitTorrent
file-sharing protocol to download and share “The Expendables”
without authorization.  The studio then filed an amended complaint in May,
increasing the number of defendants to 23,322.  Nu Image didn’t claim that all the defendants were in the
 District of Columbia . Instead, the studio justified filing the
case in that court because the alleged unlawful distribution
“occurred in every jurisdiction in the  United States , including
this one.”  In its May 4 pleading, Nu Image said that further court
proceedings would enable to studio to identify the true name of
each defendant. The company also said that it would probably be
adding additional defendants as it was monitoring online
infringement of the film on an ongoing basis.  The case received a setback in July when U.S. District
Judge Robert L. Wilkins refused Nu Image’s discovery requests.
In a July 29 order he said he would allow Nu Image to serve
subpoenas on Internet service providers only for those
defendants likely to be located in the District of Columbia.  Nu Image responded Aug. 14, filing a notice of voluntary
dismissal. It said that this dismissal was without prejudice,
thus permitting the studio to re-file the complaint at a later
date.  Nu Image is represented by  Thomas M. Dunlap  and  Nicholas A.
Kurtz  of Leesburg, Virginia’s  Dunlap Grubb & Weaver PLLC .  The case is Nu Image Inc., v. Does 1-6500, 1:11-cv-00301-
RLW, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Baker Hughes, Multi-Chem, 9 Others Get Trade Secrets Exemption  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  and Multi-Chem Group LLC are among the 11
companies given exemptions by  Wyoming  regulators from disclosing
the identities of 146 chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing for
oil and gas wells, the Caspar Star-Tribune  reported .  Tom Doll, of the Wyoming Oil and Gas Conservation
Commission, said no company has asked for exemption from
disclosure for all fracking chemicals they use, according to the
Star-Tribune.  The state’s disclosure rules for chemicals used in
hydraulic fracturing have been closely watched by environmental
groups concerned that some of them are making their way into
drinking water, according to the newspaper.  Doll, speaking at the Petroleum Association of Wyoming’s
annual meeting last week, said that 37 percent of the non-
disclosed chemicals are used as tracers to outline the
underground fractures created in the search for oil and gas, the
Star-Tribune reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 