-- 
Sudan Violates Southern Kordofan Cease-Fire, Human Rights Groups Say

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-08-29T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/sudan-violates-southern-kordofan-cease-fire-rights-groups-say.html
Sudan ’s armed forces bombed civilian
areas in Southern Kordofan state after President Umar al-Bashir
announced a cease-fire last week,  Amnesty International  and
 Human Rights Watch  said.  Amnesty and Human Rights Watch researchers witnessed
government planes dropping bombs in civilian areas this month
and investigated 13 airstrikes in the Nuba Mountains that killed
26 people since mid-June, the groups said in a joint statement
today. Al-Sawarmi Khaled, a Sudanese army spokesman, denied the
report and said the government was committed to the cease-fire.  “The relentless bombing campaign is killing and maiming
civilian men, women and children, displacing tens of thousands,
putting them in desperate need of aid and preventing entire
communities from planting crops and feeding their children,”
 Daniel Bekele , Africa director at New York-based  Human Rights
Watch , said in the statement.  Forces loyal to the government in Khartoum, the capital,
have clashed since June 5 with fighters from the northern branch
of the ruling party in neighboring South Sudan, which gained
independence on July 9. Bombings, attacks and fighting have
forced more than 150,000 people to flee their homes and they now
live “in harsh conditions in caves, on mountaintops, under trees
and in the bush far from towns,” according to the statement.  Southern Kordofan is Sudan’s only oil-producing state,
accounting for 115,000 barrels a day, according to energy
ministry. South Sudan assumed control of 75 percent of the
country’s former daily crude output of 490,000 barrels a day.  Crimes Against Humanity  The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for
Human Rights called in an Aug. 15  report  for an investigation
into possible crimes against humanity and war crimes in the
state, allegedly committed mainly by government forces.  Both al-Bashir and his governor in Southern Kordofan,  Ahmed
Haroun , are wanted by the  International Criminal Court  over
allegations they were involved in war crimes in the eight-year-
old conflict in the western region of Darfur.  The rights groups cited witnesses who said soldiers and
militia shot people in the streets, looted and burnt churches
and homes, and bulldozed houses of known members of Sudan’s
People Liberation Movement’s northern branch.  Army spokesman Khaled disputed the groups’ findings that
government forces hindered aid to civilians considered
supportive of the opposition.  “The army is there to protect civilians and guarantee
humanitarian aid reaches them well,” he said in a telephone
interview yesterday in Khartoum. “Rebels are random, and they
benefit from continuation of the chaotic situation in there.
They hinder aid groups from doing their job.”  Eating Berries  Many displaced families told researchers they were eating
berries and leaves and that their children were suffering from
diarrhea and malaria.  “Indiscriminate attacks in civilian areas and restrictions
on humanitarian aid could amount to  war crimes  and crimes
against humanity,” said Donatella Rovera, Amnesty’s senior
crisis response adviser. “Such attacks must cease and
independent humanitarian-needs assessments and relief delivery
must be allowed immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum through the Nairobi newsroom at
   selwardany@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 