-- 
Inflation Fight Spurs Record Swap-Curve Inversion: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T04:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/swap-curve-inverts-most-in-history-amid-pboc-inflation-fight-china-credit.html
Banks in  China  are more confident
than ever that policy makers will bring inflation under control
in the coming year by using monetary tightening to curb credit.  Swap contracts show that this month, for the first time
since 2008, it’s become cheaper for lenders to lock in interest
rates for five years rather than one as UBS AG, Morgan Stanley
and Deutsche Bank AG lowered economic growth forecasts for China.
The gap between the five- and one-year swaps widened to a record
after Standard Chartered Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
said the central bank issued a notice on Aug. 26 broadening the
scope of reserve-requirement ratios.  “The central bank may gradually ease monetary policy in
the coming five years,” said Hu Hangyu, a bond analyst in
Beijing at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s second-biggest
brokerage by revenue. “The current policy is a bit too tight,
considering its impact on economic growth. The central bank will
probably hold off raising  interest rates  or reserve-requirement
ratios again this year.”  China’s five-year swap, the fixed cost that can be
exchanged for the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this month to 4.09
percent, while the one-year contract jumped 26 basis points to
4.43 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
longer-term swap has never been so far below the one-year and on
average was 76 basis points higher in Bloomberg data going back
to May 2006.  Flattening Curves  The cost of locking in funds for five years in  Brazil ,
 Russia  and all of the Group of 10 industrialized nations exceeds
that for one year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 India ’s swap curve inverted in May for the first time since 2008
and the five-year swap of 7.02 percent is 81 basis points less
than the one-year after five interest-rate increases in 2011.  “China’s swap curve is in line with the global curves,
showing a strong flattening trend,” said Liu Linan, an
interest-rate strategist at Deutsche Bank in Hong Kong. “I
don’t think China will have a hard landing. Even though a
recession in the U.S. will affect China’s exports, the stimulus
measures outlined in the five-year plan will help shore up the
economy.”  The central bank has increased the amount of cash major
lenders are required to keep in reserve nine times since
September 2010, with the ratio now at a record 21.5 percent, and
boosted benchmark rates on five occasions in a bid to curb
inflation that hit a three-year high in July.  Margin Deposits  China’s economy  grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest pace since 2009, as faltering growth in developed
nations reduced demand for the country’s exports. The  U.S.
economy  expanded 1.5 percent and Russia’s grew 3.4 percent.  The central bank plans to broaden the reserve requirement
base to include margin deposits from Sept. 5, a move that may
drain 900 billion yuan ($140 billion) from the banking system
over six months, Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting
said in an Aug. 26 research note. A People’s Bank of China press
official declined to comment.  Guotai Junan Securities Co, the nation’s biggest brokerage
by revenue, said banks will face “cash depletion” following
the “bigger-than-expected” tightening measure, which is equal
to two to three increases in reserve-requirement ratios.  China’s seven-day repo rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 55 basis points to 4.96 percent as
of 11:54 a.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest increase in more than a
week, according to a weighted average rate compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. M2, the broadest measure of
the  money supply , expanded 14.7 percent from a year earlier in
July, the slowest pace since May 2005, central bank data show.  Risk of Slowdown  The economy expanded 10.3 percent in 2010 and growth is
expected to slow to 9.3 percent this year and 8.75 percent in
2012, based on the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of
economists. Consumer-price gains will moderate to 4.25 next year
from 5.2 percent in 2011, separate polls show.  Fighting inflation will remain the top priority in the
second half of this year and monetary policy will remain
“prudent,” the central bank said in its quarterly monetary
policy report on Aug. 12. Consumer prices climbed 6.5 percent in
July, the most since June 2008 and more than the government’s 4
percent target, official figures show.  Like Citic Securities’ Hu, Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at
Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai, forecasts the central bank
won’t boost reserve-requirement ratios or interest rates further
this year.  ‘Capital Draining’  “Too much capital draining now may induce more slowdown in
growth in the future,” said Guo. “The inverted swap curve will
probably last for at least one month.”  China’s expansion may slow to 9.2 percent in the third
quarter, the China Securities Journal reported on Aug. 16,
citing the State Information Center. The benchmark  stock index 
has slumped 15 percent from its April high after the government
raised interest rates three times this year and boosted reserve
requirement ratios.  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign debt is headed for a
fourth monthly increase, credit-default swaps show. Five-year
contracts have climbed 32 basis points in August to 119 basis
points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rising Yields  The yield on the government’s five-year local-currency
bonds rose 19 basis points this month to 3.99 percent, while the
rate on one-year notes added eight basis points to 3.81 percent,
according to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  The yuan strengthened 0.9 percent this month to 6.3803 per
dollar in Shanghai and touched a 17-year high of 6.3800 today,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, reduced its estimate for
China’s economic growth this year to 9 percent from 9.3 percent
on Aug. 25 and cut its forecast for 2012 to 8.3 percent from 9
percent. Morgan Stanley cut its 2012 China forecast to 8.7
percent from 9 percent on Aug. 18. Deutsche Bank lowered its
prediction for this year to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent a day
earlier.  The central bank’s “aggressive tightening move” may lead
to more inversion in the swap curve in coming weeks, said Wee- Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong . Two-year swaps were 16 basis points lower than one-
year contracts late yesterday in Shanghai and the gap may widen
to 60 basis points, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  