-- 
Swedish Banks May Follow Nordea Job Cutting to Buoy Profit

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-08-30T08:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/swedish-banks-may-follow-nordea-in-cutting-jobs.html
Swedish banks may follow  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) , the country’s biggest lender, in shedding jobs to lower
costs as a slowing economy and stricter capital rules curb
profit growth.  “In an environment where it will become increasingly
difficult to grow revenues, efforts by the banks to reduce costs
will be one key factor to deliver earnings growth and therefore
we expect several of the other banks to report similar
programs,” said Andreas Hakansson, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas in Stockholm.  Nordea, the Nordic region’s biggest bank, said yesterday it
plans to cut a total of 2,000 staff, or 5.9 percent of its
workforce, this year and in 2012 to trim costs and boost profit.
The company said it would eliminate 500 to 600 workers each in
Denmark, Finland and  Sweden , while as many as 300 would be axed
in  Norway .  European banks are slashing jobs this year six times faster
than their U.S. peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
as concerns about the creditworthiness of  Italy ,  Spain  and
 France  roil financial markets and reduce income from fixed-
income trading, stock and bond underwriting and mergers and
acquisitions. Financial firms are also cutting costs as
regulators force them to hold more and higher-quality capital.  Adjusting Spending  Nordea and Swedish rivals SEB AB and Swedbank AB are
targeting a return on equity, a measure of how much a company
earns for each krona invested, of 15 percent.  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  aims for a higher ROE than its home-market
competitors. With revenue growth expected to slow because of a
global economic slowdown, the lenders will need to adjust
spending to meet the investor-return targets.  Nordea shares rose 0.4 percent to 57.75 kronor as of 10:22
a.m. in Stockholm, while Handelsbanken climbed 0.6 percent, SEB
increased 1.1 percent and Swedbank advanced 1.9 percent. The
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index jumped as
much as 2.6 percent in its second day of gains.  “The cost-cutting by Nordea is a reflection on a slowing
top line, and if the other banks want to meet their return-on-
equity targets, they need to act,” said Jan Erik Gjerland, an
analyst at Oslo-based DnB NOR ASA. “Banks’ costs need to be
adjusted to meet this new reality. Nordic banks can’t hide.”  Nordea said its goal is to reach a large share of the
reduction in staff cost through “natural turnover” and
voluntary agreements. The lender will continue to make other
cost and efficiency steps later this year and give savings and
cost estimates after, it said.  Regulatory Environment  The Swedish economy will grow 4.1 percent this year and 1.3
percent next year, down from April forecasts of 4.6 percent and
3.8 percent, respectively, Finance Minister Anders Borg said
Aug. 26. The  budget surplus  will be 0.1 percent this year and in
balance next year, compared with April surplus estimates of 0.3
percent and 1.8 percent.  “A lot of internationals, very strong banks, have
announced similar measures, and of course this is a direct
consequence of the regulatory environment, which brings higher
costs to the system,” Fredrik Rystedt, chief financial officer
at Nordea, said in an interview yesterday. “We have a need to
become more efficient in terms of capital, more efficient in
terms of costs. That is something a lot of banks are facing.”  Thomas Backteman, a spokesman at Swedbank, said the
Stockholm-based lender isn’t ruling out job cuts and is always
aiming to improve efficiency. SEB said in its quarterly earnings
report in July it aims to keep costs flat this year.  Out Early  “It’s good to be out early” with the cost cuts, Rystedt
said. “It would avoid, perhaps, bigger measures at some later
stage if we wait too long.”  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said on Aug. 23 it will
cut 5 percent of its workforce. ABN Amro Group NV, a Dutch
state-owned lender, plans to slash 2,350 jobs, while HSH
Nordbank AG, a regional German lender, said it would eliminate
900 jobs by 2014.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will require
lenders to more than triple the core reserves they must hold to
protect themselves from insolvency by 2019. Under Basel III,
banks will be obliged to hold core Tier 1 capital equivalent to
7 percent of their risk-weighted assets, compared with 2 percent
under the previous international rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  