-- 
Swiss Stocks Advance for Fifth Day in Six; Roche, Swiss Re, Holcim Climb

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-29T16:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/swiss-stocks-advance-for-fifth-day-in-six-roche-swiss-re-rise-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks advanced for the fifth
day in six after a report showed that U.S. consumer spending
rose more than forecast in July.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, climbed 1 percent to its highest price in a month. Swiss
Reinsurance Co., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, gained
4.4 percent.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) ,  Switzerland ’s largest biotechnology
company, rallied 4.2 percent after dropping development of its
macitentan drug.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  climbed 2.3 percent to 5,446.47 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, the highest finish in almost a
month. Even so, the gauge has tumbled 19 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 18 amid concern that the global economic
recovery is stalling, while euro-area leaders struggled to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The broader Swiss
Performance Index rose 2.5 percent today.  Swiss stocks rallied the most in 18 months last week as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy isn’t
deteriorating enough to warrant any immediate stimulus. He also
said a second day has been added to the next policy meeting in
September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and
the Fed’s possible response.  “Markets are strongly oversold and a relief rally is not
surprising,” said Patrik Scheuber, head of equities at
Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich. “The expectations of
Bernanke’s speech were -- fortunately -- not very high. Markets
didn’t expect anything concrete, so he didn’t disappoint.”  A Commerce Department report today in  Washington  showed
that U.S. personal spending in July climbed the most since
February. Purchases rose 0.8 percent after a 0.1 percent decline
the prior month. The median estimate of 74 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent increase.  Fed Meeting  Central bankers this weekend met at an annual retreat in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where Bernanke urged adoption of “good,
proactive housing policies” to reverse the depressed U.S. real
estate market and warned lawmakers to avoid steps that may hurt
short-term growth.  “Most of the economic policies that support robust
economic growth in the long run are outside the province of the
central bank,” Bernanke said at the annual conference of policy
makers and economists, sponsored by the Kansas City Fed.  Bernanke told the conference that the U.S. central bank
still has a “range of tools” it could use to help the economy
if needed, although he stopped short of signaling that the Fed
would embark on a third round of government bond buying.  Roche added 1 percent to 137.90 Swiss francs, its highest
price in a month, after a study showed its experimental drug
dalcetrapib increased so-called good cholesterol without having
an effect on  blood pressure .  Roche’s Dalcetrapib  “These results further support the safety profile of
dalcetrapib and are encouraging for the ongoing phase 3 trial
for which results are not expected before the end of 2012,”
Exane BNP Paribas analysts, including Vincent Meunier, wrote in
a note. “Dalcetrapib may become a multibillion blockbuster if
it reaches the market.”  Actelion added 4.2 percent to 33.88 francs. The company
said it is dropping development of its macitentan drug for
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis after the treatment failed in a
clinical trial. Macitentan was safe and tests of the drug for
use by patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension are
continuing, with results expected in the first half of 2012, the
company said.  “The first indication that macitentan is safe at the
highest investigated dose is comforting and should restore some
confidence in the pipeline in Actelion,”  Andrew Weiss , an
analyst at  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , wrote in a report.  Swiss Reinsurance rose 4.4 percent to 41.48 francs as
Hurricane Irene weakened and “insured damage was lower than
feared last week,” Vontobel analyst Stefan Schuermann wrote in
a note to clients today.  Syngenta, Holcim Gain  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest producer of crop-
protection chemicals, jumped 4.4 percent to 251.50 francs, the
biggest gain since February, as Kepler Capital Markets
reinitiated coverage of the stock with a “buy” rating.  “Syngenta is in a strong position to take advantage of
increasing demand for crops,” Bettina Edmondston, an analyst at
Kepler, wrote in a note. The company “will be at the forefront
of delivering yield increases to farmers around the globe.”  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
rallied 4.4 percent to 48.29 francs as a gauge of European
construction companies was the best performer of the 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index. Geberit Holding AG,
Europe’s biggest maker of toilet flushing systems, gained 4.1
percent to 164.20 francs.  Sika AG (SIK) , Europe’s largest maker of
chemicals used in construction, added 3.3 percent to 1,803
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  