-- 
Syrian Troops Kill Seven Protesters at Rally After End-of-Ramadan Prayers

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-08-30T10:41:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/syria-besieges-town-as-erdogan-says-violence-means-assad-risks-mubarak-end.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least seven people when they opened fire on protesters who
rallied after leaving mosques following prayers on the holiday
that marks the end of Ramadan, an activist said.  The deaths today raised to two dozen the number of people
killed in the past 24 hours, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights in Damascus. The deaths today
were in Daraa, where unrest in  Syria  began in mid-March, he
said. Mosques have been rallying points for protests against the
government of President Bashar al-Assad.  Since the unrest began, 2,450 civilians and 700 security
forces have been killed, Merhi said. About 15,000 people have
been injured and at least 20,000 people are now in prison, he
said.  A Russian envoy yesterday delivered a message from
President  Dmitry Medvedev  to Assad calling for a halt to the
violence. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who also
has been a Syrian ally, warned that Assad’s government risks the
fate of others toppled in the area if it doesn’t end the
killings. U.S. President  Barack Obama  earlier this month joined
European leaders in calling for Assad to leave office.  ‘Complete Halt’  “The need was stressed for an immediate and complete halt
to violence by all parties and the immediate implementation of
reforms promised by the Syrian leadership,” the Kremlin said in
a statement on its website.  Russia , which has maintained close ties with Syria since
the Soviet era, earlier this month rejected demands from the
U.S. and European countries for Assad to step down.  Russia maintains its only military facility in the Middle
East in Syria, a servicing point for visiting navy vessels in
the port of Tartus, which was a permanent base for Soviet
warships during the  Cold War .  Russia also opposes an initiative by the U.S., Britain and
 France , to impose United Nations sanctions on Syria.  “The international community is increasingly speaking with
one voice in demanding an immediate end to the violence,” State
Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said yesterday. “We’re
going to continue to make the case to the  Security Council  that
it is time now for the council as a whole, rather than the
individual nations, to sanction Assad.”  Regional Unrest  The protests were inspired by unrest across the  Middle East 
and North Africa that unseated Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January and toppled Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  the next month.  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi is in hiding
after an uprising ended his control over most of the country.  “Immediately silencing guns and heeding public demands are
the only way out.” Erdogan said in a televised speech late on
Aug. 28. “We’ve seen the consequences of those who chose not to
pick this path in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya.”  Today’s shootings came as Muslims celebrate Eid al-Fitr,
the holiday which marks the end of Islamic fast month of
Ramadan. Merhi said many Syrians have abstained from buying
traditional holiday sweets in a sign of mourning for protesters
who have been killed.  Assad has blamed the dissent on a foreign conspiracy, while
saying protesters’ demands “have merit” and that changes are
needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at  dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ; 