-- 
U.K. Company Confidence in Economy Plunges to Lowest Since 2009 Recession

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-29T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-k-company-confidence-in-economy-plunges-to-lowest-since-2009.html
U.K. business confidence in the
economic outlook plunged this month to its lowest level since
the depths of the recession in 2009, Lloyds Bank Corporate
Markets said.  An index of British companies’ optimism about the economy
compared with three months earlier dropped to minus 3 from 19 in
July, when the gauge declined 17 points, the unit of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said in an e-mailed report released in London
today. August’s reading is the lowest since March 2009.  “The sharp fall reflects a variety of factors, including
concerns about slowing global growth, the U.S. ratings downgrade
and the inability of policy makers to fix the euro-area
sovereign-debt crisis,” Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
economists Hann-Ju Ho and Jonathan Thomas wrote. “Prospects for
the economy in the second half of the year look to be somewhat
weaker than previously anticipated.”  The U.K. economy has barely expanded since September as
government budget cuts and accelerating inflation sap  consumer
confidence . Growth was just 0.2 percent in the second quarter
and a Confederation of British Industry report today showed
business volumes at services companies in the three months
through August fell at their fastest pace since November 2009.  Slowing Growth  The declines in the Lloyds Business Barometer in July and
August suggest U.K. gross domestic product will expand 0.3
percent this quarter, before expansion slows to 0.1 percent in
the final three months of 2011, Ho and Thomas said. The Lloyds
unit questioned 308 companies, all with sales of more than 1
million pounds ($1.6 million), between Aug. 1 and Aug. 17.  In its report, the CBI said an index of sales volumes at
business-services companies such as accountants slumped to minus
22 in the three months through August from 5 in the quarter
through May. A measure of sales at consumer-services companies
including restaurants and bars slipped 2 points to minus 25.
Both gauges were at their lowest since November 2009.  The CBI, the U.K.’s largest business lobby, questioned 162
companies between July 29 and Aug. 17 for the report.  A separate release from the Engineering Employers
Federation showed fewer U.K. manufacturers saying their
borrowing costs rise in August. A survey of 277 producers
between Aug. 3 and Aug. 23 found the percentage seeing a
“moderate or significant” increase in the overall cost of
credit dropped to 17 percent from 25 percent in the second
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  