-- 
U.S. August Dallas Fed Business Outlook Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-08-29T14:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-august-dallas-fed-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Texas manufacturing
activity from the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  Texas factory activity was largely unchanged in August, according to business
executives responding to the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey. The production
index, a key measure of state manufacturing conditions, remained positive but fell
from 10.8 to 1.1, suggesting growth stalled this month.  Most other measures of current manufacturing conditions indicated slower growth
in August. The new orders index fell from 16 to 4.8 this month, suggesting order
volumes continued to increase, but at a decelerated pace. The shipments index was
positive and little changed, edging down from 7.8 to 6.7. The capacity utilization
index dipped into negative territory in August, with one-quarter of manufacturers
noting a decrease.  Perceptions of general business conditions were mixed in August. The general
business activity index remained negative for the fourth month in a row and fell
from -2 to -11.4. The change in the index was largely due to a notable increase in
the share of firms noting worsened activity. The company outlook index stayed
positive but edged down from 11 in July to 7.2 in August. Still, the great majority
of respondents said their outlooks were unchanged or improved from last month.  Labor market indicators reflected slower labor demand growth. The employment
index came in at 5.4, down from 12.1 in July. Twenty-three percent of manufacturers
reported hiring new workers, while 17 percent reported layoffs. The hours worked
index fell from 7.9 to -2.2, suggesting average workweeks shrank.  Input prices and wages rose at a slower pace in August, while selling prices
were unchanged. The raw materials price index retreated from 34.3 to 23.2, its
lowest reading since September 2010. The finished goods price index came in at -0.5,
down from 4.6 in July. The near-zero reading suggests selling prices were flat in
August. Thirty-eight percent of respondents anticipate further increases in raw
materials prices over the next six months, while 26 percent expect higher finished
goods prices. The wages and benefits index moved down from 18.4 in July to 15.7 in
August, although the great majority of respondents noted no change in labor costs.  Expectations regarding future business conditions were generally less
optimistic in August. The index of future general business activity edged down, as
did most indexes of future manufacturing activity, although all remained in solid
positive territory. The index of future company outlook inched up for the second
month in a row, coming in at 16.1.  The Dallas Fed conducts the Texas Manufacturing Outlook Survey monthly to
obtain a timely assessment of the state’s factory activity. Data were collected
Aug.16-24, and 96 Texas manufacturers responded to the survey. Firms are asked
whether output, employment, orders, prices and other indicators increased, decreased
or remained unchanged over the previous month.  Survey responses are used to calculate an index for each indicator. Each index
is calculated by subtracting the percentage of respondents reporting a decrease from
the percentage reporting an increase. When the share of firms reporting an increase
exceeds the share reporting a decrease, the index will be greater than zero,
suggesting the indicator has increased over the prior month. If the share of firms
reporting a decrease exceeds the share reporting an increase, the index will be
below zero, suggesting the indicator has decreased over the prior month. An index
will be zero when the number of firms reporting an increase is equal to the number
of firms reporting a decrease.  Next release: September 26, 2011 