-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Texas Dust Bowl Drives Cotton Rally

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-08-29T11:32:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-texas-dust-bowl-drives-cotton-rally.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Texas Dust Bowl Drives Cotton Rally as Rick Perry Prays for Rain  The worst U.S. crop conditions since the dust bowl era of
the 1930s are tightening domestic supplies of cotton and
boosting prospects for a rebound in prices that fell more than
any other commodity this year.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Koch, Gunvor Said to Pay Higher Premium for Indian Naphtha (1)  Koch Industries Inc. and Gunvor Group Ltd. paid higher
premiums for Indian naphtha loading in September amid
speculation regional demand is rising, according to at least
three people with knowledge of the deals.  Putin Oil Tax Punishes Refiners as Yields Jump: Russia Credit  Russian refiners from Alliance Oil Co. to OAO Bashneft are
being punished in the  bond market  as oil-tax changes benefit
producers at the expense of companies that turn the crude into
fuel.  Hedge Funds Turn Gas Bears After Five Months: Energy Markets  Hedge funds turned bearish on natural gas for the first
time in five months as falling temperatures and slowing economic
growth sapped demand for the power-plant fuel.  Bidvest Offers to Buy Capespan Shares, Topping Bid by Zeder  Bidvest Group Ltd. offered to buy 50 million shares in
Capespan Group Ltd., a South African fruit exporter, for 2.40
rand apiece, Bidvest Finance Director David Cleasby said,
topping a bid by Zeder Investments Ltd.  Solar Convertibles Slide Most Since ‘08 Amid Glut:  China  Credit  Convertible bonds issued by Chinese solar-panel makers are
handing investors the steepest losses in almost three years as
overcapacity causes product prices to tumble, wiping out
earnings and putting credit ratings at risk.  Funds Boost Bullish Agriculture Bets as Yields May Slump (1)  Speculators increased bullish bets on agricultural
commodities to the highest level since early May after adverse
weather eroded yield prospects for corn and soybean crops in the
U.S., the world’s top grower and exporter.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines on Concern Chinese Lending Curbs May Cut Demand  Copper futures declined in New York on concern that moves
to curb credit growth and tame inflation by China, the world’s
biggest consumer of the metal, may reduce demand for raw
materials.  Jiangxi Copper Gains in  Hong Kong  After Profit Hits Record (1)  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained the most in four months after it reported first-half
profit almost doubled to a record.  Rusal Seeks to Complete Debt Refinancing Talks in Four Weeks (3)  United Co. Rusal expects to complete debt refinancing talks
in about four weeks, allowing the world’s largest aluminum maker
to start paying dividends for the first time since it listed,
said Deputy Chief Executive Officer Oleg Mukhamedshin.  MINING:  Vale’s First Coal Exports From Mozambique to Start, RM Says  Vale SA will export its first coal from Mozambique next
week, Radio Mocambique reported yesterday, citing Candido Jone,
the executive director of the state-owned ports and rail
utility, Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique.  JSW Rises After Saying Karnataka Ban Won’t Decrease Output (1)  JSW Steel Ltd.,  India ’s third-largest producer, rose the
most in six months in Mumbai after saying output will be
unaffected by the mining ban in Karnataka because it has
adequate raw material inventory.  QR Says Queensland Coal Haulage Dropped 18% After Floods (1)  QR National Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest coal-train operator,
said it hauled 18 percent less coal in Queensland in the first
two months of its fiscal year as mines struggle to recover from
record flooding.  BHP Australia Coal Miners to Resume Strikes as Talks Extended  Mine workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s coking coal mines in
Australia are resuming strikes this week as negotiations on pay
and  work conditions  are extended until September, a union
official said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops as Bernanke Says Growth Intact, Offers No Stimulus  Gold fell for the first day in three after  Federal Reserve 
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that growth will resume, boosting
speculation the central bank may not add extra stimulus and
eroding the appeal of haven investments.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Rise to Six-Month High After Heat Hurts U.S. Yields  Soybean futures climbed to their highest level in more than
six months in  Chicago  and corn also advanced on concern the
effects of hot July weather in the largest U.S. growing states
will reduce harvests.  Rice May Rally 22% as Thai Buying Raises Cost, Cuts Exports (1)  Rice may rally 22 percent by yearend as Thailand, the
world’s largest exporter, buys the grain from farmers at above-
market rates, pushing up costs for importers and fanning global
inflation even as economic growth slows.  A Little Chocolate Goes a Long Way in Keeping Healthy Heart  More bad news for those battling a sweet tooth: eating
chocolate is good for you.  Rubber Gains on Supply Concerns, Optimism on U.S. Recovery  Rubber advanced on concern that heavy rains in Thailand,
the largest grower, may cut production and after concerns the
 U.S. economy  will stall were eased, boosting optimism that the
global recovery was intact.  Palm Oil  Advances on Declining U.S. Soybean, Corn Crop Yields  Palm oil gained for the first time in four days, tracking
advances in soybean and corn prices on concern that adverse
weather may affect U.S. harvests.  Rubber Gains on Supply Concerns, Optimism on U.S. Recovery  Rubber advanced on concern that heavy rains in Thailand,
the largest grower, may cut production and after concern the
U.S. economy will stall were eased, boosting optimism that the
global recovery was intact.  SHIPPING:  Libya’s Agoco Ready to Resume Crude Output, Exports in September  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. said it will be ready to
export crude at the end of September, two weeks after resuming
production at two fields following a four-month halt due to the
armed rebellion against leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Kenya’s Mombasa Port to Receive Corn, Cars and Fuel Oil (Table)  The following vessels are expected to arrive at the Kenya’s
Port of Mombasa by Sept. 10.  Irene Nears Canada Border After Downgrade to Post-Tropical (3)  Irene, downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone from a
hurricane, neared the U.S.-Canada border after killing 18
people, sending rivers to near-record heights and knocking out
power to almost 6 million customers in 13 states and the
District of Columbia.  ECONOMIES:  China to Lock Up More Cash to Tighten Liquidity, Tame Inflation  China broadened the base of reserves it requires commercial
lenders to deposit with the central bank to control liquidity
and limit inflation, economists said.  Central Bankers Urge Governments to Throw Economic Lifeline (2)  Central bankers gathered at an annual retreat in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , this weekend had a message for political leaders:
monetary policy alone can’t keep the global expansion going.  China Widens Reserve Ratio to Limit Inflation, Analysts Say (1)  China broadened the base of reserves it requires commercial
lenders to deposit with the central bank to control liquidity
and limit inflation, economists said.  Finance Chief Noda Wins Race to Succeed Kan as  Japan  Premier (2)  Yoshihiko Noda was elected head of Japan’s ruling party,
paving the way for the 54-year-old finance minister to become
the third prime minister since the party took power two years
ago.  Singapore  Picks Lee’s Man as President, Narrowly Avoiding Upset  Former Deputy Prime Minister Tony Tan was elected as
Singapore’s next president with a margin of about 0.3 percent
over his nearest rival, a result that signals  the ruling party
still has more to do to appease voters.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, U.S. Futures Gain on Economic Outlook; Gold, Franc Fall  Stocks rose for a second day and U.S. index futures climbed
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the world’s
biggest economy is gradually recovering and he has the tools to
spur growth. Gold and the Swiss franc retreated, while Greek
stocks soared.  Franc, Yen, Dollar, Fall as Stock Gains Curb Demand for Safety  The Swiss franc, yen and dollar weakened against most major
counterparts as stocks rose amid optimism the world economy will
avoid a recession, reducing demand for so-called haven
currencies.  European Stocks Advance Before U.S. Consumer-Spending Report  European stocks rose after two days of losses dragged
equities near to the cheapest valuation in more than two years
and as investors awaited a report that may show U.S. consumer
spending gained. Asian shares and U.S. index futures climbed.  High Rare-Earth Prices Force Hitachi, Toyota to Find Alternative  Japanese rare-earth buyers are switching to quarterly sales
contracts and looking for alternative sources after China curbed
shipments, increasing prices for the materials used in hybrid
cars and missiles.  Obama Said to Choose Krueger for Council of Economic Advisers  President Barack Obama plans to name Alan Krueger, a labor
economist and former Treasury official, to lead the White House
Council of Economic Advisers, said a White House official.  Cleanup Under Way to Restore Power to Millions Cut by Irene (1)  Thousands of workers began clearing tree branches and
repairing electrical lines to restore power to almost 6 million
U.S. homes and businesses after Hurricane Irene left a trail of
destruction from  North Carolina  to  Maine .  Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for Second Day on U.S. Outlook  Emerging-market stocks rose for a second day, driving the
benchmark index toward a week high, after the Federal Reserve
said the U.S. economy is gradually recovering and it has the
tools to spur growth.  Libyan Rebels Push to Sirte Amid Protests Over Appointments (1)  Libyan rebels pushed toward Muammar Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte amid protests over the opposition National Transitional
Council’s planned appointment of former members of his security
forces.  Oil Trades Near Three-Day High; Gasoline Drops as Irene Passes  Oil traded near a three-day high in  New York  as investors
speculated that growth will recover in the U.S., spurring demand
in the biggest crude consumer. Gasoline slid as Irene was
downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone.  SPORTS:  Arsenal Eyes Chelsea’s Alex After Worst Loss Since 1896: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Kraft Wins U.S. Amateur Golf Title Over Top-Ranked Cantlay  Kelly Kraft  beat top-ranked Patrick Cantlay to win golf’s
U.S. Amateur Championship, earning invitations to three major
tournaments in 2012 and a spot on the U.S. Walker Cup team.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  