-- 
U.S. Consumer Spending Probably Climbed in July as Car Purchases Rebounded

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-29T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-consumer-spending-probably-climbed-in-july-as-car-purchases-rebounded.html
U.S. consumer spending probably
climbed in July on the heels of the first drop in almost two
years, a rebound that may prove short-lived as employment wanes
and confidence sinks, economists said before a report today.  Purchases rose 0.5 percent after a 0.2 percent decline the
prior month, according to the median estimate of 64 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show contract
signings for sales of existing homes fell last month.  Autos sold at the fastest pace in three months as supply
constraints from  Japan ’s March earthquake began to ease.
Spending may cool after wrangling over the federal budget, the
first U.S. credit-rating downgrade in history and growing
concern over a debt crisis in  Europe  sent the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index down 17 percent from July 22 through Aug. 8.  “The report should be pretty solid, relative to beaten-
down expectations,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “We should consider this old
data. It doesn’t tell us much about the next few months. We’ll
certainly see a slowdown.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from increases of 0.1
percent to 0.8 percent.  The figures are also projected to show incomes climbed 0.3
percent following a 0.1 percent gain the prior month, according
to the survey median.  Auto Demand  Cars and light trucks sold at a 12.2 million seasonally
adjusted pace of in July, up from 11.4 million in June,
according to industry data. The rate trails the 12.6 million
average pace through the first half of the year, according to
Autodata Corp. Deliveries at Detroit-based General Motors Co.
climbed 7.6 percent from the same month in 2010.  Retailers, including  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Limited Brands Inc.,
reported July sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Purchases
at Macy’s rose 5 percent, surpassing the 4.4 percent average
projection compiled by Retail Metrics Inc. Limited, operator of
the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted a gain of 6 percent from a
year earlier.  After adjusting for inflation, which are the figures used
to calculate gross domestic product, much of the projected gain
in spending last month may be wiped away. Consumer prices rose
0.5 percent in July, a report from the Labor Department earlier
this month showed.  Economic Slowdown  The economy grew at a 1 percent annual rate from April
through June after a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter,
capping the weakest six months of the recovery that began in
mid-2009, Commerce Department figures showed last week.
Household spending rose 0.4 percent, the weakest performance in
two years.  A slump in confidence threatens to prolong the slump. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer
sentiment fell in August to the weakest reading since November
2008. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index stabilized last week
within striking distance of an all-time low.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, said profit in its fiscal 2011 will be less than it
previously projected as sales drop at stores open more than a
year.  “Recent headlines regarding slowing growth and the U.S.
credit rating downgrade underscore the continued weakness in the
 U.S. economy ,” Robert A. Niblock, chairman and chief executive
officer of Lowe’s, said on an Aug. 15 conference call. “The
volume of negative news and the unsettling impact on equity
markets is having a significant effect on an already fragile
consumer mindset.”  Housing Slump  Housing remains a drag on growth and household finances.
Contract signings for existing homes in July fell 0.9 percent
after a 2.4 percent gain the prior month, economists forecast a
National Association of Realtors’ report will show at 10 a.m.  “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has been
much less robust than we had hoped,” Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at a  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
central bank symposium. “Economic growth has, for the most
part, been at rates insufficient to achieve sustained reductions
in unemployment.”  The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in July, while
payrolls grew by 117,000 workers, according to figures from the
Labor Department. They rose an average 179,000 in the first four
months of the year.  The economy also failed to create enough jobs in August to
trim unemployment, economists in a Bloomberg survey said before
a Labor Department report due Sept. 2.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  