-- 
U.S. Nuclear Operators Survey Damage, Boost Output After Irene

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-29T21:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-nuclear-operators-survey-damage-boost-output-after-irene.html
U.S. nuclear operators in the path
of Hurricane Irene scoured their plants for damage and inspected
safety equipment today as they worked to restore power levels at
several reactors.  Two reactors were shut because of the storm, including one
plant damaged by wind-driven debris. The two reactors remained
offline today as safety reviews were conducted.  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ’s Unit 1 at its Calvert
Cliffs plant in  Maryland  shut down automatically when a piece of
aluminum siding, ripped from a nearby building by Irene’s winds,
crashed into a transformer, causing an explosion. The unit
“remains in safe shutdown,” Constellation said in a statement.  “We will not bring the unit back online until all required
precautionary testing has been completed,” the company said. A
second Calvert Cliffs reactor remains at full power.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  began restarting its Oyster Creek plant in  New
Jersey  after shutting the reactor in advance of the storm. The
restart process “takes some time,” Suzanne D’Ambrosio, a plant
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. The reactor was listed at
1 percent of full power in a  report  from the  U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  today.  Plants on the U.S. East Coast hit by the storm “responded
appropriately” to Irene-related events, Scott Burnell, a
spokesman for the NRC, said in an interview today. He said the
plants didn’t encounter any emergency conditions that required
warning the public.  Safety Upgrades  The problems the nuclear plants did encounter underscore
the need for upgrading safety systems at U.S. facilities to
protect against extreme weather such as hurricanes and this
month’s earthquake in  Virginia , U.S. Representative  Edward
Markey  said in a  letter  to the NRC today.  The Massachusetts Democrat cited “challenges” at nuclear
plants during the hurricane, such as Calvert Cliffs’ shutdown
and a backup generator at the plant that was disabled because of
flooding. The congressman said some plants’ emergency sirens
lost function or were on backup battery power during the storm.  Mark Sullivan, a spokesman for Baltimore-based
Constellation’s nuclear venture, said in an e-mail that the
diesel generator wasn’t needed at Calvert Cliffs because the
site didn’t lose power, and that the plant has multiple diesel
generators available.  “Operators in the control room followed procedures and
managed the event as trained,” Sullivan said.  Cooling Power Lost  Markey also said the cooling pool used to store nuclear
waste at the Millstone plant’s inactive reactor in  Connecticut 
lost power for its cooling system during the storm. At one of
the active reactors at Dominion Resources Inc.’s Millstone
station, one of six water circulation pumps used for cooling
also failed.  The pump was restarted within about a half-hour, Ken Holt,
a plant spokesman, said in an interview today. He said the
company was preparing to cool the Unit 1 fuel waste with a
backup generator, though power returned before that was
necessary.  “Neither one of these issues compromised public safety,”
Holt said.  Dominion reduced power by about half at both its operating
reactors at Millstone before the storm. The company is working
to bring the reactors back to full operating capacity, Holt
said.  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  expected to have both reactors at its
North Carolina Brunswick plant restored to full power by the end
of the day, Ryan Mosier, a plant spokesman, said in an
interview. The plant suffered no damage in the storm, he said.  “The infrastructure out there in the grid is a lot more
susceptible to storm damage than the plant systems themselves,”
Mosier said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  