-- 
Workers Begin Restoring Power to Millions Cut by Irene

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-08-30T16:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-starts-cleanup-as-irene-leaves-trail-of-destruction-across-northeast.html
(Corrects spelling of Philip Bedient in second and fourth
paragraph in story published Aug. 29.)  Thousands of workers began clearing
tree branches and repairing electrical lines to restore power to
almost 6 million U.S. homes and businesses after Hurricane Irene
left a trail of destruction from North Carolina to  Maine .  The recovery effort will take days, and in some cases
weeks, as flooding from Irene’s torrential rains still threatens
electrical infrastructure, said Philip Bedient, a professor of
civil and environmental engineering at Rice University in
Houston.  Almost 1 million customers lost power in  New York , where
Irene made landfall yesterday, according to a report from New
York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office. Irene didn’t pack the
hurricane-force winds that were predicted for the region.  “It could have been a lot worse in terms of storm surge,
could have been worse in terms of the actual wind speeds,”
Bedient said. “It did not strengthen like they originally
thought.”  Falling trees dragged down power lines while a storm surge
flooded substations, cutting electricity supplies to 471,000
customers on Long Island, said Michael Hervey, chief operating
officer of Long Island Power Authority, during a conference call
with reporters.  Power disruptions affected almost 6 million homes and
businesses in 13 states and the  District of Columbia , the U.S.
Energy Department  said in a report  yesterday. Irene first hit
the coast of North Carolina as a Category 1 hurricane Aug. 27.  Power Losses  More than 800,000 customers were without power in  Virginia 
and  Maryland , and about 116,000 in Maine, the Energy Department
said. About 850,000  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  customers in  New Jersey ,
 Pennsylvania  and Maryland were without power, the company said
today in a statement. Electricity has been restored to more than
400,000 of those, and crews are working to resume service to the
rest, it said.  Downgraded to a tropical storm yesterday and moving through
 New England  and into  Quebec  today, Irene drew comparisons to
hurricanes Gloria in 1985 and Isabel in 2003. Gloria, which
followed a similar path in 1985, left 750,000 customers without
power in Long Island, Hervey said.  Damage was lighter in  New York City , where Mayor Michael Bloomberg allowed residents evacuated from low-lying areas to
begin returning yesterday afternoon after the storm passed. The
mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News’ parent,
Bloomberg LP.  Queens,  Brooklyn , Bronx  About 120,000  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  customers were
without power at 6:45 p.m. local time, said Chris Olert, a
company spokesman. About 52,000 homes and businesses in
Westchester County were without power while outages were
reported in Queens, Staten Island, Brooklyn and the Bronx.  Consolidated Edison expects to restore power to most of its
New York City customers by late tomorrow and to most of its
Westchester customers by the end of Sept. 1, Olert said.  “This was a two-part event for Con Edison -- water and
wind,” John Miksad, the company’s senior vice president of
electric operations, told reporters yesterday.  Hervey of Long Island Power couldn’t say when repair work
will be completed. The company is assessing wind damage to
downed high-voltage lines, and possible tornado and flood damage
to infrastructure across Long Island.  Long Island  About 1,500 of the utility’s workers were scouting damage
on Long Island yesterday as 2,000 linemen and tree-trimmers
began to restore electricity, Hervey said. Long Island Power is
requesting additional workers from its peers in states not
affected by Irene.  “I just don’t know how long it will take,” Hervey said of
the repair effort.  About half of the 2.4 million customers that Dominion
Resources Inc. serves in Virginia and  North Carolina  lost power,
making Irene the second-worst storm in the company’s history
after Hurricane Isabel in 2003, Chet Wade, a company spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  Irene’s eye-wall winds lashed the eastern edge of
Dominion’s service area, while tropical-storm force winds
pounded Richmond, Virginia, for about 12 hours on Aug. 27,
before the storm sped up the coast overnight, Wade said.  “It was close to its peak in wind speed and it stayed the
longest” over Virginia, Wade said.  Dominion Outages  By 8 p.m., Dominion had reduced the number of customers
without power to 738,000 from 1.2 million. The more than 6,000
workers deployed in the repair effort focused first on restoring
power to hospitals and other public health and safety
facilities, the Richmond-based company said in an e-mailed
statement.  The utility will have a damage report and assessment of how
long it will take to restore power by noon today, Wade said.  More than 611,000 Baltimore Gas & Electric Co. customers
lost electricity during the storm and its aftermath, company
spokeswoman Rachael Lighty said in a telephone interview. About
700,000 customers lost power during Isabel.  “We were prepared for the worst and that’s pretty much
what we got,” Lighty said.  Two nuclear reactors, one in New Jersey and one in
Maryland, were shut by the storm. None of the reactors in the
storm’s path lost power from the grid as of noon, the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission said.  Calvert Cliffs  One of the two reactors at  Constellation Energy Group
Inc. (CEG) ’s Calvert Cliffs nuclear station in Lusby, Maryland, shut
automatically when the plant was hit by wind-driven debris. The
plant’s second reactor is operating at full capacity.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Oyster Creek plant in Toms River, New
Jersey, shut Aug. 27 in anticipation of hurricane-force winds,
Exelon said in a statement.  Pennsylvania and  Connecticut  each had more than 600,000
customers with no electricity, and there were more than 810,000
in New Jersey with no power as of 3 p.m. local time, according
to the Energy Department report.  Public Service Electric & Gas Co., which provides power to
almost three-quarters of New Jersey, was preparing to send about
6,000 workers to begin restoring electricity to 375,000
customers as of 7:30 p.m. local time, Deann Muzikar, spokeswoman
for the Newark-based utility, said in a telephone interview. The
effort should take five to seven days as workers repair downed
 power lines  as well as underground natural-gas distribution
equipment damaged by flooding, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 