-- 
U.S. Living-Wills Rule May Stop Short on Key Issues, Person Says

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-08-29T18:42:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-living-wills-rule-may-stop-short-on-key-issues-person-says.html
U.S. regulators may release rules
for handling failures of systemically important financial
companies without fully addressing cross-border resolutions and
protection of firms’ confidential information, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the negotiations.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
are working on a Dodd-Frank Act provision requiring plans for
resolving of complex firms without taxpayer bailouts. The
regulators may propose a “living wills” rule next month that
doesn’t deal with sharing of information with global regulators
or how to unwind overseas operations of covered firms, according
to the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  The Financial Stability Board, an international panel that
works to align financial-industry rules, has urged regulators to
require that banks plan for orderly resolutions to prevent a
repeat of the market tumult that followed the September 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The U.S., which
enacted Dodd-Frank in response to the 2008 crisis, won’t be able
to address rules for companies operating in multiple
jurisdictions until all the rules are in place, the person said.  “These issues are very prickly because the U.S. rules are
unique until the global framework is constructed and the degree
of true harmonization and real confidentiality can be
assessed,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of
Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.  Regulators are concerned about how much information should
be shared globally, the person said. They want protection
against Freedom of Information Act requests for information that
might hurt firms’ competitiveness, the person said.  Andrew Gray , an FDIC spokesman, and  David Skidmore , a Fed
spokesman, declined to comment.  Credible Plans  The U.S. rule, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires
bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets to
submit credible plans outlining how they could be unwound. The
living wills -- which would include information on credit
exposure, funding, capital and  cash flow  -- may help firms
“rationalize” their business models and mitigate risk, the
FDIC has said.  Lobby groups representing some of the world’s biggest
financial companies have called on U.S. regulators to clarify
what constitutes a credible plan for unwinding a complex firm
before requiring companies to file living wills.  Companies failing to submit credible plans could be subject
to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements as
well as restrictions on their growth, activities or operations,
agency officials have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  