-- 
U.S. Won’t Recognize Legitimacy of Aug. 26 Abhkazia Elections

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-08-29T20:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-won-t-recognize-legitimacy-of-aug-26-abhkazia-elections.html
The U.S. won’t recognize the results
of last week’s election in Abkhazia, the second time the
separatist region has chosen a president since  Russia  recognized
its independence from  Georgia  three years ago.  “The U.S. does not recognize the legitimacy of the Aug. 26
elections in Abkhazia,” State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said today. The U.S. urges Russia “to pull its forces
back to pre-conflict positions,” Nuland said.  Vice President Alexander Ankvab won the former Georgian
province’s presidential poll after securing 55 percent of the
vote, the Abkhaz state news agency  Apsnypress  said Aug. 27,
citing Election Commission data.  The European Union and NATO issued statements saying they
don’t recognize the result and support the sovereignty of
Georgia. The Abkhaz elections are “a stage farce,” Georgia’s
foreign ministry said in an Aug. 27 statement on its website.  Abkhaz Foreign Minister Sergei Shamba and former vice
president Raul Khajimba were rivals to Ankvab in the election
called following the death of PresidentSergei Bagapsh in a
Moscow hospital in May. Bagapsh won a second term as president
in a 2009 vote.  Abkhazia declared independence from Georgia after a war in
the early 1990s that left hundreds of thousands displaced. In
August 2008, Russia routed Georgia’s army in a war over another
breakaway region,  South Ossetia , and then recognized both
regions’ independence, agreeing to defend their borders. Georgia
considers both regions part of its territory.  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s high representative, said the EU
“does not recognize the constitutional and legal framework
within which these elections have taken place.” The EU
reiterates its support to the “territorial integrity and
sovereignty of Georgia,” Ashton said in an e-mailed statement.  Anders Fogh Rasmussen, secretary-general of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization,  said  the “holding of such
elections does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting
settlement in Georgia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Helena Bedwell in Moscow at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  