-- 
U.S. Stocks Rally Amid Optimism About Global Economic Recovery

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-29T20:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/u-s-stock-index-futures-rise-signaling-index-may-extend-last-week-s-gain.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level in almost a
month, amid optimism the economy will recover and after
Hurricane Irene failed to shut financial markets.  Only three stocks in the benchmark gauge declined today as
all of its 10 groups advanced. The  S&P 500 Insurance Index (S5INSU)  of 22
stocks rallied 4.8 percent as Hurricane Irene’s estimated cost
declined with the storm losing strength en route to New York.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rose 8.1 percent after agreeing to sell
about half its stake in China Construction Bank Corp. in a deal
generating $8.3 billion in cash proceeds.  The S&P 500 rose 2.8 percent to 1,210.08 at 4 p.m. in New
York, the highest level since Aug. 3. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  gained 254.71 points, or 2.3 percent, to 11,539.25,
paring this year’s drop to 0.3 percent. About 6.6 billion shares
changed hands on U.S. exchanges at 4:10 p.m., 21 percent below
the three-month average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I still do not buy into the recession,”  Jeffrey Saut ,
chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , said in a telephone interview. His firm
manages $278 billion. “There’s no way the U.S. is going into a
recession. Pessimism can’t get much worse than it’s been. Is
growth going to be slow? Yes. But if we avoid a recession,
stocks are pretty attractive.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen as much as 18 percent from a three-
year high on April 29 amid concern about a global economic
slowdown. Gauges of financial, industrial and energy shares,
which are most-tied to the economy, led the declines in the
index, slumping at least 22 percent over that period.  Consumer Spending  Equities climbed today after Americans’ spending increased
more than economists forecast while incomes grew at the
projected pace. Benchmark gauges also rose as two Greek banks,
EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA and Alpha Bank SA, discussed merging.
Equities in  Greece  rallied the most in more than 20 years.  Stocks rose even after a report showed that the number of
contracts to purchase previously owned U.S. homes fell in July
for the first time in three months, a sign that lower prices and
borrowing costs aren’t luring in buyers.  Investors are paying less for equities than they have
during every recession since  Ronald Reagan  was president amid
growing concern that the economy is on the edge of another
recession. The S&P 500 has lost 13 percent in the past five
weeks, sending its price-earnings ratio down to 12.9. That’s 3.5
percent less than the average multiple during the 10
contractions since 1949 and a level last reached in 1982,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stimulus Tools  Stocks dropped and then rebounded on Aug. 26 after Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke ‘s speech in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, in which he said the central bank still has tools to
stimulate the economy without signaling he will use them. He
echoed comments from dissenting members of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  who said data aren’t pointing to a recession.  “Some positive thinking here has some value -- to at least
making investors think twice before they dump stocks,” Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.8 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. “Central
bankers don’t think there’s any really immediate screaming
problem to deal with and have taken that more positively. Plus,
there’s the fact that valuation is a whole lot better than it
was a couple of months ago. In addition, the absence of any bad
news in  Europe  is good news.”  All Groups Rise  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose between 1.2 percent and
4.2 percent, with gains being led by financial and industrial
stocks. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-
dependent on economic growth added 4.3 percent.  Insurers jumped.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) 
added 13 percent to $19.42, while Travelers Cos. increased 5.1
percent to $50.75.  Hurricane Irene’s estimated cost to insurers fell to about
$2.6 billion, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp. That compares
with a projection last week from the  Silver Spring , Maryland-
based company of as much as $14 billion when Irene was forecast
to make landfall in New York as a Category 2 hurricane. Total
economic losses, including those that aren’t insured, may be
about $7 billion.  Bank of America gained 8.1 percent to $8.39. The bank will
sell 13.1 billion shares in a private transaction with a group
of investors, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said
today in a statement.  The KBW Bank Index added 4.5 percent as all of its 24
stocks gained.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  advanced 4 percent to
$37.64. Citigroup Inc. added 4.9 percent to $31.29.  Pfizer Rallies    Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  added 3.7 percent to $18.88. The drugmaker won
U.S. approval to sell a drug to treat  lung cancer . The
treatment, crizotinib, is the leading candidate among more than
20 tumor-fighting medicines the company is developing to help
replace sales expected to be lost to generic drugs.  Monsanto Co. slumped 1.3 percent to $69.78. The world’s
biggest seed company said 100,000 acres of corn in Iowa and
Nebraska may harbor rootworms that developed resistance to the
company’s insect-killing biotechnology.  Newmont Mining Corp., the largest U.S. gold producer, and
Home Depot Inc., the largest U.S. home improvement retailer,
fell less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  