-- 
UAW Wants Higher Wages for New Auto Workers

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/uaw-says-it-doesn-t-want-to-add-to-fixed-costs-of-automakers.html
United Auto Workers President  Bob King  said yesterday he has asked for higher wages for new
workers at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group
LLC, which he said won’t add to the companies’ fixed costs.  “We’re very concerned about the entry-level workers having
a middle-class standard of living, which I would argue they
don’t at the current rate,” King said following a speech in
Detroit. “So I would say that’s the highest priority.”  King said the union has proposed in contract negotiations
with the companies that new workers receive a wage increase.
They now are paid $14 an hour, half what senior production
employees make. The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers
at GM, Ford and Chrysler expire Sept. 14.  “I’m concerned about raising fixed costs in a way that
makes the companies non-competitive,” King said. “But there is
room because of the current framework to make gains in certain
areas and keep the companies competitive.”  In a speech to the Detroit Economic Club, King said the
union wouldn’t add to the fixed costs of the automakers.  “We are going to make sure the companies are competitive
coming out of these agreements,” King said. “We are not going
to disadvantage the companies we work for. Heck, we all want a
wage increase, but is that the best way?”  The UAW is “asking for more for senior workers in a
different form, through profit sharing and other ways of
increasing compensation without increasing fixed costs,”  Harley
Shaiken , a professor of labor relations at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, said yesterday in a phone interview.  King has said the union won’t make concessions while
keeping labor costs competitive. King has said workers must be
rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave
since 2005 to help the U.S. automakers survive.  UAW Concessions  Previous concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses
and cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to the two-
tier wage system.  Ford union locals will conduct strike-authorization votes
for the automaker’s 41,000 hourly workers through Sept. 2, the
UAW has said.  Ford is the only automaker the union can strike because it
agreed to a ban on walkouts related to negotiations with GM and
Chrysler as part of their U.S.-led bailouts and bankruptcies in
2009. Ford didn’t take a bailout or reorganize in Chapter 11.  ‘Upbeat’ Outlook  King said he is optimistic about the progress of talks,
while he also said he didn’t know if a deal could be reached
before the Sept. 14 deadline.  “I am upbeat because there is a real commitment to keep
the companies successful, from the companies and from us,” King
said. “And a real commitment to give our members a fair share
of the success of the companies.”  In the second quarter, GM and Ford combined to earn $5.4
billion, with Chrysler reporting profit of $181 million,
excluding losses from paying off government loans. It has
forecast net income of $200 million to $500 million this year.
Chrysler is majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Last year, GM earned $6.17 billion and Ford had net income
of $6.56 billion, the most in 11 years.  John Fleming , Ford’s executive vice president for global
manufacturing and labor affairs, attended King’s speech and also
said negotiators are making progress.  “The atmosphere is very good,” Fleming told reporters
after King’s address.  “This is the best route for the union: gains for the
members, but ensuring that there are jobs for the future,”
Shaiken said. “What the union was willing to accept in a moment
of deep crisis is not the pattern it wants to use going
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in  Detroit  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  