-- 
Forint Jumps Versus Franc as U.S. Spending Data Bolsters Risk

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-29T16:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/hungarian-forint-gains-to-strongest-versus-swiss-franc-in-month.html
The forint strengthened for a fifth
day against the Swiss franc, hitting its strongest level in more
than a month, after a report showing U.S. spending rebounded
last month boosted demand for emerging-market assets.  The Hungarian currency was 1.7 percent stronger at 228.765
per franc by 6:03 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest level based on
closing prices since July 22. The forint was little changed at
272 per euro. The Budapest-based BUX index of shares jumped 2.7
percent to 18,315.8, led by OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s largest
lender.  U.S. personal spending rebounded in July as people bought
cars at the fastest pace in three months, government data today
showed. The world’s biggest economy isn’t deteriorating enough
to warrant immediate additional stimulus, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming. Global equities have see-sawed in August amid investor
concern that the European debt crisis is worsening and after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its U.S. credit rating on Aug. 5.  “Many market players may have reconsidered their selling
intentions” for the forint after Bernanke’s speech, analysts at
Erste Group Bank AG including Jozsef Miro in Budapest wrote in a
research report today. “Risks are falling because of the
Bernanke comments, which means stocks may gain.”  Hungary ’s financing needs will drop by almost a quarter
next year as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  trims the  budget
deficit  and repays maturing debt early, Gyula Pleschinger, the
head of the state debt management agency, said today.  Net forint-denominated financing needs will fall by almost
200 billion forint ($1.07 billion) next year from about 895
billion forint this year, Pleschinger said in an interview. He
also plans no further foreign debt sales this year, after the
country completed its foreign-currency debt sale plan with the
sale of euro- and dollar-denominated bonds in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net  