-- 
Turkish Airlines Stock Falls After Second-Quarter Loss Is Double Estimates

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-08-29T09:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/turkish-airlines-stock-falls-after-second-quarter-loss-is-double-estimates.html
Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO)  AO, the carrier
known as Turkish Airlines, declined in Istanbul after losses in
the second quarter, driven by higher leasing costs, were more
than double estimates.  Turkish Airlines fell as much as 2.5 percent to 2.35 liras,
the lowest intraday level in a week. The share dropped 2 kurus,
or 0.8 percent, to 2.39 liras at the 12:30 p.m. close of
trading, extending losses this year to 47 percent.  “The bottom line remained significantly below expectations
as a result of massive foreign exchange losses from financial
leases,” Is Invest,  Turkey ’s biggest broker, said in an e-
mailed report today.  The loss in the three months to June was 220.6 million
liras ($126 million) compared with a profit of 165.7 million
liras in the same period of last year,  Turkish Airlines  said in
a filing with the  Istanbul Stock Exchange  after markets closed
on Aug. 26. The company was expected to lose 101 million liras,
according to the average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Turkish Airlines is expanding its network of routes into
regions such as  Africa  and buying more planes to grab market
share from rivals including British Airways. The lira declined 5
percent against the dollar and 7.6 percent against the euro in
the second quarter, making planes leased in dollars and euros
more expensive.  Financial expenses surged to 423.3 million liras from 34.9
million liras in the second quarter of 2010, Turkish Airlines
said. Sales rose 34 percent to 2.8 billion liras, it said.  The company expects a profit this year, chief executive
Temel Kotil said in an interview last month. The company hasn’t
revised its budget for 2011 after political upheaval in the
 Middle East  and North Africa reduced seat demand, he said.  “Operational difficulties should relatively ease with
stronger seasonality and lower crude price levels in the third
quarter,” Is Invest said. “On the other hand, the strong
dollar versus lira will continue to pose a threat on net income
in the upcoming second half of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  