-- 
Irene Stops Tourism at Summer’s End From Hatteras to New England

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s ,   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   T e d   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T14:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/hurricane-irene-stops-tourism-at-summer-s-end-from-hatteras-to-new-england.html
Hurricane Irene severed the main
traffic artery of  North Carolina ’s Hatteras Island, trapping
thousands of people and forcing an abrupt end to tourist season.  The Outer Banks absorbed the brunt of the storm that hit
Aug. 27. An aerial assessment shows there are four “rather
significant breaches” of the road, North Carolina 12, that
isolate the island, Greer Beaty, a spokeswoman for the state’s
Department of Transportation, said in a telephone interview from
Raleigh this morning.  The storm forced millions to flee some of the East Coast’s
most popular vacation spots, driving people from Carolina
beaches and the New Jersey shore. President  Barack Obama 
declared an emergency for  Vermont , where covered bridges washed
away and scenic valleys were immersed by floods.  On Hatteras, 2,500 people are stranded, according to a
report on WRAL-TV in Raleigh.  Beaty said estimates of how long it may take to repair the
highway are still being gathered.  “It’s not going to be a quick fix,” he said.  The  Outer Banks  were having a good season to this point,
said Lee Nettles, managing director of the Outer Banks Visitors
Bureau in Manteo, North Carolina. Occupancy of vacation rental
homes that compose about 80 percent of the business was up 7
percent through June compared with the same period last year, he
said.  “I’m optimistic we’re going to be able to get things back
on line quickly,” he said. “We’ll get through it, just like we
have before.”  Everything He Had  Irvin Midgett, 54, a fourth-generation fisherman in
Rodanthe, has lived his entire life on the Outer Banks and said
he’s seen so many storms he’s forgotten their names. Midgett
said Irene’s the worst he’s seen.  Irene pushed an 8-foot tide through his 6-acre campground,
destroying 60 campsites with trailers left behind by tenants and
ruining almost everything Midgett owns.  “I’ve been building this place by hand for 15 years,”
Midgett said in an interview yesterday. “I’ve lost my house, my
barn, everything. And when the phones start working again and my
tenants start calling I’ll have to tell them their stuff is
destroyed too.”  Ernie Seneca, a spokesman for the North Carolina Division
of Emergency Management, said 135 roads and 19 bridges were
closed in the eastern part of the state as of 7 a.m. eastern
time. Some schools were closed today and communities such as
Columbia were dealing with flooding. Tree damage was extensive
up and down the eastern part of the state, with fallen trees
blocking roads and breaking  power lines .  Expensive Storm  Hurricane Irene may cost insurers as much as $400 million
in losses in North Carolina and  South Carolina , with about 90
percent of the total from North Carolina, according to
catastrophe risk-modeler Eqecat. The firm provided the
information today in an e-mailed statement.  Hurricane Floyd is the most expensive storm in state
history, with estimated losses of $1.4 billion in 1999 dollars,
according to the North Carolina Insurance Department.  Surveying the damage yesterday on the Outer Banks, Avon
resident Brad Doerr wasn’t optimistic about the remainder of the
tourist season heading into the Labor Day holiday weekend.  “This means the end of the season for everyone,” Doerr,
41, who owns two Dairy Queen franchises, said in an interview.  Taking Their Chances  In New Bern, the original capital of North Carolina and
Governor Beverly Perdue’s hometown, residents in stately 19th
century homes were busy arranging for the removal of trees and
branches that struck houses and clogged streets.  Bard True, a retired construction manager who moved to New
Bern in 2003, said yesterday that the storm “just kept beating
us.” True piled tree limbs in a wheelbarrow in front of his
1810 home.  True was philosophical about the hurricane and the risks of
natural disasters.  “It’s kind of like a craps game,” True said. “You pay
your money, you roll the dice and you win or lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Richardson in Rodanthe at 
 trichardson0@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  