-- 
Irene’s Trail of Damage: Deaths, Flooding, Losses of Power State-by-State

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-30T03:46:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/hurricane-irene-damage-deaths-flooding-losses-of-power-state-by-state.html
Hurricane Irene killed at least 40
people as it moved from the Caribbean through  New England , left
an estimated $2.6 billion in damage and cut power to almost 8
million homes and businesses along the U.S. East Coast.  North Carolina’s $750 million-a-year tobacco crop may have
suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, state
officials said. An industry trade group said harm to the cotton
crop, the fourth-largest in the U.S., may be “extensive.”  About 5.12 million customers in 13 states and the  District
of Columbia  remained in the dark yesterday, according to the
U.S. Energy Department, following the weekend storm which led to
severe flooding in parts of Vermont,  New York  and New Jersey. At
3 p.m. yesterday, New York had the most outages of any state, at
almost 889,000, according to an agency statement. Restoring
power may take more than a week in some areas, utilities said.  Irene’s projected costs for insurers declined because the
storm weakened as it worked its way up the East Coast, and
companies including  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) 
rallied. Hartford surged almost 13 percent to close at $19.42 a
share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Insured losses fell to about $2.6 billion in the U.S.,
according to  Kinetic Analysis Corp. , a Silver Spring, Maryland-
based disaster-cost forecaster. The company projected almost $14
billion last week as the storm battered the Bahamas off Florida.
U.S. officials are still assessing damage and haven’t put a
value on it yet, said  Craig Fugate , head of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.  President  Barack Obama  declared a state of emergency in 13
states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The
designation releases federal money and support to respond to
damage, according to FEMA’s website. Puerto Rico was the only
area declared a “major disaster” by the agency, a step above
the emergency level.  The following is a state-by-state assessment:  Connecticut   Shane Seaver, 46, died yesterday after his canoe capsized
after he and a friend, Raymond Clyman, 39, were sucked into the
swollen Pequabuck River in Bristol, the Hartford Courant said on
its  website . An unidentified senior citizen died in a house fire
caused by a falling tree limb in Prospect, according to
Lieutenant P.J. Conway, a fire department spokesman.  Governor Dannel Malloy sought federal aid yesterday, the
Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter
that it didn’t name.  Connecticut Light & Power Co., a Northeast Utilities unit
which serves most of the state, reported that 42 percent of its
1.2 million customers were still without electricity at 7:45
p.m. yesterday. About 702,000 lost power in the state because of
the storm, the Energy Department said. That surpassed a record
set during Hurricane Gloria in 1985.  Estimated insured losses in Connecticut are $80.5 million,
while total economic losses, which include uninsured costs, may
be $281.7 million, according to Kinetic Analysis.  Delaware  Two men died when they were were apparently washed away in
a tributary of Mill Creek while walking through woods at the
height of the storm, said Cathy Rossi, a spokeswoman for
Governor Jack Markell. She identified the men as Christopher
Valentine of Hockessin and Jean Baptista of Clark,  New Jersey .
Both were 25 years old.  A tornado touched down Aug. 27 near Lewes, at the mouth of
the Delaware Bay, Rossi said yesterday in an interview. The
twister tore the roof off a house, without injuring anyone,
Rossi said.  Estimated insured losses in the state were $103.4 million,
while total economic losses may be $258.6 million, Kinetic said.  Across the state, an estimated 13,800 remained in the dark
late yesterday, down from 56,900 during the storm, the Energy
Department said. A majority of outages was concentrated in New
Castle County, Bridget Shelton, a spokeswoman for Delmarva
Power, a unit of  Pepco Holdings Inc. , said by telephone.  District of Columbia  In the nation’s capital, damage was limited to downed
trees, strewn debris and power outages that affected about
29,400 customers, the Energy Department and Doxie McCoy, a
spokeswoman for Mayor Vincent Gray, said yesterday.  “There were not many injuries, a few fires,” McCoy said.
“We had a shelter open that eight people used.”  Florida   Two men perished in rough surf tied to Irene, which didn’t
strike the state directly, said William Booher, an Emergency
Management Division spokesman. The  Associated Press  said one
victim was a 55-year-old surfer, the other was a tourist from
New Jersey.  Maine  More than 204,000 customers remained without power
yesterday, down from 275,000 at the height of the storm, the
Portland Press-Herald said on its  website . More than 110 roads
were closed Aug. 28 by flooding, including washed-out bridges,
the newspaper said.  Maryland   A woman died in Queen Anne’s County on the Eastern Shore
after a tree fell on a house, collapsing the chimney, said
Quentin Banks, a state emergency management agency spokesman. AP
identified the victim as Anne Bell, 85.  At least 822,000 people were without power, Banks said by
telephone. By yesterday afternoon, the Energy Department listed
outages at about 441,600 in the state.  Estimated insured losses in Maryland are $65.9 million,
while total economic losses may be $151.5 million, Kinetic said.  Governor Martin O’Malley said St. Mary’s County on the
western side of Chesapeake Bay was hard hit by downed trees and
power lines, and about 200 roads were closed. There was little
damage in Ocean City, a vacation spot along the Atlantic Coast,
where tens of thousands were evacuated before the storm.  Massachusetts  Touching an aluminum railing outside his home apparently
killed Richard Gorgone, 52, of Southbridge in Worcester County,
because a downed power line had electrified the metal, according
to AP. The high-tension line had been hit by a falling tree.  About 535,600 electric-utility customers remained blacked
out late yesterday, the Energy Department said, down from
567,000 at the peak of the storm. Boston-based NSTAR said it was
working to restore service to 200,000 of those. Power on the
island of Martha’s Vineyard was completely cut at one point,
said Scott McLeod, a Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency
spokesman.  Boston ’s public transit services reopened yesterday after
being shut for most of the day Aug. 28. Service returned to
normal at Logan International Airport.  New Hampshire   About 106,900 people still were without power yesterday,
the Energy Department said. The New Hampshire Union Leader said
as many as 160,000 lost service during the storm. More than 250
roads were closed at some point because of the storm, the
newspaper said on its website.  Plymouth State University in the White Mountains area was
flooded when the Pemigewasset River overflowed its banks, WBZ
Radio in Boston said on its website.  New Jersey  At least six people died including Celena Sylvestri, 20, of
Quinton, who was found dead in her submerged car in floodwaters
in Pilesgrove, 35 miles (56 kilometers) southeast of
Philadelphia, said Sergeant Brian Polite, a spokesman for the
state police.  Ronald Dawkins, 47, drowned after abandoning his swamped
vehicle, AP said. Police recovered the body of Jorge Hernandez,
25, of Point Pleasant Beach from the Atlantic Ocean in
Manasquan, AP said. Michael Kenwood, an emergency-services
worker in Princeton, died Aug. 28 of injuries after being
knocked over by floodwaters, AP said.  Another man, Scott Palecek, 39, was walking in Wanaque when
a pipe broke loose and swept him away in floodwaters Aug. 28, AP
said. An unidentified body was recovered at Point Pleasant Beach
later yesterday, AP said.  Governor  Chris Christie  has asked the for expedited federal
aid late yesterday, the Wall Street Journal said, citing a radio
broadcast featuring the governor.  All 11 Atlantic City casinos reopened yesterday, and
Christie asked all state workers to be on the job. New Jersey
Transit said most rail service would resume today. Weekend
closings cost the gambling venues at least $40 million in
revenue, according to the Press of Atlantic City, citing Tony Rodio, chief executive officer of Tropicana Casinos & Resort.  About 615,900 electric customers still were without power
yesterday, the Energy Department said, down from almost 811,000.
An estimated 15,000 people were in 45 shelters, Rick Fuentes,
superintendent of the state police, said in news briefing.  Estimated insured losses in the state are $751.4 million,
while total economic losses may be $2.1 billion, Kinetic said.  New York  At least eight people died in storm-related incidents, AP
reported. Rozalia Gluck, 82, of Brooklyn, drowned in a cottage
in the Catskills community of Fleischmanns that was swamped by
floodwaters.  A man was killed in Spring Valley when he went to the aid
of a child who had entered a flooded street with downed wires,
the AP said.  Sharon Stein, 68, drowned in a creek in New Scotland on
Aug. 28, AP said.  In Long Island’s Suffolk County, Joseph Rocco, 68, of East
Islip drowned while windsurfing in Bellport Bay. Another man
died after his inflatable boat capsized on the Croton River, AP
said.  Jose Sierra , 68, of the Bronx, was pulled out of the water
at a marina Aug. 28. He accidentally drowned, AP said.  Mikita Fox, 23, and Danine Swamp died in a river in Altona
after their vehicle fell into the water while they were driving
across a bridge, AP said.  Severe flooding still affected much of the state yesterday,
said Dennis Michalski, spokesman for the Homeland Security and
Emergency Services Division. At least 191 people were rescued
from flood-ravaged areas, AP said.  “The water is still rising in many places,” Michalski
said by telephone yesterday. “We’re not going to be doing
damage assessments until we get everybody out of harm’s way.
This is massive.”  Governor Andrew Cuomo may make a formal request for federal
aid as soon as today, the Wall Street Journal said yesterday,
citing people familiar with the matter that it didn’t name.  About 888,600 customers still lacked electric service
yesterday, the Energy Department said. Aides to Cuomo estimated
more than 1 million were in the dark at some point yesterday,
including several Long Island hospitals.  Irene, which made landfall near Coney Island in New York
City, caused estimated insured losses of $471.8 million in the
state, while total economic losses may be $2.03 billion,
according to Kinetic.  North Carolina   At least six people died including one man who suffered a
heart attack putting up plywood before the storm, Ernie Seneca,
a spokesman for the state’s Crime Control and Public Safety
Department, said by telephone from Raleigh.  The dead were identified as Katherine Morales Cruz, 15, of
Manassas Park,  Virginia ; Ricky Webb, 63, of Tennessee; Tim
Avery, 50, of Ayden; Jose Manuel Farabia Corona, 21, of Dover;
Sabrina Anne Jones, 26, of Clinton, and Melton Robinson Jr., AP
said.  Estimated insured losses in North Carolina are $687.8
million, while total economic losses may be $1.44 billion,
according to Kinetic.  Steve Troxler, the state agriculture commissioner, said
Hurricane Irene caused hundreds of millions of dollars in crop
damage and left some farms devastated, according to the
Charlotte News & Observer.  Troxler toured the state and spoke with affected farmers
Aug. 28 while saying the extent of the damage and financial loss
from high winds and flooding won’t be known for at least several
weeks. Irene made landfall at Cape Lookout Aug. 27.  “There will be total losses in some areas,” Troxler told
the Observer. “This is going to be a significant agricultural
event in the state.”  The storm-battered region east of Interstate 95 is the
breadbasket of North Carolina’s $70 billion-a-year agriculture
industry, home to the majority of the state’s corn, tobacco,
soy, hog and turkey operations.  About 252,300 customers remained without power yesterday,
the Energy Department said. At least 40 roads and bridges were
closed, according to the office of the governor.  Pennsylvania   Five deaths were attributed to Irene, according to state
emergency officials and AP.  A 58-year-old Harrisburg man died in East Hanover Township
when a tree fell on his tent, AP said. Michael Scerarko, 44,
died when a tree fell on him in his yard and the body of
Patricia O’Neill, 64, of East Norriton, was found in a creek, AP
said. Two other men were killed, one by a falling tree and
another in a car accident, AP said.  In Philadelphia, seven buildings collapsed and a roof was
torn off a six-story apartment building in the Center City
neighborhood, Mark McDonald, a spokesman for Mayor Michael Nutter, said by telephone.  Estimated insured losses in Pennsylvania are $55.5 million,
while total economic losses may be $138.8 million, according to
Kinetic.  About 420,100 customers were still without power yesterday
afternoon, most in the southeastern part of the state, the
Energy Department said. PECO Energy, the electric utility for
the region, has brought in 4,000 workers from as far as Florida
to handle repairs from downed trees, Karen Muldoon Geus, a
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  Rhode Island  Almost 300,000 customers were without power, Christine
Hunsinger, a spokeswoman for Governor Lincoln Chafee, said by
telephone. The number had fallen to about 276,300 by late
yesterday, AP said.  Vermont   At least three storm-related deaths occurred, including a
20-year-old woman swept away in Wilmington and found dead, said
Mark Bosma, an Emergency Management spokesman. The body of
Rutland Water Treatment Plant Supervisor Michael Joseph Garofano
was found yesterday, AP said, while his 24-year-old son Michael
was missing. Another unidentified body of a man was found in
Lake Rescue in Ludlow, according to the news service.  Swollen rivers washed out bridges, homes and businesses in
what Governor Peter Shumlin said was the worst flooding in a
century.  President Obama declared a state of emergency in Vermont
yesterday. Roads were closed across the state, even as flooding
receded, Bosma said by telephone yesterday. The state hospital
in Waterbury was evacuated.  The Green Mountain Power unit of Montreal-based Gaz Metro
Inc. decided against flooding the capital city of Montpelier to
save the Marshfield Dam on the Winooski River, AP said. About
350 downstream residents were evacuated, the news service said.  About 41,700 homes and businesses remained without power
yesterday, the Energy Department said. By 8 p.m., the
VToutages.com website said the figure was down to about 30,400.
The state has about 625,000 residents, according to U.S. Census
data.  Virginia  At least four deaths were caused by falling trees, Governor
Bob McDonnell said. Zahir Robinson, 11; James Blackwell, 67, of
Brodnax; William P.  Washington , 57, of King William County and
an unidentified man were identified by AP as the victims.  The storm caused the second-largest power outage in state
history as 2.5 million people were blacked out at one point,
said Laura Southard, a spokeswoman for the Emergency Management
Department.  Estimated insured losses in Virginia and Washington are
$360.6 million, while total economic losses may be $757.3
million, according to Kinetic.  Dominion Resources Inc., which provides power to parts of
Virginia and North Carolina, said about 1.2 million customers
lost power in that region.  It will take up to several days to restore electric
service, McDonnell said on a conference call with reporters.
While the damage is still being tallied, he said the impact was
less than feared.  “We prepared for the worst, but we fared better than
expected,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  