-- 
Luxury-Home Prices in London Rise as Overseas Investors Seek Secure Assets

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-30T12:15:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/luxury-home-prices-in-london-rise-as-overseas-investors-seek-secure-assets.html
Luxury-home prices in central  London 
climbed the most in nine months in August,  Knight Frank  LLP
said, as the increasing risk of a global recession prompted
investors to seek a haven for their wealth.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($6 million) rose 10.5 percent in the 12 months
through August, according to a report released today by the
London-based real-estate broker. That’s the most since November,
when there was an 11.2 percent increase.  “There’s a lot of money out there looking for a home,”
 Liam Bailey , head of residential research, said by telephone.
“You had the U.S. debt crisis, euro-zone debt crisis, financial
market turmoil and none of those things have touched” London’s
luxury-property market.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index entered a  bear market 
on Aug. 8 and has declined about 21 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 17 on concern that Europe will fail to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis.  Christine Lagarde , the International
Monetary Fund chief, said Aug. 27 that the world economy is in a
“dangerous new phase” and that officials must take new steps
to fuel growth.  The pound’s weakness is making luxury real estate in London
more affordable to overseas buyers, Bailey said. The U.K.
currency has lost about 20 percent against a basket of 9 other
developed-market currencies since the property market’s previous
peak in March 2008, as measured by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes.  More Visitors  European confidence in the economic outlook in August fell
the most since December 2008 as the sovereign-debt crisis
clouded growth prospects across the 17-nation euro region. The
European Union may reduce its 2011 growth forecast from 1.6
percent, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday.  The number of prospective buyers viewing prime central
London properties increased 23 percent in the three months
through July, while the number of homes for sale rose 13
percent, Knight Frank said. The company didn’t give comparable
numbers for the two periods.  Prime central London real estate is reflecting the security
that gold is offering investors, Bailey said. Gold for immediate
delivery has climbed 27 percent this year and reached a record
$1,913.50 an ounce on Aug. 23.  ‘Safe-Haven Investments’  “The fact that London wasn’t hit by the potential of a
second global recession suggests that people are looking for
safe-haven investments,” he said. “If they think that gold’s
one beneficiary, it looks as if London property is one of the
others.”  At the beginning of August, arson and looting in the city’s
Tottenham district sparked the worst riots seen in Britain since
the 1980s. More than 3,000 crimes were committed in the capital
alone and the damage that spread to cities including Birmingham
and Manchester may amount to more than 200 million pounds,
according to the  government .  “The riots seem unlikely to dent most international
buyers’ desire for property in the city,”  Knight Frank  said.
The broker predicted that luxury-home prices will increase by as
much as 12 percent this year.  Property values rose 0.9 percent in August from the
previous month and are now 36 percent higher than in March 2009,
when the U.K. property market slumped during the global
recession.  Rents for prime residences rose 0.2 percent from July,
according to the broker. British tenants accounted for about 42
percent of the total, while Americans were the largest group of
foreign tenants, with 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 