-- 
MTV Video Music Awards Draw Record Viewers With Winehouse, Spears Tributes

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-08-29T23:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/mtv-video-music-awards-draw-record-viewers-with-winehouse-spears-tributes.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  MTV  “Video Music
Awards,” featuring a tribute to the late  Amy Winehouse ,
attracted 12.4 million viewers, the network’s largest audience
ever.  The show, held at the L.A. Live entertainment complex in
Los Angeles, drew 9 percent more viewers than last year, New
York-based MTV said today in an e-mailed statement. The 2-hour,
27-minute ceremony started at 9 p.m. New York time.  This year’s program, which honored pop star Britney Spears
with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard award, aired after a new
episode of the network’s top-rated “Jersey Shore,”  one of
cable’s most-watched series. MTV, which reports live feedback
from viewers posting on Twitter and Facebook, featured
performances by Beyonce Knowles, Adele Adkins and a duet by Jay- Z and  Kanye West .  “Every one of the artists delivered beyond our
expectations,”  Stephen Friedman , president of MTV, said in an
interview. “What we saw was each artist raise the bar.”  U.K. comedian  Russell Brand  and Bruno Mars, who performed
Winehouse’s hit “Valerie,” honored the singer on the program.
Winehouse was found dead at age 27 in her London home on July
24. Police are still investigating.  Viacom, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose $1.70,
or 3.7 percent, to $47.28 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The Class B shares have gained 19
percent this year.  MTV’s pre-award show telecast, featuring interviews with
presenters and nominees, drew 7.3 million viewers, a 16 percent
increase from a year ago, the network said in the statement.  ‘Royal Couple’  Knowles, who married Jay-Z in 2008,  revealed  on the
program’s so-called black carpet that the couple is expecting
their first child. After completing her performance later in the
show, Beyonce rubbed her belly and the camera cut to Jay-Z and
West celebrating in the audience.  “Beyonce and Jay-Z are our royal couple of music,”
Friedman said.  Lady Gaga, the pop star known for her eccentric outfits,
came to the show in drag as an  alter ego  named Jo Calderone, who
claims the singer dumped him years ago.  The show, which was produced without a host for the second
time, generated traffic on social networks, further fueling
viewership.  MTV tracked more than 3 million posts on Twitter.com during
the award show, about 1 million more than during last year’s
program, the network said in the statement.  “Our programming and content is the conversation, and
social media -- whether it’s Twitter or Facebook -- is the
telephone,” Friedman said. Social media “needs to be fluid and
integrated and casual because that’s how our audience fluidly
moves between screens.”  The awards show also drew 1.9 million visitors to the MTV
website, a third more than last year, and the show generated 2.3
million video streams, MTV said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  