-- 
Venoco Receives CEO Buyout Bid Valued at $770.2 Million

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 
2011-08-29T20:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/venoco-receives-ceo-buyout-bid-valued-at-770-2-million-2-.html
Venoco Inc. (VQ) , the second-largest
landholder in California’s Monterey oil-shale formation,
received an offer from its chief executive officer to buy all
outstanding shares in a transaction that values the company at
$770.2 million.  Chairman and CEO Timothy Marquez, who already holds about
50.3 percent of the company’s stock, offered to buy the
remaining shares for $12.50 each, the Denver-based company said
in a statement today. The bid represents a 39 percent premium to
its closing price on Aug. 26, according to Bloomberg data.  The offer is a significant discount to the value of the
company’s assets and may prompt shareholder lawsuits since the
stock was trading as high as $22.46 in February, Phil McPherson,
a Newport Beach, California-based analyst with Global Hunter
Securities LLC, said today in an interview. Another oil producer
may emerge to make a higher bid or Marquez may have to raise his
offer, McPherson said.  Other bidders may include  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,  Hess
Corp. (HES) ,  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  or  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP) , he said. McPherson owns Venoco shares and rates
the company a “buy.”  Marquez is at least the third CEO of a U.S. oil and
natural-gas company to propose a buyout in the past year. Both
of the previous proposals, at  Fort Worth , Texas-based
Quicksilver Resources Inc. and Exco Resources Inc. of Dallas,
failed.  Adding Monterey Holdings  Venoco owns 214,000 net acres in the Monterey shale and
plans to finish the year with 300,000 net acres, Marquez told
investors on an Aug. 2 earnings conference call. The Monterey
holds an estimated 15.4 billion barrels of oil, about 64 percent
of the total U.S. oil-shale reserves, according to a  July 8
report  by the Energy Information Administration.  Before today, Venoco had fallen 51 percent after spending
$40 million to drill six horizontal wells that didn’t produce,
McPherson said. Occidental owns the most land in the Monterey
shale with 1.6 million acres, he said.  Venoco will form a special committee of directors,
excluding Marquez, to consider the bid, according to the
company’s statement.  Venoco rose $2.78, or 31 percent, to $11.76 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  