-- 
Vermont Covered Bridges Lost as Irene Brings Historic Flood to New England

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-29T15:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/vermont-s-covered-bridges-lost-as-irene-brings-worst-flooding-in-75-years.html
With some of  Vermont ’s iconic
covered bridges washed away, 250 roads closed and a fatality,
Governor Peter Shumlin said the damage brought by Hurricane
Irene is the worst in 75 years.  “Irene just deluged us with extraordinary rain,” Shumlin
said on the Weather Channel today. “It’s the worst flooding
we’ve seen in 75 years, perhaps ever.”  Buildings were flooded and streets left underwater in many
of the state’s population centers including Montpelier, the
capital, he said.  President  Barack Obama  declared an emergency in Vermont
today allowing the  Federal Emergency Management Agency  to
coordinate disaster relief efforts, according to a statement.  A 21-year-old woman died in the Deerfield River in the town
of Wilmington. Police recovered her body but are not releasing
her name, Vermont Public Radio said.  The state’s emergency command center in Waterbury was
overcome by flooding from the Winooski River and had to be moved
to Burlington late yesterday, he said. Roads in 41 towns were
washed out or flooded, including parts of several stretches of
U.S. 5 and U.S. 7, which run the length of the state from the
Massachusetts border to  Canada , according to the  Vermont
Emergency Management Division ’s website.  Crazy Rain  One covered bridge in Rockingham, 35 miles from the
Massachusetts border, was destroyed, while two other bridges in
town were damaged, according to Alisha Beam, public safety
dispatcher. Dozens in Rockingham were evacuated from their
homes, she said.  “The rain was crazy,” said Beam, 27. “It started at
about three or four in the morning Sunday and it just came
down.”  Hundreds of residents were evacuated as a result of Irene
and moved to 23 shelters statewide, Shumlin said on Vermont
Public Radio.  Vermont lost two covered bridges in the storm, the one in
Rockingham, known as the  Bartonsville Bridge , and another in
Woodstock, according to Joe Nelson, vice president of the
 Vermont Covered Bridge Society . That leaves about 100 still
standing, he said.  About 47,000 homes and businesses were without power this
morning, according to data collected by  Vermont Electric
Cooperative . The state has a population of about 625,000,
according to U.S. census data.  Breaking Records  In Burlington, the state’s largest city, 3.38 inches of
rain fell, setting a record for the day and surpassing a mark
set in 1971, according to the  National Weather Service . St.
Johnsbury, Vermont, also set a record of 4.83 inches, passing
the old one also reached in 1971.  Otter Creek, in Center Rutland, Vermont, rose 13.66 feet to
a record 17.21 feet, breaking the old one of 13.45 feet set by
the September Hurricane of 1938.  “For many of the area rivers it exceeded the 27 flood and
by extension the Hurricane of 1938,” said Andrew Loconto, a
weather service meteorologist in South Burlington, Vermont. “It
was definitely a historic event up here.”  The river gauge on the Dog River in Northfield Falls was at
1.1 feet yesterday at 7:45 a.m. and rose to 12.26 feet by 4:30
p.m., according to the weather service. The gauge stopped
recording information at that point.  Loconto said it’s possible the gauges stopped recording
information because they “may have just floated away.”  The White River at  West Hartford , Vermont, rose 16.47 feet
by 7:30 p.m. yesterday, the last information available. The
highest crest measured was 20.67 feet, which surpasses both a
flood in November 1927 and the Hurricane of 1938, according to
the weather service.  Vermont’s 1927 flood followed 9 inches of rain, which
killed 85 people and left 9,000 homeless, according to a Vermont
Historical Society website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  