-- 
Vietnam Raises Dollar Reserve Ratios

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-29T04:54:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/vietnam-raises-dollar-reserve-ratios.html
Vietnam  ordered lenders to set aside
more dollars as reserves for the third time this year, aiming to
steady the national currency and quell  Asia ’s fastest inflation.  The reserve-requirement ratio on U.S. dollar deposits will
rise to a range of 5 percent to 8 percent from 4 percent to 7
percent, effective September, the  State Bank of Vietnam  said on
its website today without specifying an exact date.  Vietnam has struggled to damp an inflation rate that
accelerated to 23 percent this month, threatening to hurt
purchasing power and slow economic growth. Weakness in the dong
has contributed to price pressures by raising import costs, and
the central bank has clamped down on the use of dollars and gold
as it tries to avert a fifth devaluation since November 2009.  “If we continue to see dollar borrowing, the risk is that
whenever these dollar loans are paid back, that could create
additional devaluation pressure on the currency,” said Tai Hui,
Singapore-based head of Southeast Asian economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc. “I think the lending growth on the
dollar side has been extremely strong in the past few months.”  The dong, which was devalued by about 7 percent in February,
the most since at least 1993, has slid 1.2 percent this month.
It weakened 0.1 percent to 20,832 per dollar as of 11:38 a.m.
local time. The VN Index of stocks rose 2.2 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, after the government
said last week it may lower  interest rates  if inflation slows.  ‘Limit Credit Growth’  The central bank said today it raised dollar reserve ratios
“to limit credit growth in foreign currency” and “create
conditions to stabilize the monetary and foreign-currency
markets.”  Reserve requirements force commercial banks to park a
proportion of their deposits with the central bank, reducing the
amount of money available for lending.  Consumer prices in Vietnam increased 23.02 percent in
August from a year earlier, the fastest pace among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The nation has sought to curb credit growth and the  budget
deficit  to tame inflation. The central bank has also raised
policy interest rates this year, including a series of increases
in its repurchase, refinancing and discount rates.  Rate Cut  The  State Bank  of Vietnam subsequently cut its repurchase
rate for the seven-day term on July 4 to 14 percent from 15
percent. The cut risked confusing the market about the
government’s desire to fight the climb in prices and restore
economic stability, the  International Monetary Fund  has said.  “In the immediate future, the central bank will keep its
policy interest rates unchanged and will consider reducing them
to a suitable range if inflation slows,” the government said in
a statement posted on its website on Aug. 25.  While Vietnam is still firmly pursuing steps to curb
inflation, it needs to respond flexibly to economic developments,
Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh said in last week’s statement.  “The Vietnamese government is very worried about the
growth outlook,” said Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based
assistant vice president at Moody’s Investors Service. “In
other countries you have the policy space to act on it -- you
can cut some rates because inflation isn’t high. But with
Vietnam, inflation expectations are clearly unanchored.”  The government also said the central bank will pursue a
“cautious, tight and flexible” monetary policy this year, and
reiterated the aim of less than 10 percent inflation next year.  Gross domestic product expanded 5.57 percent in the first
six months of the year, lower than a revised 6.18 percent in the
first half of 2010.  Credit Suisse Group AG gave Vietnamese stocks an
“underperform” rating today, citing the risk of economic
“instability.”  Vietnam is a manufacturing site for companies from  Intel
Corp . to Honda Motor Co. Pledged foreign direct investment fell
26 percent in the first eight months of 2011 from a year earlier,
to about $9.5 billion, a government report showed on Aug. 26.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen, Nguyen Kieu Giang, Nick Heath, Diep Ngoc Pham. Editors: Sunil Jagtiani, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at +84-4-3936-6727 or
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  