-- 
Vodafone May Merge Greek Mobile-Phone Unit With Wind Hellas

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-08-30T11:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/vodafone-in-talks-to-buy-wind-for-eu1-billion-proto-thema-says.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has begun talks
about a potential combination of its Greek unit with Wind Hellas
Telecommunications SA to rival market leader Cosmote Mobile
Telecommunications SA controlled by  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   “Discussions are at an early stage and there is no
certainty as to whether an agreement will be reached,” Newbury,
England-based Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator said in an e-mail yesterday.  A merger of Vodafone Greece, the country’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator and Wind Hellas, the third-biggest, would
allow Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao to cut
costs after service revenue slumped 19 percent in the country in
the year through March. An enlarged subscriber base would also
help to compete with Cosmote, a unit of  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , the operator known as OTE.
Deutsche Telekom in June raised its stake in OTE to 40 percent.  Vodafone would gain “substantial” cost savings from a
merger that would also help OTE, said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in London. “While the market
would become a duopoly, no one operator would possess an
overwhelmingly large share,” she said.  The talks are focused on a complete merger of the units
rather than a cooperation agreement, a person familiar with the
negotiations said, declining to be identified because the
discussions are confidential.  Cutting Costs  Colao in 2009 merged Vodafone’s Australian unit with
Hutchison Telecommunications Ltd.’s operations as it sought to
reduce expenses in a country with slim growth prospects.
Vodafone wrote down the value of its Greek business in November
by 800 million pounds ($1.31 billion), following higher discount
rates. Vodafone  Greece  had almost 4 million clients as of June
30.  Vodafone dropped 0.5 percent to 161.10 pence as of 11:38
a.m. in London trading while the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 index
gained 2.3 percent. Deutsche Telekom dropped 1 percent in
Frankfurt while OTE declined 1.6 percent in  Athens .  OTE, which reported a total of 7.73 million wireless
customers as of June 30, is in talks with workers to cut payroll
and other expenses as a third year of recession in Greece
crimped sales and profit at the Athens-based phone company.
Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom has written down the value of its
Greek investments.  A merger would also help the companies to pool resources in
the fixed-line network market.  Wind Hellas  owns the Tellas
broadband network while Vodafone has a minority stake in Hellas
Online.  Shareholders  Greece sought and received a 110 billion-euro ($159
billion) bailout from its European Union partners in May 2010 as
concerns the country would default on its debts spurred
borrowing costs to a record. The government is implementing
austerity measures in return for the loans and the wage and
pension cuts and higher taxes have damped  consumer spending .  Some analysts say that Greece’s economic woes make any deal
risky for Vodafone.  “Even before the crisis it was questionable whether
investing in Greece would be wise,” said Heinz Steffen, an
analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,  Germany . “With the
current situation there I’m really not sure that getting deeper
into the market makes sense.”  Bondholders  Wind Hellas is controlled by a group of bondholders who led
a reorganization last year by injecting 420 million euros and
writing off debt in exchange for control of the company. The
group includes Mount Kellett Capital Partners (Ireland) Ltd.,
Taconic Capital Advisers UK LLP, Providence Equity Capital
Markets LLC, Anchorage Capital Group LLC, Angelo Gordon & Co.
and Eton Park International LLP.  The operator had 3.88 million wireless customers as of
September 2010, according to the most recent  quarterly report 
posted on the company’s website. Wind Hellas currently has about
4 million wireless and fixed customers combined, said a company
spokesman who asked not to be named, citing company policy.  Former parent, Weather Finance III Sarl, the holding
company of Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , had previously
bought Wind Hellas out of bankruptcy.  Vodafone may acquire Wind Hellas for about 1 billion euros,
 Proto Thema  reported yesterday, without saying where it got the
information. In its statement, Vodafone said reports that it’s
in talks to acquire Wind Hellas for cash are “incorrect.”  Wind Hellas confirmed that shareholders are in talks to
explore a potential business combination. “At this point in
time there is no guarantee these talks will conclude in an
agreement,” Wind Hellas said.  ‘Goodwill’  There is much “goodwill” between Colao and Wind Hellas
CEO Nasos Zarkalis, said John Karidis, an analyst at MF Global
in  London . “We think Vodafone and Wind Hellas will merge.”
Zarkalis is a former senior Vodafone executive.  Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner, is reviewing all
minority interests and trying to eke out more profit from
existing operations.  Under Colao, Vodafone has sold a minority stake in China
Mobile Ltd. and reduced its interests in  Japan ’s Softbank Corp.
It completed the sale of its 44 percent holding in French
wireless operator SFR for 7.95 billion euros in June.  While selling minority assets, Colao is consolidating the
company’s operations in existing markets. The company acquired
an additional stake in its Indian venture after partner Essar
Group exercised an option to sell down its holding. Last month,
Vodafone said it would receive a 2.8 billion-pound from  Verizon
Wireless , the U.S. venture in which it owns a 45 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  