-- 
Hunt for Wi-Fi Crowds Bookstores, Cafes With Stranded Workers

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-08-29T19:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/wi-fi-search-crowds-bookstores-coffee-shops-with-irene-stranded-workers.html
New York area commuters stranded by
Hurricane Irene flocked to their local bookstores, cafes and
restaurants this morning in search of  Internet access  after
power outages prevented them from working at home.  Fallen trees and flooding blocked rails and damaged power
lines in New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut , leaving thousands
of employees hunting for Wi-Fi service to plug into corporate
networks and send e-mails. A  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA)  cafe in Newington,
Connecticut, was about 50 percent busier than normal as most
customers used the wireless access and charged phones.  “Everywhere you look you see computers,” said Shane
McBreen, 35, a manager of the store, which never lost power.
“We can keep up with the wireless, we just can’t keep up with
the food.”  New York’s stock-exchange operators opened as usual this
morning, causing many in the financial industry to seek Web
access near home to participate in the trading day. About 78,000
Consolidated Edison Inc. customers were still without power at
3:34 p.m. in  New York City  and Westchester County, to the north
of the city, according to the company’s  website .  Commuters in New Jersey, Westchester and Connecticut dealt
with canceled service from most of the region’s commuter rail
service, including a full shutdown of Metro-North trains. New
Jersey Transit’s rail system remained shut “until further
notice” except for the Atlantic City line.  Makeshift Office  A  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  coffee shop in  Stamford , Connecticut, had
a line out the door at 8 a.m. and was limiting Internet-usage
time to 30 minutes to accommodate more customers. Outside a
nearby  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  bookstore, about 50 people were
carrying laptops to tap into the shop’s free Wi-Fi before doors
officially opened at 10 a.m. Some customers were using laptops
in cars parked outside the mall.  The Starbucks in South Orange, New Jersey, is directly
under the train tracks that local residents use to commute to
New York City. Today, the shop was converted into a makeshift
office as commuters stood by and waited for seats and power
plugs to become available. The free Wi-Fi and the electricity
were the main draws, and the line for coffee was often more than
30 people deep.  “I’m trying to make the best of things here,” said John
Lauder, an investment management executive at ING Groep NV in
 New York  City, as he shared a small round table with three other
people -- their mobile phones and computers sitting on top, as a
power strip accommodated the spaghetti pile of electrical cords
underneath. “I’m finding that being a financial-services firm,
you have a very strict firewall. It’s not easy from here.”  Library Traffic  Libraries in the metropolitan area also had increased
traffic. The largest of the three libraries in Greenwich,
Connecticut, put out 100 more chairs and opened up its training
center, which has 16 extra computers, to accommodate the demand.  “Everybody is plugging into any outlet they can find with
their laptops,” said Carol Mahoney, the library’s director.
“People are in every nook and corner of the building where they
can sit and access their Wi-Fi with their computers.”  Towerstream Corp. (TWER) , which offers wireless service in 12
large U.S. markets including New York,  Boston  and  San Francisco ,
opened its Wi-Fi network to all Manhattan residents. Users can
select “SmartFi by Towerstream” from a list of available
wireless networks to access the service.  For some stranded workers, a local cafe with power and
Internet access wasn’t enough to solve their problems.  “Even if I could have gotten to the office on a bus, it
might not have mattered,” said Marc Bromfield, director of
marketing at spirits company  Remy Cointreau SA (RCO) , who was using
the Web connection at the South Orange Starbucks. Bromfield’s
midtown Manhattan office has had computer-service problems since
the storm caused a fire in the building yesterday. “I have
power at home, but my e-mail server at work is out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Pulley in South Orange,  New Jersey , at
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  