-- 
Yelp Follows Facebook in Scaling Back Daily-Deal Service

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-08-30T16:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/yelp-scales-back-deal-service-as-competition-rises-for-internet-coupons.html
Yelp Inc., a website that collects
local business reviews, is scaling back its year-old deal
service, following Facebook Inc.’s retreat from a market where
consumers and merchants say they’re becoming inundated.  Yelp will cut its sales staff dedicated to Yelp Deals by
half, the company said yesterday. Facebook, the world’s largest
social network, said on Aug. 26 it would shut down its Deals
local-discount feature, decamping from a business it entered in
April. Both services were started to compete with Groupon Inc.  As hundreds of companies jump into the online-coupon
market, consumers and merchants may have begun to grow weary of
offers. At the same time, increasing competition among websites
threatens to squeeze margins, making it harder for them to earn
a profit from the deals.  “The big players are exiting because the business is not
making a dent in their revenue numbers,” said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester
Research Inc. “The space is not as large as everyone thought it
was.”  In July, 38 daily-deal sites closed -- more than the 36
that opened -- while the industry experienced a 7 percent drop
in revenue from the prior month in top North American markets,
according to research firm Yipit Inc. Groupon and  LivingSocial 
are the top two deal sites, which offer discounts on
restaurants, hotels, events, and other goods and services.  ‘Declining Quality’  At San Francisco-based Yelp, about 15 salespeople will be
reassigned to other areas of the business, and the number of
deals e-mailed to users is unlikely to grow, Vince Sollitto,
vice president of corporate communications, said in an interview
yesterday.  “Rather than offer more and more  deals  of inherently
declining quality to more and more folks over time, we want to
make sure we’re only providing good, quality opportunities,”
Sollitto said. “While we think the deals business is a good
one, it has never been a core focus of our offering.”  In August, Yelp has offered fewer than 30 deals, down from
more than 60 per month in June and July, according to Yipit.
Yelp has recently made about $10,000 per deal, compared with
more than $30,000 at the beginning of the year.  ‘Paring Down’  “Yelp has been paring down its deal frequency steadily
over July and August,” Jim Moran, co-founder of Yipit, said in
an e-mail.  More than half, or 52 percent, of U.S. consumers who use
daily-deal services say they feel “ overwhelmed ” by the number
of e-mails they receive about deals on a daily basis, according
to a survey conducted earlier this year by  PriceGrabber , a
division of Experian Plc. About 60 percent of people surveyed
said they feel the daily-deal industry is too crowded.  “While Groupon had first-mover advantage, many competitors
followed suit, driving down prices and commoditizing the
market,” said Jeremiah Owyang, an analyst at Altimeter Group in
 San Mateo ,  California .  Groupon Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Mason  said last week
that Yelp hadn’t made major inroads into its business.  “Yelp is small and not growing,” he said in a memo to
employees that was obtained by Bloomberg News. “In the 15
markets where we compete, our daily deals are 500 percent of
their size.”  Full Inboxes  Facebook may have withdrawn from the market because the
competition was too intense, said  Greg Sterling , an analyst at
Opus Research Inc. in  San Francisco .  “There’s just too much competition out there,” Sterling
said. “That manifests in too many e-mails in the inbox and too
many salespeople calling merchants. There’s so much noise in the
market that it’s hard for merchants and consumers to make sense
of it all.”  Yelp began offering discounts from local merchants in  San
Diego  in August 2010 and expanded to 20 cities this year. In
June, it incorporated the service into its mobile applications
for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  The startup plans to double its sales staff to 700 in the
next 18 months, including a new office in New York and the
expansion of a  Scottsdale, Arizona,  site it opened in 2010. All
salespeople are able to sell Yelp Deals, and vendors can sign up
for the service on Yelp’s website, Sollitto said.  Merchants say that participating in the deals often leads
to unsolicited calls from other coupon sites. After  Kiebpoli
Calnek  ran a Yelp Deal advertising 50 percent off an aerial
performance class in July, she began receiving calls from
representatives of Groupon, LivingSocial and other deal sites
every day.  “They send me e-mails, they call me, they call me again,”
said Calnek, who is based in  Brooklyn ,  New York . “I told them,
‘I’m burnt out from this deal. I have 500 new clients. Why would
I want to do another one?’”  Founded in 2004, Yelp has raised more than $130 million in
funding from Elevation Partners LP and other backers. Last
month, the company hired a new chief financial officer, Rob Krolik, citing his experience at publicly held companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  