-- 
Yields Sink as Carstens Signals First Rate Cut Since 2009: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-08-29T19:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/yields-sink-as-carstens-signals-first-rate-cut-since-2009-mexico-credit.html
Mexican bonds are snapping their
longest losing streak since February after the central bank
signaled it may lower interest rates for the first time since
2009 to shore up economic growth.  The yield on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 sank
20 basis points on Aug. 26, ending five straight days of
increases, to 6.20 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on similar-maturity Colombian bonds rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, the same day to 7.42
percent.  Speculation the central bank will cut its key rate grew
after policy makers said in a statement following their Aug. 26
meeting that they would “consider the convenience of
adjusting” monetary policy if Mexico’s growth outlook worsened.
The economy of the U.S., the destination for 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports, grew less than previously estimated in the
second quarter, capping the weakest six months of the recovery
that began in mid-2009.  “If the  U.S. economy  continues slowing, the bank may cut
rates as soon as the first or second quarter,” Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million of assets at Silva Capital
Management in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “The
slowdown in the U.S. had been making the possibility of a rate
cut more and more likely.”  The yield on rate-futures contracts for November, known as
TIIE, fell 11 basis points on Aug. 26 to 4.69 percent,
indicating traders expect central bank Governor Agustin Carstens
will lower the rate as soon as that month from a record-low 4.5
percent.  ‘Show Slack’  Policy makers said in the Aug. 26  statement  posted on the
central bank’s website they may reduce borrowing costs if the
4.5 percent rate is “unnecessarily” restrictive and growth in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy weakens further.  “Some indicators in the labor and credit markets continue
to show slack,” they said in the statement.  The central bank on Aug. 10 cut its growth forecasts for
the next two years. The country’s gross domestic product will
expand as much as 4.8 percent this year, down from a previous
forecast of up to 5 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB have cut their Mexico growth forecasts in the past month.  “International investors will analyze more seriously the
possibility of a rate cut and the way to play this is sometimes
jumping in the short end of the curve,”  Alonso Cervera , chief
Latin America economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Mexico
City, said in a telephone interview.  Yield Spread  The yield on the Mexican peso bond due in 2012 rose one
basis point to 4.38 percent as of 3:05 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points to
198, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 12.4324 per  U.S. dollar .  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose one basis point to 163 on Aug. 26, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Cut Unlikely  The central bank is more likely to keep rates unchanged
through 2012 than cut them to avoid a pick-up in inflation and
prevent the currency from slumping further, said  Alberto Ramos ,
an economist at Goldman Sachs.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.55 percent last month from
3.64 percent in July 2010.  “There is a possibility in which the global outlook and
external backdrop become unfavorable to Mexico, but at the same
time the  exchange rate  depreciates,” Ramos said in a telephone
interview. “The only question that no one can answer is what
will happen to the exchange rate. Do you keep rates high to
anchor the exchange rate and keep inflation well-behaved, or do
you forget about inflation to provide more stimulus to the
economy?”  The  Federal Reserve  still has options to spur economic
growth in the U.S., said Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a speech Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming . Policy
makers will meet for an additional day at the next policy
meeting in September to “allow a fuller discussion” of the
economy and the Fed’s possible response.  The U.S. expanded 1 percent in the second quarter, down
from a previous estimate of 1.3 percent, the Commerce Department
said on Aug. 26.  Yields on Mexico’s bonds due in 2024 may decline as much as
30 basis points during the “next few weeks” as slowing growth
in the U.S. increases the chance Mexico’s central bank will
lower  interest rates , Silva Capital’s Urbina said.  “The combination of a confirmation of a weak economy in
the U.S. and dovish statement from Mexico’s central bank means
it’s more likely yields will drop again,” Urbina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  