-- 
ANC’s Malema Hearing Sparks Violent Protests, May Decide Zuma’s Future

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-30T15:52:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-29/zuma-s-political-future-may-be-decided-by-action-on-south-africa-s-malema.html
A disciplinary hearing that may
result in the expulsion of youth leader  Julius Malema  from  South
Africa ’s ruling African National Congress and decide the
political fate of President  Jacob Zuma  has sparked violent
protests in central Johannesburg.  Hundreds of chanting ANC Youth League supporters gathered
outside the party headquarters in Johannesburg, where the
hearing is being held today, pelting police and journalists with
rocks and bottles and burning T-shirts bearing Zuma’s image.
Police erected barbed wire and used water cannons to disperse
the protesters after they were attacked shortly after 9 a.m.
local time.  Malema and Youth League spokesman Floyd Shivambu are
accused of undermining the party by calling for the ousting of
Botswana’s government and criticizing ANC leaders. The league,
which helped Zuma, 69, to become head of the ANC and the
nation’s president, says leaders it backs must support the
nationalization of mines and banks. It has switched loyalty to
Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe, Johannesburg’s Sunday
Independent newspaper reported on Aug. 7.  “It is win or lose for Zuma in this fight,” Susan Booysen, a politics professor at the Johannesburg-based
University of Witwatersrand, said in an Aug. 25 phone interview.
“If the Youth League leadership beats the disciplinary charges,
it probably means he can start packing his bags.”  Youth League Decides  Malema told reporters yesterday the league will decide who
should head the party. The ANC’s leader is also its presidential
candidate in national elections, which are due in 2014.  The Youth League must accept responsibility for today’s
violence, party spokesman Jackson Mthembu said in an interview
from Johannesburg. The ANC won’t be “intimidated” into ending
the disciplinary hearing, he said. The ANC will move the venue
of the rest of the hearings to an undisclosed venue outside the
city, Gwede Mantashe, the party’s secretary-general, said at a
later press conference.  Addressing his supporters during a break in proceedings,
Malema condemned the violence. “You are here because you love
the  African National Congress ,” he said. “Please don’t be
provoked by agent provocateurs.”  One policeman was injured when he was hit on the head by a
rock, police spokesman Lungelo Dlamini said by telephone from
Johannesburg. No arrests had been made, he said.  The disciplinary committee is chaired by Derek Hanekom,
deputy minister of science and technology, and includes Mines
Minister Susan Shabangu, both of whom have had public
disagreements with Malema.  Quick Ruling Unlikely  Malema criticized Shabangu after she said in February 2010
that nationalization of mines won’t happen “in my lifetime,”
while he rebuked Hanekom in June for not supporting the league’s
call to expropriate land without compensation.  Shivambu is due to appear before the disciplinary committee
tomorrow, while four other senior Youth League officials are due
to appear on Sept. 1 for disrupting meetings and interfering
with the functioning of the ANC.  The committee is unlikely to make a ruling in Malema’s case
today, ANC spokesman Brian Sokutu said by telephone from
Johannesburg.  Malema was forced to apologize and pay a fine after
admitting in May last year of violating party rules by dividing
the ANC and undermining Zuma’s authority. He was warned that he
faced suspension from the party if he was found guilty of
breaching its codes again within two years.  ‘Soft Pedal’  The latest attempt to censure Malema came after he told
reporters on July 31 that Botswana’s government is a threat to
regional security and the league would help opposition parties
in that country to oust the “puppet” administration of
President Ian Khama. ANC Secretary-General  Gwede Mantashe  said
on Aug. 3 the comments were a “serious transgression.”  “The ANC is in charge of our future and if the ANC decides
your future as expulsion, you need to accept that,” Malema said
yesterday. “We are ready for anything.”  Booysen said there is a 50 percent chance the ANC may oust
Malema from the party. Lawrence Schlemmer, a political analyst
and director of research company MarkData, expects the ANC may
“soft pedal” to avoid ructions within its ranks before next
year’s party elections.  Economic Policy   “They are going to try and use this as an opportunity to
bring pressure to bear on Malema to come into line,” Schlemmer
said by phone from  Cape Town  on Aug. 23. “One of the
compromises they are going to try and get out of him is not to
participate in the succession race. If I was Zuma, I would take
this opportunity, go for broke and say: Sorry, you’re out.”  The outcome of Malema’s disciplinary hearing may have an
impact on economic policy. The Youth League says the country’s
black majority still doesn’t have an adequate stake in Africa’s
largest economy 17 years after the end of white-minority rule.
It successfully lobbied the ANC to agree to an independent study
of whether nationalization of the country’s mines is viable and
to debate the findings at a policy meeting next year.  The 19-member FTSE-JSE  Africa  Mining Index rose 0.1 percent
by the close of trade at 5:30 p.m. in Johannesburg to 32,539.75
while the rand fell to 7.0819 against the dollar by 5:49 p.m.
from 7.0525 late yesterday.  Malema’s ouster won’t necessarily end calls for
nationalization, said Peter Leon, the Johannesburg-based head of
mining and energy at law firm Webber Wentzel.  “Malema has let the nationalization genie out the bottle
and his clever combination of economic populism and racial
nationalism won’t easily disappear,” Leon said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “If he and his youth league colleagues
are marginalized by the ANC, others will simply take their
place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  