-- 
‘Cheeky’ Paddy Power Bets on Taking U.K. Online Share, CEO Says

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/-cheeky-paddy-power-bets-on-taking-u-k-online-share-ceo-says.html
Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , Ireland’s biggest
bookmaker, will grow its online U.K. betting business faster
than competitors in an expanding market, Chief Executive Officer
 Patrick Kennedy  said.  “I’d back us to grow at 15 percent to 20 percent a year,
and continue to take share of a growing market” in sales terms
during the next three years, Kennedy said in an interview last
week at the company’s head office in Dublin. The overall online
U.K. market will probably grow at 10 percent to 15 percent a
year, he said, adding that Paddy Power isn’t looking at buying
online rivals in the U.K.  Paddy Power’s bet on online gambling and its expansion into
markets outside of Ireland are allowing it to boost profit, even
as its home market struggles to exit three years of economic
contraction. The Dublin-based company’s investment in mobile
technology is putting it “ahead of the pack” in taking
smartphone and tablet gamblers, Kennedy said.  Paddy Power shares climbed 4.7 percent to 38.79 euros on
Sept. 16. The stock has gained 26 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 1.9 billion euros ($2.6 billion).  The company was the first bookmaker in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s online
application store for the iPhone or iPad and is producing a new
“feature-rich” product for tablets, Kennedy said.  The company controls about 30 percent of mobile betting in
the U.K., according to its own figures. In July about 37 percent
of Paddy Power’s online customers transacted with the bookmaker
by mobile device, and that figure will exceed 50 percent “quite
soon,” Kennedy said.  “Our brand is becoming truly mass market in the U.K.,”
Kennedy said. Buying other online betting businesses in the U.K.
to expand “doesn’t make a lot of sense” for the company as it
would end up acquiring existing customers, he said.  ‘Cheeky and Fun’  Paddy Power’s image in the U.K. is “cheeky and fun,”
according to Kennedy. The bookmaker’s advertising campaign with
Imogen Thomas, a contestant on the “Big Brother” television
program linked with Premier League soccer player  Ryan Giggs ,
received a lot of publicity, he said.  Paddy Power has about 12 percent to 15 percent of the U.K.
online betting market, according to an August presentation by
the company. Paddy Power grew its overall online customers at an
average rate of 40 percent a year during the last six years,
while the average for  William Hill Plc (WMH) , Ladbrokes Plc and  Rank
Group Plc (RNK)  is 14 percent, Kennedy said.  “As new competitors come into the online market, Paddy
Power will have to fight a little harder,” said Geetanjali Sharma, an analyst with Espirito Santo, who has a “hold’
recommendation on the stock. “William Hill is definitely
putting on a more aggressive fight in the online space.”  Paddy Power earned 81 percent of operating profit from
online operations in the first half, increasing its active
online customers in the U.K. by 58 percent in the same period.  ‘Right Bashing’  That helped boost first-half profit 9.6 percent to 47.4
million euros, even after the company said it received a “right
bashing” at the Cheltenham horse-racing festival, where Irish
jockeys had a record number of wins.  The Irish market, where Paddy Power, generates about 25
percent of its profit continues to look “pretty challenging,”
Kennedy said, with the average size of bet staked in the first
half falling to 17 euros from 22 euros three or four years ago.  “That is just people cutting their cloth to different
economic circumstances,” he said.  Australia , U.S.  Paddy Power, which took full control of Australia’s
Sportsbet in March, also expects to grow its market share in the
country, according to Kennedy. The Australian online market
should grow by more than 10 percent a year for the next three
years, with Paddy Power surpassing that, he said.  “There is still truckloads of opportunity for Paddy Power
in the U.K. and Australia,” said Gavin Kelleher, a Dublin-based
gaming analyst with  Goodbody Stockbrokers . “Paddy Power is
always improving its customer acquisition and retention,
remaining ahead of its competitors, so I think they will
continue to take market share.”  Paddy Power is continuing to “review” developments in the
U.S., where online gambling transactions are illegal, Kennedy
said. William Hill, the U.K.’s largest bookmaker by market
value, this year agreed to buy three Nevada sports-betting
companies as it positions itself for possible legalization
elsewhere in the U.S.  “I think poker will be the first market that opens up, and
poker will open up in the states either in certain large states
or overall,” Kennedy said. “I think that is an opportunity for
us but I think the big opportunity would be if sports betting
opened up.”  Legalization of online gambling in the U.S., particularly
sports betting, is a “contentious” issue, according to
Goodbody’s Kelleher. With legislation at a Federal and state
level still under consideration, not following rivals there
isn’t “a bad thing” for Paddy Power, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  