-- 
‘Lion King’ 3-D Makeover Tops Movie Sales With $30.2 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-19T21:36:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/-lion-king-3-d-makeover-tops-weekend-box-office-receipts-with-29-million.html
“The Lion King,”  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s 3-D re-release of its 1994 animated hit, opened as the top
film in U.S. and Canadian theaters with $30.2 million in ticket
sales.  The thriller “Drive” was third in its debut, taking in
$11.3 million for distributor FilmDistrict, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.
The films were among four opening this past weekend.  “The Lion King” is playing in theaters for two weeks
before the release of a 3-D Blu-ray disk on Oct. 4. The film is
among several older hits that studios are converting to 3-D for
theatrical release, including  James Cameron ’s “Titanic.”
Previously, “The Lion King” had $788.2 million in worldwide
ticket sales and won Academy Awards for Hans Zimmer’s score and
for the song “Can You Feel the Love Tonight.”  “3-D hit one out of the park finally,” said  Jeff Bock , a
film analyst for Exhibitor Relations in Los Angeles, in a
telephone interview. “It’s a revenue score for Disney and for
3-D exhibition because in August we had four or five 3-D films
and all were pretty much bombs.”  He said the industry didn’t expect more than $15 million in
ticket sales from the movie.  Other films undergoing 3-D conversions include  George Lucas ’s “ Star Wars : Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace” and the
Tom Cruise action film “Top Gun.”  ‘Drive’  “The Lion King” tells the story of Simba, a young lion
who embarks on a journey of self-discovery after the murder of
his father. The film features the voices of Jonathan Taylor-
Thomas, Matthew Broderick and James Earl Jones.  Finishing second was “Contagion,” about a global
epidemic. It dropped from first place and had $14.5 million in
sales in its second weekend. The film includes  Matt Damon ,
 Gwyneth Paltrow ,  Kate Winslet  and Laurence Fishburne.  Third place’s “Drive” stars  Ryan Gosling  as an expert
driver who performs movie stunts during the day while
moonlighting as a getaway driver for robbers.  Carey Mulligan ,
Albert Brooks and Bryan Cranston co-star.  Bock said the movie, “one of the first Oscar buzz films of
the season,” did well especially since graphic violence deters
some people from seeing movies.  Disney’s “The Help,” a civil rights-era drama about black
maids in the racially segregated South, dropped to fourth from
second. The film had sales of $6.5 million and has collected
$147 million since its Aug. 10 release.  ‘I Don’t Know How’  In fifth place, “Straw Dogs,” a remake of director Sam
Peckinpah’s 1971 dark, violent drama, had sales of $5.1 million
for  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Screen Gems.  James Marsden stars as a writer who follows his wife,
played by Kate Bosworth, to the rural South to prepare her
family home for sale. Conflict arises when an old boyfriend
decides to pursue Bosworth’s character.  The comedy “I Don’t Know How She Does It,” opening in
sixth place, had sales of $4.4 million for Weinstein Co. The
movie features Sarah Jessica Parker as a working mother who
struggles to balance the demands of her job and family. Pierce Brosnan and Greg Kinnear co-star.  “This is a disappointing opening,” Bock said.  Among next weekend’s openings, “Moneyball” starring  Brad Pitt , may be the strongest and likeliest to compete with “The
 Lion King ,” Bock said.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 1.2 percent to
$86.3 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office receipts this year have declined to $7.7
billion. Attendance is down 5.9 percent, and revenue is down 3.9
percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Sept. 16-18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 Mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  