-- 
Maggots Heal Chronic Diabetic Wounds After Other Methods Fail in Study

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-18T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/maggots-heal-chronic-diabetic-wounds-after-other-methods-fail-in-study.html
Maggots healed the wounds of
diabetic patients where traditional medicine had failed,
according to a report that suggests the ancient therapy may
offer an alternative for clearing severe ulcers.  Medical-grade versions of the fly larvae, placed on the
sores of 27 diabetic patients, helped close the wounds in 21
cases, said Lawrence Eron, associate professor at the University
of Hawaii’s  John A Burns School of Medicine , in Honolulu, and an
author of the report. Some of the wounds had been open for as
long as five years, he said.  Maggot therapy, a medical technique since Biblical times,
declined after antibiotics came into use in the 1940s. The
treatment is now undergoing a resurgence as a potential cheap
alternative for patients with wounds infected with drug-
resistant bacteria. The findings were presented today at the
 Interscience Conference  on Antimicrobial Agents and
Chemotherapy, in  Chicago .  “There’s this yuck factor that permeates not only
patients’ views of using maggots, but especially the medical
profession -- and I was no exception to that,” Eron said in a
telephone interview. “But when I saw the results of what these
maggots do, and what they accomplished, I became very
enthusiastic.”  Maggot Mystery  How exactly the maggots accomplished this feat is still
being studied, Eron said.  “There are substances secreted in their excretions that
have very interesting properties,” he said, including an anti-
bacterial effect and the ability to stimulate patients’ immune
systems, as well as angiogenesis, or the growth of new blood
cells.  “Taking advantage of them without knowing too much about
how they work, we used this on our toughest patients,” Eron
said.  Diabetes afflicts 366 million people worldwide, killing one
every seven seconds, according to the International Diabetes
Federation. The disease can damage nerve endings and restrict
blood flow, often leading to wounds that get infected.
Treatments range from antibiotics to amputation, in more serious
cases. As many as 33 percent of people with diabetes will have a
skin disorder at some point in their lives, the  American
Diabetes Association   says .  One patient in Eron’s study, whose gangrene was so severe
doctors wanted to amputate his infected leg, chose instead to
try maggots. After several months, his gangrene receded and his
limb was saved, Eron said.  Curative Powers  While maggots have been known to clean wounds, the result
of this study showed they have curative powers as well. A study
published in 2009 in the British Medical Journal, however,
showed maggots were no better than a commonly used gel to heal
wounds.  The study, conducted without funding at the Kaiser Hospital
in Honolulu, used the larvae of the green bottle fly, purchased
from  Irvine , California-based  Monarch Labs LLC . The treatments
cost $100 for a two-day supply, and results were seen after 10
days, on average. Traditional treatments for an uninfected
diabetic foot ulcer can cost between $7,000 to $10,000, or an
amputation at $65,000, the report said.  Twenty-five laboratories around the world shipped 50,000
treatments last year for use in patients in 30 countries,
according to Ronald Sherman, laboratory director for Monarch,
the only U.S. provider of therapeutic maggots.  Laboratory Fly Larvae  Medical-grade maggots are fly larvae grown in a lab and
germ-free. Maggots eat only diseased tissue, and have probably
been used as a remedy for infected wounds for thousands of
years, Eron said. A  passage  in the Bible mentions Job’s broken
skin is “clothed with worms,” he said.  One of the earliest European medical texts, “Hortus
Sanitatus,” mentioned the use of maggots when it was published
in  Germany  in 1491. Research conducted by William Baer, a
professor of orthopedic surgery at  Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine  in Baltimore, showed the success of the
treatment during World War I.  Their use started to fall out of favor in the late 1930s
and early 1940s when antibiotics became more prevalent,
 according  to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration . The agency
approved their use as an unclassified medical device in 2004.  Eron said it will be at least a decade before scientists
can figure out the exact properties in the larvae secretions and
create medicines from them. The development of such therapies
could provide a solution to the growing number of germs that
have become resistant to antibiotics. Still, Eron said people
shouldn’t try this at home with maggots found in compost bins or
other dirty areas.  “That may have been how they did things in Biblical times,
or by the Mayan civilization,” he said, “but I would not do
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 