-- 
Ferguson Seeks Improvement Even as Manchester United Extends Perfect Start

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-09-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/manchester-united-beats-chelsea-3-1-manchester-city-draws-2-2-at-fulham.html
Manchester United manager  Alex
Ferguson  demanded improvement from his team even after a 3-1 win
against Chelsea maintained the champion’s perfect start in the
Premier League.  Chris Smalling, Nani and  Wayne Rooney  scored at Old
Trafford for United, which now has a maximum 15 points from five
matches in English soccer’s top league.  Fernando Torres  replied
for Chelsea with only his second goal for the Blues in 24 games.  “Some of our football was fantastic but we were very
careless at times,” Ferguson told Sky Sports. “They kept at us
and we created problems for ourselves by giving the ball away so
many times.”  United now holds a two-point lead over Manchester City,
which was held to a 2-2 tie at Fulham, while Chelsea is third on
10 points. Tottenham defeated nine-man Liverpool 4-0, while
Sunderland won by the same score against  Stoke City .  It took only eight minutes for United to take the lead,
Smalling rising to head in from an Ashley Young free kick.  Torres fired wide at the other end a few minutes later and
set up an opportunity on 26 minutes as he fired a low ball
across the penalty area. Ramires got to the ball just before
teammate Daniel Sturridge, but goalkeeper David de Gea dived
across to clear with a one-handed save.  Nani made it 2-0 in the 37th minute, running at the Chelsea
defense before firing a 25-yard shot into the top corner. Rooney
then tapped in just before halftime.  ‘More Confident’  “We were more confident, our football was better and we
deserved the win,” Nani told  Sky Sports . “All the team has
been working very hard, the results say everything.”  Chelsea responded immediately after the interval. Torres, a
50 million-pound ($79 million) signing from Liverpool in
January, was fed the ball by Nicolas Anelka and slotted it past
De Gea.  Both teams had more good chances in the second half. Nani
struck the bar after 55 minutes and was adjudged to have been
fouled by  Jose Bosingwa  when the ball deflected back into his
path, earning a penalty kick.  Rooney, with nine goals this season, slipped as he stepped
up to take the spotkick and the ball flew high and wide. He also
hit a post later in the game and in injury time tried to set up
Dimitar Berbatov but the Blues were able to clear.  After 83 minutes, Torres should have got his second goal of
the game. The Spain striker broke clear and rounded De Gea
before shooting wide with an empty net to aim for.  “For the neutral it was a fantastic, open match,”
Ferguson said.  City Ties  At Craven Cottage,  Manchester City  appeared set to continue
its winning start to the league campaign after two goals from
Sergio Aguero put the visitors 2-0 up.  The Argentina striker, who now has eight goals in six games
for the club, had an effort ruled out for offside early in the
second half before Fulham’s comeback.  Bobby Zamora scored after 55 minutes, with Danny Murphy
tying the match 20 minutes later.  Fulham, Bolton and West Bromwich Albion are in the bottom
three spots on three points.  At White Hart Lane, former Arsenal striker Emmanuel Adebayor got two goals to help Tottenham to a comfortable win
against Liverpool. Luka Modric and Jermain Defoe also scored.  Liverpool was trailing 1-0 when  Charlie Adam  received a
second yellow card after 27 minutes and allowed three more goals
after  Martin Skrtel  was sent off in the 63rd minute.  Sunderland secured its first league win of the season,
ending Stoke’s unbeaten start. Titus Bramble opened the scoring
before an own goal from Jonathan Woodgate and a strike by  Craig
Gardner , all in the first 30 minutes. Sebastian Larsson netted
from a free kick in the second half.  Two days ago, Blackburn beat Arsenal 4-3, Norwich won 2-1
at Bolton, Swansea defeated West Brom 3-0, and Queens Park
Rangers beat Wolverhampton Wanderers 3-0. Everton defeated Wigan
3-1, while  Aston Villa  drew 1-1 against Newcastle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 