-- 
Marfrig Agrees to Divest Distribution Unit for $400 Million

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-09-19T20:53:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/marfrig-sells-distribution-arm-to-martin-brower-for-400-million.html
Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) ,  Latin
America ’s second-largest beef producer, agreed to sell its U.S.
and European distribution unit for $400 million to boost its
cash position.  Marfrig, based in Sao Paulo, agreed to sell the unit, a
distribution center for  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  in the U.S.,  Europe ,
 Asia  and Oceania, to Rosemont, Illinois-based Martin-Brower Co.,
it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The sale should be
concluded in the fourth quarter, Marfrig said.  “We remain cautious on the use of the proceeds, which may
raise concern of a possible acquisition of Brasil Foods assets
in Brazil,” analysts led by Alan Alanis, with JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in a research note today. Alanis rates the stock
“neutral.”  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s largest poultry
exporter, agreed in July to sell some assets to gain approval
from a Brazilian regulator for the $3.8 billion takeover of
Sadia SA.  Marfrig fell 17 centavos, or 2.2 percent, to 7.70 reais in
Sao Paulo, the lowest since Aug. 31. Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
stock index fell 0.2 percent.  “Proceeds could be used to cut debt,” Marfrig Chief
Executive Officer Marcos Molina said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The funds “will be used to reinforce our cash
position.”  Marfrig doesn’t plan to use proceeds of the distribution
unit sale for acquisitions, which are not a focus this year or
next, according to Molina.  Stock Plunge  The shares have plunged 50 percent this year, leading
losses of the Bovespa stock index, which had an 18 percent drop,
after Sao Paulo-based GWI Asset Management cut its stake, Molina
has said.  GWI held 5.22 percent of Marfrig’s common stock and
temporarily closed some funds because of “successive portfolio
losses stemming from the recent volatility in global markets,
exposure to the  derivatives market  and significant concentration
in the assets of a few issuers,” Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,
the administrator of the funds, said Aug. 11.  Yields on Marfrig’s debt due 2020 have soared 559 basis
points, or 5.59 percentage points, in the past two months to
14.70 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Marfrig decided to sell the unit, which owns 29
distribution centers, because it is focused on logistics, while
Marfrig is focused on the meat business, Molina said.  “Since we took over Keystone, we knew we would eventually
sell it,” he said yesterday from Sao Paulo.  Cargill Acquisition  The company, which Molina founded, made 38 acquisitions in
the past four years, including the takeover of Cargill Inc.’s
poultry and pork business in  Brazil  for $705.2 million.  Marfrig reported on Aug. 15 a second-quarter loss of 91
million reais, its worst earnings in at least four years, from a
restated profit of 103.8 million reais a year earlier, amid
surging feed costs.  Four of Marfrig’s 29 beef plants are closed because of a
lack of livestock, it said Aug. 15. The plants account for about
4,000 head of cattle a day, or about 13 percent of capacity.  “The availability of cattle is improving,” Molina said.
“But we think the moment of reopening those plants has not come
yet.”  The sale to Martin-Brower shouldn’t affect bond covenants,
including the 2.5 billion reais ($1.44 billion) of five-year
bonds convertible into stock it sold to Brazil’s development
bank to finance the acquisition of Keystone, Molina said.  JBS is the world’s largest beef producer.  Martin-Brower is part of Reyes Holdings LLC, a beer and
food distribution company co-founded by billionaire J. Christopher Reyes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  