-- 
Harley-Davidson in China Encounters Barriers of Entry for Two Wheels: Cars

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-18T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/harley-davidson-finds-milwaukee-beats-china-as-leisure-motorcycle-market.html
China’s population is almost 2,300
times greater than that of Milwaukee, where  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) 
is based. The motorcycle maker still has more customers in its
hometown.  About 100 cities in China, including Beijing and  Shanghai ,
have restrictions that include banning two-wheel vehicles from
elevated highways and major thoroughfares to curb noise and
thefts, according to the state-affiliated  Society of Automotive
Engineers of China . That has stymied Harley’s growth in the
world’s most populous nation.  “ Regulations  are a pain,” said Shanghai businessman
Calvin Chen, who owns a $50,000 Harley  V-Rod Muscle . “There are
many roads you can’t ride on, and the rules differ from place to
place.”  Harley is lobbying the Chinese and American governments to
ease those laws in an effort to increase sales by as much as 40
percent a year through 2016, said Sean Jiang, its managing
director for  China . The biggest U.S. motorcycle manufacturer is
quadrupling its number of dealerships and supporting riding
clubs to capitalize on a luxury-car market that J.D. Power &
Associates said will grow by about 35 percent this year.  “Any investment in China without addressing the regulatory
requirements will be a castle built on sand,” said Jiang, who
is based in Shanghai. “We need to be proactive in engaging with
the government.”  BMW, Audi  The  laws  treat motorcycles the same as scooters and
motorized bicycles, even though some Harleys have bigger engines
than cars and may cost more because of  import duties  that can
add 30 percent to the sticker price before consumption and
value-added taxes. They also have to be scrapped after 11 years,
Jiang said.  The Touring Ultra Classic Electra Glide starts at 340,000
yuan ($53,000), according to the company’s  website . By
comparison, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s BMW 320i sedan starts
at 273,600 yuan in Beijing and the Audi A4L sedan at 247,800
yuan, according to data compiled by Sina.com.  Shanghai  bans  motorcycles from elevated highways, the
historic Bund and the financial district. Beijing hasn’t allowed
new registrations since 1985. Guangzhou banned motorcycles in
2007 after a surge in drive-by purse snatchings.  “Because of the import structure and high pricing, our
customers here have a much higher disposable income,” Jiang
said. “I don’t think they will use vehicles as a crime tool.”  More in  Milwaukee   The Ministry of Commerce, the lead agency for trade issues,
didn’t respond to a faxed request for comment.  Harley sold 268 motorcycles in China last year -- its best-
sellers are the Touring and Sportster lines -- and aims to
double that this year.  The  House of Harley-Davidson  dealership in Milwaukee sold
“more than 500” bikes last year, sales manager Goran Zadrima
said by telephone.  Milwaukee ’s population is about 595,000,
according to the  U.S. Census Bureau .  Honda Motor Co., which sells scooters and smaller 125cc
bikes in China, delivered 1.29 million units in the country last
year.  Harley is coming off a quarter in which it boosted U.S.
sales for the first time in almost five years. Retail sales in
the Asia-Pacific region increased 6.7 percent, driven primarily
by emerging markets, Chief Financial Officer John Olin said
during a July 19 conference call.  Quadrupling Dealerships  Harley expects to ship 228,000 to 235,000 motorcycles
worldwide, an increase of 8 percent to 12 percent from last year.
The company’s New York-listed shares have risen 8.2 percent this
year.  International sales represented 35 percent of its revenue
last year, up from 25 percent in 2006, according to the company.
Harley wants to increase that to at least 40 percent by 2014.  The company opened its Shanghai office in 2005 and its
first dealership a year later. It plans to increase dealerships
to 28 by 2016 from seven at the end of last year, Jiang said.  Harley also is working with the Society of Automotive
Engineers on a series of TV spots exploring the motorcycle
culture around the world.  “With the U.S. motorcycle market fairly mature, Harley’s
opportunity to gain market share abroad is a key positive,”
said Sharon Zackfia, an analyst with William Blair & Co. in
 Chicago . “The noise ordinances in China may present a
challenge.”  Zackfia has an “outperform” rating on the company.  Leisure Riding  Another challenge for Harley is overcoming the perception
that two-wheeled vehicles are strictly utilitarian, Chief
Executive Officer Keith Wandell said in a Sept. 12 interview in
Milwaukee.  “The Chinese consumer is unfamiliar with leisure riding,”
Wandell said. “They’ve always looked at two-wheelers as a form
of transportation and getting to work. How do we get people to
understand what leisure riding is all about?”  One way is by supporting riding clubs to promote the brand,
said Wandell, who rode in a rally from Beijing to the Great Wall
in April. There are  chapters  -- called Harley Owners Group or
H.O.G. -- in Beijing, Shanghai, Qingdao and  Hong Kong .  Every weekend, the Shanghai H.O.G. gathers at a Sinopec gas
station wedged between an antique shop and golfing academy on
the city fringes before heading into the countryside.  Bikers have to go around the nearby city of Hangzhou
because it bans motorcycles, said James Rice, 45, who runs a
bakery-supplies company and leads the rides on his red  Ultra
Classic Electra Glide .  ‘Equal Treatment’  “We pay as much or more in taxes as the cars and should
have equal treatment under the law,” said Rice, who moved to
China from  California  in 1991. “To local governments,
motorcycles are the transportation of poor people so outlawing
motorcycles is a way to keep the riff-raff out of their city.”  Chen, who takes his blue V-Rod on the rides, said the
chapter is a good place to blow off steam and make new friends.
Police sometimes let riders off with a warning when they go on
banned streets.  “These days, people in the city get very stressed out at
work,” Chen said. “Riding a Harley, with the wind blowing
through your hair, is a good way to relax.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  