-- 
AT&T Said to Seek Asset Sales to Save Bid for T-Mobile

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-19T20:04:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/at-t-said-to-approach-smaller-rivals-to-sell-assets-save-bid-for-t-mobile.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  is approaching smaller
rivals including  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  and  Leap Wireless
International Inc. (LEAP)  to sell spectrum and subscribers as part of
an attempt to save its $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA
Inc., said two people with direct knowledge of the situation.  The phone company, based in Dallas, has also reached out to
 CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) ,  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  to
gauge their interest in buying assets, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.  AT&T is seeking ways to salvage its agreement to buy T-
Mobile USA from Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  after the  Justice
Department  sued on Aug. 31 to stop the deal. The talks with
competitors are preliminary and may not lead to a deal, and the
Justice Department may also deem the remedies insufficient, the
people said.  AT&T, which would become the largest U.S. wireless operator
with the purchase, has said it will fight the Justice Department
in court and has asked for an expedited hearing for the case.
The company and the agency are scheduled to meet in court Sept.
21 to explore whether a settlement may be reached.  “There’s a good possibility that the deal closes
successfully,” said  Chris Larsen , an analyst at Piper Jaffray &
Co. in New York who has an “overweight” rating on AT&T stock
with a $35 price estimate. Larsen said  U.S. Cellular Corp. (USM)  and
private-equity firms also are potential buyers of AT&T’s assets.  Bank of America Corp. is advising AT&T on potential asset
sales, according to the people. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Greenhill
& Co. and Evercore Partners Inc. were AT&T’s original advisers
on the deal.  Sprint Challenge  Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. mobile operator, filed a
Sept. 6 antitrust lawsuit against the T-Mobile deal.  Spokesmen for AT&T, Deutsche Telekom, MetroPCS, Leap,
CenturyLink, Dish, Sprint and Bank of America declined to
comment.  AT&T fell 36 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $28.58 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  Stock Exchange  trading , while Sprint declined 1 cent to
$3.35. Deutsche Telekom fell 2.1 percent to 8.33 euros in
Frankfurt trading today.  AT&T has agreed to compensate Deutsche Telekom with $3
billion in cash, as well as wireless spectrum and roaming
agreements, if the deal isn’t completed. Deutsche Telekom has
also said it will work to close the deal. In addition to the
DOJ, the companies need approval from the Federal Communications
Commission to complete the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  