-- 
Latvian Parties Agree Budget, Euro as Coalition Talks Begin

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-09-19T12:38:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/latvian-parties-agree-on-budget-euro-as-coalition-talks-begin.html
Latvia ’s ruling Unity party and
former President Valdis Zatlers’s Reform Party said they agree
on economic policy as talks begin to form a coalition to govern
the Baltic nation after weekend elections.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis’s Unity and the Reform
party together won the most votes in parliamentary elections
Sept. 17, coming in third and second behind Harmony Center,
which targets the country’s Russian-speaking minority. Parties
linked to men Zatlers labeled “oligarchs” who may secretly
control companies lost ground.  No party won a majority in the 100-seat house, which was
dismissed after Zatlers called a referendum amid corruption
allegations. As many as three of the five parties that made it
to parliament need to form a coalition, with Unity and the
former president’s party pledging to maintain fiscal
consolidation and euro adoption, policies Harmony had opposed.  “There is an opportunity for a reform coalition,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S,
said yesterday by phone. “There is no immediate short-term risk
given the outcome.”  Latvian five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate
on a borrower’s credit worthiness, rose to 260 basis points on
Sept. 15, compared with 214.5 the day before parliament was
dissolved, according to CMA Datavision prices.  Snap Ballot  Latvia’s snap ballot took place a year after the previous
parliament was elected. Zatlers called the referendum that
triggered it, the first in the country’s history, after the
legislature refused to lift the immunity of a lawmaker facing a
corruption probe.  Harmony, which has never been represented in government,
won 31 seats, while Zatlers’s party gained 22 and Unity received
20, according to preliminary data. The nationalist  National
Alliance  got 14 seats and the Union of Greens and Farmers
finished last with 13.  Dombrovskis and Zatlers told journalists yesterday that
their parties agree on cutting the  budget deficit  to 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product next year and adopting the euro in
2014. Talks on forming a coalition will continue, they added,
with Zatlers’s party planning to meet Harmony, which has
advocated higher social spending.  Demands Softening  Harmony favors indexing pensions, which would add 25
million lati ($48 million) to the budget, said Nils Usakovs, the
party’s candidate for prime minister, according to an interview
today in the  Dienas Bizness  newspaper.  It has also previously said it wants to delay repayment of
a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.4 billion) bailout loan from the
 International Monetary Fund , taken in 2008 after the government
was forced to rescue the country’s second-biggest bank.  Still, Harmony may be softening demands to slow euro
adoption. Latvia should seek to meet the entry criteria and put
the final decision to a referendum in 2013, Riga-based Dienas
Bizness quoted Usakovs as saying. It may also be willing to give
up on a delay in repaying the country’s international loan and
would support euro adoption in 2014 in exchange for pension
indexation next year, Usakovs told the  Baltic News Service ,
after meeting with the Unity party.  The best coalition would be Harmony, Reform and Unity,
Usakovs told the newspaper. The three parties would have 73
seats, enough to change the constitution and enable direct
presidential elections, which Zatlers favors.  “Harmony would be willing to sign off on just about
anything to have a share of power and I think their voters will
forgive them,”  Nils Muiznieks , a political scientist at the
University of Latvia, said today by phone. The choice of Harmony
and or the National Alliance is “too close to call,” he added.  Financial Discipline  President Andris Berzins, who will nominate the next prime
minister, favors a coalition that will continue austerity, he
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The next government should “successfully complete the
international lending program and strengthen financial
discipline in the country,” he wrote. Berzins will be away out
of the country until Sept. 26, during which time the parties
should negotiate among themselves over forming a coalition, he
told Latvijas Radio Sept 14.  Harmony is vying to become the first Russian-oriented party
to join government since Latvia regained independence from the
 Soviet Union  in 1991. Having finished second in elections last
year, it failed to agree on entering government after refusing
to meet demands by Unity to admit Latvia had been occupied by
the USSR following World War II.  While the  Leta  newswire reported Sept. 16 that that stance
may have changed, citing a speech by Usakovs, it may still be
omitted from government. In 2003, Estonia’s Center Party, which
also appeals to that country’s Russian minority, came first in
elections and was excluded from the cabinet.  Oligarchs Lose Out  Unity and Zatlers may turn to the National Alliance, whose
economic policies are closer to their own. They won’t unite with
the Union of Greens and Farmers, the party of Ventspils mayor
Aivars Lembergs, one of the men Zatlers named as oligarchs. They
deny the charges.  The Union’s representation fell from 22 in 2010, while the
party of Ainars Slesers, another of the men, failed to reach the
5 percent threshold. Parties affiliated with the oligarchs won
51 seats at the 2006 election and 30 last year, their popularity
plunging amid corruption allegations and a recession in 2009,
the world’s deepest.  Latvia’s economy contracted by more than 25 percent between
2008 and 2010, unemployment quadrupled and wages fell. GDP
expanded 5.6 percent in the second quarter, the quickest pace in
3 1/2 years, and unemployment has fallen from about 20 percent
to 16 percent, according to a labor force survey.  “The question now is whether Latvia’s political leadership
can devise a strategy that gets the economy back on track, stops
massive population outflow and in broader terms offers a real
vision for ensuring the durability of Latvia’s young
democracy,” Christopher Walker, Director of Studies, at Freedom
House, said yesterday by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  