-- 
Australia Expects Carbon Plan Will Give Investors ‘Certainty’

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-18T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/australia-expects-carbon-plan-will-give-investors-certainty-.html
Australia ’s government said its
carbon tax plan will provide “certainty” to investors by
establishing a mechanism for businesses to buy permits from
overseas to meet emission reduction targets.  The legislation isn’t likely to be repealed even if the
ruling  Labor party  were to lose power to the Liberal-National
coalition led by  Tony Abbott , Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television yesterday.
Bills for the new tax were introduced into the nation’s House of
Representatives last week.  “It’s a practical piece of policy work that needs to be
made and I don’t think it will be repealed at all,” Combet said.
“It’s a very important economic reform and it will drive
productivity and innovation in the economy but it will also
provide a lot of certainty for investors.”  Charging polluters A$23 ($24) per metric ton of carbon
dioxide from July 1 is forecast to raise A$27.8 billion in three
years as the nation targets a 5 percent reduction in emissions
by 2020 compared with levels in 2000. Australia will release a
new report about the economic impact of the tax this week.  Support for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and her  Labor
Party  has fallen since she announced the carbon tax in July,
reversing a pledge made before last year’s election that the
government wouldn’t make such a move.  Losing Support  Gillard’s approval rating fell to 23 percent, down six
percentage points in two weeks, in a Newspoll survey published
Sept. 6 in the Australian newspaper. Support for the government
was at 41 percent compared with 59 percent for Abbott’s
coalition, it said. The poll queried 1,152 voters between Sept.
2 and Sept. 4 and had an error margin of three percentage points.  The opposition yesterday affirmed plans to repeal the tax
if it wins office as it instead opts for a policy aimed at
mitigation through initiatives such as carbon sequestration.  “Our approach is a fixed amount of expenditure to clean up
Australia,’ opposition climate spokesman Greg Hunt told ABC TV.  The  carbon emissions  modeling report to be released this
week is likely to show the economy will “continue to grow
strongly” under a carbon price while cutting pollution,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The price on carbon dioxide emissions will take effect from
July 1, subject to the legislation being approved by Parliament,
with a cap-and-trade system similar to that in place in  Europe 
to be implemented from 2015.  The program takes its name from caps on emissions that
encourage polluters to trade spare permits allocated by
government.  Carbon Credits  While Australia moves toward  emissions trading , the
European Union is putting curbs on the United Nations-run carbon
credit market. The U.S. rejected a federal cap-and-trade program
for emissions last year after Congress blocked it because of
costs and doubts about global warming.  “The government says it’s looking to clean up the
Australian economy. It’s not,” said the opposition’s Hunt.
“Their modeling assumes that the  United States  will have a
fully integrated, effective cap-and-trade or carbon tax system
by 2016, which is a fantasy.”  The Australian government will provide A$9.2 billion in the
form of free carbon permits over the first three years to assist
the biggest-polluting businesses such as aluminum smelters,
steelmakers and pulp manufacturers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  