-- 
Australia Says Carbon Tax Plan Will Give Investors ‘Certainty’

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-09-18T06:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/australia-says-carbon-tax-plan-will-give-investors-certainty-.html
Australia’s government said its
carbon tax plan will provide “certainty” to investors by
establishing a mechanism for businesses to buy permits from
overseas to meet targets.  The legislation isn’t likely to be repealed even if the
ruling  Labor party  were to lose power to the Liberal-National
coalition led by  Tony Abbott , Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television today.
Bills for the new tax were introduced into the nation’s House of
Representatives last week.  “It’s a practical piece of policy work that needs to be
made and I don’t think it will be repealed at all,” Combet said
today. “It’s a very important economic reform and it will drive
productivity and innovation in the economy but it will also
provide a lot of certainty for investors.”  Charging polluters A$23 ($24) per metric ton of carbon
dioxide from July 1 is forecast to raise A$27.8 billion in three
years as the nation targets a 5 percent reduction in emissions
by 2020 compared with levels in 2000. Australia will release a
new report about the economic impact of the tax next week.  Support for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and her  Labor
Party  has fallen since she announced the carbon tax in July,
reversing a pledge made before last year’s election that the
government wouldn’t make such a move.  Losing Support  Gillard’s approval rating fell to 23 percent, down six
percentage points in two weeks, in a Newspoll survey published
Sept. 6 in the Australian newspaper. Support for the government
was at 41 percent compared with 59 percent for Abbott’s
coalition, it said. The poll queried 1,152 voters between Sept.
2 and Sept. 4 and had an error margin of three percentage points.  The opposition today affirmed plans to repeal the tax if it
wins office as it instead opts for a policy aimed at mitigation
through initiatives such as carbon sequestration.  “Our approach is a fixed amount of expenditure to clean up
 Australia ,’ opposition climate spokesman Greg Hunt told ABC TV
today.  The report to be released this week is likely to show the
economy will “continue to grow strongly” under a carbon price
while cutting pollution, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The price on carbon dioxide emissions will take effect from
July 1, subject to the legislation being approved by Parliament,
with a cap-and-trade system be implemented in 2015.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion in the form of
free carbon permits over the first three years to assist the
biggest-polluting businesses such as aluminum smelters,
steelmakers and pulp manufacturers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  