-- 
Australian, New Zealand Currencies Decline on Concern About Europe Economy

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-19T15:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/australian-new-zealand-currencies-decline-on-concern-about-europe-economy.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars slumped against their U.S. counterpart on concern the
European economy is stalling, reducing demand for currencies
linked to global growth.  The so-called Aussie weakened against 10 of its 16 major
counterparts before German reports this week that are forecast
to show declines for gauges of investor confidence and
manufacturing in Europe’s largest economy. New Zealand’s dollar
dropped versus the greenback for the first time in four days
after European finance ministers failed to persuade investors
they can avert a Greek default.  “I’m bearish” on the Australian and New Zealand
currencies, said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-largest lender. “The
euro economy is weakening, clearly, and there’s a good chance
that it will slide towards a recession again.”  Australia ’s dollar sank 1.5 percent to $1.0207 at 11:15
a.m. in New York from $1.0361 on Sept. 16. It fetched 78.01 yen
from 79.56. New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, slid 1
percent to 82.07 U.S. cents from 82.91 cents. It bought 62.72
yen from 63.67.  The Aussie may drop below $1 in the next few weeks, while
the New Zealand dollar will decline to less than 80 U.S. cents,
Speizer said.  MSCI’s index Asia Pacific shares excluding Japan dropped
2.4 percent, damping demand for higher-yielding currencies.
Markets in Japan were closed for a holiday.  European Outlook  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research’s index of
investor and analyst expectations for Germany retreated to minus
45 this month, the lowest since December 2008, according to
economist estimates before the report tomorrow. A purchasing
managers index for manufacturing dropped to 50.5 in September
from 50.9 in August, a separate survey of economists showed
before a report from Markit Economics on Sept. 22.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann rejected using the  European Central Bank 
to boost the euro-area rescue fund’s firepower, rebuffing a
suggestion by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  at a two-
day meeting ended Sept. 17.  New Zealand’s Prime Minister John Key told reporters today
that the European and U.S. debt crisis has had implications for
his nation’s capacity to raise money in global markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  