-- 
Australian Stock Futures Rise as U.S. Consumer Confidence Gains

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-18T23:45:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/australian-stock-futures-rise-as-u-s-consumer-confidence-gains.html
Australian stock futures advanced
after a measure of U.S. consumer confidence climbed, easing
concern a global economic recovery may be stalling.  American Depositary Receipts Woodside Petroleum Ltd.,
 Australia ’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, increased 0.5
percent.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the No. 1 seller of home
siding in the U.S., may also be active in Sydney.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) ,
a supplier of toys and clothes to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., may move
in  Hong Kong . ADRs of Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., the world’s
biggest developer by market value, slid 0.3 percent after a
report showed new-home prices rose in major Chinese cities,
fueling concern the government may do more to slow the economy.  Asian stocks should benefit because “a more optimistic U.S.
consumer will increase discretionary spending, which will not
only buoy domestic U.S. activity but create increased demand for
imports,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in
equities at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne .  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent
to 4,163 as of 6:54 a.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
was little changed in Wellington. A report today from Westpac
Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. showed New Zealand
consumer confidence was unchanged in the third quarter. Japanese
markets are closed today for a public holiday.  Futures on U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.3
percent today. The gauge advanced for a fifth straight day on
Sept. 16, the longest rally since July, after the U.S. consumer
confidence report, and amid optimism European leaders will make
further progress on controlling the region’s debt crisis.  Consumer Confidence  U.S.-linked stocks may rally after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment climbed to 57.8 this month from 55.7 in August. The
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a reading of 57. The group’s measure of consumer
expectations six months from now dropped to the lowest level
since May 1980.  China ’s new-home prices rose in August in all 70 cities
monitored by the government for the first time this year as
developers watch policy directions before cutting prices. Prices
in Beijing gained 1.9 percent from a year earlier, while those
in  Shanghai , the nation’s financial center, increased 2.8
percent, the statistics bureau said on its website yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific ex Japan Index lost 13 percent this
year through Sept. 16, compared with a 3.3 percent drop for the
S&P 500 and a decline of 17 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.2 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 12.2 times for the
 S&P 500  and 9.6 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 