-- 
Lawyer of Americans Jailed in Iran Says Court Process Delayed

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-18T10:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/lawyer-of-americans-jailed-in-iran-says-court-process-delayed.html
The Iranian lawyer for two U.S.
nationals held by  Iran  on espionage charges said that in court
today he didn’t manage to secure a signature on payment
arrangements needed for their release.  Lawyer Masoud Shafiei said he was in court to deal with an
arrangement for  Shane Bauer  and Josh Fattal to be freed by
paying $500,000 each. The detainees would be released
“immediately” after payment is arranged, Shafiei said Sept. 13
on being informed by the Revolutionary Court of the terms.  One judge has already signed the documents and a second
judge has to do so for the way to be cleared, he said in a phone
interview in Tehran. Shafiei said he was told the second judge
is “away” until Sept. 20. He was unable to give a timing for
Bauer and Fattal’s possible release.  Bauer and Fattal, both 29, were sentenced Aug. 21 to eight
years in prison for illegal entry into Iran and espionage and
filed an appeal. They were detained in July 2009 on entering
Iran and said they had mistakenly crossed the border while
hiking in  Iraq . Their continued detention has added to tensions
between Iran and the U.S.  Fattal and Bauer will be released “in a couple of days”
on humanitarian grounds, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  told NBC
News in an interview aired Sept. 13. Ahmadinejad is set to
depart tomorrow for a United Nations General Assembly meeting in
New York, according to the official Islamic Republic News
Agency.  His comments were echoed by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  who said three days ago that the Americans would soon be
released.  “We have received word through a number of sources, both
publicly and privately, that the decision will be executed upon
and they will be returned to their families,” Clinton said
during a press conference in  San Francisco .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 