-- 
Napoli Defeats AC Milan to Go Top in Italian Soccer; Real Madrid Loses 1-0

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-18T23:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/bayern-munich-beats-schalke-to-take-2-point-lead-juventus-wins-at-siena.html
Edinson Cavani scored a hat trick
as Napoli rallied to beat AC Milan 3-1 and take top spot in
Italian soccer’s Serie A, while Real Madrid fell to its first
defeat of the Spanish league season.  Uruguayan striker Cavani scored in the 13th, 36th and 56th
minutes after  Alberto Aquilani  had given defending champion
Milan a 1-0 lead in Naples last night. Napoli joined Juventus,
Udinese and Cagliari on six points from two matches, though
leads the standings having scored more goals.  Juventus and Udinese also stayed perfect yesterday. Juve
won 1-0 at Siena with a goal by Alessandro Matri, while Udinese
had a 2-0 victory over Fiorentina as Antonio Di Natale and
Mauricio Isla scored.  Real Madrid lost at Levante last night. Arouna Kone scored
the only goal after Real’s German midfielder Sami Khedira was
red-carded before half time.  Jose Mourinho’s team now trails leaders Valencia and Real
Betis, which won 3-2 at Athletic Bilbao last night to stay
perfect, by three points through three games. Defending champion
Barcelona is two points off the lead after  Lionel Messi  got
three goals in an 8-0 rout of Osasuna two days ago.  In  Germany ,  Bayern Munich  took a two-point lead in the
Bundesliga with a 2-0 win at Schalke yesterday as defending
champion  Borussia Dortmund  lost 2-1 at Hannover.  Nils Petersen and  Thomas Mueller  scored for Bayern, which
has 15 points, two ahead of Werder Bremen and Borussia
Moenchengladbach. Late goals by Karim Haggui and Didier Ya Konan
gave Hannover the victory over Dortmund, which is 11th after a
second straight defeat.  In  France , Lyon moved one point clear of Montpellier and
Toulouse at the top of Ligue 1 by beating Marseille 2-0 last
night. Paris Saint-Germain earlier drew 2-2 at Evian.  FC Twente  and  AZ Alkmaar  lead the Dutch league on 15
points. Twente beat Den Haag 5-2 and AZ had a 2-1 victory at RKC
Waalwijk. Third-place Ajax has 14 points after a 2-2 draw at  PSV
Eindhoven  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  