-- 
Bernanke Joins King Tolerating Inflation

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-19T09:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/bernanke-joins-king-tolerating-more-inflation-as-economies-fail-to-revive.html
Inflation flashing red may be less
of a green light for higher interest rates as global growth
falters.  Some Federal Reserve policy makers favor keeping their
benchmark rate close to zero until price increases reach a level
 Vincent Reinhart , a former top official, says could be 3
percent. The Bank of England has held its key rate at a record
low even as U.K. inflation breached its 2 percent target for 21
months. Brazil executed a surprise cut Aug. 31 to safeguard its
economy even after inflation quickened to a six-year high.  Policy makers such as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Bank
of England Governor Mervyn King may be challenging central-bank
orthodoxy to replenish depleted toolkits and support recoveries
at risk of sliding back into recession. Tolerating higher
inflation may make long-term Treasuries less attractive while
supporting stocks and commodity prices, said Jim Kochan, chief
fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds.  “There’s a hint of desperation here,” said Kochan, who
helps manage $216 billion in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin .
“They’re clearly concerned that monetary policy to date hasn’t
really accomplished what they expected it to. So they ask
themselves, why? And what could we do about it?”  If adopted, the strategy might be called “Generate
Inflation Now,” or GIN, Reinhart said, a reversal of the Ford
Administration’s “Whip Inflation Now,” or WIN, program in the
1970s.  ‘Cutoff’ Question  “Everybody knows high inflation is bad,” said Reinhart,
the Fed’s director of monetary affairs from 2001 to 2007 who
will become Morgan Stanley’s chief U.S. economist in October.
“Nobody is sure of where the cutoff is.”  Bernanke and his Federal Open Market Committee gather
tomorrow in  Washington  for a two-day meeting and will issue a
statement Sept. 21 at 2:15 p.m. New York time. Some economists
anticipate additional stimulus aimed at reducing long-term
borrowing costs and boosting growth. The Fed cut the target for
its benchmark federal funds rate almost to zero in December 2008
and has since purchased $2.3 trillion of bonds.  The FOMC at its Aug. 9 meeting considered conditioning its
pledge to keep  interest rates  at record lows “on explicit
numerical values for the  unemployment rate  or the inflation
rate,” according to minutes released Aug. 30. The commitment
should be contingent on joblessness falling to around 7 percent
or 7.5 percent as long as inflation stays below 3 percent in the
medium term, Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of Chicago, said in a Sept. 7 speech.  Focus on Core  Unemployment was 9.1 percent in August, and the Fed’s
preferred inflation gauge, which excludes volatile energy and
food prices, rose 1.6 percent in July. Policy makers should
focus on core inflation to better reflect trends that are
“likely to be sustained over the medium term,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said in a chapter of its World
Economic Outlook released Sept. 14, ahead of its annual meeting
of central bankers and finance ministers this week.  Columbia University’s Michael Woodford and Harvard
University’s Kenneth Rogoff are among proponents of faster price
increases, which should result in lower interest rates adjusted
for inflation. This might stimulate spending, along with a side-
effect of helping pare record debt loads.  While computer simulations imply this strategy will work,
it’s untested in the real world, said Woodford, a professor who
co-taught economics with Bernanke at  Princeton University . There
has been “nervousness” among central bankers about saying
“you would allow inflation,” he said. Now “there’s at least
more willingness to discuss the issue.”  Faltering Growth  Consumer prices worldwide may rise at a slower pace after
jumping earlier this year as faltering economic growth drags
down food and energy costs.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  economists
estimate inflation in developed markets will average 1.3 percent
in the second quarter of 2012, down from 2.7 percent in the same
period this year.  The Fed should get U.S. prices back to the path they were
on before the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Nobel laureate Roger Myerson at the University of
Chicago said Aug. 23 on Bloomberg Television.  According to Bloomberg calculations, the central bank would
need to generate annual inflation of 3.3 percent in the two
years through July 2013 to return to a hypothetical 2 percent
path since July 2008, under the Commerce Department’s personal-
consumption-expenditures price index. This gauge rose 2.8
percent in July from a year ago.  Weaker Currencies  Changing policy to tolerate higher inflation means lower
bond prices in the long run and weaker developed-market
currencies, including the dollar and pound, against emerging
markets, said Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro
Partners LLP in  London .  Wells Fargo’s Kochan and Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Anthony Crescenzi  agree bond prices would suffer. If the
Fed successfully implemented this strategy and European
officials managed to contain the continent’s sovereign-debt
crisis, two-year yields, which traded at a record low of 0.1512
percent today, might be little changed, while 10-year rates
increased to a range between 3 percent and 4 percent within two
or three years, said Crescenzi, who helps manage $1.3 trillion
as executive vice president at Pimco in Newport Beach,
California.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries were at 1.99 percent at 9:56
a.m. in London today. U.S. debt was the best-performing asset
class in August as bond investors ignored Standard & Poor’s Aug.
5 decision to strip the U.S. of its AAA rating. Treasuries
returned 2.8 percent, while the global bond market gained 1.99
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Economic Benefits  Crescenzi cautions that faster inflation may not produce
the economic benefits proponents project, instead reducing the
amount of goods and services households and businesses could
buy. That would cut production -- and eventually incomes.  “It would turn a virtuous cycle into vicious,” he said.
“I see it as quite negative.”  Central banks with a target also may have to squelch price
increases later, risking harm to growth and “a serious
disinflation,” said Raghuram Rajan, former IMF chief economist
and a professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of
Business.  More than 20 central banks have adopted some type of
inflation target since the Reserve Bank of  New Zealand  pioneered
the strategy two decades ago. Such targets help control
expectations of future price pressures and provide clarity about
the direction of interest rates.  Failed to Prevent  The strategy nonetheless took a hit for failing to
anticipate or prevent the worst economic crisis since the Great
Depression. In the future, inflation targets should be coupled
with a tool that helps deliver financial stability, a report
sponsored by the Brookings Institution said last week.  The  Bank of England  has left its benchmark rate at 0.5
percent since March 2009. While inflation may reach 5 percent in
the next few months, it might have been below the bank’s 2
percent target without temporary shocks such as this year’s oil-
price spike, King said in an Aug. 15 letter to Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne.  The U.K. eventually may want to adopt a goal that accounts
for stronger global price pressures, said  Simon Hayes , chief
U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital .  Any change at the Fed would face opposition at the U.S.
central bank, where policy makers favor a long-run inflation
goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent, according to their most recent
economic projections in June.  ‘Meager Savings’  Richard Fisher, president of the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Dallas, told reporters Sept. 12 he couldn’t imagine trying to
explain the shift to unemployed workers and others “who don’t
want their income or meager savings eroded by price increases.”
He was one of three officials to dissent from the August
decision to keep rates near zero through at least mid-2013.  Of 27 central banks Morgan Stanley monitors with formal or
informal targets, 15 now face inflation running above their aim.
Some emerging-market officials may be sacrificing their goal to
support economic growth or financial stability, Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura International Plc in London,
said in a Sept. 12 report that identified Turkey and Hungary.  Brazil  cut its benchmark rate to 12 percent on Aug. 31 as
consumer prices rose 7.23 percent from a year earlier. While the
increase exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s
target range for a fifth straight month, officials remain
committed to the policy and price increases will start to ease,
President Alexandre Tombini, said Sept. 8.  German Legacy  Among developed countries, the  European Central Bank  has
proved less tolerant of faster price increases -- a legacy of
 Germany ’s hatred of the inflation often blamed for weakening
democracy in the 1920s and aiding Adolf Hitler’s rise to power.  The Frankfurt-based central bank, which aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, raised its benchmark rate twice
this year, to 1.5 percent, even as the Greek-led debt crisis
threatened expansion. With economies slowing, President Jean- Claude Trichet said Sept. 8 that price risks are “broadly
balanced” in the medium term, despite inflation at 2.5 percent
in August.  More central banks may make similar efforts to “explain
away” the temporary nature of inflation as a reason to ignore
it, said Jen, a former IMF economist. Policy makers “will put
more emphasis on growth,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
 John Fraher  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 