-- 
Bloodstream Infections May Be Sign of Colon Cancer, Study Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-18T17:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/bloodstream-infections-may-be-sign-of-colon-cancer-study-says.html
Bacterial bloodstream infections
may signal colon cancer, according to a study that found people
with the infections are 14 times more likely to be diagnosed
with the malignancy a year later than the general population.  The cancer risk varied by type of bacteria, and patients
who had germs that didn’t require oxygen to grow -- such as
those that inhabit the colon -- faced a 115 times greater chance
of cancer diagnosis, the research showed. The study by Canadian
researchers was presented today at the  Interscience Conference
on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy  in  Chicago .  Cancers tend to penetrate into blood vessels, which may
make it easier for bacteria from the intestinal tract to get
into the bloodstream, said Yohei Doi, an infectious disease
expert at the  University of Pittsburgh  who wasn’t involved in
the study. Performing a colonoscopy on patients with blood
infections may allow for earlier cancer detection, he said.  “When we find something in the blood that should be in the
colon, we recommend a colonoscopy,” Doi said in a telephone
interview. Today’s study gives a better sense of what kind of
risks patients with bloodstream infections face, he said.  About 140,000 people will be diagnosed with colon or rectal
cancer in 2011, and 49,000 people will die, according to the
 National Cancer Institute .  The study was conducted with medical records for
bloodstream infections from January 2000 to December 2007 at the
Calgary Health Region Area in  Canada , a region with a population
of about 1.2 million. This was matched with a registry of all
new cancer diagnoses in Alberta between 1995 and 2008. Of 10,121
bloodstream infections and 3,859 colon cancers, 71 people had a
diagnosis of colon cancer following the bloodstream infection.  Further study of which bacteria increase risk will help
identify patients that benefit most from screening, according to
study author Sanchia Warren, who was a fellow at the Alberta
Health Services’ Department of infectious diseases during the
research. She is currently a doctor at St. Vincent’s Hospital in
 Melbourne ,  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 