-- 
Bank of England Says Bond Purchases had ‘Economically Significant’ Impact

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/boe-says-asset-purchase-impact-was-economically-significant-.html
The  Bank of England  said its bond-
purchase plan had “economically significant” effects on
Britain’s financial system, though the impact of future
purchases may differ.  The 200 billion pounds ($316 billion) of securities bought
since March 2009 in so-called quantitative easing may have
raised gross domestic product by 1.5 percent to 2 percent, and
increased inflation by between 0.75 to 1.5 percentage points,
the bank said in its Quarterly Bulletin in London today.  “There is considerable uncertainty around these estimates
and the precise impact of asset purchases or sales is likely to
vary depending on the circumstances in which they are
conducted,” Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  wrote in the forward.
Continuing assessment will “inform any future decisions on
either selling the assets back, or making further purchases.”  Minutes of the bank’s September policy meeting published
this week will show whether anyone joined  Adam Posen  in his push
to restart asset purchases to support growth. The Monetary
Policy Committee voted for no change in bond purchases and left
the benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent while
inflation stayed at more than double its 2 percent target.  The purchases sparked a decline in government bond yields
and a narrowing in corporate bond spreads, the report said. By
raising asset prices and reducing the cost of finance, they also
helped support  consumer spending . They may also have boosted
households’ net financial wealth by about 16 percent.  QE Impact  Former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling 
announced the Asset Purchase Facility in January 2009, when the
U.K. was mired in its worst recession since World War II. The
round of purchases ended in early 2010.  Comparing the estimate of the APF’s effect on inflation
with the bank’s normal assessment of the impact of  interest-rate 
cuts, the purchases may have been equivalent to a 150 to 300
basis-point cut in the benchmark, the report said.  Economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, and the bank has cut its growth forecasts for 2011 and
2012. While economists at Citigroup Inc. say the central bank
will restart the APF as soon as next month, today’s report
suggests the bank isn’t counting on the same impact.  “The economic and financial circumstances in which further
asset purchases or sales are made may be very different from
those that prevailed in early 2009,” the report said. “It
cannot be assumed that the magnitude of the effects will
necessarily be the same.”  Debt Concerns  The central bank also noted that financial markets
“deteriorated markedly” in the three months to Aug. 26.  “Uncertainty increased as worries about the prospects for
fiscal policy -- both in the euro area and the U.S. --interacted
with concerns about the sustainability of the global economic
recovery,” Dale said.  Gilts rose as the outlook for global growth weakened, and
as investors sought more-liquid assets while turmoil in  Europe 
intensified. The yield on the 10-year bond dropped to a record
low 2.18 percent on Sept. 12, and the two-year note reached 0.49
percent the same day.  Debt issuance by major U.K. banks “fell sharply” amid
investor concern about their exposure to vulnerable European
countries, the report said. The bank’s market contacts were
“increasingly concerned” about whether funding markets would
reopen in September, as tight conditions “could make it harder
for banks to improve the resilience of their balance sheets
without reducing lending further to the real economy.”  Still, the central bank said lenders continued to repay
funds from the Special Liquidity Scheme “despite difficult
market conditions.” At the end of August, 168 billion pounds
had been repaid, up from 148 billion pounds at the end of May.  In the bulletin, the Bank of England said there is evidence
that financial-services output was overstated in the decade
before the crisis, though it’s “unlikely” that the error added
more than 0.1 percentage points to GDP each year.  “Conventions used in the U.K. national accounts probably
did flatter the contribution of the financial sector,” the bank
said. “But the effect of those distortions on overall GDP
growth is ‘‘likely to have been relatively small.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  