-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline, Ending Four-Day FTSE 100 Rally; RBS Slides

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-19T15:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/bp-rockhopper-exploration-tesco-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks declined, ending a
four-day rally on the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , amid speculation
European officials won’t be able to contain the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  lost more than 5 percent as banks across Europe declined.
 Rio Tinto  Group and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  retreated more than 3
percent as metal prices dropped.  The FTSE 100 slid 108.85, or 2 percent, to 5,259.56 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London , paring some of last week’s 3 percent
advance. The benchmark measure has lost 12 percent since the
start of July amid mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening and global economic growth is slowing. The FTSE All-
Share Index fell 2 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index
retreated 1.5 percent.  “Another week begins and the same old stories continue to
vie for attention, with  Greece  struggling to convince the rest
of  Europe  it can meet its obligations,” said  Michael Hewson , a
markets analyst at CMC Markets in London.  Greece’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance this
week as international monitors prepare to assess whether Prime
Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue
loans. The Greek leader canceled a U.S. visit that was to begin
yesterday, saying he needed to remain in the country for a
“critical” seven days.  Greek Aid  European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors
are holding a teleconference today with Greece’s Finance
Minister, Evangelos Venizelos, to judge whether the government
is eligible for an aid payment due in October.  RBS, the biggest government-owned lender, sank 5.7 percent
to 22.88 pence. Lloyds declined 6.7 percent to 33.42 pence and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  retreated 6.6 percent to 152.7 pence.  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable is to look at ways to
help shareholders curb excessive executive pay at
underperforming companies, calling the current system
“dysfunctional” and a failure of corporate governance. Options
under consideration in a discussion paper published by Cable’s
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills today include
giving shareholders a binding vote on pay and putting employees
on company remuneration committees.  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company, lost
3.3 percent to 3,505 pence. Antofagasta declined 8.2 percent to
1,194 pence, the largest drop since May. Copper, lead, nickel,
tin and zinc fell on the London Metal Exchange.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  tumbled 11 percent to 118.4 pence as the
biggest U.K. online-only grocer reported a slowdown in sales
growth and said that profitability will be “slightly lower”
than it had expected.  Meggitt Plc (MGGT)  rose 3.6 percent to 331.5 pence, a fourth day
of gains, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. named the company on a
list of potential European defense and aerospace takeover
targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  