-- 
Buffett-Backed BYD Plans Most Bonds as Costs Surge: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-18T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/buffett-backed-byd-plans-most-bonds-as-costs-surge-china-credit.html
     Sept. 19 (Bloomberg) -- BYD Co., the Chinese automaker
part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., may have
to sell a record amount of bonds to pay off maturing debt next
year just as the government’s inflation-fighting campaign pushes
corporate borrowing costs to a high.  Shareholders gave approval on Sept. 9 for BYD to sell as
much as 6 billion yuan ($939 million) of bonds with a maturity
no longer than 10 years. Yields on its 1 billion yuan of bonds
due 2014 have surged 450 basis points to 8.89 percent since they
were sold in April, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices. Average yields on U.S. automakers’ debt were at 2.86
percent on Sept. 15, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Vehicle sales at the Shenzhen-based company fell every
month in the past year to July as the popularity of its best-
selling F3 sedan model waned and  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Honda
Motor Co. released new cars. Credit limits aimed at curbing
price growth have raised average yields on five-year corporate
bonds rated A+ by 130 basis points to a record 8.65 percent,
according to Chinabond, the nation’s biggest clearing house.  “It’s a real bad time for BYD to sell bonds when the
company is surrounded by uncertainties,” said Charlene Gu, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Yuanta Securities HK Co. “Investors
will ask for higher returns on the bond and it will in turn
further squeeze the automaker’s profit margin.”  Bond Sale  BYD, whose first-half profit plunged 89 percent, is raising
funds through various channels this year. The company got 1.42
billion yuan from a share sale in Shenzhen, southern China, in
June, 35 percent less than it had aimed for.  The automaker has 16 billion yuan of bonds and loans
outstanding, with a 15 billion yuan  term loan  maturing next
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s five times
the 3 billion yuan of bonds from Dongfeng Motor Group Co.
maturing next year. Dongfeng operates ventures with Nissan Motor
Co. and Honda in China.  BYD will choose a suitable time over the next two years to
issue the debt, and will take into consideration the economic
and bond market situation, Li Qian, the BYD board secretary,
said in a phone interview on Sept. 15. The company may sell the
bonds in batches, Li said.  “Financing costs have been rising,” Li said. “We will
sell the bonds at a cost that is acceptable to us.” The
proceeds will be used to repay bank loans and bolster working
capital, he said.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September 2008.  GDP, Inflation  China ’s gross domestic product grew 9.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, after climbing 9.7 percent
in the first three months. Economic growth may slow to 9 percent
in both the third and fourth quarters of this year, according to
the median of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Inflation in China eased in August to 6.2 percent from a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. The People’s Bank of
China has raised borrowing costs five times since mid-October
2010 to reduce prices, with the latest increase in July lifting
the benchmark one-year rate to 6.56 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this month the slowdown is within
expectations and that fighting inflation is still the top
priority even as he acknowledged increasing risks to the global
recovery as the  U.S. economy  falters and the European debt
crisis continues.  The yield on China’s 10-year government bonds rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.060 percent on Sept.
16. The yuan strengthened 0.13 percent to 6.3834 per dollar in
 Shanghai  on Sept. 16, the most in a week, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  ‘Hit Rock Bottom’  The extra yield investors demand to own BYD’s yuan bonds
due April 2014 rather than similar-maturity Chinese  government
securities  rose to a record 359 basis points on Sept. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yield premiums on U.S.
automaker debt over U.S. Treasuries were unchanged at 193 basis
points on Sept 15, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Automative Index, which includes bonds from Honda, Nissan
and Toyota Motor Co.  “BYD has hit the rock bottom and may not come out of it in
the near term,” George Yin, Beijing-based analyst at BOCOM
International Holding, said in a phone interview on Sept. 16.
“If they have to raise funds through bond sales in the coming
months they will have to offer higher returns.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Five year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign
debt against default fell three basis points to 126 basis points
on Sept. 16, down from a two-year high of 131 reached on Sept.
12, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  China’s government phased out buying incentives on
automobiles and imposed purchase restrictions to curb
congestion. The changes hurt BYD, which had models that were
subsidized by the government under the stimulus policies.
General Motors, Honda and Toyota introduced price discounts to
offset slowing sales in the world’s largest vehicle market,
according to GM and J.D. Power & Associates.  Liuzhou-based SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive Co., GM’s minivan
venture with SAIC Motor Corp., introduced discounts for its
minivans starting May and also rolled out a new China-only
sedan, the Baojun 630, to cater to entry-level buyers in August.  Vehicle Sales  Japanese automakers offered incentives starting in July
after losing market share in the second quarter, Marvin Zhu, a
J.D. Power analyst, said in an Aug. 23 note. Other carmakers
responded with discounts of their own, Zhu said. Vehicle sales
in China are forecast to slow this year, after climbing 32
percent in 2010 after sales-tax breaks and rebates for rural
buyers ended in January and following central bank interest-rate
rises.  “BYD may have negative year-on-year vehicle sales as they
lack popular models to revive growth,”  Harry Chen , a Shenzhen-
based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co., said in a phone
interview on Sept. 16. “BYD is facing huge pressure in their
operations and have tight capital supplies. Fund-raising costs
are very high at the moment but they will have to accept it if
they are in urgent need of capital.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  