-- 
Cable Looks for Ways to Curb ‘Dysfunctional’ Top Pay in U.K.

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-19T08:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/cable-looks-for-ways-to-curb-dysfunctional-top-pay-in-britain.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
is to look at ways to help shareholders curb excessive executive
pay at underperforming companies, calling the current system
“dysfunctional” and a failure of corporate governance.  Options under consideration in a discussion paper published
by Cable’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills today
include giving shareholders a binding vote on pay and putting
employees on company remuneration committees. While Cable has
ruled out setting limits on compensation, he’s also looking at
stiffening reporting requirements for listed companies,
including requiring the publication of how much each board
member gets and details of performance-related bonuses.  “There is absolutely nothing wrong with generous rewards
for those who build up successful businesses and create wealth
and jobs,” Cable will say in a speech to his Liberal Democrat
Party’s  annual conference  in Birmingham, central  England ,
according to extracts releases by his office. “People accept
capitalism, but they want responsible capitalism. I want to call
time on payouts for failure.”  Cable has already set up a study under an economist, John
Kay, to look at how executives can be encouraged to take a long-
term outlook. British directors’ salaries increased by 64
percent over the past decade, while the average year-end share
price of FTSE 100 companies declined by 71 percent over the same
period, according to the  High Pay Commission , a pressure group
that pushes for curbs on top earners.  Bankers’ Pay  The business secretary defended pay deals for the new heads
of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , which had to be bailed out by the previous government.  “There’s a difference between people who’re coming in to
turn round a failed institution and people who failed
originally,” Cable told BBC Radio 4 this morning. He said pay-
offs to outgoing bosses “shouldn’t have happened.”  RBS awarded Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  and
eight top executives about 28 million pounds ($44 million) in
shares in March.  “Clearly there’s an issue going forward about how we
manage the contracts of people in state-owned banks,” Cable
said in a separate BBC television interview.  Top Tax Rate  The wealthy have come under attack at this year’s Liberal
Democrat conference, with ministers rejecting suggestions from
their coalition partners in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party  that there might be a case for lowering the
top 50 percent tax rate on income over 150,000 pounds a year.  With polls suggesting that the public don’t believe the
Liberal Democrat argument that they’re acting as a check on the
Conservatives, the first two days of the conference saw
ministers and other senior party figures denouncing their
coalition colleagues from the platform.  Party President Tim Farron described the Conservative
response to the riots in August as “reactionary Tory drivel.”
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the party leader, called the
Conservatives “our political enemies.”  After a speech at the rally on the opening night in which
he pledged to be “awkward” over policies his party didn’t
like, Clegg said yesterday that if the top rate of tax isn’t
bringing in enough revenue, an alternative levy on wealth will
have to be found.  ‘Fair Share’  “If we discover that the 50 pence rate hasn’t raised money
from the very wealthiest in the way it’s supposed to, then
clearly we need to look at other ways” of taxing them, Clegg
told BBC television’s “ Andrew Marr Show .” “It stays unless,
first, we make more progress on lowering the tax burden on
people on low and middle incomes, and secondly, we can find
other ways that the wealthiest pay their fair share.”  Since the Liberal Democrats entered the government in May
2010, they’ve seen their support in the polls fall from 23
percent to about 10 percent. The party lost a referendum in May
on its long-held goal of changing the voting system.  Danny Alexander , the Liberal Democrat chief secretary to
the Treasury, announced in a speech yesterday that 2,250 tax
inspectors will be moved into anti-avoidance roles this year,
with an “affluent team” looking at 350,000 of the country’s
wealthiest taxpayers.  Alexander also said that in the next election in 2015, the
party should campaign to raise the threshold at which people
start paying income tax to around 12,500 pounds a year -- the
amount earned in a full-time job on the minimum wage. The
starting point for the tax is scheduled to rise to 10,000 pounds
by 2015, implementing a Liberal Democrat policy.  In his rally speech, Clegg acknowledged that his party was
failing to communicate what it was achieving within the
coalition and said he’d rectify that.  “We never oppose for the sake of opposition, but we never
shrink from telling it like it is and fighting for what is
right,” Clegg told activists. “In government, it means
sometimes we have to be awkward. As our coalition partners are
finding out on a daily basis, we are not here to make things
easy. We’re here to put things right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 