-- 
Chinese Solar Plant Shuttered After Protests Over Polluted River

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T04:36:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/chinese-city-halts-solar-plant-operation-after-violent-protests.html
JinkoSolar Holding Co., a New York-
listed Chinese solar-panel manufacturer, has been told to stop
work at one of its plants after violent protests by villagers
alleging pollution killed fish in a nearby river.  More than 500 villagers near Haining in eastern Zhejiang
province overturned eight vehicles and damaged four police cars
in protests at the factory on Sept. 15 and Sept. 16, according
to  footage  from a local television report posted on the website
of the city’s government. Protesters gathered for a third day on
Sept. 17 to demand an explanation for the death of fish last
month, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The company “is investigating the matter” and will
release a statement before start of trading on the New York
Stock Exchange today, JinkoSolar’s Shanghai-based spokeswoman
Yvonne Young said. A company representative from the Haining
facility will also hold a press briefing to address local
concerns at 3:00 p.m. in the city, she added. The Zhejiang
Haining Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau ordered the
plant shut, the China Business News newspaper reported, citing
an unidentified official.  JinkoSolar has fallen 17 percent since the Jiangxi-based
company raised $64.2 million selling shares in a New York
initial public offering arranged by Credit Suisse Group AG. The
stock closed at a high of $38.92 on Nov. 3.  China  is promoting solar power as it tries to cut reliance
on coal and oil to fuel the economy. Premier  Wen Jiabao  has made
reducing pollution one of his cabinet’s goals as the nation
seeks to diminish sources of social unrest.  Plant Fined  The environmental protection bureau fined the Haining plant
470,000 yuan ($73,600), China Business News  reported , citing the
unidentified environmental protection agency official.  The agency found fluoride in water taken from a canal next
to the plant that fed into the river was 10 times higher than
the recommended limit, the paper reported. That may have been
caused by residue from the manufacturing process getting washed
into storm drains, the paper reported, citing the agency
official.  JinkoSolar has pledged to spend “several million yuan” to
improve its treatment of waste, the newspaper reported on its
website, without citing anyone.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  