-- 
China Crash Victims Prove Obstacle for Sale of New Rail Bonds to Investors

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-18T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/china-crash-victims-prove-obstacle-for-selling-rail-to-investors.html
Wang Hui says she doesn’t care
about the money. She wants to know why her husband, Zheng
Hangzheng, never made it home from a business trip on July 23.  Zheng, a 34-year-old entrepreneur, was one of 40 people
killed when two high-speed trains collided in Wenzhou, eastern
 China . The first official explanation reported for the accident
-- a lightning strike knocked out power to one of the trains
before the second plowed into it -- drew ridicule on China’s
Internet and triggered a protest near the crash scene by Wang
and other victims’ families demanding a full investigation, 
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its November issue.  Wang, 32, says 10 days after the crash, authorities offered
her 915,000 yuan ($143,000) to give up any claims against the
 Ministry of Railways . She says they hinted that if she didn’t
agree, they would let Zheng’s body rot. She signed.  “It was too early to discuss compensation when the truth
of the accident and who was responsible were unknown,” Wang
says, comforting her 17-month-old daughter in the three-bedroom
apartment they share with Zheng’s parents. Internet coverage of
her ordeal struck a chord with many Chinese. A video of Wang
asking for justice in an interview at Wenzhou train station went
viral after being posted on two of the country’s biggest video-
sharing  websites , and 127,000 followers now read her microblogs
on a Chinese version of Twitter.  The accident brought focus on the safety and financial
shortcomings of China’s showcase rail network. Public outrage
went further with citizens openly questioning whether the
world’s fastest major economic expansion is worth the death of
people like Zheng, as well as the suppression of information and
corruption that has come with it.  ‘Growth Not Enough’  “Economic growth is increasingly not enough,” says Cheng Li, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .
“The Chinese people are saying that their government proved it
can deliver development, now it should deliver accountability.”  That so many Chinese are reassessing the costs of the
country’s economic growth, which averaged more than 10 percent
annually over the last decade, poses one of the stickiest
challenges for one-party rulers in the years ahead: balancing a
drive for wealth with the public satisfaction necessary for
social stability.  The crash bruised the reputation of the rail industry at
the heart of China’s plans to spread prosperity inland and
provide exports more sophisticated than  consumer goods . The
high-speed network -- dubbed Harmony after the regime’s goal to
create a prosperous, “harmonious society” -- opened in 2007
and was slated to be the world’s biggest network at 16,000
kilometers (9,900 miles) by 2015.  Built on Debt  To build it, the rail ministry has run up a debt of 2.1
trillion yuan ($330 billion), equal to 5 percent of everything
produced in China last year.  Since the accident, the rail ministry has suspended
approvals on new projects nationwide, recalled 54 high-speed
trains and removed three top regional railway officials from
their posts.  “The accident is a blow to government’s ambition to attain
world class technology for the country,” says Nicholas Yeo, the
Hong Kong-based head of China and Hong Kong equities at Aberdeen
Asset Management, who oversees $70 billion. “It points to the
country focusing on speed at the compromise of quality.”  Wen’s Promise  Premier  Wen Jiabao  visited the accident site July 28 and
promised the government would issue a report to “get to the
bottom” of what happened. Huang Yi, a spokesman for the State
Administration of Work Safety which is carrying out the probe,
wouldn’t answer faxed questions on the content of the report or
when it will be released.  The July 23 tragedy “could have been avoided and
prevented,” Huang told the state-run Xinhua News Agency Aug. 22.
Liu Lianguang, a professor at North China Electric Power
University who was a member of the investigative panel, said
Sept. 16 it had found signal software problems and human error
contributed to the crash. The Railways Ministry didn’t respond
to faxed questions seeking comment.  Even before the tragedy, it was getting harder for the rail
ministry to raise funds. China’s largest corporate borrower
wasn’t able to find buyers for all its one-year notes in a 20
billion-yuan sale on July 21. Since the crash, the extra yield
investors demand to hold such notes rather than government debt
has risen 20 percent, according to chinabond data on Bloomberg.  California Bid  “After the accident the financial industry will have even
less confidence in high-speed trains,” says  Zhao Jian , a
professor of economics at Beijing Jiaotong University. “Its
funding crisis is approaching.”  The central government may have to bail out the rail system
because its failure would lead to the collapse of the economy,
Zhao says.  China’s plans to export its rail technology may also be
damaged, says Kao Tsung-chung, a visiting professor of railroad
engineering at the University of  Illinois  in Champaign-Urbana
who’s involved with planning for high-speed rail projects in
California and Illinois.  The rail ministry and companies including China Railway
Construction Corp. are among more than 900 firms that have
expressed interest in  bidding  on work to build the planned 616-
mile (991-kilometer) line linking  San Francisco  and  San Diego .  “Now there will be more scrutiny,” Kao says. “The
reputation and future of China’s high-speed rail is at stake
with this report. The government isn’t known for transparency so
they’ll have more difficulty convincing people the problems are
addressed.”  Investigators ought to look beyond the cause of the
accident to the government’s response, says Andrew H. Wedeman, a
political science professor and director of the Asian Studies
program at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.  ‘Miracle of Life’  The days following the accident on the Ningbo-Wenzhou line
showed how some of China’s 485 million online users are willing
to challenge authorities. Some watching video images and reading
reports from the scene said it appeared authorities were burying
the rail cars and had abandoned the search for survivors about
six hours after the accident.  About 14 hours later, 2-year-old Xiang Weiyi was discovered
alive in the wreckage. Microbloggers asked whether her parents
and others could have been saved had the rescue effort not been
called off.  And, after  Wang Yongping , a rail ministry spokesman, said
at a July 24 news conference the girl’s survival was an example
of “the miracle of life,” he was derided by many in the online
community. The spokesman was removed from his job in August and
posted to  Poland  in a diplomatic role.  Power of Weibo  Microblogs, which have at least 300 million registered
users in China, highlight the contrast between the official
version of events and how people actually see them, says Hu Yong,
an associate professor of journalism and communications at
Peking University.  “They make public opinion more visible, and that means
pressure on the ruler,” Hu says.  Wang, the widow, also used the Internet to voice her
disgust. “I will never accept the railway ministry’s apology,”
she wrote Aug. 12 to her followers on weibo, the Chinese name
for microblogs.  Some members of the public still question the official
death toll.  Hua Xinmin, whose grandfather was a prominent Chinese
railway engineer, is collecting the names of riders in six of
the most damaged rail cars to determine if the government’s
accounting is accurate. Her weibo posts were forwarded 10,000
times before being stopped by the service provider.  “This is about the dignity of each life and a safe
tomorrow,” Hua, a French citizen living in Beijing, says.
“What’s at stake is the credibility of the government.”  Human Cost  China’s government has faced public outrage before over
tragedies that exposed the human cost of China’s explosive
growth. They included the May 2008 Sichuan earthquake, in which
thousands of children were crushed by poorly built schools, and
tainted milk that sickened almost 300,000 babies later the same
year.  What’s different this time is the public scrutiny on weibo
meant the government “lost control of the story line,” says
Patrick Chovanec, a professor at Tsinghua University’s School of
Economics and Management in Beijing.  “The crash isn’t the problem as much as the government’s
response, which is seen to be patronizing and not credible,” he
says. “People just weren’t buying it.”  Middle Classes  The outrage over the crash has a very middle class tone to
it, says Wedeman of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. China
has pulled more than 500 million people -- almost a quarter of
the population -- out of poverty since China began economic
reforms in 1978, according to a United Nations  estimate .  “They’re angry about the quality of the train and the
cover-up,” Wedeman says. “China’s professionals, the
beneficiaries of reform, who should be rock solid in their
support for the regime, are beginning to question the ability of
the government to furnish a better life.”  In all, China’s high-speed rail suffered 168 glitches in
July, the 21st Century Business Herald reported Sept. 5, citing
a separate Railways Ministry internal report.  Some of those failures may be related to corruption, says
Siva Yam, president of the U.S.-China Chamber of Commerce in
 Chicago . Railways Minister  Liu Zhijun , who championed the high-
speed network, was fired early this year over corruption. The
ministry has a virtual monopoly, as many employees as the U.S.
government and its own court system.  Great Leap Mentality  “Liu had this great-leap mentality and he wanted to roll
out this system much faster than they should have,” says Damien Ma, China analyst at Washington-based Eurasia Group. “They did
a lot of scrimping.” Liu couldn’t be reached for comment.  Wang says she hopes the government report on the accident
will fix blame and prevent future accidents.  “When we have the truth, my husband’s soul can rest and
the whole family can have a little comfort,” Wang says from her
home in Lianjiang in Fuzhou, 368 miles (592 kilometers) south of
 Shanghai . “Give us some guarantee that the lives of ordinary
Chinese are safe.”  The widow and her late husband exemplify China’s economic
transformation. Hailing from Xuzhou in northern China, Wang
moved to the southwestern coastal town of Xiamen, across the
strait from  Taiwan , to work on cruise ships. Zheng was her
colleague.  They married in 2005 and moved to Zheng’s hometown of
Lianjiang and he started a foot-massage business, eventually
expanding into restaurants and Internet cafes. Over those six
years, per-person annual income for China’s city dwellers almost
doubled to more than 19,000 yuan.  Good Life  “He promised me a good life,” Wang says. The couple
vacationed at beach resorts on Hainan Island, off China’s
southern coast, and visited Beijing to see Tiananmen Square. Two
years ago, Zheng bought a black Buick luxury sedan. When a
daughter arrived, they nicknamed her Tangtang, or Sweetie, and
Wang became a stay-at-home mom.  “I didn’t have to worry about money,” she says. Wang
shows the last photo she has of her husband, taken with her
iPhone in the People’s Square in Lianjiang on July 19. In it,
Zheng is wearing jeans, black T-shirt and flip-flops, bending
next to Tangtang, whose hair is swept off her face with
barrettes. He’s pointing to Wang.  Car Crushed  Zheng left that night, Wang says. Instead of driving, as he
usually did, he opted to take the bullet train.  Four days later, Zheng called his wife, who was attending a
wedding with Tangtang, to say he was heading home. His seat was
near the back of the last-but-one car, the ticket found on his
body showed.  At about 8:40 p.m., Wang remembers, Tangtang started
screaming and crying. They had to leave the wedding early.  What she didn’t know was that 10 minutes earlier, another
train, traveling more than 100 kilometers per hour,  slammed into 
Zheng’s train. The impact knocked three rail cars off a viaduct
and another hanging over the side.  On her way home from the wedding, Wang got a call from the
family of a friend who was traveling with Zheng informing her of
the collision. The friend had tried to find Zheng in the chaos
but couldn’t.  Wang says she tried Zheng’s phone. No answer. He probably
lost his phone in the accident, she remembers thinking.  ‘The Sky Collapsed’  Early on July 25, Wang was driven by relatives to Wenzhou.
When they reached the highway exit, she received a call telling
her to go to the morgue not a hospital, as she had believed.  “It felt like the sky collapsed on me,” Wang says.  The dead included two schoolgirls, an Italian tourist and a
pregnant woman who was killed with four family members,
according to accounts in the Chinese press.  On July 29, Chinese media received an order from national
authorities to “calm down” coverage. They were told to focus
on positive news or information from the authorities, according
to a copy seen by Bloomberg News.  The Economic Observer, a Beijing-based national business
weekly, was among publications that defied the gag order,
printing an open letter to the rescued orphan Xiang on its
August 1 front page starting “Dear Yiyi,” which said:  “This country has created one economic miracle after
another. They claim that’s for people’s benefit, but wouldn’t
slow down to listen to the living beings.”  Critical Mass  Journalists posted images online of newspaper pages that
were spiked because of the government directive. They were later
deleted. The Communist Party’s publicity department, which
oversees China’s media, didn’t answer faxed questions about the
directive.  Whether this outpouring of anger will result in greater
transparency from the government or a tighter crackdown is an
open question, says Elizabeth C. Economy, director for Asia
Studies at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .  “Does all the chatter build to critical mass?” Economy
says. “I’m a firm believer that the day will come.”  For all her discontent, Wang Hui accepted the compensation
offer after she was repeatedly visited by unidentified officials.
On Aug. 2, one group came to her hotel in Wenzhou to offer
condolences and muttered audibly about potential problems with
her husband’s body because it wasn’t refrigerated, she says.  No Choice  “I felt that I had done things that hurt my husband,” she
says, tears rolling down her cheeks. “As if I were the one
discussing compensation using his body.”  There was no choice but to sign, she says. Huang Leping, a
Beijing attorney Wang had consulted, said she had little chance
of winning if she sued the ministry.  Victims in such cases are often helpless because China’s
courts may not hear the cases and lawyers are warned away from
representing them, says Jerome Cohen, a professor of law at  New
York University  who specializes in China legal issues.  Those who continue to protest for greater justice also risk
recriminations. Zhao Lianhai, whose son was poisoned by milk
contaminated with melamine, was jailed after he tried to
organize other parents to campaign. He’s since been freed.  Wang says she just wanted to ensure her husband was
cremated so she could take his ashes back home.  When she collected his body, there was one thing missing:
Zheng’s silver Audemars Piguet wristwatch. He’d planned to give
it to Tangtang when she got older. Only a mark remained on the
wrist where it was, Wang says. The police told her it must have
been lost in the crash, she says. She thinks it was stolen.  “When my daughter grows up, what can I say to her?” Wang
says. “Her dad is gone. Just like that. Leaving her nothing but
a watch, which nobody knows who took.”  Since the accident, Tangtang has become clingy and likes to
open her parents’ wedding album, Wang says. When she sees her
daddy’s picture, she kisses it.  Wang kept her husband’s last train ticket.  “It feels as if he’s still on a business trip,” she says.  On Aug. 22, a day before the one-month anniversary of
Zheng’s death, the widow commemorated his 35th birthday.  She bought him some new clothes.  --Wenxin Fan, Bob Ivry. With assistance from Jasmine Wang in
 Hong Kong ,  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing and Margaret Conley in
Shanghai. Editors: Neil Western, Melissa Pozsgay.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:  Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3045 or
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at +1-212-617-5157 or  bivry@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 