-- 
China August Home Prices Rise in All Cities, Challenging Government Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-19T08:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/china-august-home-prices-rise-in-all-cities-challenging-government-curbs.html
China ’s August new-home prices rose
in all 70 cities monitored for the first time this year,
undercutting government efforts to cool the market through
higher down-payments and mortgage rates.  Prices in Beijing advanced 1.9 percent from a year ago,
while those in  Shanghai , the nation’s financial center,
increased 2.8 percent, the statistics bureau said on its website
yesterday. New home prices climbed in 67 out of 70 cities in the
first half this year and were up in all but two in July.  China’s measures to control its property market are at a
critical stage and the nation needs to focus efforts on curbing
price increases in less affluent cities after limiting home
purchases by each family in metropolitan areas including Beijing
and Shanghai, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Sept. 1. Only two
cities responded to the government’s July call for added
restrictions on housing purchases, as local governments rely on
land sales to pay mounting debt.  “Asset prices in China’s second- and third-tier cities are
still rising rapidly, as local governments are reluctant to
place more strict policies,” Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said in
a phone interview. “Especially some western and central cities
are facing big pressure to pay out debts, while their main
revenue comes from land sales.”  Shares Fall  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 2.8 percent at the close of trading, the
lowest in 14 months, and the most among the five industry groups
on the benchmark gauge. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
publicly traded developer, retreated 3.5 percent to 7.78 yuan,
the lowest in almost four months, and Poly Real Estate Group Co.
dropped 5.3 percent to 10.27 yuan.  Of the 70 cities, 16 posted declines from July, and another
31 were unchanged from the previous month, the data showed.
That’s the first time fewer than half of the cities surveyed
posted month-on-month gains, according to Samsung Securities. In
July,  home prices  in 14 cities fell from June.  The country’s biggest property companies reported sluggish
sales data last month. China Vanke said August sales dropped 13
percent from a year earlier, while Poly Real Estate, the second-
biggest listed developer, posted a 12 percent drop.  The government is “close to declaring a victory on their
crusade to tame property prices,” said Wee Liat Lee, an analyst
at Samsung Securities. “This would also mean that it is not
necessary to put on more new measures.”  Local Fund Raising  Lower property prices may affect state fund-raising efforts
as 40 percent of local governments’ revenue came from land sales
last year, according to China Real Estate Information Corp. Some
cities, which posted rapid gains in home prices, are facing
pressure to bring them down, according to  Societe Generale  SA.  Local governments, barred from borrowing debt directly, set
up 6,576 financing vehicles by the end of 2010 to fund projects
such as new roads and airports, according to a report from the
National Audit Office on June 27. They had 10.7 trillion yuan
($1.7 trillion) in outstanding liabilities at the end of 2010,
of which 8.5 trillion yuan was from bank loans, it said.  “China’s property policies are in a deadlock right now,”
said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based economist at Societe Generale.
“Many local governments have complained that they didn’t want
more curbs.”  The government said in July that it will rein in
residential prices in smaller cities after it raised down-
payment requirements and mortgage rates earlier this year.  Nanchang, Urumqi  The central city of Nanchang posted the biggest increase
among the 70 cities monitored by the government, climbing 9.1
percent, the statistics bureau’s data for year-on-year price
changes showed. Prices in the western city of Urumqi rose 8.8
percent, the second-biggest gain.  Only two cities responded to the government’s July call for
added restrictions on housing purchases, adding to the 40,
including Beijing and Guangzhou, which tightened rules earlier
in the year.  Property prices are too high, according to 75.6 percent of
respondents to a central bank survey on Sept. 15, the highest
level since real-estate data was included in the quarterly poll
in 2009. The proportion of households that plan to buy property
next quarter dropped 0.4 percentage point to 14.2 percent, the
survey showed.  ‘ Turning Point ’  “It’s hard to tell where the turning point of China’s
housing prices is as the country is so big,” Yao said ahead of
yesterday’s release. “For sure home prices will fall first in
cities that imposed the strictest measures.”  Existing home prices in Beijing last month rose 1.9 percent
from a year earlier, while prices in Shanghai rose 3.7 percent,
according to the statistics bureau.  “Buyers are watching how much prices the developers will
cut and more and more people are waiting,” said Jinsong Du, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG.
“This will first drag down the transaction volume.”  China’s property prices may retreat in the next 12 to 18
months as banks curb loans to developers, Hong Kong billionaire
developer Vincent Lo said earlier this month in an interview.  China may relax tightening policies in the first or second
quarter next year as the slowdown in economic growth will likely
exceed market expectations and the inflation rate eases to the
government’s target, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
The economy may grow more slowly than expected because of a
global slowdown and government measures to curb the  property
market , analysts led by  Li Huiyong  wrote in a report today.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  