-- 
China Home Prices Keep Rising,  Challenging Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-18T04:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/china-home-prices-rise-in-cities-in-august-challenging-governnment-curbs.html
China’s new- home prices  rose in
August in all 70 cities monitored by policy makers, challenging
the government’s efforts this year to control property prices.  Prices in Beijing rose 1.9 percent from a year ago, while
those in  Shanghai , the nation’s financial center, increased 2.8
percent, the statistics bureau said on its website today.  China’s measures to control its  property market  are at a
critical stage and the nation needs to focus efforts on curbing
price increases in less affluent cities, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
on Sept. 1. The government said in July that it will rein in
residential prices in smaller cities after it raised down-
payment requirements and mortgage rates earlier this year.  “Asset prices in  China ’s second- and third-tier cities are
still rising rapidly, as local governments are reluctant to
place more strict policies,” said Liu Li-Gang, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
a phone interview. “Especially some western and central cities
are facing big pressure to pay out debts, while their main
revenue comes from land sales.”  The central city of Nanchang posted the biggest increase
among the 70 cities, climbing 9.1 percent, the statistics
bureau’s data for year-on-year showed. Prices in the western
city of Urumqi rose 8.8 percent, the second-biggest gain.  Little Response  Only two cities responded to the government’s July call for
added restrictions on housing purchase, compared with the 40
metropolitan areas, including Beijing and Guangzhou, that
tightened rules earlier in the year.  Property prices are too high according to 75.6 percent of
respondents to a central bank survey on Sept. 15, the highest
level since real-estate data was included in the quarterly poll
in 2009. The proportion of households that plan to buy property
next quarter dropped 0.4 percentage point to 14.2 percent, the
survey showed.  Prices in Beijing, Shanghai and 29 of 68 other cities
monitored by the government were unchanged from July, the
statistics bureau said.  “It’s hard to tell where the turning point of China’s
housing prices is as the country is so big,” Yao Wei, a Hong
Kong-based economist with Societe Generale SA, said ahead of the
release today. “For sure home prices will fall first in cities
that imposed the strictest measures.”  Existing home prices in Beijing last month rose 1.9 percent
from a year earlier, while prices in Shanghai rose 3.7 percent,
according to the statistics bureau.  Mixed Results  Property companies reported mixed results last month.
 Country Garden Holdings Co. (2007)  said its August sales hit a record
at 5.9 billion yuan, while China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
developer, said sales dropped 13 percent from a year earlier.  There are no signs of a significant sales slowdown this
month as most developers said their sales-to-date are on track
with more new projects, according to a Sept. 14 Deutsche Bank
report led by analysts including  Tony Tsang .  China’s property prices may retreat in the next 12 to 18
months as banks curb loans to developers, Hong Kong billionaire
developer Vincent Lo said earlier this month in an interview.  Some cities which posted rapid gains in home prices are
facing pressure to bring them down, according to  Societe
Generale , though it’s unlikely the government will issue more
nationwide property policies.  “China’s property policies are in a ‘dead lock’ right
now,” Yao said. “Many local governments have complained that
they didn’t want more curbs.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  