-- 
Crude Drops to One-Week Low on Signals Oil-Demand Growth Slowing

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-19T12:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/crude-oil-drops-for-a-second-day-in-new-york-trading-slides-one-percent.html
Oil fell to a one-week low in  New
York  on speculation fuel demand will falter as economic growth
in the U.S. weakens and the debt crisis in  Europe  worsens. Brent
oil’s premium to U.S. futures widened.  Crude dropped as much as 1.8 percent after European finance
ministers ruled out using stimulus measures to spur the economy.
OPEC Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri said today that global
demand for oil is rising less than expected. Reports this week
may show U.S. home sales held near the lowest this year and
construction fell. Government data last week showed U.S. fuel
use shrank.  “The increasingly gloomy economic situation might stop
crude’s recent upward trend,” analysts led by  David Wech  at
Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH said in a note today.  Oil for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell as much as $1.61 to $86.35 a barrel, the lowest
price since Sept. 12, and was at $86.85 at 1:28 p.m. London
time. The more actively traded November contract slid $1.23
cents, or 1.4 percent, to $86.95. Front-month futures have lost
5.2 percent this year.  Brent crude  for November settlement dropped 72 cents to
$111.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
Exchange. The European benchmark future was at a premium of
$24.55 to the November price of West Texas Intermediate.  OPEC Outlook  El-Badri said fiscal woes in Europe and high unemployment
in the U.S. are curbing global oil-demand growth. Crude supply
from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries may be
boosted by 500,000 to 600,000 barrels a day from  Libya ’s eastern
and western fields “soon,” he said at a conference in Dubai.  Fighting in Libya since February has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Oil in New York also declined after front-month futures
failed to breach the 50-day moving average for a fourth day on
Sept. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
indicator is at $90.16 a barrel today. Investors tend to sell
contracts when a price advance stalls below a technical-
resistance level.  Negative Turn  European finance leaders meeting with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  last week in  Poland  said their 18-
month debt crisis leaves no room for tax cuts or extra spending
to spur an economy that will barely grow in the second half of
2011. The 17 euro nations accounted for about 12 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy.  “If the markets were looking for a positive, meaningful
surprise from the two days of talks going on in Europe, they did
not get it,”  Edward Meir , a New York-based analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. said in a note today. “As a result of the looming
deadlock with  Greece  and the rather inconclusive negotiations,
we could see a negative turn for commodity markets.”  U.S. housing starts dropped 2.3 percent in August from
July, according to the median estimate of 64 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before a Commerce Department report tomorrow.
Existing-home sales probably rose 1.7 percent from an eight-
month low, a separate poll showed.  Hedge-Fund Bets  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil by the most since
March in the week ended Sept. 13 as a storm curtailed production
in the  Gulf of Mexico , according to the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report.  On  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange, hedge funds and
other money managers trimmed speculative bets that Brent prices
will rise by 4.8 percent in the week ended Sept. 13, according
to ICE  data . Long positions, in futures an options combined,
outnumbered short positions by 68,994 contracts, compared with
72,455 a week earlier.  No named storms or tropical cyclones are active in the
Atlantic or Pacific, the U.S. National Hurricane Center’s
website shows. Tropical Storm Maria was downgraded to a post-
tropical cyclone on Sept. 16 after crossing Newfoundland,
according to the center.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  