-- 
Denmark’s Housing Market Faces Correction as Buyers Shun 25% Overvaluation

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-09-19T11:33:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/danish-property-market-may-see-correction-amid-25-overvaluation.html
Denmark’s  property market  may be
facing another slump after a housing boom that turned to bust
at the height of the financial crisis failed to push prices
low enough to entice buyers.  The Nordic country’s housing market may still be as much as
25 percent overvalued, according to Jes Asmussen, chief
economist in Copenhagen at Svenska Handelsbanken AB.  “Denmark is at risk of getting trapped in a very, very
slow growth environment,” Asmussen said in an interview.
“There’s a risk that we will lose credibility in the financial
markets in the long run.”  House prices plunged 16 percent from a 2007 peak through
the first quarter of 2009 as a construction and lending boom
ended. The collapse triggered a banking crisis that has claimed
more than a dozen lenders and turned  Denmark  into  Scandinavia ’s
worst-performing economy. House prices dropped an annual 3.2
percent in the second quarter as the market remains “frozen”
and properties for sale reached a record high, the Association
of Danish Mortgage Banks said Sept. 15.  While Asmussen doesn’t expect the property market will
suffer a sudden drop, prices will probably fall about 5 percent
this year and 2 percent in 2012, he said. Any increases in
subsequent years will only feed through “very slowly,” he
said.  Bank Shares  Shares in Danske Bank A/S, the parent company of Denmark’s
second-biggest mortgage lender Realkredit Danmark A/S, dropped
as much as 5.3 percent today and were trading 4.1 percent lower
at 66.45 kroner at 1:22 p.m. in Copenhagen. Denmark’s benchmark
OMXC20 Index lost 1.2 percent. Nykredit, the country’s biggest
home loan provider, isn’t listed.  The new government led by Social Democrat Helle Thorning- Schmidt, who won last week’s election after pledging to spend
more on welfare, has proposed suspending some property taxes in
an effort to revive the housing market. Failure to resurrect the
market may undermine any recovery prospects for the Danish
economy.  “The economy is highly dependent on the housing market
getting into gear again,” Niels Roenholt, a senior economist at
Jyske Bank A/S, said in an interview. “If we want to see high
growth in the economy, we have to see a turn-around in the
housing market.”  The difference between the yield on Denmark’s 10-year
government bond and similar-maturity German bunds grew to 25
basis points today, the widest since Aug. 19.  Near Standstill  Lackluster household spending and weak exports prompted the
central bank to cut its 2011 economic growth forecast this month
to 1.25 percent from close to 2 percent previously. The European
Union said in a Sept. 15 report that the worsening outlook for
the sovereign debt crisis may bring the 27-nation region “close
to standstill at year-end.”  Denmark’s bond markets have so far enjoyed a haven status
amongst investors eager to flee the euro area’s debt crisis.
Still, that may change if the country’s housing market doesn’t
recover, Asmussen said.  The difference in yield between Denmark’s 10-year
government bond and German bunds of a similar maturity has
averaged 21 basis points since the end of April, a narrower
spread than that of any euro member. At the same time, mortgage
auctions have drawn an increasing number of foreign investors,
attracted by the relative safety of the country’s covered bonds.  Default Swaps  Yields fell 24 basis points from a year earlier in a
Nykredit A/S auction this month. The  interest rate  on one-year
bonds used to finance adjustable-rate mortgages fell to 1.02
percent in a Sept. 13 auction, the country’s biggest mortgage
bank said Sept. 14. Investors offered to buy more than four
times the amount offered.  Denmark’s central bank, which uses monetary policy to keep
the krone pegged to the euro, has also cut rates twice since
August to offset krone gains.  Still, credit default swaps on Danish five-year bonds have
risen more than contracts on equivalent German debt. Danish
swaps have surged 42 percent since the beginning of August,
compared with a 29 percent rise for German contracts, according
to CMA. Swedish CDS gained 23 percent in the period.  Denmark’s budget deficit will exceed the EU’s 3 percent
limit and reach 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this year,
before widening to 4.6 percent in 2012, the  Finance Ministry 
said Aug. 24. The average deficit in the euro area will be 4.3
percent in 2011 and improve to 3.5 percent in 2012, according to
the European Commission’s latest forecasts from May.  Bubble Fallout  Denmark continues to suffer from the effects of a housing
bubble that other European economies largely avoided, Peter Birch Soerensen, an economics professor at Copenhagen University
and former so-called  Wise Man  at Denmark’s Economic Council,
said in a Sept. 13 phone interview.  “A lot of housing wealth was destroyed” when the bubble
burst, Soerensen said. “Consumers are now saving a lot to
partly restore their wealth position.”  Private spending, which accounts for about half of the
economy, fell a quarterly 0.3 percent in the three months
through June after slipping 0.9 percent in the first quarter,
the  statistics agency  reported Aug. 31.  Government measures to galvanize consumption and revive the
economy by giving homeowners tax rebates for refurbishments
probably won’t succeed, according to a consumer survey by EDC
A/S, Denmark’s largest independent real estate broker.  Paying Down Debt  More than half of those surveyed said they would use extra
income to pay off debt first and then save. Asked what they
would do with an extra 10,000 kroner a month, 27 percent said
they would pay down debt, the EDC poll of 1,300 homeowners
showed.  Declining property values are also putting pressure on
Danish mortgage lenders to boost collateral buffers. Mortgage
banks put up an extra 200 million kroner in collateral in the
second quarter to comply with loan-to-value regulations for the
covered bonds backing the home loans, the  Financial Supervisory
Authority  said Sept. 15. The banks voluntarily raised their
reserves a further 11 billion kroner, the FSA said.  The covered bond rules requiring collateral adjustments if
 house prices  change apply to 69 percent of Danish mortgage
lenders. Moody’s Investors Service in June also warned lenders
they must raise collateral buffers on adjustable-rate mortgages
to keep their Aaa credit grades, citing potential refinancing
risks.  “The major risk is that there’s such a large number of
houses for sale,” Roenholt said. “Low interest rates should be
able to help this somewhat, but no one really knows how this is
going to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Tasneem
Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  