-- 
German Stocks Fall After Merkel’s Election Defeat; VW Declines

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-19T16:11:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/derby-cycle-siemens-and-volkswagen-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks retreated for the
first time in a week after Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party was
defeated in a Berlin state election, adding to concern that
European leaders may not be able to resolve the debt crisis.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , the nation’s largest
lenders, fell more than 4 percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) 
led a selloff in carmakers, retreating more than 2 percent.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  declined with metal prices.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 2.8 percent to 5,415.91 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge advanced last week as
Germany and France said Greece will remain a euro member and the
 European Central Bank  announced measures with the  Federal
Reserve  to ensure banks have enough dollars. The measure has
still retreated 28 percent from this year’s high on May 2. The
broader HDAX Index declined 2.7 percent today.  There are rising concerns that  Greece  “may not be eligible
for the next tranche of financial-aid funds,” said Anita Paluch, senior sales trader at Gekko Global Markets Ltd. in
 London . “Its austerity measures have shown little impact on
curbing the debt crisis and it is unlikely to meet the deficit
targets planned for this year.”  Greece’s ability to avoid default hangs in the balance this
week as international monitors prepare to assess whether Prime
Minister George Papandreou can meet the conditions of rescue
loans. The Greek leader canceled a U.S. visit that was to begin
yesterday, saying he needed to remain in the country for a
“critical” seven days.  Conference Call  European Union and International Monetary Fund inspectors
are holding a teleconference today with Greece’s Finance
Minister, Evangelos Venizelos, to judge whether the government
is eligible for an aid payment due in October.  In Germany, the Social Democrats, the main opposition party
nationally, extended their 10-year rule in the German capital
after beating Merkel’s Christian Democrats into second place in
yesterday’s election. Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition
partner, known as the liberals, crashed out of a regional
assembly for the fifth time this year, while the Pirate Party
won its first-ever seats.  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank, slid 4.5 percent to
23.96 euros, while smaller competitor Commerzbank lost 4.1
percent to 1.69 euros.  Carmakers Drop  Preferred shares of Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest carmaker,
sank 5.4 percent to 108.75 euros, while Daimler, the world’s
second-biggest maker of luxury cars, dropped 2.7 percent to
35.40 euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  fell 1.7 percent to
56.20 euros.  ThyssenKrupp and Salzgitter, Germany’s biggest steelmakers,
dropped 4 percent to 20.61 euros and 5.6 percent to 36.80 euros,
respectively. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and zinc all fell on the
London Metal Exchange today.  Siemens AG (SIE)  lost 2.1 percent to 68.61 euros. Europe’s
largest engineering company abandoned a planned return to the
nuclear-power industry, following the German government in its
retreat from atomic energy in the wake of the reactor
catastrophe in  Japan  earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  