-- 
Euro Weakens on Debt Crisis Plan Concern, Pares Its Loss After Greek Call

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-19T21:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/dollar-rises-against-euro-kiwi-australian-dollar-in-early-asia-trading.html
The euro weakened to almost a
seven-month low against the dollar after European officials
failed last week to offer a plan to halt the region’s debt
crisis as Greece struggles to avoid default.  The 17-nation currency pared losses against its major
counterparts after the Greek Finance Ministry said a conference
call with the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  was
productive. The dollar rose against all its major counterparts
except the yen as Treasury two-year yields fell to a record
before the  Federal Reserve  begins its two-day meeting tomorrow.
Norway’s krone fell as  oil prices  declined.  “The Greek government is trying to do what it’s being
asked to do and my core case is that we get a disbursement of
the quarterly tranche, but that doesn’t mean we won’t have the
same issue in December,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director
of currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. Nordvig
spoke on a Bloomberg Television interview with  Carol Massar  and
 Matt Miller  on “Street Smart.”  The euro depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3686 at 5 p.m. in
 New York , after falling as much as 1.5 percent. It touched
$1.3495 on Sept. 12, the least since February.  The shared currency weakened 1.1 percent to 104.82 yen,
after sliding to 103.90 on Sept. 12, the lowest level since June
2001. The yen rose 0.3 percent to 76.58 per dollar. It reached
record strength of 75.95 on Aug. 19, spurring the  Bank of Japan 
to sell 4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion) in the  currency market 
during August, the nation’s biggest currency intervention in
seven years.  ‘Risk Aversion’  “The yen is catching up on the risk-aversion flows that
we’re seeing today with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down
200 points,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York. “People are
trying to probe and see how serious the BOJ is about defending
the levels. If dollar-yen comes near the 75 level that’s where
we think the BOJ will intervene.”  Japan  may outline measures to counter the strong yen as
early as tomorrow, Economic Policy Minister Motohisa Furukawa
signaled in remarks yesterday, Kyodo News reported. The package
will be aimed at reducing the impact of the currency’s gains on
local businesses, according to the report.  The yen has risen 7.7 percent in the past three months, the
best performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar, the third
best, has advanced 2.3 percent.  Greek Review  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held a
conference call with the heads of the EU and IMF mission to
 Athens . The country is struggling to convince critics that it
will be able to win a sixth tranche of loans to prevent default.  The call was “productive and substantive,” the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The talks will continue
in another teleconference tomorrow evening, the statement said.  After a two-day meeting of EU finance ministers and central
bankers ended Sept. 17 German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann rejected using
the  European Central Bank  to boost the euro-area rescue fund’s
firepower. “We don’t think that real economic and social
problems can be solved by means of monetary policy,” Schaeuble
told reporters. “That has never been the European model and it
won’t be.”  “The comments are worrisome in the sense that it has
really been the ECB that has provided some stability to the
euro-zone bond markets through the bond buying program,” said
 Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York. “There are limits, but that has done more to
support the bond markets and the euro than the politicians have
done and the other EU initiatives.”  Technical Weakness  The euro’s gain last week against the dollar won’t last and
the currency may depreciate to $1.3150, a level last reached in
January, Citigroup Inc. said, citing technical indicators. The
17-nation currency rose 1 percent last week.  The dollar also rallied as investors bought the nation’s
debt as a refuge amid stock declines. The Treasury two-year
yield fell to a record of 0.1451 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declined 1 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners including the euro, yen and
pound, advanced 0.6 percent to 77.084.  Fed Meets  The Federal Open Market Committee may decide to replace
some of the short-term Treasuries in the central bank’s $1.65
trillion portfolio with longer-maturity debt in a bid to lower
borrowing costs, according to economists at Wells Fargo & Co.,
Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Some analysts dub the
maneuver Operation Twist because it would bend long-term yields
lower.  “The operations at the Fed are likely to be less
accommodative than some policies they’ve pursued previously,”
said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “Operation Twist is much less
bearish for the dollar because you’re not changing the size of
the balance sheet.”  Futures traders increased bets the euro will weaken against
the dollar to the highest since July 2010, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Norway’s krone was the third-worst performer against the
dollar today as crude oil fell as much as 1.8 percent to $86.35
a barrel in New York, the lowest in a week.  The krone dropped 1.9 percent to 5.6811 per dollar from
5.5738. It declined 1.1 percent to 7.7759 versus the euro, from
7.6894.  Brazil ’s real touched the weakest level in more than a year
as concern  Greece  is headed for a default sapped demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The real declined 3.7 percent to 1.7976 per dollar. It
earlier touched 1.7994, the lowest since July 20, 2010. The
currency has lost 11 percent this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  