-- 
Doomsday Debt Machine Roars as Wizard Das Chides Buffett: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-09-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/doomsday-debt-machine-roars-as-wizard-das-chides-buffett-books.html
If you’re feeling suicidal, steer
clear of Satyajit Das.  His new book, “ Extreme Money ,” will leave you Googling
national debt clocks, clicking on  home-foreclosure maps  and
wondering if your  retirement plan  is a fata morgana.  Das is a derivatives specialist who wrote the acerbic
expose “Traders, Guns & Money.” An insider with an outsider’s
eye, he has spent more than three decades in the markets,
including stints at Merrill Lynch & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Now he has concocted an idiosyncratic yet withering
analysis of how 30 years of financial alchemy and excessive
credit have plunged us into what feels like a slow-motion
depression. (Surely something more than a “recession” is afoot
when 46.2 million Americans sink below the poverty line.)  When Das calls money “extreme,” he means that it has
broken loose from its traditional role. Money is no longer just
a store of value and a medium of exchange -- a claim on real
things in the real economy. It has instead become a room lined
with mirrors reflecting “the image of the world that money can
make possible.” Like the  Mirror of Erised  in  Harry Potter ’s
world of wizards, it shows only what we desire.  “Extreme money was money made endless, capable of infinite
multiplication, completely unreal,” Das writes. “It changed
everything -- individual life, business, even countries.”  Financial Fundamentalism  Das addresses, one by one, the overarching themes of the
great credit boom and bust of the late 20th century -- from the
collapse of the Bretton Woods currency system to the rise of
financial fundamentalism, with its dogmatic belief in the
efficient-market hypothesis. It all adds up to what he calls a
“doomsday debt machine.”  His quirky style is an acquired taste, and the material he
presents, though voluminous, is -- dare I say it? -- derivative.
A refracted almanac of facts and statistics, the text dispenses
with traditional chronology, sometimes presents opinions as
fact, and is marbled with quotations from the likes of  Will
Rogers  and John  Maynard Keynes . On one page, German sociologist
Max Weber rubs shoulders with  Sigmund Freud  and  Lewis Carroll .  Yet the cumulative effect is powerful, making this omnium-
gatherum a book to be studied, ideally in short bursts rather
than in one go. His grasp of minutiae is strong, his summations
concise:  Belgium , my adopted home, is described in passing as a
land “where the two main ethnic groups shared little more than
a king and a large amount of public debt.” Too right.  Russian Roulette  Black humor is Das’s natural medium, and he gave me a
rueful chuckle every few pages. One table lists his unofficial
definitions of debt ratings: Triple C, he says, connotes
“Russian roulette with five bullets in the chamber.”  You know that a writer is hard to pigeonhole when the
advance praise compares him to both Candide and Hunter S. Thompson. I prefer to view Das as a modern-day Ishmael with an
attitude, a weathered seaman who has witnessed firsthand the
crazed hunt of hedge-fund captains for alpha, the great whale of
superior investment returns.  Few heroes appear in these pages, only rogues, charlatans
and suckers of all shapes and sizes.  John Paulson ’s legendary
bet against the U.S. housing bubble is dismissed as a
“parasitical” feeding on human misery.  Alan Greenspan  is
fingered for championing adjustable-rate mortgages and worse.
Even  Warren Buffett  comes under scrutiny.  Jets and Sokol  Das praises Buffett’s thriftiness and foresight about the
intoxicating effects of “effortless money.” He also faults the
Sage of Omaha for activities at odds with his image, including
his use of private jets and his initial defense of  David Sokol ,
the Berkshire Hathaway Inc. executive who bought some $10
million in  Lubrizol Corp. (LZ)  shares shortly before recommending,
successfully, that Berkshire buy the company.  No one in this book is without sin, including the author,
it seems. In the epilogue, Das describes how he helped one bank
tweak its valuation models during the crisis, allowing it to
“increase the margin calls and the cash the other side must pay
up. In finance, flexibility and split personalities are
important.”  Though I put down this book with a jumble of admiration,
exhaustion and depression, I could only endorse the conclusion.
“There is no simple, painless solution” to the fix we’re in,
Das writes. “The world has to reduce debt, shrink the financial
part of the economy, and change the destructive incentive
structures in finance. Individuals in developed countries have
to save more and spend less.”  It all comes down to common sense, which is uncommonly rare
these days.  “Extreme Money: Masters of the Universe and the Cult of
Risk” is published by  FT Press  (459 pages, $29.99, 20 pounds).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 