-- 
Hedge Funds Cut Bullish Bets on Commodity Prices Amid ‘Contraction Fear’

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-09-19T21:30:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/hedge-funds-cut-bullish-bets-on-commodity-prices-amid-contraction-fear-.html
Funds cut their bullish bets on raw
materials for the first time in five weeks on speculation that
demand for food, fuel and metals will decline as the European
debt crisis deepens.  In the week ended Sept. 13, speculators lowered their net-
long positions in 18 commodities by 5.2 percent to 1.21 million
futures and options contracts, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That was the first drop since early August.
Funds slashed bullish bets on copper by 91 percent, and became
bearish on wheat for the first time in four weeks. Wagers on
rallies in gold, corn and gasoline also were reduced.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities has
tumbled 16 percent since reaching a two-year high in April as
escalating debt woes in  Europe  and the U.S. raised concern that
global growth will stagnate. European finance ministers ruled
out efforts to prop up the faltering economy and gave no
indication of providing aid for lenders at a Sept. 16 meeting.  “People are fearful of global contraction, based on
everything that’s going on in Europe,” Jeffrey Sherman, who
helps manage $16 billion for DoubleLine Capital in  Los Angeles ,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a sense of nervousness
about the markets, so it’s a risk-off type of trade.”  Investors placed 29 percent less cash in commodity
exchange-traded products in the first seven months of the year,
Roxanna Mohammadian-Molina, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said
in a Sept. 14 report. Societe Generale SA’s global asset-
allocation team went “underweight” on commodities last week,
saying that the asset class is in the “danger zone.”  Copper Bets  In the week ended Sept. 13,  hedge funds  and other money
managers cut their net-long positions in copper to 300
contracts, compared with 3,221 a week earlier, according to data
from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Copper for
December delivery dropped 3.8 percent to settle at $3.7825 a
pound today on on the Comex in  New York , after losing 1.8
percent last week and 3 percent the week before.  Global copper stockpiles have climbed 4.7 percent since
July 1, signaling waning demand. Swings in the price of the
metal, used in homes, cars and automobiles, have been used by
economists including former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan
Greenspan  as a gauge for the economic outlook. Copper in New
York has dropped 16 percent since touching a record in February.  “The industrial metals, with copper as a barometer, say
there is fear out there,” Sherman said.  Funds fled industrial metals and agricultural commodities
because “it’s very hard to see where growth is coming from,
especially if there’s a messy default in Europe,” said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research at EPFR Global, which tracks
investment flows.  $692 Million  Investors put $692 million into commodity funds in the week
ended Sept. 14, data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR
show. Gold and precious-metal funds had an inflow of $938
million, while all other commodity funds saw an outflow of $246
million, Brandt said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures, which surged to a record $1,923.70 an ounce
on Sept. 6, are up 25 percent this year as economic turmoil
boosted demand for a haven asset. Net-long investments in gold
fell 6.1 percent to 185,767 contracts last week.  A measure of net-long positions for 11 agricultural
commodities slumped 7.8 percent to 843,292 contracts, the
biggest drop since Aug. 9.  Corn, Wheat  Corn prices slid 6 percent last week and wheat dropped to a
five-week low on Sept. 15. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  on
Sept. 12 estimated that global demand for corn-based fuel and
livestock feed will decline. Countries including Russia, Ukraine
and  Canada  have boosted wheat production, increasing competition
for U.S. supplies, the USDA said.  Funds cut their net-long positions in corn by 10 percent to
298,333 contracts, according to the CFTC data. Funds were net-
short in wheat by 11,150 contracts, after being net-long by
13,495 contracts a week earlier.  “There’s no hiding in any particular asset or any
particular commodity when people are liquidating funds to raise
cash,” Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage $1.3 billion at San
Francisco-based hedge fund Harvest Capital Strategies, said in a
telephone interview. “Everything is correlated. That does
create a real worry for me, in a sense, that what goes on in
 Greece  and Spain and  Italy  has an impact here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  