-- 
Berlin Election Deepens Merkel’s Coalition Rift Over Euro Crisis Response

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-19T07:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/merkel-s-party-defeated-in-berlin-as-spd-retains-state-in-vote.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party was defeated in a Berlin state election and her coalition
ally lost all its seats after turning skepticism over euro-area
bailouts into a campaign theme, stoking government infighting
over the debt crisis.  The  Social Democrats , the main opposition party nationally,
extended their 10-year rule in the German capital after beating
Merkel’s Christian Democrats into second place in yesterday’s
election. Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner, known as
the liberals, crashed out of a regional assembly for the fifth
time this year, while the  Pirate Party  won its first-ever seats.  The results in Berlin cap a year in which voters punished
Merkel’s coalition over its handling of the debt crisis and adds
to her pressure as she struggles to balance domestic fatigue
over shouldering euro-region rescues with international calls
that she do more to stem the contagion. That’s widening fissures
in her government as the three-way coalition descends into open
conflict over the euro’s future and financial aid for  Greece .  “The issue now is how long the liberals hold onto the
coalition, whether they break it off ahead of time,” Nils Diederich, a politics professor at Berlin’s Free University,
said by phone. “The FDP are being pushed into the corner more
and more, so you can’t rule out that they could pull off
something like that to gain from it politically.”  Preliminary Results  The Social Democrats took 28.3 percent in Berlin to secure
a third term for SPD Mayor Klaus Wowereit, while the Christian
Democrats had 23.4 percent, preliminary results showed. The
Greens had 17.6 percent, their best-ever result in the city, and
the Left 11.7 percent. That means the current SPD-Left coalition
cannot resume power and the SPD can choose to govern with either
the Greens or the CDU as junior coalition partner.  The result is an acknowledgement of the Merkel government’s
woes, said  Sigmar Gabriel , SPD leader. His party, which supports
euro bonds and a bigger euro rescue fund, has now entered the
state government in each of the eight state elections held this
year and last.  “The SPD is back,” Gabriel said.  The  Pirate Party , which campaigned on open access to
technology and Internet freedom, took 8.9 percent to win its
first seats in any legislature in Germany’s 16 states. The FDP
had 1.8 percent, its worst result in Berlin since World War II.  The “dramatic” loss of support for the FDP shows “euro-
skeptic populism has no place” in the political landscape, Cem Oezdemir, the Greens co-leader, said on ZDF.  Euro ‘Duty’  Economy Minister Philipp Roesler, who leads the FDP
nationally, put an “orderly default” for Greece on the table
last week, further roiling financial markets and earning him
rebukes from Merkel’s party. Merkel responded by sharpening her
arguments in defense of the euro, saying  Germany  has a “duty”
to preserve the joint currency because it helps exports, makes
the country richer and underpins Europe.  “Angela Merkel made clear that the CDU stands true to its
pro-European ideals,”  Peter Altmaier , the CDU’s chief whip in
the federal parliament, said on ZDF. “Some euro-skeptic posters
went up in the last days of the campaign and they didn’t make
any impact,” he said, without saying to which party he was
referring.  The Free Democrats made critical remarks over Germany’s
participation in rescues for fellow euro members Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  in their Berlin campaign. In a radio ad posted on
the FDP website, the party said that “as a taxpayer, you
shouldn’t pay other countries’ debts. Vote for the FDP.”  Not ‘Posturing’  “Our position on the future of  Europe  wasn’t posturing for
this or any other election,” Christian Lindner, FDP general
secretary, told reporters in Berlin in comments broadcast live.
“It was about taking on our responsibility for Europe and for
our currency, and we will hold firm to that.”  The Free Democrats have struck a more skeptical tone on
bailouts as the lower house of parliament, the Bundestag,
prepares for a Sept. 29 vote on an overhauled European Financial
Stability Facility that includes sovereign bond-buying powers.  The party is likely to hold a members’ vote on their
attitude toward the EFSF’s successor from 2013, the European
Stability Mechanism, which is due to go the Bundestag later this
year or early next year, the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper
cited Lindner as saying in an interview on Sept. 17.  A governing coalition between the  Christian Democrats  and a
“fundamentally euro-skeptic” party would be unthinkable, CDU
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told Bild am Sonntag in an
interview the same day.  ‘Credibility Problem’  The euro is a “core issue” for the Free Democrats and the
party isn’t about to back down from its stance “because it
didn’t hit the right notes with Berlin voters,” Bjoern Saenger,
a federal FDP lawmaker and member of the lower house of
parliament’s finance committee, said in a telephone interview.  “Markets seek clarity and it must be clear to anyone that
the Greek patient is being kept alive artificially,” Saenger
said. “The FDP has a credibility problem but giving ground on
our position on the crisis would worsen matters. The days when
Germany would just reach for the check book to solve a problem
in Europe are coming to a close. Somebody needs to say it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  