-- 
Euro Bulls Capitulating After Trichet Turnaround Leaves Redeker at $1.25

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k ,   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-19T20:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/euro-bulls-capitulating-after-trichet-turnaround-leaves-redecker-at-1-25.html
The rebound in the euro and
European stocks last week may prove short-lived in the face of
increasing pessimism over the region’s debt, if money-market and
derivative trading are any indication.  While the 17-nation currency strengthened 1 percent against
the dollar and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 2.5 percent, U.S.
short-term debt funds have reduced lending to European banks and
the cost for financial institutions to fund themselves in
dollars rose. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley cut
forecasts for the euro this month, and bets against the currency
rose to the most in more than a year.  French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said Sept. 14 they’re “convinced” Greece, which
saw yields on its two-year note rise above 80 percent last week,
will stay in the currency union. Central banks agreed a day
later to lend the region’s financial institutions dollars. While
those moves bolstered the euro, the region’s economy has
weakened, leading traders to bet the  European Central Bank  will
lower interest rates over the next year instead of raising them,
removing a key support for the currency.  “The euro weakness is legitimate and justifiable,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney,  Australia ’s second-largest lender, said in a telephone
interview on Sept. 13. “The stark reality is that Greece is
never going to pay its debt in full and that all the various
patch-up jobs are not going to solve it.”  Net Shorts  Wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a drop
in the euro climbed to 54,459 in the week ended Sept. 13, the
largest so-called net short position since July 2010 data, and
down from net longs of 2,539 on Aug. 23, statistics from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The euro dropped 0.8 percent to $1.3693 at 4:56 p.m. in  New
York , after sliding to $1.3495 on Sept. 12, the weakest level
since Feb. 16. It pared losses against its major counterparts
after the Greek Finance Ministry said a conference call with the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  was “productive
and substantive.”  Last week’s gain included a jump of 0.9 percent when the
Frankfurt-based ECB said it will coordinate with the  Federal
Reserve  and other central banks to conduct three dollar
liquidity operations to ensure banks have enough of the U.S.
currency through year-end.  European banks have struggled to get funding for dollar
assets after U.S. money-market mutual funds cut short-term
lending. The three-month loans will be in addition to the bank’s
regular seven-day dollar offerings.  Weakness Resumed  A day later, the euro was falling again, sliding 0.6
percent against the dollar and 0.5 percent versus the yen.  Goldman Sachs lowered its year-end forecast for the euro
against the dollar to $1.40 on Sept. 14 from $1.45. The common
currency may drop to $1.25 by the end of March, Morgan Stanley
analysts led by  Hans Redeker , head of foreign-exchange strategy
in  London , wrote in a note on Sept. 13. Nomura Holdings Inc. cut
its year-end prediction to $1.30 from $1.40 citing increasing
stress in Europe’s fixed-income markets.  The so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate was at minus 3.53
percent today. A negative rate signals greater demand for euro
puts relative to calls. Calls grant the right to purchase a
currency, while puts allow for sales.  Credit Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps tied to 15 governments rose as high as 354.5 basis
points on Sept. 12 before ending the week at 323.6. The index
has climbed from this year’s low of 157.4 on April 8, signaling
a deterioration in the perception of credit quality.  A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros of
debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “The change in our forecast has to do with the ongoing
deterioration of the euro-zone bond markets,”  Jens Nordvig ,
global head of Group of 10 foreign exchange strategy in New York
at Nomura, said in a telephone interview Sept. 16.  The rebound in the euro on Sept. 15 “was a bit ironic as
these swap lines have been in place for a while,” he said. “It
really is not a new policy, just an extension of the maturity
they were offering.”  Yields to Rise  In the fourth quarter, the European Financial Stability
Facility will take over the role from the ECB of buying debt of
nations such as Spain and Portugal, which will likely cause
yields to rise as the 440 billion-euro fund has a limited
capacity, Nordvig said. Higher yields for the region’s most-
indebted nations will raise the risk of owning euros, he said.  Speculating on a weaker euro means betting against the
ability of Merkel and Sarkozy to keep the EU together. The two
said last week in a joint statement that “it is more than ever
indispensable” to “assure the stability of the euro zone.”  “Decisive action” by Europe’s leaders may push the euro
toward $1.50 by year-end, Pierre Lequeux, head of currency
management in London at Aviva Investors, which manages about
$410 billion, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 15.  “I can’t believe that European leaders will be so reckless
to let the whole situation go after the time and effort they
have invested in making the euro work,” he said. While “there
is a valid argument to play it to the downside, there’s a lot of
risk you could get caught.”  ‘Unpayable’ Debt  While the exit by  Greece  from the euro wouldn’t lead to a
breakup of the European Union or the shared currency, it would
expose flaws in Europe’s political system that would undermine
investors’ confidence. Mario Blejer, who managed Argentina’s
central bank in the aftermath of the world’s biggest sovereign
default, said Greece should halt payments on its debt to stop a
deterioration of the economy that threatens the EU.  “This debt is unpayable,” Blejer, who was also an adviser
to  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King from 2003 to 2008, said
in an interview last week in Buenos Aires. “Greece should
default, and default big. A small default is worse than a big
default and also worse than no default.”  Greece’s debt is about 140 percent of its economy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
about 59 percent for the U.S. at the end of 2010.  Even as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened this year,
the euro received support from prospects the ECB would raise
 interest rates  to contain inflation. Now, that is looking less
likely after ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  on Sept. 8, after the central bank left
its benchmark rate at 1.5 percent, that threats to the euro
region have worsened and inflation risks have eased.  Growth, Rates  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said. Financing conditions
have worsened in parts of the euro region and the ECB is
prepared to pump more cash into markets, he said.  Growth in the euro region decelerated to 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three months as
governments cut spending to rein in budget deficits. Services
and manufacturing growth slowed in August, with a composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries dropping to 50.7 from 51.1 in July, Markit Economics
said on Sept. 5. A figure above 50 indicates growth.  A Credit Suisse Group AG index of traders’ bets on how much
the ECB will change its benchmark rate over the next 12 months,
showed expectations for the biggest cut in 2 1/2 years, at 34
basis points, or 0.34 percentage point, following the central
bank’s policy meeting on Sept. 8.  Funds Cut Back  The cost for European banks to fund in dollars through the
foreign-exchange swaps market rose the day following the
coordinated central bank move. The price to convert euro-based
payments into dollars, as measured by three-month cross-currency
basis swaps, ended last week at 87.125 basis points below the
euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, from 81.91 the day
before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has
expanded from less than 8 basis points in May.  A gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend in euros, the three-
month Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between Euribor and
overnight indexed swaps, ended last week at 75.25 basis points.
While that is down from 84.6 on Sept. 12, the most since March
2009, it’s above the mean of 31.65 since the start of 2010.  The top 10 U.S. prime money-market mutual funds cut their
assets invested in securities including commercial paper issued
by European banks in July to the lowest level since 2008,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “Over the next month or so the bias overall for the euro
has to be down,” Callum Henderson, global head of foreign-
exchange research in  Singapore  at Standard Chartered Plc, said
in a telephone interview on Sept. 13. “We’ve seen a lot of
headlines which were bearish for the euro.”  Rhetorical Gap  Concern the debt crisis will spread to bigger economies
escalated when  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
 France ’s second- and third-largest banks, had their ratings cut
by Moody’s Investors Service on Sept. 14. French lenders top the
list of Greek creditors with $56.7 billion in private and public
debt, according to a June report by the Basel, Switzerland-based
Bank for International Settlements.  Officials have contributed to investor skepticism. Bank of
France Governor Christian Noyer said Sept. 12 that French
lenders are capable of facing any Greek response to sovereign-
debt difficulties and have no liquidity or solvency problems.
Two days before Moody’s cut its long-term debt rating by one
level, Societe Generale’s Chief Executive Officer Frederic Oudea
told reporters on Sept. 12 that French banks “have no capital
problem.”  “Policy makers and bank leaders have all come out and said
‘everything is fine,’ but clearly everything is not fine,”
Louise Cooper, a market analyst at BGC International in London,
said in an interview on Sept. 14. “The gap between the rhetoric
and what the markets are saying about the level of the crisis is
huge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  