-- 
Euro Region Cannot Solve Debt Crisis by Cutting Interest Rates, BIS Says

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-18T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/euro-area-cannot-solve-debt-crisis-by-cutting-rates-bis-says.html
Euro area nations battling the
sovereign-debt crisis cannot remedy their problems by easing
monetary policy and must instead focus on reducing their fiscal
deficits, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  “This is not a monetary problem so there is no monetary
policy solution,” Stephen Cecchetti, head of the monetary and
economic department at the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS, told
reporters on a Sept. 16 conference call. “Since the fundamental
problem is sovereign debt, additional monetary policy stimulus
will not help.”  Traders are betting the  European Central Bank  will lower
its benchmark rate by 21 basis points over the next 12 months to
boost economic growth in the 17-member zone, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps. As recently as Aug.
1, the measure forecast an increase of 25 basis points following
two rises in the central  bank rate  to 1.5 percent this year.  “The problem is sovereign debt, and the credit risk it
creates, it is not liquidity per se,” said Cecchetti. “This is
a problem that only governments can solve. They need to spell
out clearly and credibly how they plan to put public finances on
a sustainable trajectory, and how in the process they intend to
ensure the soundness of their banking systems.”  The ECB and its counterparts in the U.K.,  Switzerland ,
 Japan  and the U.S. said Sept. 15 they’ll provide lenders with
unlimited dollars for three months in three tenders starting
October. They acted after dollar funding dried up for European
banks as speculation  Greece  won’t be able to avoid a default
sparked concern that euro-area lenders who hold the
Mediterranean nation’s bonds would be affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  