-- 
Italy Defeats Russia 53-17 at Rugby World Cup to Tie Second Place in Group

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-09-20T13:54:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/france-beats-canada-46-19-for-second-pool-win-at-rugby-world-cup.html
Italy  scored nine tries in beating
 Russia  53-17 in a Rugby  World Cup  Pool C match yesterday in
Nelson, New Zealand.  Italy, 10th in the International Rugby Board rankings,
outplayed its No. 21 opponents. The Italians lost their first
game 32-6 to Australia, and Russia, playing at its first World
Cup, lost 13-6 to the U.S.  Ireland leads the group on eight points, followed by
Australia and Italy on five, the U.S. with four and Russia one.
Italy’s bid to reach the quarterfinals for the first time may
hinge on a meeting with Ireland in Dunedin on Oct. 2.  “Russia were a very tough opposition,” Italy captain
Sergio Parisse told ITV4 after the bonus-point win for scoring
four or more tries. “We are very happy to have the victory. We
will take the five points as it was very important for us if we
are to have a chance to qualify. We are happy with the win but
we must continue to improve.”  Tonga  meets  Japan  in today’s only game. Tonga is in fourth
place in Pool A with one point, while Japan hasn’t gotten any
points from its first two games.  Yesterday, Italy led the Bears 38-7 at halftime after six
tries through Parisse, Giulio Toniolatti (2) Tommaso Benvenuti,
Edoardo Gori and a penalty try. Alexander Yanyushkin scored
Russia’s first-ever try at the tournament while Fabio Ongaro was
sin-binned for a foul tackle.  In the second half, Benvenuti, Luke McLean and Alessandro
Zanni went over for Italy, Vladimir Ostroushko and Alexey
Makovetskiy replying in a more assured performance by Russia.
Riccardo Bocchino kicked four conversions for Italy, with
Konstantin Rachkov adding one for the underdogs.  ‘Self-Destructed’  “We finished strong and the second-half result was good,
but we self-destructed a bit in the first 10 minutes,” Russia
technical director Kingsley Jones said. “Our discipline in
defense and at the breakdown was not good and we let ourselves
down at times, but I am pleased with how we fought back in the
second half.”  It was the 20th game of the 48-match tournament, marking
the halfway stage of the pool phase. All 20 teams have played
two games so far.  The hosts,  New Zealand , are tied with  France  on 10 points
atop Pool A ahead of their Sept. 24 matchup in Auckland, while
 England  and Scotland each have nine points in Pool B. Ireland’s
upset win over Australia last weekend gave it the three-point
lead in Pool C, while defending champion  South Africa  leads Pool
D by three points over Samoa.  Russia next plays Ireland in Rotorua on Sept. 25, and Italy
meets the U.S. in Nelson two days later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  