-- 
Fund Outflows Top Lehman at $75 Billion

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-09-19T20:08:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/fund-withdrawals-top-lehman-as-individuals-pull-75-billion-from-stocks.html
Investors have pulled more money
from U.S. equity funds since the end of April than in the five
months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
adding to the $2.1 trillion rout in American stocks.  About $75 billion was withdrawn from funds that focus on
shares during the past four months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg from the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group, and EPFR Global, a research firm
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Outflows totaled $72.8 billion from
October 2008 through February 2009, following Lehman’s
bankruptcy, the data show.  Bears say investors are abandoning stock managers because
there’s no end in sight to the decline that pushed the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index within 2.1 percentage points of a  bear market 
in August. Bulls say the retreat by individuals has been a
reason to buy since the bull market began in March 2009 and
withdrawals mean money is available to buy stocks in the future.  In the past, “when we’re getting close to a market bottom, 
the phone starts ringing off the hook and our clients want us to 
sell everything,” Bruce McCain, who helps manage $22 billion as
chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of
KeyCorp, said in a phone interview on Sept. 14. “Market bottoms
are less about an improvement in the fundamental situation,
whether the economy or outlook for earnings, and a lot more
about getting rid of all the anxious investors.”  Fund Outflows  About $177.7 billion has been removed during the past 30
months from mutual and exchange-traded funds that invest in U.S.
shares as the benchmark gauge for American equity rallied as
much as 102 percent, before falling 17.9 percent through Aug. 8.
Investors pumped in $18.7 billion during the first four months
of 2011, before removing about four times that amount since,
according to the average of data from EPFR and ICI, the money
managers’ trade group. The August estimate doesn’t include ETF
data from ICI.  Bond funds added $42.3 billion from the end of April
through July and started posting weekly outflows last month,
according to ICI. Since the  bull market  began, fixed-income
managers have received a net $666.4 billion.  The last time equity fund outflows exceeded $40 billion
during a four-month period was in August 2010, the data show.
The S&P 500, which completed a 16 percent decline the previous
month, went on to gain 13 percent through November. Monthly
outflows in the last two years exceeded $10 billion seven
different times. The S&P 500 advanced the next month in five of
those cases, according to Bloomberg data.  AllianceBernstein  The  stock index  dropped 1 percent to 1,204.09 at 4 p.m. New
York time today.  AllianceBernstein Holding LP’s assets under management
slipped 5 percent to $433 billion in August, “with retail in
particular affected by the month’s volatile capital markets,”
the New York-based company said in a Sept. 13 statement. Invesco
Ltd.’s equity assets fell 7.8 percent to $276.4 billion from
July, reflecting the “effects of negative market returns.”  Withdrawals accelerated in September and October 2008 as
Lehman’s bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history, dragged down
shares and spurred the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The  S&P 500  dropped 30 percent in two months.  Investors never got over that shock, said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham,  Alabama .  Banking Crisis Concern  Now, concern Greece will default and spur a banking crisis
has driven the S&P 500 down 11 percent since April, leaving it
trading at 13.3 times reported earnings, 20 percent less than
the last trading session before Lehman fell.  “It’s the once burnt, twice shy phenomenon,” Hellwig said
in a telephone interview on Sept. 12. “Investors are much less
risk tolerant than they have been in the past. You would think
that someone would say, ‘I can take a little bit of risk, look
at the P/E,’ but they just want to stay on the sidelines.”  The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities advanced 5.4 percent
to 1,216.01 last week, the third-biggest rally since 2009, after
central bankers said they would provide dollar loans for
European lenders and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said they’re convinced  Greece  will
remain in the euro area. The index has lost 3.3 percent in 2011
and is now up 80 percent from its March 2009 low.  Manufacturing Contraction  Bears say the withdrawals foreshadow more declines. Stocks
have fallen four straight months, losing 5.7 percent in August
after economists lowered forecasts for global economic growth,
manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted by the most
in more than two years and a debate in Congress over the  budget
deficit  prompted S&P to strip the U.S. of its AAA credit rating.  “The average investor is less financially and
psychologically prepared for this increased volatility,” Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment Management
Inc, who helps oversee about $76 billion from  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico , said in a Sept. 15 telephone interview. “They’re
staying out and there’s something of a secular move to a demand
for income and safety.”  Chances the global economy enters a recession have risen to
1-in-2, Nobel-prize winning economist  Paul Krugman  said Sept. 8.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees the chance of the second recession
since 2007 at 40 percent, according to a Sept. 7 note.  Bigger stock swings are leading individuals to sell shares,
Brady said. The VIX, the benchmark measure of U.S. equity
derivatives, surged 50 percent to 48 on Aug. 8 for the biggest
increase since February 2007 after S&P lowered its rating on
U.S. long-term debt to AA+. The VIX has averaged 20.43 over its
21-year history.  Frustrating Investors  “The individual investor is very frustrated and at their
wits’ end with the equity market, and it’s hard to blame them,”
 Walter Todd , who helps manage $940 million at  Greenwood Capital 
in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a Sept. 16 telephone
interview. “It’s certainly not going to help push the market
higher if you’ve got that constant drain.”  While BNY Mellon Wealth Management’s Leo Grohowski says he
understands the aversion to equity price swings, valuations are
too low to justify more selling. Of the 500 companies in the
benchmark equity index, 331 had price-earnings ratios at the end
of August lower than they were when the year began, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Lack of Confidence’  “There is this lack of confidence in equities as an asset
class just due to the volatility,” Grohowski, the chief
investment officer for BNY Mellon, which oversees $171 billion,
said in a telephone interview on Sept. 15. “But for investors
who are long term and intermediate term, the market is
undervalued. Now would not be a wise time to be reducing equity
exposure because there’s an awful lot of bad news or
expectations already priced in to the market.”  Outflows following September 2008 lasted through March
2009. During the last three months of 2008, companies were
reporting their fourth quarter of shrinking earnings and the
U.S. jobless rate was halfway through its climb to the highest
level since 1983. Gross domestic product slid 5.1 percent from
the fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the
most of any recession since the 1930s, according to Commerce
Department data.  Now, investors are withdrawing funds after companies beat
profit estimates for 10 straight quarters. The world’s largest
economy posted two years of growth and economists are calling
for GDP to expand 1.6 percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hoarding Cash  Corporations have been hoarding cash and paying down
borrowings. The S&P 500’s net debt to earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization ratio is down to 2.5 from 5
in the second quarter of 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
This year’s earnings will increase 18 percent to a record $99.57
a share and break $100 next year, according to the data.  DirecTV (DTV)  in El Segundo,  California , is trading at 14.4 times
reported earnings, a valuation 14 percent below the level at the
end of 2008. Since the third quarter of 2009, profits at the
largest U.S. satellite-television provider increased an average
64 percent each quarter. They’re forecast to rise 26 percent
next year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings at  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  retreated during the financial
crisis. While profits more than doubled in every quarter of
2010, the shares are down 17 percent this year. The largest U.S.
chemical maker fired workers, shut plants and sold assets to
bolster earnings. Since 2009, the Midland, Michigan-based
company has posted better-than-estimated sales in all but one
period.  When fund flows show investors bailing out of stocks at the
rate they are now, it’s usually bullish, Brian Barish, the
Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees
about $8 billion, wrote in a Sept. 15 e-mail.  “The five months after Lehman were an epic buying
opportunity, yet investors liquidated en masse,” Barish said.
“Retail unfortunately tends to time things poorly. I don’t
expect the current situation to be all that different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  