-- 
Google’s Schmidt Urges Support for Obama’s Jobs Bill, Government Stimulus

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-18T21:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/google-s-schmidt-urges-support-for-jobs-bill-federal-stimulus.html
Google Inc.  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
said lawmakers should approve more government stimulus to prompt
companies to hire, and called the political focus on cutting
spending “ludicrous.”  “The economy is, today, stuck behind the power curve -- it
needs a lot of encouragement,” Schmidt said in an interview
today on ABC’s “This Week with  Christiane Amanpour .” Without a
measure like President Barack Obama’s jobs bill, “we’re set up
for years of extraordinarily low growth in the economy and no
real solution to the jobless problem.”  Schmidt said lawmakers need to pass the  jobs bill , which is
aimed at helping small businesses expand and young people and
veterans find jobs. Obama proposed the $447 billion plan this
month, which includes initiatives to boost spending on school
construction and cut payroll taxes.  “Business can create enormous numbers of new jobs in
America, all we need to see is more demand,” Schmidt said.  Schmidt is  scheduled  to testify to a subcommittee of the
Senate Judiciary Committee on Sept. 21, followed by
representatives of companies who say  Mountain View , California-
based Google’s power via its Internet search engine is too vast.  The subcommittee is examining whether Google is hurting
competition in the Internet industry, a charge that Schmidt said
the company avoids by “focusing on the end user.”  Neither the U.S. nor the European Union authorities “have
complained against anything yet, but they’re looking and that’s
appropriate for a democracy,” he said. Regarding the results of
the inquiries, Schmidt said “we won’t know for a long time, but
I’m pretty comfortable that we are in pretty good shape.”  Jeff Katz, chief executive officer of Nextag Inc., and
Jeremy Stoppelman, CEO of Yelp Inc., also are scheduled to
testify at the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  