-- 
Greece Aid Talks Will Continue After ‘Productive’ Meeting

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-19T20:33:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/greece-s-next-aid-payment-in-the-balance-as-review-set-to-resume.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government will hold another call with its main creditors
tomorrow after a “productive” round of talks aimed at staving
off default.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos held “substantive”
discussions with European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials about securing a sixth instalment of rescue funds, the
Athens-based  finance ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
after a teleconference tonight. A second call will be held
tomorrow evening. U.S. stocks pared losses after the statement.  As Papandreou fights investor doubts and domestic
opposition, European leaders are squabbling over the terms of
the July agreement and the prospect that they will be forced to
channel more money to keep Greece in the currency union. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in an interview
today that  Europe  will eventually adopt some of the same
measures the U.S. took after the 2008 financial crisis.  “We can’t move along without real implementation of fiscal
reforms and we are late,” Venizelos said in Athens earlier
today. “We must reach the end of December with a cash balance
result that’s within fiscal targets.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index pared an earlier loss of
2.3 percent to close 1 percent lower at 1204.09 points. While
Greece says it has enough cash to cover its needs for October,
any disbursement of new funds would likely only see it through
to the end of the year.  Bond Plunge  Talks resumed after IMF and EU monitors earlier this month
suspended the review for a sixth tranche of loans following the
discovery of an unexpected hole in the budget.  Greek bonds plunged today on concerns that the country
would fail to qualify for the payment, the latest from a 110
billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout agreed last year. The yield
on the 10-year bond rose 183 basis points to 23 percent, while
two-year notes added 625 basis points to 61.38 percent.  That increase may boost the country’s borrowing costs at an
auction tomorrow of as much as 1.25 billion euros of 13-week
bills.  Greece  was forced to pay 4.5 percent on similar maturity
notes at the last auction, more than twice what  Germany  pays to
borrow for 10 years.  The austerity measures demanded in return for the emergency
loans are deepening a three-year recession, making it harder for
the government to meet the deficit goals laid out in its aid
package. The IMF now expects the economy to shrink 5.5 percent
this year and another 2.5 percent next year, before growth
resumes in 2013.  Wider Deficit  The government will tomorrow release final data on its
budget shortfall in the first eight months. The preliminary
numbers showed the deficit widened 22 percent months to 18.9 
billion euros, more than the target of 18.1 billion euros for
the period. Greece pledged to reduce its deficit to 7.6 percent
this year from 10.5 percent in 2010.  Additional measures are needed to reduce the deficit to a
sustainable level, Bob Traa, the IMF’s resident representative
in Greece, said today.  It was “appropriate and important” to underline that the
IMF disagreed with the view that the program carried out by the
government has been unsuccessful to date, he said. “Impressive
fiscal consolidation has happened.”  The slippage on the deficit prompted Venizelos to say
yesterday that some measures in the five-year 78 billion-euro
medium-term budget plan adopted in June may need to be brought
forward. The pledge came a week after the government announced a
property levy to help raise 2 billion euros to cover the gap for
this year.  Compliance  The European Commission isn’t demanding more of Greece than
was agreed to in the international aid program for the country,
EU economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in
Brussels.  “The only thing that is on the table is full compliance
with the agreed targets. No more, no less.”  As officials scramble to keep Greece from defaulting,
European ministers are looking for ways to stamp out a region-
wide crisis that’s threatened to engulf Spain and  Italy .
Geithner said today that new crisis-fighting measures may
eventually be agreed even after some European officials poured
cold water on his proposals at a summit in  Poland  at the
weekend.  “I think you’re going to see them draw on the lessons of
our crisis, draw on the lessons of things that worked here in
the  United States ,” Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today in  Washington . “I think you’ll see that
reflected in some of the choices they make.”  U.S. Rescues  In the aftermath of the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., U.S. regulators implemented the Troubled
Asset Relief Program and conducted stress tests on the largest
banks. The  Federal Reserve  set up the Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, to keep  consumer credit 
flowing.  Greece’s Venizelos on Sept. 17 dismissed talk of the
country declaring bankruptcy and said Papandreou canceled a
planned week-long U.S. visit. He preferred to stay in  Athens 
this week to take quick decisions as parliament prepares for a
vote on the July 21 rescue package.  Greece is now looking to the next meeting of euro-area
finance ministers, on Oct. 3, for a decision on the release of
the instalment. The loan would be disbursed by mid-October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  