-- 
Libyan Rebels Battle Loyalists in Sirte as U.S. Prepares to Reopen Embassy

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-20T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/libyan-opposition-fighters-repelled-in-charge-against-qaddafi-stronghold.html
Libyan fighters battled to oust
Muammar Qaddafi’s loyalists from Bani Walid and his hometown of
Sirte as the National Transitional Council prepared to form a
government.  The U.S. will reopen its embassy in Tripoli this week, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday after meeting with NTC
Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil in  New York .  “Our ambassador is on his way back to Tripoli, and this
week, the American flag that was lowered before our embassy was
attacked will be raised again, over a reopened American
embassy,” Obama said at a meeting of nations that supported the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization-backed campaign in Libya.  NTC-allied forces have struggled to overrun the coastal
city of Sirte, 400 kilometers (250 miles) southeast of Tripoli,
the capital, and the mountain town of Bani Walid, 140 kilometers
(90 miles) south of Tripoli.  Sirte may fall in “two or three days,” according to the
former rebels’ military council in Misrata, a coastal city to
the west. At least 44 fighters have been killed and 213 wounded
in the area since Sept. 15, according to the council, which has
been leading the assault.  Qaddafi loyalists have been shooting at residents of Bani
Walid who attempt to revolt, Ahmed Bani, a military spokesman
for the NTC, said Sept. 19 at a news conference in the capital.
Anti-Qaddafi units deployed around the town after talks for a
peaceful surrender collapsed on Sept. 4.  ‘Fighting Continues’  Members of the NTC are in talks to form a Cabinet, interim
Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril told reporters on Sept. 18. Since
moving to Tripoli from its eastern base in Benghazi, where the
uprising began in February, the council has been working to
establish its authority over different factions that rebelled
against Qaddafi, including the opposition council in Misrata,
which was the main rebel stronghold in western  Libya  during the
seven-month conflict.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, speaking at
the New York meeting, said that a UN “support mission” will
help “consolidate peace and democracy” in the nation.  “Fighting continues in some parts of the country,” he
noted. “Elsewhere, however, we are encouraged that so many
Libyans, from so many communities, have laid down their arms and
are working together to build their nation. We urge those that
have not done so to join them.”  Tolerance, Moderation  Ban applauded statements by Adel Jalil and other leaders
who have “repeatedly and publicly embraced essential principles
-- the principles of tolerance, moderation, reconciliation,
human rights and the rule of law, and in particular the rights
of women and migrant workers.”  The NTC has established diplomatic and commercial ties
abroad, hosting the leaders of the U.K.,  France  and  Turkey  in
the past week in Tripoli. The African Union yesterday became the
latest body to recognize the council as the representative of
the Libyan people, according to a statement on the website of
the South African president’s office.  Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil Co. will be ready to export 1
million barrels of crude within one week as its marketing
department evaluates several offers for shipments, Hassan
Bolifa, a management committee member, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Benghazi. The crude will be loaded at
Marsa El-Hariga export terminal in the eastern city of Tobruk.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , oil for October
delivery rose $1.19 to settle at $86.89 a barrel. The contract
expired yesterday. The more actively traded November future
climbed $1.11, or 1.3 percent, to $86.92.  Companies Returning  Several foreign companies, including BP Plc and  Total SA (FP) ,
have said they are also preparing to return to Libya. Qatar
National Bank Group said yesterday in an e-mailed statement that
it is reopening its representative office in the North African
nation, six months after it closed due to the conflict. PT Medco
Energi Internasional, an Indonesian energy company, also plans
to resume operation of its Area 47 oil block next month,
Director Lukman Mahfoedz said in Jakarta yesterday.  Three of the five oil refineries in Libya, holder of
 Africa ’s largest crude reserves, have restarted operations,
according to local officials. The Tobruk, Sarir and Zawiya
facilities are producing a total of about 60,000 barrels a day.
Libya’s five plants have a total production capacity of 378,000
barrels of crude a day, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  In New York, 66 delegations, most represented by a head of
state, discussed Libyan developments and pledged support for the
new leadership, said Derek Chollet, senior director for
strategic planning on Obama’s National Security Council.  Weapons Issues  Chollet said that Obama raised with Abdel Jalil the U.S.
concerns about security of Libya’s chemical weapons stocks and
conventional weapons, such as shoulder-fired anti-aircraft
missiles able to be used by terrorists. Obama met with Abdel
Jalil and Jibril for about 30 minutes, he said.  “The TNC has actually requested U.S. support in their
efforts, and we’re providing that support,” Chollet said.  On democracy, he said, Obama and Abdel Jalil “talked about
the importance of elections, the importance of writing a new
constitution and the importance of seating a new cabinet, which
Chairman Jalil promised the President that they would be doing
very soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  