-- 
Rebel Women Seek New Rights in Libya

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-09-19T01:22:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/libya-s-rebel-women-seek-new-rights-after-qaddafi-overthrow.html
When fighting erupted in Misrata,
Libya, its women stepped up to nurse wounded rebel soldiers,
cook meals for the front-line brigades, raise money for weapons
and care for orphans.  Medical student Hannin Mohammed got a rare opportunity for
a young woman in Libya: to work in a hospital beside men during
the six-month siege.  “When we were students, we were not allowed even on the
wards for three years, unlike the boys,” said Mohammed, 21.
“Now, I know so much.”  With  Muammar Qaddafi  driven out, she and other Libyan women
are anticipating more freedom and greater opportunity. Yet,
looking to the new government, there is only one woman on the
43-member National Transitional Council: head of legal affairs
and women’s representative  Salwa Fawzi El-Deghali . In May, with
the war at its height, the NTC had two women members.  That doesn’t bode well for the likelihood women will emerge
with more rights after four decades underQaddafi, whose
attitude toward them was full of contradictions. His Green Book,
setting out his governing philosophy, condemns gender
discrimination. It also states that men and women can never be
equal due to biological differences.  Few Women in Hallways  “There aren’t many women’s faces that you see in the
hallways” of the NTC, said U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
for Near Eastern Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman , who visited Tripoli
Sept. 14. “This is something that is of concern to us.”  Feltman noted a commitment made by Mustafa Abdel Jalil,
chairman of the NTC, to appoint women as ambassadors and
ministers.  “I don’t doubt the sincerity of the leadership,” Feltman
said in a conference call with reporters, “But the sincerity
needs to be translated into something that people can see.”  Since the first protests began in Benghazi in February,
women have been involved in “all aspects of the revolution,
from protesting to smuggling arms, delivering humanitarian aid
and lobbying governments for support,” the rights group
Women4Libya said in a  petition  circulated on the Internet in
Arabic and English. “We must ensure that we never again submit
to oppression and marginalization.”  Under Qaddafi, there were no independent women’s rights
groups. Hundreds of civil society groups sprung up in Benghazi
alone during the uprising, many run by women, said Fadwa Al
Mughairbi, a United Arab Emirates University psychology
professor who recently visited Benghazi.  Confidence  “The young generation, older women, housewives, they are
all involved in these associations,” she said. “It is amazing
the belief they have in themselves.”  Libya ’s first female judge was named in 1991, about ten
years after the position was opened to them. Between 1977 and
2006, six women were appointed to the General People’s Congress,
the former national legislature. And in 2009, Libya ranked near
the bottom of the political rights and civic voice for women
scale issued by Freedom House, a Washington-based non-
governmental organization, scoring 1.8 out of 5.  Qaddafi, who jetted around the world with an all-female
cadre of bodyguards, had his own ideas about advancement for
women. During a 2009 visit to  Rome , he summoned 500 “beautiful
Italian girls” to a gala evening at his ambassador’s residence,
where he told them to convert to Islam.  ’Killing Machine’  As he fought the uprising, Qaddafi called women to his
side. A few were among his most visible supporters, such as
daughter Aisha, who has fled to  Algeria , and Libyan TV anchor
Halal Misrati, who was arrested by rebel forces when they
entered Tripoli in late August. Qaddafi’s spokesman, Moussa
Ibrahim, wrongly predicted in July that every woman would
“become a killing machine” to defend Qaddafi.  Outside the capital, Tripoli, and other major cities such
as Benghazi, customs remain conservative. Women are frowned upon
if they enter a restaurant alone or are seen in a car driven by
a man who is not a close relative. At the beach, women are
expected to bathe only in long robes that expose only their
hands, feet and face. As a practical matter, such rules are
enforced by societal pressure, not by law.  “We were living under a dictatorship for 42 years, which
left negative thinking and a negative atmosphere towards
women,” said Benghazi-born Shahrazad Kablan, founder of the
U.S.-based Libyan Women Alliance.  ‘Whole New System’  Similar uncertainty is evident in  Egypt , where women took
part in the protests leading to Hosni Mubarak’s ouster in
February and now feel sidelined. Libyan women say that, more
than in Egypt, their nation will be creating new laws and
institutions.  “What happened in Egypt was the change of a figurehead,”
said Kablan. “In Libya, we are building a whole new system, and
people are changing their attitudes dramatically every day.”  Women in Libya have been “side by side with men during the
Italian revolution, during the times of the king, and now,”
said Al Mughairbi. “Once all this is settled, I am sure the new
government will have women.”  Michelle Bachelet , executive director of UN Women, which
promotes  women’s rights  and economic advancement, said that in
political transitions “usually women are not the first point of
the agenda. Of course, we don’t need to be the first but need to
be part of it.”  “We’re trying to have more women leaders in Libya, but we
are also working to encourage men to meet women’s groups and
bring those issues to the table,” Bachelet, who was Chile’s
first female president, said in a Sept. 8 interview in  New York .  Nisrin Krayem, a 20-year-old arts student in Misrata,
complained she’s expected to study hard for exams and then,
rather than having a career, she’s supposed to marry and live in
servitude to her husband.  Her frustration is evident in the scribbles in English on
her bedroom wall: “You can’t go out, you can’t go anywhere, you
can’t do anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  