-- 
Landslides Hamper Indian Rescue Teams

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-19T05:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/india-sends-rescuers-to-himalaya-quake-zone.html
Rescue teams stepped up operations
to clear landslides and reach those injured when a 6.9-magnitude
earthquake struck northeast  India  and neighboring Nepal, killing
at least 22 people, damaging buildings and blocking roads.  The quake at 6:11 p.m. local time yesterday was centered on
the Himalayan  region of Sikkim , with strong tremors also felt in
the Indian states of Assam, Meghalaya and West Bengal and Nepal.
The temblor was the strongest to hit the region in two decades,
the Press Trust of India reported.  In Sikkim, state roads and the national highway that
connects the region to the rest of India were blocked by
mudslides, Chandra Bahadur Karki, the state’s minister for rural
management and development, said by phone from Gangtok, the
capital. Engineers were working to restore electricity supplies
and telephone services, he said.  Army, air force and police personnel have begun
distributing medicines, tents and food, said Karki, adding that
at least 10 people were killed in the state.  In neighboring West Bengal, five deaths were reported,
India’s Home Ministry said in a statement, while two people were
killed in Bihar state. In Nepal, at least five people died,
three of them outside the British Embassy in Kathmandu when a
brick-wall collapsed, the  Press Trust of India  reported.  The federal administration has dispatched more than 400
personnel of the National Disaster Response Force to Sikkim to
help with relief and rescue operations, the government said in a
statement. The teams had been unable to leave transit camps due
to landslides, it said. A further 700 members of the Indo-
Tibetan Border Police had joined rescue efforts.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh yesterday directed the
cabinet secretary to call an emergency meeting of the National
Disaster Management Authority, PTI reported. Tremors were felt
in the capital  New Delhi .  -- Editors:  Mark Williams , Sam Nagarajan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  