-- 
Infineon Sits on $3 Billion Acquisition Cash as Biggest Rivals Don’t Tempt

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-19T08:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/infineon-sits-on-cash-as-main-competitors-aren-t-exciting-.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) , flush
with as much as $3 billion in cash for acquisitions, is
struggling to find an attractive target that would boost its
most profitable business, power semiconductors.  “We want technology and intellectual property that is
complementary to our own and these companies aren’t very
exciting investments,” Arunjai Mittal, head of Infineon’s
Industrial & Multimarkets division, said in an interview at the
headquarters of Europe’s second-largest maker of semiconductors
in Neubiberg,  Germany .  Mittal was referring to the nine other companies in IMS
Research Data’s top 10 ranking of global power semiconductor
makers, including  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Vishay
Intertechnology Inc. (VSH) ,  International Rectifier Corp. (IRF) ,  Fairchild
Semiconductor International Inc. (FCS)  and  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)   Infineon, which in July raised its full-year sales
forecast, has benefited from surging demand for chips used in
energy and consumer-electronics products as well as in cars.
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  has said he’s most
interested in purchases that would boost the power, power-
conversion and power-management operations of Mittal’s division.
Such chips are used in trains, windmills, lighting, mobile
phones and games consoles.  The company also completed the sale of its mobile chip unit
to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  this year for $1.4 billion, helping to boost net
cash at the end of June to  2.2 billion euros  ($3 billion).  Market Share  “Experts tell us that 85 percent of M&A deals,
particularly when a public company buys a public company,
fail,” Mittal said. “These companies often don’t offer the
uniqueness that would make it worth it,” unless the target’s
share price is “wrong” and Infineon’s share price is
“right,” Mittal said, explaining why Infineon has been “on
the fence” until now.  Infineon shares trades at about 10.2 times earnings,
compared with a median of 9.55 for the publicly listed companies
in IMS Research’s ranking of the 10 largest power-chip
companies, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s difficult for them to find attractive technology or
additional complementary technology as they already have a very
broad product portfolio and also for the next generation of
products they are well positioned,” Guenther Hollfelder, an
analyst at UniCredit in  London , said via phone. “They’ll
probably become more active in share buybacks.”  Deal Premiums  Infineon fell as much as 23 cents, or 3.7 percent, to 6
euros and was down 2.5 percent to 6.08 euros as of 10:46 a.m. in
Frankfurt. Before today, the stock had dropped 11 percent this
year, compared with a 14 percent decline in the 25-company Stoxx
600 Technology Index. The chipmaker has a market value of 6.6
billion euros.  Mittal said he would need to be “very sure” about the
strategic benefits to pay as much as the 78 percent premium that
U.S. rival  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s agreed for  National
Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)   Texas Instruments, the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
agreed in April to buy National Semiconductor for about $6.5
billion to add higher margin analog semiconductors.  The part of the power semiconductor market in which
Infineon competes was worth $15.8 billion in 2010, according to
IMS Research. Last year, Infineon had the biggest piece of that
total at 11.2 percent, ahead of Toshiba’s 6.8 percent.  Growth Forecast  “The gap to number two is so large now that they would
have to invest so much it would be nearly impossible for them to
catch up quickly,” Mittal said. “We have at least two years’
lead.”  Researcher IHS iSuppli predicts that semiconductors
specifically made for power management will grow 13.4 percent
this year for revenue of $35.3 billion, on rising demand for
energy-efficient consumer devices and industrial equipment. Over
the next five years, the power chips market will grow 10.2
percent, the researcher said.  Infineon predicts Mittal’s IMM unit, which contributes
about 45 percent of total revenue, will grow by  more than 10
percent  annually, compared with about 10 percent for the
automotive unit and about 5 percent to 7 percent for chip card
and security.  Debt Crisis  Mittal also said he’s not concerned about the impact of the
current economic woes as the sovereign debt crisis battered
 Europe  and global markets. Researcher Gartner Inc. slashed its
forecast for worldwide semiconductor sales Sept. 15, predicting
they will drop 0.1 percent this year, citing excess inventory
and slowing demand and a worsening economic outlook. It
previously forecast a 5.1 percent rise.  “We’re on the right path and there is nothing to be
concerned about, unless another Lehman Brothers type of event
happens,” Mittal said. Capacity utilization at Infineon is
still “very high” and if a customer didn’t place an order in
the last three months, it would be impossible for the company to
deliver within three months, he said.  “In any case I would expect my division’s business to grow
twice as much as the GDP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  