-- 
Ireland’s Upset Victory Blows Australia’s Rugby World Cup Route Off Course

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-19T02:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/ireland-s-upset-win-blows-wallabies-rugby-world-cup-path-off-course.html
Australia’s upset loss to Ireland
at the  Rugby World Cup  put the two-time champion on a course to
face southern hemisphere rivals South Africa and  New Zealand 
earlier than expected.  Instead of advancing to a likely quarterfinal against
Wales, Samoa or Fiji as the  Pool C  winner, the Wallabies will
probably now finish as runner-up and meet the defending champion
Springboks in the last eight, according to bookmakers, who now
favor Ireland to top the group after its 15-6 win at Auckland’s
 Eden Park  two days ago.  “The good thing about this tournament is that we’re still
in it,” Wallabies fly-half  Quade Cooper  said in a televised
news conference in Auckland yesterday. “It’s just going to be a
harder path now.”  Australia  entered rugby’s four-yearly championship after
winning its first Tri-Nations title since 2001 and was rated the
second favorite to lift the Webb Ellis Cup behind host New
Zealand. Bookmakers favored a New Zealand-Australia final on
Oct. 23, a scenario reliant on both topping their pools.  While the Wallabies kept their status among oddsmakers’ as
the most likely winner after the All Blacks, their odds have
drifted. Australia is now a 7-1 chance with the U.K.’s William
Hill Plc, having started the tournament as a 7-2 shot.  “They’ve made things pretty tough for themselves,” said
Michael Sullivan, chief executive officer of Sportingbet
Australia, which rates the Wallabies 6-1 to win the trophy.
“They now potentially face  South Africa  in a quarterfinal and
the All Blacks in a semi if they get through. It will take a
monumental reversal of form for them even to make the final.”  ‘Big and Significant’  No team has lost a pool match and gone on to win the World
Cup in six previous editions. England reached the final in 1991
and 2007 after losing a group stage game.  “As big and significant as that loss was, we have to look
forward,” Wallabies winger  Drew Mitchell  said today at a
televised news conference. “We’re now in a position where we
can do what no other team has done and that’s potentially win
from second in our pool.”  If Ireland wins Pool C by beating Russia and  Italy  in its
final two group games, it will meet the runner-up from Pool D in
a quarterfinal in Wellington on Oct. 8. Samoa currently occupies
second place with six points, three behind leader South Africa.  Top-ranked New Zealand leads Pool A with the maximum 10
points from its opening two games and is the favorite to advance
to the last eight as the group winner.  Semifinal Scenario  By winning their group, the All Blacks would face the Pool
B runner-up in the quarterfinals on Oct. 9 in Auckland. The
tournament draw pits the winner of that match in a potential
semifinal against Australia or South Africa.  The Wallabies, the 1991 and 1999 champions, face the U.S.
on Sept. 23 before finishing group play against tournament
newcomer  Russia  on Oct. 1.  Australia arrived in New Zealand with the youngest 30-man
squad at an average age of 25 years and 363 days. Ireland has
the oldest roster of the 20 nations, averaging over 29, and had
lost all four of its tune-up Test matches last month.  The Irish, who beat the U.S. 22-10 in their opener,
dominated Australia in the contact areas and denied Wallabies
playmakers Will Genia and Cooper the time and space to launch
regular attacks.  Jonathan Sexton  kicked two penalties and a drop
goal and  Ronan O’Gara  booted six points for Ireland. The
Wallabies were restricted to two penalties from  James O’Connor .  ‘An Education’  “There’s no doubt it was an education, particularly for a
number of players who are in their first  World Cup ,” Wallabies
coach  Robbie Deans  said. “We have to learn more if we’re going
to push on and achieve anything that we hope.”  Australia captain  James Horwill , who said his team had
played “dumb footy,” welcomed the six-day turnaround.  “We’ve got to get on with the job because it’s not over
yet,” he said. “We need to stay tight and focus on improving.
We need to learn from experiences like this.”  Deans added that the Wallabies will concentrate their
energies on what’s immediately in front of them, rather than
potential matchups in the knockout stages.  “Those things are unfolding, we won’t waste one second
contemplating it,” he said. “We have to earn that right
firstly ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  