-- 
Jafza, DIFC Bond Yields Rise on Refinancing Risk: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-18T21:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/jafza-difc-bond-yields-rise-on-refinancing-risk-arab-credit.html
Yields on Islamic bonds of Jebel
Ali Free Zone FZE and DIFC Investments LLC, two Dubai
government-owned companies, have risen since April as investors
shunned risky assets and refinancing prospects worsened.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the floating rate
Islamic bond due Nov. 2012 of Jebel Ali Free Zone, a  business
park , over the Dubai government’s 6.7 percent 2015 bond widened
to 443 basis points on Sept. 16 from 316 at the end of the first
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread
between the floating rate note maturing June 2012 of DIFC
Investments and the sovereign widened to 623 basis points on
Sept. 16 from this year’s low of 115 on May 9.  “Over the last four months, you have gone through a
general de-risking and names that are a higher credit risk have
under-performed,” Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive officer
at Mashreq Capital DIFC Ltd., said in a phone interview
yesterday. The two companies also have sukuk maturing in 2012
and “investors are starting to get a bit concerned about their
refinancing capabilities given the market volatility,” he said.  Dubai, the  Persian Gulf ’s trade and tourism hub which was
on the brink of a default in 2009, is recovering after a $20
billion cash injection from the United Arab Emirates central
bank, the Abu Dhabi government and its banks. The emirate and
its companies have at least $16 billion of debt coming due this
year and another $15.2 billion in 2012, according to estimates
from the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  Risky Assets  Investors dumped risky assets as the odds of the  U.S.
economy  slipping into a recession increased and  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened. Yields on U.S. 10-year treasury notes rose on
Sept. 17 from a record low on Sept. 12 after the  European
Central Bank  coordinated with the  Federal Reserve  and other
central banks to maintain liquidity for the euro area’s banks.  Jebel Ali Free Zone, which must repay 7.5 billion dirhams
($2 billion) when its Islamic bond comes due in Nov. 2012, has
commenced work on “liability management” and is exploring
various refinancing options, the company said April 18. Net
income in 2010 dropped to 139.7 million dirhams from 286.7
million dirhams a year earlier as impairments rose.  “Jafza is the riskiest public bond in the entire Dubai
Inc. complex and the most vulnerable,” Gus Chehayeb, a Dubai-
based associate director at investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in
a phone interview yesterday. “All the public bonds outstanding
will be honored, Jafza is the only one I am nervous about.”  Rating Cut  Jebel Ali Free Zone had its ratings cut one step to B2, the
fifth-highest junk rating, at Moody’s Investors Service in March
3 because its  capital structure  is highly leveraged.  DIFC Investments, which owns and manages properties in the
Dubai International Financial Centre, must repay $1.25 billion
on its bond in June 2012. The company said its loss narrowed by
more than 50 percent to $274.7 million in 2010 as writedowns on
property declined. It plans to raise $1 billion from asset sales
by the end of 2011 to help repay debt.  Dubai’s economy has suffered since the onset of the global
credit crisis in 2008 as property prices crashed and credit
markets froze. The emirate and its state-owned companies
borrowed at least $113 billion to build homes and for buyouts,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Dubai Default Risk  The cost to insure Dubai’s debt against default rose 102
basis points to 419 basis points Sept. 16 after hitting this
year’s low June 7, according to five-year credit default swaps
from data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The swaps reached 655 basis points in November 2009
after state-owned Dubai World announced plans to restructure
about $25 billion of debt.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent, should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on Dubai government’s 6.7 percent bond due
October 2015 fell 140 basis points this year to 5.52 percent
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
yield on Middle East sovereign bonds fell 52 basis points over
the same period, according to the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai Middle East
Conventional Sovereign U.S. Dollar Bond Index.  “All the high-yield issues have been a victim of the
flight to quality and outflows from high-yield mutual funds,”
Anas El Maizi, a  fund manager  at Abu Dhabi-based Royal Capital
PJSC, said in an interview. Jafza’s and DIFC Investments’ “cash
generation isn’t sufficient to ensure an access to the market
without government support,” although since they’re important
to Dubai, the government may help roll over their debt, he said.  Jebel Ali Free Zone’s sukuk traded at a yield of 9.95
percent on Sept. 16 and DIFC Investments at 11.6 percent.  Government Support  “Investors, when they purchase Jafza and DIFC sukuk, are
betting on a very substantial amount of support from the Dubai
government,” Chehayeb at Exotix said. “The government is going
to have to determine on a case by case basis the costs and
benefits of bailing these entitites out.” Chehayeb said he
expects the government to provide substantial support to DIFC.  JPMorgan Securities Ltd. raised Jebel Ali Free Zone’s
floating rate note to “overweight” March 16 from
“underweight” as it believes it will be able to repay the note
via a combination of refinancing and cash support from its
parent and the government of Dubai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  