-- 
Justin Rose Wins PGA Tour’s Third Playoff Event Ahead of Tour Championship

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/justin-rose-wins-pga-tour-s-third-playoff-event-by-two-strokes.html
Justin Rose  won the third of the
U.S. PGA Tour’s four playoff events for the FedEx Cup, holding
on for a two-shot victory at the BMW Championship.  Rose, who entered the final round with a four-shot lead,
closed with an even-par 71 to finish 13 under at Cog Hill Golf &
Country Club’s Dubsdread Course in Lemont,  Illinois . John Senden
finished second, with fellow Australian Geoff Ogilvy one stroke
further back at 10 under par.  Rose, who held at least a share of the lead each round
after opening the tournament with a 63, was one shot ahead of
Senden before making a chip-in birdie at the 17th hole. It led
to the third  PGA Tour  win for the 31-year-old Englishman, who
captured his first two titles in the U.S. last season.  “The manner in which I won this tournament, it rates as
high as the best tournament I’ve ever won,” Rose said at a news
conference. “To win at this level with this strength of field
wire to wire I think gives me a lot of confidence. It’s a big
step up. Being a playoff event puts it in that special category
of tournaments.”  Rose is the first European winner of the BMW Championship
since 1934, when Harry Cooper of the U.K. won the tournament,
which was then called the Western Open.  Rose squandered six of his previous seven 54-hole PGA Tour
leads. His advantage had dwindled to one shot before chipping in
from 33 feet out on the par-4 17th hole.  “I nearly took the chicken stick out and putted it. Then I
said to myself, ‘This is a really makeable chip,’” Rose said.
“That was a moment when you really had to commit and do what
you’ve got to do to win a  golf tournament .”  Rose and the other top 29 golfers in the FedEx Cup rankings
now advance to the season-ending Tour Championship, where the
winner receives a $10 million bonus. The tournament is scheduled
for Sept. 22-25 at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  Started With 125  The top 125 players qualified for the PGA Tour’s first
playoff event, the Barclays, through season-long rankings, with
 Tiger Woods  among those to miss the cutoff. The top 100 players
in the rankings then advanced to the Deutsche Bank Championship
and the field was further cut to 70 for the BMW Championship.  Jim Furyk , the 2010 FedEx Cup winner, finished just outside
the top 30 and didn’t qualify for next week’s Tour Championship.
Masters Tournament champion Charl Schwartzel and Ricky Fowler
are among those who also missed the cutoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  