-- 
Kazakhstan Pushing Ahead With Share Sale, Economy Minister Says

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-09-18T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/kazakhstan-pushing-ahead-with-share-sale-economy-minister-says.html
Kazakhstan, Central Asia’s biggest
energy producer, is pushing ahead with plans to sell shares to
citizens in initial public offerings, even with the current
global market turmoil, Economic Development and Trade Minister
 Kairat Kelimbetov  said.  The first companies to be included in the operation will be
AO Kaztransoil and AO Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Co.,
known as Kegok, Kelimbetov said in a Sept. 16 interview in the
Ukrainian city of Yalta. Citizens will be able to resell shares
on the secondary market with no restrictions, he said.  “We will offer around 10 percent of the shares of each
company,” he said. “They are infrastructure companies which do
not depend much on the world’s market fluctuations.”  Kelimbetov said that the first wave of sales will involve
six or seven companies starting in the second quarter of next
year, and “if there is no major bad news, we think IPOs for big
companies such as AO KazMunaiGaz National Co. and nuclear
company AO NAK Kazatomprom could begin from 2015.”  Kazakhstan 
holds about 3 percent of the world’s oil reserves.  The government targets an inflation rate between 6 percent
and 8 percent this year and next year, he said, down from 9
percent in August. He didn’t speficy which policies the
government would implement to help slow price growth.  Even with the ministry raising its average crude oil price
estimate to $90 from $65, the national currency, the tenge,
won’t “seriously strengthen,” Kelimbetov said. “It will be
within the corridor set up by the central bank. We put that
assumption into our budget for next year.”  State Budget  The Kazakh 2012 state budget assumes an average oil price
of $80 next year and $70 in 2013 and 2014, Kelimbetov said.  Kazakhstan returned to a managed free float of the tenge by
abolishing its trading corridor on Feb. 28 to allow the currency
to appreciate, taming import prices. The tenge has risen 0.18
percent versus the dollar this year, Bloomberg data shows.  Assets at the nation’s oil fund have risen to $40 billion,
Kelimbetov said.  Kazakhstan supports setting up a grain pool with Ukraine
and  Russia  for exporting cereals, Kelimbetov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  