-- 
Killer Diseases Spur UN Action Call to Avert $47T Cost

-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 
2011-09-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/killer-diseases-spur-un-action-calls-to-avert-47-trillion-cost.html
Productivity losses and medical
treatment for cancer, diabetes and other non-contagious diseases
will cost $47 trillion by 2030, according to the first study
that quantifies the likely expense of leading causes of death.  Increasing costs from the obesity- and lifestyle-linked
illnesses in the next two decades represent 75 percent of gross
domestic product in 2010, the study by the  World Economic Forum 
and  Harvard University  found. The findings were released
yesterday in New York on the eve of a two-day  United Nations
summit  aimed at tackling a disease scourge already overwhelming
health systems, especially in emerging markets.  The  World Health Organization  identified strategies to
prevent and treat cancer,  heart disease  and  lung disease  that
would cost $11.4 billion a year to implement in low- and middle-
income countries, the UN agency said in a separate report
yesterday. Without action, those nations could suffer $7
trillion in losses, the  World Economic Forum  and Harvard study
said.  “Families, countries and economies are losing people in
their most productive years,” Olivier Raynaud, senior director
of health at the World Economic Forum, said in a statement.
“Non-communicable diseases have the potential to not only
bankrupt health systems but to also put a brake on the global
economy.”  Non-communicable diseases are responsible for about three
of every five deaths worldwide. Almost 80 percent of those
deaths are in low-income countries, such as Niger, and middle-
income countries, such as  Thailand , according to the Geneva-
based WHO.  Mental Illness  Mental health conditions and cardiovascular disease,
including heart attack and stroke, account for almost 70 percent
of the lost productivity predicted by the authors of the World
Economic Forum and Harvard study. The main drivers of these
chronic, non-infectious diseases are smoking, harmful use of
alcohol, physical inactivity and poor diet, they said.  The study uses three different methods to calculate the
economic burden of non-communicable diseases, enabling the
authors to analyze data from both a private and social
perspective, they said.  “Non-communicable diseases undermine productivity and
result in the loss of capital and labor,” said  David Bloom , the
Clarence James Gamble professor of economics and demography at
the Harvard School of  Public Health  in  Boston , and one of the
report’s authors.  ‘Unbearable’ Costs  “These costs are unbearable and clearly call for
innovative solutions and an all-of-society approach, with strong
government partnerships between government, the private sector
and society,” Bloom said in a statement.  World leaders will meet today and Tuesday at the UN General
Assembly to produce a resolution for government action against
physical inactivity and use of harmful food ingredients, tobacco
and alcohol.  Scaling up a series of measures to prevent and treat
cancer, heart disease and lung disease would have a daily per
person cost of $1 in low-income nations, $1.50 in lower middle-
income countries and $3 in upper middle-income countries, the
WHO said.  “The most basic package of prevention and control measures
is affordable, even for poor countries,” said Ann Keeling,
chair of the NCD Alliance, a network of more than 2,000 non-
government organizations working on non-communicable diseases,
in a statement. “But the cost of not tackling these growing
killers is inestimably higher than the cost of acting now.”  WHO’s recommendation targeting populations include taxing
tobacco and alcohol, ensuring smoke-free workplaces, wider
access to health information and warnings, and improving public
awareness about diets and physical activity. For individuals,
WHO recommends cancer screening, drug therapy and vaccination
against tumor-causing infections such as hepatitis B.  The only other time the General Assembly met solely on a
health topic was the 2001  AIDS  meeting that led to a  global fund 
and a  10-fold increase  in financial backing for HIV,
tuberculosis and malaria programs.  “We have to reduce the escalation of NCDs,” Tobeka
Madiba-Zuma, wife of South African President  Jacob Zuma , said in
an interview in  New York  yesterday. “It will take each and
every person to do something about it -- it can’t be the
government alone, or the private sector alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  