-- 
Persian Gulf Stocks: Kuwait’s Global, NBK and Saudi Fisheries

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-18T14:03:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/kuwait-s-global-investment-saudi-fisheries-persian-gulf-stocks.html
Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose for
a fourth day, gaining 0.3 percent at the 2 p.m. close in the
emirate. Kuwait’s gauge lost 0.4 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  decreased 0.5 percent.  The following shares were active in the Persian Gulf
region. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)   lost the most since March 2,
declining 3.9 percent to 39.5 riyals. The Saudi Arabian lender
part-owned by Credit Agricole SA said Calyon Bank’s
representative on its board Alain Massierra resigned.  Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL)   rallied to the
highest level in almost three months, surging 6.5 percent to 41
fils. The Kuwait-based investment bank requested its creditors’
support to defer debt repayments due in December.  National Bank of Kuwait (NBK)   rose to the highest in
more than a week, gaining 1.9 percent to 1,100 fils. The
nation’s largest bank said it has no exposure to derivatives and
that it applies international standards in hedging against
 interest rates  and foreign exchange fluctuations.  Saudi Fisheries (SFICO)  Co climbed to the highest in
almost four months, soaring 9.8 percent to 29.1 riyals. The
Saudi company said it will sell 33.5 million shares at 10 riyals
each in a rights offer. The company announced the sale on Sept.
14 and yesterday said it set the issue date from Sept. 27 to
Oct. 5.  Yanbu Cement (YNCCO)   dropped the most since Aug. 9,
falling 1.6 percent to 61.25 riyals. The Saudi Arabian maker of
the material said a  production line  scheduled to open by the end
of this month will be delayed because of a lack of oil and
natural gas needed to power its output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  