-- 
N.Z. Consumer Confidence Unchanged, Westpac Survey Shows

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-18T22:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/n-z-consumer-confidence-unchanged-westpac-survey-shows-1-.html
New Zealand ’s consumer confidence
was unchanged in the third quarter, a sign that household
spending may withstand a global economic slowdown.  The sentiment index remained at 112, the highest level
since the third quarter of last year,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
McDermott Miller Ltd. said today. A reading greater than 100
means optimists outnumbered pessimists.  Confidence has increased after slumping in the first three
months of the year, when an earthquake in the southern city of
Christchurch wrecked roads and buildings, killing 181 people.
Central bank Governor Alan Bollard indicated last week he’ll
raise  interest rates  once he is sure New Zealand is emerging
unscathed from Europe’s fiscal crisis and economic growth
concerns in the U.S.  “New Zealand households continue to turn their focus to
recovery,” Dominick Stephens, chief economist at Westpac in
Auckland, said in a statement. “They are becoming increasingly
confident that economic prospects will improve over the coming
year. That bodes well for an ongoing gradual expansion in
domestic spending.”  The  New Zealand dollar  bought 82.56 U.S. cents at 10:42
a.m. in Wellington, weakening from 82.91 cents on Sept. 16 in
 New York .  A net 2.1 percent of consumers expect the economy to
deteriorate over the next year, down from 6.7 percent in the
second quarter, according to the survey, conducted Sept. 1-12.
The net figure subtracts pessimists from optimists.  More people said now is a good time to buy a major
household item and more expect their personal financial
situation to be better in a year. Still, fewer people are
optimistic that the economy will be stronger in five years, the
report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  