-- 
Palestinian Application for UN Membership Will Be Blocked, Netanyahu Says

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 
2011-09-19T12:17:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/netanyahu-says-u-s-israel-will-block-palestinian-un-drive.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the Palestinian drive to obtain full membership
in the  United Nations  won’t succeed as Israel, the U.S. and
other countries work to oppose any bid in the Security Council.  The U.S. and Israel have been pressing members of the 15-
nation council to deny the Palestinians the nine votes they need
for membership, an effort that is gaining traction, according to
an Israeli official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on record. That would mean the
U.S., which has said it won’t let the measure pass, wouldn’t
have to veto it.  “I am convinced that the activities of the  United States ,
which is acting in close cooperation with us, and the results of
the activities of other governments with whom we are
cooperating, as are of course the Americans, means this attempt
will fail,” Netanyahu told the weekly Cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  said that
later this week he will ask the council to recognize a
Palestinian state. American officials also have been working to
forge a compromise that would avoid a U.S. veto, which would
likely alienate the Arab world.  “The U.S. clearly doesn’t want to cast this veto and would
be upset if it had to do so,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political
scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya outside Tel
Aviv.  Palestinian Proposal  Eight of the council’s members --  Russia ,  China , Gabon,
Nigeria,  South Africa ,  Brazil , Lebanon and  India  -- have
indicated that they will back the Palestinian proposal. That
leaves the U.S., U.K., France,  Germany , Portugal, Colombia, and
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Representatives from the so-called Quartet promoting Middle
East peace, comprising the U.S., UN, European Union and Russia,
met late yesterday in  New York  in an effort to restart Israeli-
Palestinian peace talks. The group’s envoy, former British Prime
Minister Tony Blair, said it is unlikely any agreement reached
this week would head off the Palestinians’ UN bid.  Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Dan Meridor said the Quartet
has presented the Palestinians with a proposal that could
restart talks and avoid a UN showdown.  “Let’s see if the Palestinians agree to the draft that is
being offered by the Quartet,” Meridor told journalists in
 Jerusalem  today. “Let’s use New York for negotiations.”  Barak, Fayyad Meet  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  met with Palestinian
Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad in New York late yesterday
to discuss security and diplomatic issues, according to an e-
mailed statement from Barak’s office.  Abbas said on Sept. 16 that the Palestinians, after getting
statehood recognition, would continue to work toward a peace
deal.  “A failure to vote for the Palestinians will only mean we
will strengthen our international campaign” against Israeli
policies, Palestinian Legislative Council member Mustafa Barghouti said in a phone interview.  A poll of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip
shows 83 percent support seeking full membership through the
 Security Council . Fifty percent of those surveyed expect the UN
effort to succeed, while 43 percent predict it will fail,
according to the poll released today by the independent
Palestinian Center for Policy and Survey Research in Ramallah.  Some 35 percent favor starting an armed uprising against
Israel, while 64 percent are opposed, according to the poll of
1,200 people, which had a margin of error of three percentage
points.  General Assembly Vote  If the Palestinians don’t succeed in the Security Council,
they can also seek a vote in the larger General Assembly to
upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s observer status from an
“entity” to a “non-member state.” Palestinian officials have
said they expect to gain an overwhelming majority of the vote if
they go to the General Assembly.  The elevation to non-member state would place the
Palestinians in a position similar to that of the Holy See, the
government of the Roman Catholic Church, enabling them to sign
international treaties. That could include having cases heard in
the International Criminal Court.  Council Members  Negotiations between  Israel  and the Palestinians broke down
a year ago after Netanyahu declined to extend a freeze on new
construction in West Bank settlements, which Abbas said was a
condition for the talks to continue.  Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer said the
Palestinian drive to gain UN membership may affect the economy
if it leads to unrest.  “If there is violence, that will cost us economically,”
Fischer said at a press conference in Jerusalem yesterday before
departing for an International Monetary Fund meeting in
 Washington . “We all hope that it won’t come to that.” He gave
no further details.  Palestinian officials have repeatedly said their security
forces will act to prevent any violence.  Israel’s economy expanded an annualized 3.5 percent in the
second quarter, faster than the previous estimate of 3.3
percent, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Exports make up about 40
percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah,  West Bank , at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 