-- 
Norway Property Bubble Risk Raises Need for Tougher Bank Rules, FSA Warns

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-19T08:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/norway-house-bubble-risk-raises-need-for-tougher-rules-fsa-says.html
Norway ’s financial regulator may
force mortgage lenders to adopt stricter rules in an effort to
prevent the biggest household debt burden in more than two-
decades from fanning a property market bubble.  “The more indebted the households become and the higher
the property prices go, the greater is the potential for a
setback,” Morten Baltzersen, who took over as director general
of the Oslo-based Financial Supervisory Authority last month,
said in an interview. “I’m not in a situation where I can state
there’s a bubble, but the longer these developments go on, the
further it goes, the higher is the risk of a bubble.”  Norway’s $535 billion  sovereign-wealth fund  has so far
shielded the country from the worst of  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
world’s second-richest nation after Luxembourg boasts Europe’s
lowest unemployment rate, at 2.7 percent, with estimated wage
growth of more than 4 percent this year. That’s fueling demand
for credit and pushing up property prices as the central bank
keeps interest rates near record lows.  House prices  jumped an annual 9.4 percent in August,
accelerating from 8 percent growth last year, according to the
country’s Real Estate Brokers Association. Household credit rose
an annual 7.1 percent in July, hovering at a 2 1/2-year high,
 Statistics Norway  said. The  central bank  estimates consumer debt
burdens will grow to more than 204 percent of disposable income
next year, the highest since at least 1988.  Rate Outlook  Demand for credit may keep rising as borrowing costs remain
low. Policy makers will probably be forced to shelve interest
rate increases until next year amid a deteriorating global
recovery outlook, according to Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief
currency strategist at First Securities ASA and a former central
bank economist.  “ Interest rates  abroad have fallen significantly, limiting
the room for maneuver by Norges Bank,” he said in a note today.
The central bank announces its next rate decision on Sept. 21.
All 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate the bank will
leave its benchmark deposit rate at 2.25 percent.  The krone, which has gained 2.3 percent against the euro
over the past three months, slipped 0.4 percent to trade at
7.7217 by 9:56 a.m. in Oslo. The currency was 1.3 percent weaker
against the dollar, trading at 5.6433.  The financial regulator last year introduced a guideline
seeking a 90 percent cap on loans relative to property values in
an effort to cool the market. In neighboring  Sweden , similar
measures haven’t prevented  home prices  from rising. Property
values there have gained 7 percent since October, when an 85
percent cap was introduced.  Lending Standards  The FSA is considering whether existing measures in Norway
are adequate or “whether they should be stricter,” Baltzensen
said in the Sept. 16 interview. “The loan-to-value ratio is a
central parameter. It exemplifies one of the features of such
guidelines that we will assess,” he said, adding that new
standards may become binding.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen this month met with the
nation’s top bank executives to explore the need for stricter
lending rules. It is “important that we have a very keen eye on
this because the debt ratio for households is very high,” he
said in a Sept. 5 interview.  Norway in the early 1990s seized control of its biggest
banks, in part because of a real estate slump that followed a
surge in lending growth triggered by deregulation in the 1980s.  Bubble Disbeliever  The country’s biggest lender,  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , doesn’t share
the government’s concerns that a prolonged period of near-record
low borrowing costs risks fueling an overheated property market.  “We don’t believe that there’s a bubble,” said Leif Teksum, head of large corporates and international operations at
the Oslo-based lender, in a Sept. 14 interview. “At some stage
interest rates will come up and  mortgage rates  will come up, but
I think there still is a buffer because of the salary increases
that we experience.”  Regulators, including Johnsen, have also suggested a joint
Nordic effort to put a floor on so-called risk weightings
assigned to mortgage assets, a move that could force banks to
raise their capital buffers. The risk weightings are about 6
percent to 11 percent in the  Nordic countries , compared with 13
percent to 20 percent in other European countries, according to
Norway’s central bank.  ‘Detrimental Effect’  DnB NOR’s Teksum said tougher regulation may be ineffective
in curbing  house prices  amid salary growth of 4 percent to 5
percent. “Maybe that’s good for the market but I don’t think
that will have a detrimental effect on house prices.”  If stricter rules are imposed, these should allow for
“flexibility” and shouldn’t “just look at loan to value
ratios but maybe we should be looking at other criteria,” he
said.  Norway’s  statistics office  on Sept. 8 estimated wages will
rise 4.1 percent this year.  The housing market faces added price pressure after a
deepening European debt crisis forced Norway’s central bank to
abandon a planned rate increase last month, leaving its deposit
rate at 2.25 percent. The bank has signaled it doesn’t want
rates to stray too far from borrowing costs in the U.S. and
Europe in an effort to prevent krone gains. The U.S. Federal
Reserve pledged last month to keep its target lending rate at
close to zero until at least mid-2013, while the  European
Central Bank  left rates unchanged and resumed bond purchases to
support the region’s debt markets.  “There is a reason for concern that the sheltered sectors
of the economy shall be fueled by low interest rates,” said
Baltzersen. At the same time, “low international interest rates
influence the room for maneuver in Norwegian monetary policy,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  