-- 
Obama Said to Propose New Tax on Wealthy

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-09-18T17:56:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/obama-said-to-adopt-buffett-idea-for-new-tax-on-mega-rich-.html
President  Barack Obama  will propose
a new levy on U.S. taxpayers making more than $1 million to help
trim the nation’s debt, adopting a suggestion from billionaire
investor Warren Buffett, according to an administration
official.  The tax will be among recommendations the president makes
to a special congressional committee charged with finding ways
to cut $1.5 trillion from the nation’s long-term deficit,
according to the official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record. Obama is set to unveil his deficit-cutting proposals
tomorrow.  The president hasn’t settled on the top earners’ new
minimum tax rate, which is designed to make sure the wealthiest
taxpayers don’t pay a lower effective rate than middle-income
earners, the official said. Obama has already proposed limiting
some deductions for those in the highest income brackets, taxing
carried interest as regular income and ending breaks for gas and
oil companies to pay for a $447 billion jobs package.  The New York Times reported the president’s plan yesterday.  Any new tax will likely face opposition from Republicans,
who control the U.S. House and have argued that raising taxes on
higher-income individuals would hurt small businesses and stifle
investment. A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Rejecting Taxes  In a Sept. 15 speech to the  Economic Club of Washington ,
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said the 12-member panel should
focus solely on cuts to federal spending and overhauling Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid to reach the $1.5 trillion in
deficit cuts. He rejected tax increases.  “Tax increases, I think, are off the table, and I don’t
think they’re a viable option for the joint committee,” he
said.  Obama’s prime target is the differential between the tax
rates on  capital gains  and ordinary income. Today’s 20
percentage-point difference gives taxpayers an incentive to find
ways to reclassify wage income as investment income.  The 1986 tax overhaul signed by President  Ronald Reagan 
equalized the two rates at 28 percent. Later increases in the
ordinary rate and cuts in the capital gains rate created today’s
gap between the 35 percent basic rate and the 15 percent rate
that also applies to dividends.  Panel Deadline  Former President  Bill Clinton , speaking on CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” said Obama was right to focus on economic growth in
the short term. Spending restraint, economic growth and new
revenue will be needed to balance the federal budget over time,
he said.  “Basically he’s asking us to return to the tax rates of
the 90s for the wealthiest Americans who have been the big
beneficiaries of the last decade, which has been very tough for
middle-class and low-income people,” Clinton said.  Mitch McConnell , the Senate Republican leader, countered on
NBC’s “Meet the Press” that tax increases like Obama proposed
have already been rejected by lawmakers of both parties.  “It’s a bad thing to do in the middle of an economic
downturn,” McConnell said. “It won’t just hit individuals.
Over 700,000 of our most successful small businesses pay taxes
as individuals.”  Republicans may be open to restructuring the  tax code  in a
way that raises revenue, as long as the revenue increases come
through economic growth, not higher rates, said McConnell, a
Kentucky Republican. They also want to look at means-testing, or
cutting off entitlement programs for higher-income people, for
Social Security and Medicare, he said.  “If  Warren Buffett  would like to give up some of his
benefits, we’d be happy to talk about it,” McConnell said.  The bipartisan panel has a Nov. 23 deadline to reach
agreement on a plan. On taxes, the group is likely to consider
setting targets for major changes to be considered over the next
year, before income-tax cuts first enacted under President
 George W. Bush  are set to expire at the end of 2012.  With the nation’s jobless rate at 9.1 percent, the economy
is a top issue for both parties in next year’s elections for
president and Congress. Obama is confronting skepticism from
voters about his policies as public opinion polls show his
approval ratings are dropping.  A majority of Americans don’t believe his jobs plan will
help lower the  unemployment rate , a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted Sept. 9-12 shows. The poll found 62 percent disapprove
of his handling of the economy. The president’s overall job-
approval rating was 45 percent, the lowest since he was
inaugurated in January 2009.  GDP Growth  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
in the second quarter, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
according to revised Commerce Department figures released last
month. Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in
the first three months of the year, the past two quarters were
the weakest of the recovery that began in mid 2009.  Buffett has served as an informal adviser to the president
since Obama’s 2008 election campaign and conferred with the
president before his Sept. 8 address to Congress. He plans to
hold a Sept. 30 fundraiser in  New York City  for Obama’s re-
election bid.  Obama has cited Buffett to counter critics of his policy
proposals, particularly on taxes.  During his bus tour last month through rural areas of
 Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois , Obama quoted from a New York Times
opinion article in which Buffett wrote that the nation’s richest
individuals have been “coddled long enough by a billionaire-
friendly Congress.” Buffett argued for raising taxes for the
“mega rich” in the U.S.  Buffett’s Taxes  In the article, the 81-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said his federal
tax bill last year, or the income tax he paid and payroll taxes
paid by him and on his behalf, was $6,938,744.  “That sounds like a lot of money,” Buffett wrote. “But
what I paid was only 17.4 percent of my taxable income -- and
that’s actually a lower percentage than was paid by any of the
other 20 people in our office. Their tax burdens ranged from 33
percent to 41 percent and averaged 36 percent.”  About 8.4 million U.S. households had assets of $1 million
or more, excluding primary residences, according to a March
report by  Spectrem Group , a Chicago-based consulting firm. It
also showed that the number of U.S. millionaires increased by 8
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  