-- 
Home Sales, Building in U.S. Probably Showed Few Signs of Shaking Slump

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-18T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/home-sales-building-in-u-s-probably-showed-few-signs-of-shaking-slump.html
Purchases of previously owned U.S.
homes in August probably held close to the weakest level this
year and construction dropped to a three-month low as the
industry showed few signs of a emerging from its slump,
economists said before reports this week.  Existing-home sales rose 1.7 percent to a 4.75 million
annual rate from an eight-month low in July, according to the
median projection of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a National Association of Realtors report on Sept. 21.
Housing starts dropped 2.3 percent, economists forecast Commerce
Department data will show a day earlier.  Limited employment, declining property values and mounting
foreclosures remain hurdles for builders like  Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , thwarting a sustained rebound in residential
real estate. Federal Reserve officials meet this week to discuss
whether additional measures are needed to help revive the
recovery and a languishing job market.  “The economy overall will take this crawl-stagger-crawl
approach into 2012, which reflects all the issues the recovery
is wrestling,” said  Paul Ballew , chief economist at Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus,  Ohio . “Housing should hit a
trough by the end of this year before going sideways at very
suppressed levels.”  Concerns the economy may be faltering, limited income gains
and unemployment above 9 percent have taken a toll on Americans’
sentiment, dimming the prospects for a pickup in housing. The
Conference Board’s index of  consumer confidence  slumped in
August to the lowest level since April 2009, and the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort Index has been stuck below minus 40 since the
end of February, a level associated with recessions.  Payrolls Unchanged  Payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest reading in a
year, according to Labor Department figures. Shifting views on
the economic outlook and concerns about  Europe ’s debt crisis led
to historical financial market volatility in August.  “With all of the economic turmoil, both domestic and
international, there’s not much that points to an improving
housing market at any point in the near future,”  Ara Hovnanian ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Hovnanian Enterprises,
said in a Sept. 8 call with analysts. “Our internal business
plan assumes market conditions do not improve.”  Homebuyer traffic and construction along the eastern
seaboard may also have been hindered by  Hurricane Irene , which
caused losses of about $12.4 billion, according to an estimate
by Kinetic Analysis Corp., a  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , firm that
predicts the effects of disasters.  Record Low  The median projection for the annual pace of August housing
starts is 590,000, little changed from the 587,000 begun last
year, the second-fewest ever. Home construction totaled 554,000
units in 2009, the lowest since record-keeping began in 1959.  Building permits, an indicator of future construction, fell
1.8 percent in August, the report from the Commerce Department
will also show according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed.  A report tomorrow may show the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index held at 15 this month,
according to the survey median. Readings lower than 50 mean more
respondents view conditions as poor.  Homebuilder shares’ have declined more than the broader
market so far this year. The Standard & Poor’s Homebuilder
Supercomposite Index, which includes shares of companies such as
KB Home and D.R. Horton Inc. has slumped 26 percent this year,
compared with a 3.3 percent decline for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Among other data this week, the Conference Board’s index of
leading economic indicators is projected to show growth may cool
in the second half of the year. The gauge of the outlook for the
next three to six months rose 0.1 percent in August after a 0.5
percent increase a month earlier, economists forecast the Sept.
22 report will show.  Fed officials may propose new measures to galvanize the
economy when the  Federal Open Market Committee  completes a two-
day meeting on Sept. 21.  Ben S. Bernanke , the central bank’s
chairman, told economists Sept. 9 in  Minneapolis  that policy
makers have measures at hand and are “prepared to employ these
tools as appropriate.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  