-- 
London Home Prices Surge as Investors Turn to Property Amid Market Turmoil

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/london-home-prices-surge-as-investors-seek-safety-in-property.html
London  home sellers raised asking
prices by the most in seven months in September as a lack of
properties for sale and investors looking for safer assets amid
financial-market turmoil bolstered values, Rightmove Plc said.  Asking prices rose 2.4 percent from August, when they fell
3.4 percent, the property website said in an e-mailed report
today. Separate data from Rightmove showed national home values
gained 0.7 percent after a 2.1 percent decline in August.  While values are being supported by record-low  interest
rates , waning  consumer confidence  and lenders’ insistence on
large deposits are preventing the housing market from gaining
momentum. Demand in London has been boosted by cash-rich buyers
investing in property amid European financial volatility over
attempts to avert a Greek default, Rightmove said.  “London’s buoyant  property market  looks set for a brisk
autumn as buyers chase a more limited choice of fresh
properties,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove,
said in the report. “With the continuing turmoil in the
financial markets, and the threat of a Greek default, we are
seeing a flight to safe assets.”  National asking prices rose 1.5 percent in September from a
year earlier to an average 233,139 pounds ($368,700), Rightmove
said. In London, Britain’s most expensive property market,
prices were up 7.2 percent on the year to 427,889 pounds.  Supply Squeeze  Six out of 10 regions in  England  and Wales tracked by
Rightmove showed monthly declines in September, with  home prices 
falling 2.8 percent in  Wales  and 2.6 percent in northern
England. Gains were led by a 2.7 percent increase in England’s
East Midlands area and London.  In the U.K. capital, 28 out of 32 boroughs saw prices rise
in September, led by the southern London suburbs of Sutton and
Merton. The number of homes being put on sale in the city during
the month dropped 12 percent to 17,966 compared with September
2010, the report showed.  “This is a significant reduction in supply that will
maintain the upwards pressure on pricing in the capital if it
continues,” Rightmove said.  For the company’s national and London September reports,
Rightmove measured 117,061 prices for homes put on sale on its
website between Aug. 7 and Sept. 10. That accounts for about 90
percent of the market, it said.  “The continuing lack of attractive mortgage products with
higher loan-to-value ratios is stalling a housing market
recovery, as first-time buyers or existing homeowners with
little or no equity are faced with years of saving to raise the
necessary deposits,” Shipside said. “A housing market recovery
seems as far away as ever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  