-- 
Palestinian UN Bid Will Fail, Netanyahu Says

-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-18T12:04:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/palestinian-initiative-for-full-un-membership-will-fail-netanyahu-says.html
The Palestinian initiative to
obtain full membership in the  United Nations  won’t succeed in
the face of U.S. opposition, Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said.  Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said Sept. 16
the Palestinians will this week request that the UN  Security
Council  recognize a Palestinian state and accept it as a full
member.  “I am convinced that the activities of the United States,
which is acting in close cooperation with us, and the results of
the activities of other governments with whom we are
cooperating, as are of course the Americans, means this attempt
will fail,” Netanyahu told the weekly Cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem today, in remarks posted on his office’s website.  The Obama administration has said it will veto a UN
statehood resolution at the Security Council, calling it
counterproductive to the goal of reaching a deal via
negotiations between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  A U.S. veto in the Security Council wouldn’t bar the
Palestinians from seeking a vote in the larger General Assembly
to upgrade the Palestinian Authority’s observer status from an
“entity” to a “non-member state.”  A vote in the General Assembly “has neither the same
weight nor importance,” as the Security Council, Netanyahu
said. The Palestinians need to understand that “peace will be
achieved only through direct negotiations,” he said.  Peace Deal  The Palestinian UN initiative is meant to “delegitimize
Israel’s policies and occupation,” yet not delegitimize or
isolate Israel itself, Abbas said Sept. 16. He said that after
getting statehood recognition, the Palestinians would continue
to work toward a peace deal.  “Of course there is a chance to start direct
negotiations,” Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath  said today,
speaking on Israel Radio. “You stop your settlements, and we go
tomorrow to direct negotiations.”  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
a year ago after Netanyahu declined to extend a freeze on new
construction on West Bank settlements, which Abbas said was a
condition for the talks to continue.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  is in  Washington  today
to confer with U.S. officials ahead of the UN annual meeting
this week. Envoys of the Middle East Quartet - comprising the
U.S., U.N. European Union and Russia - will convene in New York
City today, according to Ruti Winterstein, spokeswoman for the
Office of the Quartet Representative in  Jerusalem .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 