-- 
Payless Shoes Owner Poised for Buyout With 76% Discount to Sales: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-19T20:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/payless-shoes-owner-poised-for-buyout-with-76-discount-to-sales-real-m-a.html
Collective Brands Inc. (PSS) , owner of
the Payless ShoeSource chain, may lure private equity buyers as
it trades at a 76 percent discount to its sales.  Collective Brands, which is reviewing “a full range” of
plans to bolster shareholder value after falling 36 percent this
year, has a price-to-sales multiple that’s cheaper than 96
percent of U.S. apparel and shoe retailers greater than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While the
Topeka, Kansas-based company has the most debt relative to
earnings in the industry, revenue is projected to climb to a
record this year and next.  The company’s same-store sales have dropped for four
straight years as Payless customers cut back on spending amid
the highest  unemployment rate  since 1983. While Collective
Brands’ debt may deter some buyers, a leveraged buyout firm
would get wholesale  brands  from Saucony to Sperry Top-Sider that
Morningstar Inc. estimates are worth $1 billion, more than the
$813 million market value of the entire company as of last week.  “It’s definitely a cheap stock right now,” Paul Swinand,
an analyst for Morningstar in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “For somebody to want the core Payless business they
would need to have a strong stomach for turnarounds, which is
why it makes more sense for a private equity buyer. In order to
make money you need to take risk, and to me, the risk-reward
here is not bad.”  The board of directors, along with advisers Perella
Weinberg Partners LP and Kurt Salmon, will explore strategic and
financial alternatives to boost  shareholder value , Collective
Brands announced Aug. 24.  Stride Rite, Keds  Mardi Larson, a spokeswoman for the company, declined to
comment on the review process or the potential for a sale beyond
the August statement.  The company operated 4,455 Payless ShoeSource stores as of
July 30. The retail outlets in the U.S. brought in about $2.1
billion in sales in the year ended in January, or 61 percent of
total revenue. Collective Brands’ wholesale business supplies
shoe brands, including Saucony, Sperry Top-Sider, Stride Rite
and Keds, to other retail stores and made up 19 percent of
sales.  Before interim Chief Executive Officer Michael Massey
announced the strategic review, Collective Brands had fallen 51
percent this year before today, compared with a 7.3 percent drop
in the 66-company Standard and Poor’s Midcap Consumer
Discretionary Index. The shares were down 36 percent for the
year through Sept. 16, valuing the company at 0.24 times revenue
of $55.77 a share in the last 12 months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That multiple is the cheapest of any U.S.
apparel or footwear retailer with a market value greater than
$500 million, the data show.  CEO Resignation  Collective Brands rose 44 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $13.86
today. The stock posted the second-biggest gain in the S&P
Midcap 400 Index.  Matthew Rubel resigned as chairman and CEO in June
following four straight years of declines at stores open at
least a year.  A U.S. unemployment rate averaging 9 percent this year is
forcing families to restrain spending with economic growth
deteriorating two years after the longest recession since the
Great Depression ended. Luring customers in the wake of the
downturn has been the biggest challenge for Collective Brands,
which targets price-conscious consumers in urban areas,
according to Morningstar’s Swinand.  Lower Spending  “The customer that you’re catering to, they’re not buying
as much at this time,” Kevin Roche, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee about $6.5 billion for Penn Capital Management Co. in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “People are
worrying about what the next week will bring, so they’re going
to be spending less. That’s what makes this model difficult.”  Roche’s firm owned about 140,000 shares of Collective
Brands as of June 30 and sold the stake after management
announced the strategic review.  Collective Brands, facing competition from shoe departments
at discount retailers such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , is closing 475 underperforming Payless and Stride Rite
stores in the next three years, more than 300 of which will be
shut by January, the company said last month. That means
shuttering about 10 percent of its locations.  The market capitalization of Collective Brands, which
changed its name from Payless ShoeSource Inc. in 2007 after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp., has declined 71 percent since
reaching a peak of $2.8 billion in 1998, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The market value of $813 million as of Sept. 16
is half the $1.6 billion, or as much as $27 a share, that
Morningstar’s Swinand estimates the company is worth based on a
sum-of-the-parts valuation.  Sum of Parts  The wholesale business alone may be worth about $1 billion,
based on a multiple of 12 times estimated earnings before
interest and taxes in 2012 for the unit, Swinand said.  Collective Brands’ combined businesses may be worth $18 a
share to $25 a share, Dorothy Lakner, an analyst at Caris & Co.
in  New York , estimated in an Aug. 25 note to clients. That
represents an equity value of $1.1 billion to $1.5 billion, she
wrote.  While a financial buyer could boost a profit margin of 0.9
percent in the last 12 months that’s worse than 93 percent of
retailers in its industry, the company’s $427.3 million in net
debt might discourage a bid from a private equity firm that
would need to borrow more money to finance an acquisition,
according to Susquehanna International Group LLP’s Chris Svezia.  Balance Sheet  Collective Brands already has 3.3 times more debt than
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the last 12 months, the highest ratio among U.S. apparel and
shoe retailers greater than $500 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Private equity firms may prefer companies with stronger
balance sheets, Svezia, a New York-based analyst for
Susquehanna, said in a telephone interview. Teen retailer
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  of Pittsburgh, which was listed
among Morningstar’s top takeout candidates in a Sept. 14 report,
had $514 million in net cash last quarter, the data show. Guess?
Inc., a Los Angeles-based clothing chain with $416 million in
net cash, also made the Morningstar list.  “You’re buying something with a net debt position, not a
net cash position,” Svezia said. “I’d be hard-pressed to
imagine that, with all the possible retail companies up for
grabs, Collective Brands would float to the top of being most
attractive to private equity.”  Private Equity Scenarios  Collective Brands is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
four levels below investment grade, and the equivalent B+ by
 Standard & Poor’s . Based on Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings,
which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, market value,
profitability, volatility and other financial ratios, the
company has a B2L  credit rating , three levels below investment
grade.  One option would be for a buyout firm to acquire the entire
company and then divest the wholesale business to raise cash and
improve the balance sheet, Svezia said. Another scenario may
involve the company breaking itself up, then selling its brands
off to industry buyers and the Payless retail business to a
leveraged buyout firm, Morningstar’s Swinand said.  Private equity buyers may include  Leonard Green  & Partners
LP and  Bain Capital  LLC because they’ve bought retailers in need
of a turnaround in the past, he said. Leonard Green of  Los
Angeles  and Sports Authority Inc.’s management took the company
private in 2006, the same year Boston-based Bain Capital bought
Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp.  Boat Shoes  Michael Gennaro, chief operating officer at Leonard Green,
and Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Bain Capital, didn’t respond
to telephone calls and e-mails requesting comment.  Collective Brands’ Sperry Top-Sider boat shoes and Saucony
running sneakers are the company’s most attractive and fastest
growing brands, according to Susquehanna’s Svezia. The
international Payless segment has also been outperforming the
U.S. division, Swinand said.  While U.S. sales rose less than 1 percent last year,
international revenue -- predominantly from Payless retail
stores and franchises in  South America ,  Canada  and Central
America -- increased 12 percent to about $590 million. That unit
made up more than 17 percent of total revenue.  “They have some plum assets,” Svezia said. “There’s
still potential for growth.”  Even with its budget-strapped customers struggling amid an
uncertain economic recovery, Collective Brands’ total revenue is
projected to climb 2.2 percent to a record $3.45 billion this
year and $3.51 billion next year, based on analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “A strategic review doesn’t mean you’re going to have a
buyer pounding at your door,” said Roche of Penn Capital.
Still, “the company is definitely cheap. It would be an
attractive investment for someone,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 