-- 
Phillies Clinch NL East; Rivera Gets 601st Save for Yankees; Red Sox Lose

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-18T05:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/phillies-clinch-nl-east-rivera-gets-601st-save-for-yankees-red-sox-lose.html
Mariano Rivera  pitched a perfect
ninth inning to secure the  New York Yankees’  7-6 victory over
the Toronto Blue Jays and tie Trevor Hoffman’s record of 601
saves.  Other Major League Baseball highlights yesterday included
the Philadelphia Phillies clinching their fifth straight
National League East title with a 9-2 victory over the St. Louis
Cardinals on solid pitching from Roy Oswalt and a Raul Ibanez
grand slam.  Milwaukee pitcher Yovani Gallardo struck out 13 batters and
Ryan Braun hit his third home run in two nights to give the
Brewers a 10-1 win over Cincinnati, moving them a little closer
to their first division championship since 1982.  The Houston Astros recording their first 100-loss season in
a 2-1 defeat at the hands of the  Chicago Cubs  in Wrigley Field.  Houston couldn’t score with the bases loaded in the ninth
inning and was 0 for 14 with runners in scoring position.  The Astros, who entered the league in 1962 as the Colt .45s,
fell to 51-100. The  Colorado Rockies  and Los Angeles Angels are
the only remaining franchises that have never lost 100 games in
a season.  In other American League games, Oakland beat Detroit 5-3,
Tampa Bay defeated Boston 4-3, Cleveland beat Minnesota 10-4,
Baltimore defeated the Los Angeles Angels 6-2, Kansas City beat
the Chicago White Sox 10-3 and  Texas  edged Seattle 7-6.  National League  In the National League,  Florida  defeated Washington 4-1 in
13 innings,  San Diego  beat Arizona 3-1, San Francisco beat
Colorado 6-5 and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Pittsburgh
Pirates 6-1.  The Yankees trailed 6-2 in the sixth inning when  Alex Rodriguez , who had missed the previous six games with a sprained
left thumb, hit a three-run homer over the left-field wall,
scoring Mark Teixeira and Robinson Cano.  Curtis Granderson hit a two-run homer in the next inning to
put the Yankees ahead 7-6, setting up Rivera’s record-tying save.  Rivera said he didn’t want to celebrate until he breaks the
career saves record.  “Don’t get me wrong, boys,” Rivera told media after
Saturday’s game in Toronto. “601 is a great number. You have to
hit 601 before you can hit 602. It’s a great number. But the
most important thing is we won the game.”  One, Two, Three  In the ninth inning, Rivera caught Colby Rasmus looking at
a third strike. He got his second out when Brett Lawrie grounded
out to first base. And he closed out the inning with Eric Thames’s fly out to centerfield.  In  Boston , Tampa Bay beat the  Red Sox  4-3 to reduce
Boston’s lead in the American League wild-card race to three
games.  Ben Zobrist hit a two-run homer off  Jon Lester  to give
Tampa Bay its seventh win in its last eight games against the
Red Sox.  Boston has lost 10 of its past 13 games since Sept. 3, when
it led the wild card race by nine games. Tampa Bay has seven of
its final 11 games against the first-place Yankees. Boston has
seven of its remaining game against the last-place  Baltimore
Orioles .  In Atlanta, Braves pitcher Tim Hudson struck out 10 batters
and Chipper Jones hit a run-scoring single in the eighth inning
to lift the Braves over the New York Mets 1-0 to maintain its
National League wild-card lead over St. Louis.  The Mets loss came one day after they beat Atlanta 12-2 in
a 20-hit outing. This time, Hudson held the Mets to just four
hits over eight innings and Craig Kimbrel earned his 45th save in 51 opportunities by striking out the side -- David Wright,
 Lucas Duda  and Jason Bay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  