-- 
Posen, Cable Press Case for More Stimulus From Bank of England

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 
2011-09-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/posen-cable-press-case-for-more-stimulus-from-bank-of-england.html
Bank of England  policy maker Adam Posen and Business Secretary  Vince Cable  stepped up calls for
the bank to do more to stimulate the flagging economy, with
Cable saying the U.K. needs to move from stability to growth.  “We are not going to be moving interest rates; there is
not much room to go there,” Posen said in an interview on Sky
News television yesterday. Describing the economic outlook as
“pretty grim,” he said an additional round of government-bond
purchases by the bank would make “riskier assets seem more
attractive, creating a little bit of wealth in asset prices,
taking down credit conditions for those on the margins.”  Posen said last week the central bank may need to add as
much as 100 billion pounds ($158 billion) to its 200 billion-
pound bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing or QE,
if conditions deteriorate. He warned that officials’ delay in
acting has made economic prospects “worse.”  “The situation has changed,” Cable said on Sept. 17, the
first day of his Liberal Democrat party’s conference in
Birmingham, central  England . “The bank still remains
responsible for  interest rates , but when you’re dealing with
monetary policy as you now are, there is an overlap in the role
of central government. It seems right we should be having a
debate about what it should be doing.”  ‘Sustainable Growth’  Cable will tell the conference in a speech today that the
authorities need now to move on from restoring stability to
Britain’s budget and banking system to creating “sustainable
growth based on business investment, exports, green technology
and manufacturing.”  The business secretary wrote in a pamphlet published three
days ago that the central bank should be ready to open a new
round of QE to keep the economy growing, including the use of
“creative mechanisms” that go beyond purchases of  government
bonds . Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has made it
clear he has no objections to the bank buying assets other than
gilts if it decides that a second round of QE is necessary, a
move that would require his approval.  “Instead of just buying up  government securities , we can
perhaps do more imaginative things such as buying up corporate
assets or bundles of loans,” Cable said.  ‘Starved of Credit’  “The Bank of England as someone who can make debt more
liquid and bear risk should step in with the government to make
that situation better,” Posen told Sky. “It is about trying to
get rid of the logjam we have in this economy. Small, medium and
new business is being starved of credit.”  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research said
this month that economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the
three months through August. Claims for jobless benefits rose
20,300 last month. Cable has called repeatedly for banks to step
up lending to companies.  ``What Mr. Posen's advocating, and I support, is trying to 
do things more creatively,'' Cable told a meeting of Liberal 
Democrat activists in Birmingham last night.  The central bank bought 200 billion pounds of bonds in a
program that ended in early 2010. Two other policy makers,
 Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  abandoned a push two months ago
for higher interest rates to control inflation that accelerated
to 4.5 percent in August. While that’s more than twice the
bank’s goal, it has set its key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent
since March 2009.  “We are sitting in a situation where inflation is about to
peak and come down, but it removes any reason to hesitate about
doing more,” Posen said. “I have been saying since fall last
year that it would peak sometime in fall this year and come down
in the summer of 2012 and we are on track for that.”  “We cannot and will not allow the economy to fall into a
trap of stagnation,” Cable wrote in his  pamphlet . With interest
rates close to zero and no room for fiscal stimulus, “the best
instrument available is expansion of  money supply  through QE,
though conditions may call for the use of more creative
mechanisms designed to stimulate private credit.”  Gilts make up almost all of the assets purchased since the
central bank began quantitative easing in March 2009, when the
economy was in the grip of its worst recession since World War
II. It has bought only small quantities of corporate bonds.
Posen has suggested other private-sector assets that could be
bought include commercial paper and  high-quality mortgages .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Birmingham, England, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net 
Eddie Buckle in Birmingham, England, at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  