-- 
Prodigy’s Maxim Morphs From Scary Rocker to Butterfly Painter

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-09-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/prodigy-s-maxim-morphs-from-scary-rocker-to-butterfly-painter-interview.html
There are few rock stars as scary
as those in the Prodigy.  Maxim, Liam Howlett and Keith Flint are in permanent attack
mode onstage, churning out an aggressive blend of punk and
hardcore techno such as “ Warrior’s Dance .”  Offstage and without makeup, Maxim is far from the brutal
persona behind the bone-crunching act that has sold more than 25
million records. The tattooed singer, born Keith Palmer in
Peterborough,  England , has been discreetly painting for years.
Now, under the name of  MM , he’s holding his first exhibition,
“Lepidop Terror,” featuring huge images full of butterflies.  “It started when I caught a moth in my studio,” he says in
an interview. “As I cupped it in my hand I thought to myself,
‘how do I know what this moth is thinking of?’ If it had a sword
or knife, would it be stabbing me?”  He started drawing butterflies with samurai swords and
hatchets, and pondering whether they are gentle, aggressive or
acting in self-defense. “I am trying to create the ying and yang
in the paintings,” he says. “There are so many angles you can
look at it.”  Maxim, 44, sees the butterflies as symbols of life, death,
rebirth and reincarnation, as incorporated into the work of
artists from Salvador Dali to  Damien Hirst . He’s modest about
the show, saying it was “daunting.”  Ambient Sound  The paintings at the  I.N.C. Space  in London’s Covent Garden
are in a blacked-out room, spotlit by the Prodigy’s lighting
designers. The cocoon-like space has a raised temperature with
gentle perfume and ambient sound wafting. Maxim didn’t want the
works on a bland white wall. He wanted a whole experience, “as
if you are going to Disneyland and going along on a ride.”  The display just about avoids excessive gimmickry, with the
focus still on the paintings, which are for sale from prices of
about 3,000 pounds ($4,736) to 15,000 pounds.  Maxim’s images also can be found on skateboards, done by a
company called  Wesc , and on a limited range of cups, saucers and
 plates  sold at selected outlets such as the  Savoy Hotel .  “The story of my getting into art,” says the dreadlocked
Maxim, “was basically I just needed some paintings for my walls
at home. I went to a few affordable art exhibitions and looked
at the art that people were selling and thought, ‘I could do
that.’”  He started painting between tours, and his friends liked
the landscapes. “The real turning point was about four years ago
when I went to  New York , and a friend introduced me to a few
artists,” Maxim says. “That opened my eyes.”  Maxim moved from oil paint to acrylics and then started to
experiment with resin, spray paint and collage.  Proceeds from some of the works are going to his favorite
charities,  Breakthrough Breast Cancer  and  Medicins Sans
Frontieres . “If you can give something back, you should give
something back,” he says.  “MM Art: Lepidop Terror” is at I.N.C. Space, 9-13 Grape
Street, Covent Garden, WC2H 8ED, through Sept. 26. The show is
free and open 11 a.m.-7 p.m. Limited edition prints are also on
sale in aid of charity. Information:  http://www.inc-space.com ,
 http://mm-gallery.com ,  http://theprodigy.com  or +44-1279-429210.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview is adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 