-- 
Rally Cars Enlisted for $4.7 Billion Boost to U.K. Wind Turbines

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/rally-cars-enlisted-for-4-7-billion-boost-to-u-k-wind-turbines.html
Dakar rally race cars and a robotic
arm could help deliver a 3 billion-pound ($4.7 billion) boost to
Britain’s offshore wind industry.  They’re among 13 designs shortlisted today by the Carbon
Trust in a competition two-thirds funded by wind developers such
as EON AG and Dong Energy A/S to help engineers access windmills
in rough seas up to 300 kilometers (186 miles) from shore. The
designers will get as much as 100,000 pounds each.  The Carbon Trust is a U.K. government-funded company that
advises corporations on cutting emissions, saving energy and
advancing low-carbon technologies.  The project aims to increase the availability of offshore
wind farms for power generation by 4 percent by making turbines
easier to access and minimizing the time they are shut down, the
trust said today in an e-mailed statement. The U.K. has put the
technology, among the most expensive of renewable power sources,
at the heart of its plan to meet a European Union goal of
getting 15 percent of energy from clean power by 2020.  “Future wind farms will be much larger, in deeper water,
and with worse weather conditions,” Jan Matthiesen, manager of
the offshore wind accelerator program at the trust, said in a
phone interview. “This is a key component in bringing costs
down. Every minute the turbines are not turning is lost
revenue.”  Third Round  The global market for craft to access offshore turbines
could be worth more than 2 billion pounds by 2020, Matthiesen
said. The U.K. could account for as much as half that, according
to the Carbon Trust. Britain awarded its third round of offshore
wind farm licenses last year, paving the way for as many as 33
gigawatts of new turbines to be erected starting in about 2015.  The project could save 3 billion pounds in lost generating
revenue from those farms over their lifetime, according to the
trust. While Britain is currently the biggest offshore wind
market, Matthiesen said the solutions could also be employed in
in the U.S. and  China .  “These projects represent some of the best ideas to
overcome the challenges of working in deeper water to create a
cleaner, more cost effective power supply for the future and a
greener economy in the UK,”  Greg Barker , climate change
minister, said in a statement.  Alongside Dong and EON, Scottish and Southern Energy Plc,
 Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s ScottishPower Renewables unit, as well as  Statoil
ASA (STL) , Statkraft AS, RWE Innogy GmbH and Mainstream Renewable
Power Ltd., are backing the competition. All are developers of
offshore wind in the U.K. and except for Dong, all are involved
in Round 3.  Seahorse-Like  The shortlist includes a giant robotic arm that transfers
engineers and equipment to the turbine base, a seahorse-like
vessel with a keel to remain stable on the ocean swell and a
boat that draws inspiration from suspension in Dakar-winning
rally cars.  South Boats Special Projects Ltd. and Knud E. Hansen A/S
were among those shortlisted for systems able to contend with
wave motion while transferring people to the turbines.
 Fjellstrand AS  and the University of Strathclyde were listed for
vessel designs to run personnel and kit to the turbines. Divex
and Offshore Kinetics were chosen for their designs that launch
and recover “daughter” craft from the sea, among others.  The Carbon Trust will review the designs again within a
year to refine the list further, Matthiesen said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  