-- 
Treasuries Climb on Greece Default Concern; Two-Year Yields Drop to Record

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-19T21:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/treasury-10-year-futures-contracts-advance-by-most-in-a-week.html
Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields to a record low, as concern  Greece  is heading for
default spurred demand for the safest assets and sapped stocks
worldwide.  Yields on 10-year notes dropped the most in two weeks as
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  canceled a U.S. visit,
saying he needs to be home as he works to receive an installment
of aid. Longer-term debt yields also decreased on speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will announce plans this week to increase
holdings of the securities to keep borrowing costs down.  “Treasuries are rallying as equities around the world have
plummeted amid ongoing issues in Greece,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.7 billion as chief investment officer
at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “The crisis
will probably linger for a considerable period, which means
continued lower rates.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 1.95 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities due in August 2021 rose 27/32, or $8.44 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 17/32.  Benchmark 10-year yields decreased as much as 12 basis
points, the most on an intraday basis since Sept. 2, after
touching a record low 1.8770 percent last week. A rally of
almost two points in 30-year bonds pushed yields down 10 basis
points to 3.22 percent. Two-year yields slid one basis point to
0.16 percent after touching a record low 0.1451 percent.  Fed Speculation  “Policy makers are unable or unwilling to do anything,”
said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , referring to
European officials. “That is why people are buying two-year
notes at 15 basis points even when they know the risk is we’re
going to see the Fed in here selling them.”  Treasuries pared gains after the European Union and
International Monetary Fund inspectors ended a teleconference
this evening in  Athens  with Greece’s Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and other officials to judge whether the government is
eligible for an aid payment due next month and set for a second
rescue package approved by EU leaders on July 21.  The call was “productive and substantive,” the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The talks will continue
in another teleconference tomorrow evening, the statement said.  ‘Alarming Part’  “The alarming part is that we have meeting after meeting
and nothing gets resolved, so Treasuries are the natural safe
haven,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “They are the least bad
option. One should stress this is not a particular enthusiasm
for Treasury yields at current levels.”  Venizelos dismissed on Sept. 17 talk of Greece’s declaring
bankruptcy and said Papandreou canceled his planned week-long
U.S. visit to be prepared to take quick decisions this week,
when Parliament votes on the July 21 package, which also gave
 Europe ’s rescue-fund expanded authority.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined for the first time
in six days, sliding 1 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
tumbled 2.3 percent. The euro dropped 0.8 percent to $1.3686.  Wall Street’s biggest bond traders are stockpiling
Treasuries on speculation the Fed will buy longer-term debt to
spur the faltering economy. The central bank’s policy makers
will hold an expanded meeting over the next two days to consider
their remaining policy tools.  Speculation on Fed  The 20 primary dealers, which trade directly with the Fed,
held $15.1 billion of  Treasury securities  due in more than one
year as of Sept. 7, up from a $75 billion bet against the debt
on May 6, Fed data show.  The central bank acquired $830 million of Treasuries
maturing from March 2013 to February 2014 as part of its policy
of continuing to reinvest the proceeds of maturing assets on its
balance sheet to cap borrowing costs.  Purchases of previously owned homes in the U.S. last month
probably held close to the weakest level this year, economists
said before a report this week.  Existing-home sales rose 1.7 percent to a 4.75 million
annual rate from an eight-month low in July, according to the
median projection of 59 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The report from the National Association of Realtors is due to
be released Sept. 21.  President  Barack Obama  called for $1.5 trillion in tax
increases over the next decade to help trim the deficit, saying
U.S. prosperity depends on paying down the federal debt.  Obama on Budget  In combination with cuts in spending, the president’s plan
would reduce the long-term deficit by $3 trillion beyond the $1
trillion that was agreed to as part of a deal to raise the  U.S.
debt  ceiling, Obama said at the White House. The additional
taxes largely would fall on the wealthiest Americans.  Money managers are becoming more bearish on Treasuries,
according to a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a New Jersey-
based unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker.  The company’s gauge on the outlook for U.S. debt through
Dec. 31 decreased to 44 for the week ended Sept. 16 from 48 the
week before. A number less than 50 shows investors expect prices
to fall.  The 10-year yield will increase to 2.96 percent by the end
of September 2012, according to the average forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  