-- 
Riding House Rivals Wolseley in Brasserie Fight: London Dining

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-09-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/riding-house-takes-on-wolseley-as-brasseries-vie-for-diners-london-dining.html
When a restaurant offers all-day
dining, you might think of bacon & egg breakfast, afternoon tea
or a late-night drink, as well as lunch and dinner.  To the restaurateur, it means three main things: $$$. Say
hello to Riding House Cafe, the latest venue from Adam White and
Clive Watson, co-founders of the Garrison and Village East, in
Bermondsey. They call it an all-day brasserie.  Property prices are high, so if anyone can squeeze multiple
sales opportunities out of one kitchen, a single dining room,
and an individual concept, he can have his cake and eat it too.
Just look at the Wolseley. That’s what restaurateurs do.  That Continental-style cafe is open from 7 a.m. to midnight
and is packed day and night. It isn’t a new hot spot whose
popularity might fade. The Wolseley opened in November 2003, and
if I wanted breakfast there next week, I’d be calling
reservations now or else trying to work out who could help me to
get a table.  If the Wolseley is the officers’ mess for  London ’s
chattering classes, Riding House Cafe is the staff canteen. It’s
less grand, with waiters who will chat and joke with you.  The meal begins with small plates for sharing, a popular
idea at the moment and one of which I’m a fan because choosing
from a good menu can be difficult and disappointing.  Smoked Aubergine  The starters are the most interesting dishes at Riding
House Cafe and are divided into three groups, at 3 pounds
($4.75), 4 pounds and 5 pounds. The options include beet
carpaccio, sheep’s ricotta with merlot vinaigrette or goat’s
curd, figs, honey at 3 pounds; cured sea trout, jalapeno, creme
fraiche or artichoke dip, crostini at 4 pounds; and sea bass
ceviche, lime chili or Moorish lamb cutlets, smoked aubergine at
5 pounds.  It’s possible to construct a meal this way, as I did
earlier this month at the excellent Modern Pantry, where a
friend and I shared six starters instead of ordering a main.  That wouldn’t be a bad idea at Riding House Cafe, where the
mains are less adventurous than the starters and come in
portions that might knock you out for the afternoon. The burger
is served in a square bun the size of your fist. The (very good)
fish and chips are more generous than you might get in Skegness
out of season. Invitations to order side dishes should be
ignored.  The desserts are as comforting as a warm duvet on a cold
night, though heavier. Hot fudge sundae comes with macaroons,
honeycomb (think  Crunchie  bar); spiced gingerbread comes with
grilled figs and caramel ice cream, at 5.50 pounds.  Crowd Control  I enjoy comfort and familiarity as much as the next
overeater, so I have no complaints about the restaurant, even if
there are times when the sheer number of customers might affect
the quality of some of the cooking. The venue seats 120 diners:
50 in the dining room and others along the bar and in an
adjacent lounge. The place is doing well and gets busy.  The wine list starts at 16.50 pounds a bottle, and the
Albarino, Castrocelta, Rias Baixas 2010, is great with the food
if you don’t mind spending 32 pounds or 8 pounds a glass.  The owners have a strong track record. Village East is a
similarly friendly and unfussy restaurant, while the Garrison
was named best pub and bar this year in industry awards from
Caterer & Hotelkeeper. (For those of you with long memories,
it’s on the site of the former Honest Cabbage.)  While the Fitzrovia area of London particularly needs more
restaurants with the quality of Riding House Cafe, it’s an
unpretentious venue that would be welcome anywhere. Don’t be
surprised if one day there is a Riding House Cafe near you.  Riding House Cafe is at 43-51 Great Titchfield Street,
London, W1W 7PQ. Information: +44-20-7927-0840;
 http://ridinghousecafe.co.uk/ .  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 30 pounds for three courses.  Sound level? Usually below 75 decibels.  Inside tip? The room on the left as you enter is clubby.  Special feature? All-day dining.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, for a fun evening.  Rating? **½.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 