-- 
Sangamo’s Blood-Cell Gene Therapy Fights HIV Without Drugs, Study Shows

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-18T16:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/sangamo-s-blood-cell-gene-therapy-fights-hiv-without-drugs.html
Gene therapy developed by Sangamo
Bioscience Inc. to mimic the blocking effect of white blood
cells in people naturally immune to HIV helped six patients
fight off the disease without drugs, a study showed.  In most people, the CCR5 gene acts as a receptor that
shepherds HIV into the body’s cells. About 5 to 15 percent of
the population, though, have one or two mutant copies of the
gene that disrupts entry. The therapy by Richmond, California-
based Sangamo used genetically modified white blood cells to
imitate the effects of the mutant DNA, the study said.  The research, reported today at the  Interscience Conference
on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy  in  Chicago , may help
patients who have HIV that’s resistant to current drugs, said
 Pablo Tebas , a researcher at the  University of Pennsylvania  in
Philadelphia and a study investigator. It’s exciting because no
serious adverse events were seen, he said.  The study found “these cells are going where they’re
supposed to go,” Tebas said in an interview at the Chicago
meeting. “At this stage it’s not a cure, and it’s a complicated
treatment to expand to large segments of the population.”  Sangamo rose 1.2 percent, or 7 cents, to $6 in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading on Sept. 16, after dropping 9.6 percent
since the beginning of the year.  The most common side effect cited in the gene therapy study
was a persistent smell of garlic, the researchers said. After
the therapy, one patient who naturally had one copy of the
mutant DNA maintained undetectable levels of HIV without drug
use, the study found.  Mutant Percentages  About 10 percent of people have one normal and one mutant
gene, and less than 5 percent have only mutant genes, Tebas
said. The company has two trials ongoing using the modification
method.  In the other five patients, the amount of HIV in their
bodies first increased during a 12-week period in which they
weren’t taking anti-viral drugs, and then the level dropped,
according to the study. The patients were male, and ranged in
age from 31 to 56. Three had been infected for about 20 years.  “We see a significant anti-viral effect,” said Samgamo
Chief Executive Officer Edward Lanphier in a telephone
interview. “That’s the big punchline here.”  In Sangamo’s process, doctors draw patients’ blood and
remove white blood cells, also called T cells. They are sent to
Sangamo and modified using naturally occurring proteins called
zinc fingers that cut into patients’ DNA in the middle of the
CCR5 gene. The modified cells are then returned to the patient
through an infusion.  Base of Immunity  The therapy doesn’t remove the CCR5 protein from all of the
patients’ cells, Tebas said. Instead, it provides a base of
immunity that helps patients suppress the virus, he said.  The next step is to increase the number of modified cells
in patients, he said.  Antiviral drugs, led by Atripla and Truvada, made by Gilead
Sciences Inc., of  Foster City ,  California , and Reyataz, sold by
New York-based Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., generated $15.1 billion
in worldwide sales last year, according to IMS Health Inc., a
Norwalk, Connecticut-based industry research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 