-- 
U.A.E., Qatar Companies Might Sell $1 Billion in Project Bonds, HSBC Says

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-09-18T15:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/hsbc-sees-u-a-e-qatar-firm-selling-1-billion-project-bond-1-.html
United Arab Emirates or Qatar-based
companies may sell $1 billion in project finance bonds in the
next six months to fund oil and gas or power developments,
according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Qatar Petroleum ’s Barzan natural-gas project, a venture
with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , is a “likely candidate” for a project
finance bond, Jonathan Robinson, the bank’s head of project
finance in the Middle East, told reporters in Dubai today.  In the U.A.E. a bond would likely serve to refinance debt
at an already existing power plant, Robinson said, declining to
name the company that might sell securities. Robinson said
bankers were still pitching transactions to prospective clients
and it’s too early to say which company may sell bonds first.  A project finance bond’s proceeds would fund a specific
project, while buyers of such a security would be able to claim
assets only related to that project in the case the debt wasn’t
repaid, Robinson said. That differentiates such an issue from a
bond that gives investors recourse to assets of the parent
company in the case of default, he said.  “Barzan is probably seen today to be somewhat of a
bellwether as to what is the total quantum of liquidity that is
out there for a top-tier project from the international market”
since its investors are credit worthy and because of the
project’s size, Robinson said.  New Streams  Companies borrowing for projects in the  Middle East  have
generally used bank finance or corporate bonds to raise cash,
Robinson said. Selling securities specific to a single project
would help tap new streams for lending, as companies approach
bond investors for liquidity, rather than banks, he said.  “We are very upbeat about the prospect for a healthy bond
market supporting projects” in the Middle East, he said. “We
are very upbeat on the prospects for a project bond market to
develop in the region.”  Qatar Petroleum, the Gulf country’s state-run energy
company, plans to seek syndicated loans for the $8.6 billion
Barzan natural-gas project, a person involved in the transaction
said July 5. Qatar Petroleum and Exxon signed an agreement in
January to develop the project. The project has been in the
market for financing since last week, Robinson said.  The company originally expected to borrow $5 billion by
May, in the form of bonds and loans, Qatar Petroleum’s head of
 project financing , Meshaal al-Mahmoud, said in an interview on
April 10. The syndication will now be followed by a bond
offering, the person involved said today, declining to be
identified because the transaction is at an early stage.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  is advising Qatar
Petroleum and Exxon on the transaction, it said July 5.  In  Abu Dhabi , HSBC has advised the state-owned utility the
Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority on the majority of its
 power plants  built with private investment, Robinson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 