-- 
Siemens Stops Building Nuclear Reactors as Germany Pulls Atomic-Power Plug

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-09-18T22:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/siemens-stops-building-nuclear-reactors-as-germany-pulls-atomic-power-plug.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  said it abandoned a
planned return to the nuclear-power industry, following the
German government in its retreat from atomic energy in the wake
of the reactor catastrophe in  Japan  earlier this year.  The German engineering company will drop plans to cooperate
with Russian nuclear-power company Rosatom Corp. in the field of
reactors, Chief Executive Officer Peter Loescher told Germany’s
Der Spiegel magazine, in comments that were confirmed by the
Munich-based company. There are no financial implications linked
to retreat, spokesman Alfons Benzinger said.  “We’ve closed that chapter,” Loescher said, according to
an interview with the German weekly. Siemens is responding to
the “clear position taken by society and politics in  Germany ”
in regard to a retreat from nuclear power, he said.  Siemens has gradually scaled back its atomic-power
operations over the years, after helping build some of the
world’s largest reactors in the latter part of the last century.
The company no longer makes components specifically for nuclear
plants, and Siemens has sold its stake in a venture with Areva
SA, the world’s largest maker of nuclear stations.  While Siemens is pushing renewable-energy sources such as
 wind turbines  and solar power, the company will continue to
build steam turbines that can be used both in conventional as
well as nuclear facilities, Benzinger said. The entire energy
division is Siemens’s second-largest by revenue, generating 6.77
billion euros ($9.34 billion) in the most recent quarter.  Russian Cooperation  Loescher said his company will seek to cooperate with
Rosatom in other areas, according to the article in  Der Spiegel .
The nuclear accord only existed as a memorandum of
understanding, Siemens said. Siemens has been active for more
than 155 years in  Russia , where it employs more than 3,300
people and generates sales in excess of 1.2 billion euros.  The German engineering company makes products including
high-speed trains, medical scanners, and factory-automation
equipment. Loescher has focused on areas such as health-care
equipment and infrastructure, as he targets the product
portfolio at an ageing population and increasing urbanization.  Siemens had been active in nuclear power for decades, for
the most part under the name of Kraftwerk Union AG, which
Siemens partly moved into a joint venture in 2001 with  France ’s
Areva. Siemens used an option to exit the business in 2009. It
was forced to pay a 648 million-euro penalty to Areva this year
after failing to meet some contractual obligations.  Areva, which is majority owned by the French state, is
building a nuclear power plant in  Finland , one of several that
are under construction in  Europe . After atomic power enjoyed a
renaissance in recent years, the technology has come into
question in after the nuclear disaster at Fukushima in March.  In the aftermath of the accident, Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, decided to decommission its atomic-power plants within
the next decade. Loescher, in the interview with Der Spiegel,
called the country’s retreat “the project of a century.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  