-- 
Solyndra Delays Auction, Sets Oct. 25 Deadline for Solar Panel Maker Bids

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-18T23:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/solyndra-delays-auction-sets-oct-25-deadline-for-solar-panel-maker-bids.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker, set Oct. 25 as the deadline for potential buyers to
bid on the company’s assets, including a factory financed partly
with loan guarantees from the U.S. government.  Should it get multiple bids, the company will hold an
auction Oct. 28, according to court papers filed Sept. 16 in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  The company, based in Fremont,  California , hired Imperial
Capital LLC as its investment banker to find a buyer willing to
reopen the factory, which shut down Aug. 1 after Solyndra fired
almost all of its 1,200 workers, according to court filings.  “Imperial has commenced the marketing process for
Solyndra’s business assets by contacting over 100 prospective
buyers,” the company said in court papers.  Solyndra, whose $535 million federal loan guarantee was
criticized by Republicans, filed bankruptcy Sept. 6 with a plan
to either sell its eight-month-old factory within four weeks, or
liquidate the specialized equipment used to manufacture its
solar panels. The company said the additional time sought to
seek the bids will allow Solyndra “to fully test the market”
and maximize the possibility it will get the best value for its
creditors.  Last week  House Republicans  used a hearing on Solyndra’s
slide into bankruptcy to attack the Obama administration’s
stimulus plans. Lawmakers have criticized the loan guarantee,
saying the administration rushed the approval process.  ‘Thorough’ Review  Jeffrey Zients, deputy director of the Office of Management
and Budget, described his agency’s review of the risks
associated with the loan guarantee as thorough at the House
hearing on Sept. 14.  The company owed lenders $783.8 million, including $527.8
million to the U.S. government, and held assets valued at $859
million as of Jan. 1, according to court filings.  Solyndra said it failed because it couldn’t compete with
foreign manufacturers funded by their governments. Those
factories produced an oversupply of panels at low prices and
offered buyers lengthy payment terms, it said.  The company makes cylindrical solar panels which are
different from the flat panels that are standard in the
industry.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  