-- 
South Korea Suspends 7 Savings Banks, Citing Weak Finances

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-09-18T06:34:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/south-korea-suspends-7-savings-banks-citing-weak-finances-1-.html
South Korean financial regulators
suspended seven local savings banks today, citing their weak
finances.  Jeil Savings Bank (024100) , Jeil II Savings Bank, Tomato Savings
Bank, Prime Mutual Savings Bank, Ace Mutual Savings Bank, Dae
Yeong Mutual Savings Bank and Parangsae Mutual Savings Bank were
ordered to halt operations for six months, the  Financial
Services Commission  said in an e-mailed statement.  “The measures announced today completes a series of
restructurings of the savings bank industry,” FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong said in a webcast briefing. “Resolving the
uncertainty surrounding the industry will help stabilize savings
banks troubles, which have been cited as a factor causing unrest
in our financial market.”  South Korea  has been tightening supervision of small
lenders after a real-estate market slump soured construction
loans. The financial watchdog in July began assessing 85 savings
banks to determine if they are sound enough to receive
 government aid  or should be sold.  Six of the suspended lenders had capital-adequacy ratios
below 1 percent under  Bank for International Settlements 
criteria, their debts exceeded assets, and their proposals to
improve management weren’t approved by regulators, the FSC said.
One savings bank requested suspension, it said.  45-Day Deadline  The institutions will be offered for sale or their
operations transferred to state-controlled savings banks should
they fail to improve finances and bolster capital within 45
days, the statement said. Savings banks with BIS ratios of 5
percent or higher can tap government-supported funds to boost
their capital adequacy, it said.  South Korea suspended nine savings banks earlier this year
after their finances deteriorated because loans for construction
projects went bad.  Woori Finance Holdings Co., the country’s largest financial
company by assets, acquired assets of Samhwa Mutual in March.  Licenses of Daejeon Mutual Savings Bank, Jeonju Savings
Bank and Bohae Mutual Savings & Finance Co. were canceled after
they failed to attract buyers, the FSC said on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  