-- 
Sovereigns Beating Companies By Most Since ‘08: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-19T04:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/sovereigns-beating-companies-by-most-since-08-australia-credit.html
Australian government bonds are
poised to beat the nation’s corporate notes this quarter by the
most since 2008 as concern  Europe ’s fiscal crisis will undermine
global growth spurs investors to seek the safest debt.  Sovereign bonds returned 5.5 percent since June 30, 2.2
percentage points more than corporate bonds sold by companies
including Telstra Corp. and Woolworths Ltd., Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. That’s the biggest gap since the
three months ended Dec. 31, 2008. In the U.S., Treasuries gained
5.4 percent, 2.9 percentage points more than corporate
debentures.  Government bonds from the U.S. to  Germany  and Australia
surged since June 30 as the fiscal crisis that began in Greece
spread to larger European nations and U.S. employment growth
stagnated. The premiums investors demand to hold Australian
corporate debt instead of government notes climbed to the
highest since December 2009 as the S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks
declined 10 percent this quarter and the nation’s unemployment
rate rose in August to its highest level in 10 months.  “Until we see volatility leave the equity markets and
become less of a concern for investors you’ll continue to see
demand for  government bonds ,” said Greg Michel, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $12 billion as head of fixed income at
ING Investment Management in Sydney.  Yields Tumble  Australia’s 10-year bond yield has tumbled 105 basis points
to 4.15 percent this quarter, on course for the steepest drop
since the final three months of 2008. That’s still 210 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, whose yields
slid 1.1 percentage points since June 30 to 2.05 percent.  The yield premium on Australian corporate bonds has jumped
38 basis points this quarter to 215 as of Sept. 16, according to
Merrill Lynch’s Australian Corporate & Collateralized Index. It
reached 227 on Sept. 12, the most since December 2009, the data
show.  Spreads on similar U.S. securities increased 68 to 232,
while the yield premium on global company notes climbed 80 to
243, Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Eighteen months of efforts to halt the euro area crisis
including 256 billion euros ($355 billion) in aid for  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  have failed to stabilize markets. The
turmoil has spread to Italy and  Spain , sending tremors through
Europe’s banking system.  The  European Central Bank  offered on Sept. 15 three-month
dollar loans to ease a liquidity crunch that had confronted the
region’s banks with the highest costs for obtaining the U.S.
currency in almost three years.  ‘Death Spiral’  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, dropped to
64 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate, or
Euribor, today after reaching 75.2 on Sept. 13, the most since
December 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While the ECB’s actions in money markets have halted the
‘death spiral’ for the time being,  risk aversion  will remain
high until Greece is resolved,” said Jason Watts, the Sydney-
based head of credit trading at National Australia Bank Ltd.
“Even if Greece does get its money, it will only last until
year-end then we are back in the same boat. It’s hard to see any
sustained credit rally.”  Germany’s top two finance officials rejected Sept. 17 using
the ECB to boost the euro-area rescue fund’s firepower,
rebuffing a suggestion by U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner . European finance chiefs, who wrapped up two days of
talks in Wroclaw,  Poland , also said the debt crisis leaves no
room for tax cuts or extra spending to spur the economy.  The Australian dollar fell 1 percent last week to $1.0361,
its second straight five-day drop, after climbing to as high as
$1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it was freely floated in
1983. It traded at $1.0240 at 2:07 p.m. in Sydney today.  Interest Rates   Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled
Sept. 7 a willingness to keep interest rates on hold as global
financial markets create instability for the “foreseeable
future.” Households watching global and local events “may
continue their precautionary behavior” and help weaken demand,
he said in a speech in Perth.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers for a second
month in August, pushing the jobless rate to the highest since
October 2010. The total number of unemployed Australians rose
for a fourth straight month, the longest advance since March
2009, when the global economy was falling into a recession and
Stevens was slashing rates to a half-century low of 3 percent.  Cash-rate futures show traders are betting Stevens will cut
the developed world’s highest benchmark rate of 4.75 percent to
3.86 percent by December.  ‘Significant Rallies’  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark dropped 12 basis points on
Sept. 16, the biggest decline in three weeks, to 41.5 basis
points. The gap, a gauge of banks’ difficulty in accessing
funds, closed at 61 on Aug. 8, the highest since January 2009.  “Australia is fundamentally a very sound government bond
market and on top of that it’s also a market where there’s still
a significant amount of yield to be had,” said ING Investment’s
Michel. “If the global economy was to falter or double-dip,
Australia does offer opportunities with regard to significant
rallies.”  The gap between yields on Australian government bonds and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors estimate consumer-price
gains to average 2.54 percent for the next five years, down from
this year’s high of 3.14 percent on May 6, and the highest
expectations among eight developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of credit-default swaps
on 25 of the nation’s biggest companies rose 8.5 basis points to
180.5 basis points as of 11:08 a.m. in Sydney today, according
to Deutsche Bank AG.  “There’s a risk-off trade out there, and I can’t really
see that changing in the short term,” said National Australia
Bank’s Watts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  