-- 
Strauss-Kahn Says There Was No Violence in His Encounter With Hotel Maid

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-19T14:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/strauss-kahn-says-there-was-no-violence-in-his-encounter-with-hotel-maid.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , in his
first interview since his May arrest in a sexual-assault case in
Manhattan, said what happened in room 2806 in New York’s Sofitel
Hotel “involved no violence, no coercion, no aggression.”  The former head of the  International Monetary Fund  and a
one-time leading potential Socialist Party contender for the
French presidency called his encounter with a chambermaid at the
hotel a “moral failing” and apologized to his family, friends,
and to “the French people.”  “What happened was more than an inappropriate
relationship; it was an error,” Strauss-Kahn, who returned to
 France  on Sept. 4, said in an interview on TF1 television
yesterday. “I regret it infinitely.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was charged with attempting to rape and
sexually assault the chambermaid at the Sofitel Hotel in
 Manhattan . The case was thrown out last month, even though
police determined there had been a sexual encounter between
Strauss-Kahn and his accuser. New York prosecutors decided not
to pursue a criminal case after they determined that his accuser
had lied repeatedly to them and others.  “I was frightened,” DSK, as he is known in France, said
in the 20-minute-long interview when asked about his nights in a
New York prison and his handcuffed “perp” walk. “When you’re
in the jaws of that machine you feel it can chew you up. I was
humiliated before I could even say a word in my defense.”  Civil Suit  Strauss-Kahn was taken off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  in Queens, New York, on
May 14, hours after Diallo accused him of trying to rape her in
his Sofitel suite.  He was interviewed yesterday by Claire Chazal, a friend and
former colleague of his wife,  Anne Sinclair . He still faces a
civil suit by the New York maid, Nafissatou Diallo. In France,
investigators are probing allegations that he tried to rape
writer Tristane Banon eight years ago, a claim he has denied.  Although Strauss-Kahn acknowledged he acted immorally, he
didn’t explain any details of what happened on May 14, Douglas Wigdor, Diallo’s lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement.  “That is inexcusable,” Wigdor said. “We are confident
that people will see his interview with his wife’s friend for
what it was -- a desperate ploy to gain sympathy with the French
public.”  The interview was watched by a peak of 13.45 million
viewers, or 47 percent of those watching television, a record
audience for any show this year and the largest for the evening
news since urban riots in France in November 2005, media 
viewership measurement service Mediametrie said.  Banon Complaint  Strauss-Kahn said that Diallo’s story “was a complete
lie” and that their encounter didn’t involve the payment of any
money. He didn’t provide details about what he suggested was a
consensual encounter.  The Banon case he said “didn’t involve  any aggression,
any violence,” calling her accusations “imaginary.”  He was questioned on Sept. 12 by Paris police in relation
to the attempted rape complaint filed by Banon. In her July
criminal complaint, she said that Strauss-Kahn assaulted her
while she tried to interview him in 2003. He declined to comment
on the case yesterday, saying the police investigation is
continuing. He has filed a complaint with Paris prosecutors
accusing Banon of slander.  Strauss-Kahn was greeted at TF1’s studios yesterday by a
group of women protesters,  Agence France-Presse  said. Some
carried a banner that said, “When a woman says no, it’s no.”  Picasso, Matisse  “I respect women,” Strauss-Kahn said when asked whether
he has problems dealing with the opposite sex. “I reject that,
though I understand the reaction.”  He also paid tribute to his wife for standing by him. “I
couldn’t have faced this without her,” he said. “She’s an
exceptional woman. I hurt her, I know.”  His wife, Sinclair, the 63-year-old New York-born
granddaughter of Paul Rosenberg -- France’s biggest art merchant
in the first half of the 20th century -- inherited paintings by
Picasso, Matisse and Degas. She paid Strauss-Kahn’s New York
legal bills.  Before he was charged in  New York , Strauss-Kahn had been
planning to run in the primaries for the Socialist Party
nomination for the 2012 presidential vote, he said last night.  “I had thought I could be useful and bring some answers to
the problems facing France,” he said. “Obviously all that is
behind me.”  He said it was “important” that the left’s candidate win
France’s next presidential elections, adding he had no intention
of backing a candidate in this month’s Socialist Party primary.  Poll Results  “My whole life I’ve tried to work for the public good,”
he said, when asked what he’d do next. “First I want to rest,
then I’ll see.” He said he was “fascinated” by issues such as
the demographic challenges facing  Europe .  A majority of French people want him to stay out of
politics, an Ifop poll for  Le Journal du Dimanche  yesterday
showed.  Fifty-three percent of those polled want Strauss-Kahn to
leave politics, the poll said, according to the newspaper.
Sixty-four percent of those asked want Strauss-Kahn to give his
views and solutions to the economic crisis.  Ifop polled 956 people aged 18 or older between Sept. 9 and
Sept. 16 through phone interviews. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  