-- 
UBS Chief Gruebel Dismisses Calls to Quit After Unauthorized Trading Loss

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-09-18T10:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/ubs-chief-gruebel-dismisses-calls-to-resign-after-2-billion-trading-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  said he doesn’t plan to resign after
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank last week reported a $2 billion loss
from unauthorized trading.  Gruebel said he is responsible for everything that happens
at the Zurich-based bank, according to an interview in Swiss
newspaper Der Sonntag today. Serge Steiner, a UBS spokesman,
confirmed the comment. Nikolaus Senn, former chairman of Union
Bank of Switzerland, one of the banks that merged to form UBS,
said two days ago Gruebel won’t be able to keep his job.  “If someone acts with criminal intent, you can’t do
anything,” Gruebel said. “That will always exist in our job.
If you ask me whether I feel guilty, then I say no.”  The bank said on Sept. 15 it may be unprofitable in the
third quarter after the $2 billion loss at its securities unit.
Kweku Adoboli, a UBS trader, was charged with fraud and false
accounting by London police the next day. The incident dealt
another blow to UBS’s attempts to boost profitability at its
investment bank after record losses during the credit crisis.  “The trading loss may be the nail in the coffin for UBS
investment-banking ambitions,” Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., said in a note.
“Chances have materially increased that UBS will implement a
material contraction of the investment banking franchise down to
low risk, low capital-consuming businesses.”  UBS already announced 3,500 job cuts last month, with 45
percent coming from the investment bank, as stricter  capital
requirements  and market turmoil hurt its earnings outlook. The
bank in July scrapped a target to double pretax profit to 15
billion francs by 2014 and is due to update investors on its
business plans in November.  David Sidwell  A UBS trader made a series of unauthorized transactions in
the past three months and falsified hedges for them, according
to the bank’s spokesman Steiner.  UBS has set up a committee led byDavid Sidwell, a UBS
board member and former Morgan Stanley chief financial officer,
to pursue an internal investigation, according to Steiner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  