-- 
UBS Bonuses at Risk as $2.3 Billion Trading Loss Erases Profit

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-09-18T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/ubs-bonuses-at-risk-as-2-3-billion-trading-loss-erases-profit.html
Bonuses at  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s investment bank
may be at risk after the company suffered a $2.3 billion loss
from what it described as unauthorized trading.  Switzerland ’s largest bank said Sept. 15 that it may be
unprofitable in the third quarter as a result of the loss, which
exceeds the 1.21 billion Swiss francs ($1.4 billion) in pretax
profit from the investment bank in the first half. The bank
first estimated the loss at $2 billion, before raising it
yesterday.  “A problem of this magnitude means they may be very
strongly challenged to have any bonus pool at all,” said Steven Hall, managing director of Steven Hall & Partners, an executive
compensation consulting firm based in  New York . “It’s pretty
clear there are going to be a lot of people who are not going to
get bonuses.”  Even before the trading loss, Chief Executive Officer
 Oswald Gruebel  had announced steps to curb costs after a 33
percent slump in profit in the first half of the year. The
Zurich-based company said last month it will eliminate about
3,500 jobs, with about 45 percent of the reductions coming from
the investment bank. In July, UBS scrapped a target to double
pretax profit from last year’s level to 15 billion francs by
2014.  More Job Cuts?  “UBS wants to downsize its investment banking unit anyway
and they were never going to pay big bonuses for 2011 in the
first place,”  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets, said by phone. “With this trading loss there
is now very good justification not to do so.”  A UBS spokeswoman in  London  declined to comment.  Gruebel, 67, and Carsten Kengeter, 44, who runs the
investment bank, spent two years trying to increase earnings at
the division after it recorded 57.1 billion francs in cumulative
pretax losses in three years through 2009. They hired more than
1,700 people across the investment bank and brought in new
business heads to replace those that left or were fired. They
increased risk-taking to improve earnings opportunities.  The measures brought limited benefits. UBS’s share among
the nine biggest investment banks of revenue from trading stocks
and bonds and advising clients on capital-market transactions
and mergers more than doubled from 2009 through the first half
of this year, yet it remained the lowest. UBS was aiming for
annual savings of 2 billion francs by the end of 2013 through
the latest job cuts.  ‘Fictitious Positions’  “They may have to cut the headcount more because the
savings from the reductions already announced will be wiped
out,” said Christian Robbins, founder of executive search firm
Nicholas Scott and a former trader. “They won’t be able to
justify bonuses without profitability. Because of UBS’s history
in the last two or three years, the incident affects them more
than it would others.”  The loss came from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX
and EuroStoxx index futures over the past three months, the bank
said in a statement yesterday. UBS has covered the risk from the
trading and its equities business is operating “normally” again
within its risk limits, the company said.  “The positions taken were within the normal business flow
of a large global equity trading house as part of a properly
hedged portfolio,” UBS said in the statement. The magnitude of
the risk was masked by “fictitious positions,” UBS said.  Clawback Provisions  UBS introduced clawback provisions after the record losses
during the credit crisis. Some of those rules permit the bank to
not pay deferred bonuses when units or the group as a whole turn
out to be unprofitable. Last year, senior bankers at UBS were
deprived of 300 million francs of deferred bonuses after the
company reported a 2.74 billion-franc loss for 2009.  UBS employed 17,776 people at the investment bank at the
end of the second quarter, and 65,707 company-wide. It set aside
3.39 billion francs for personnel expenses at the investment
bank in the first half, or 55 percent of the unit’s revenue.
Personnel expenses at the investment bank in 2010 amounted to
6.74 billion francs.  “They will have to make pretty sharp employee cuts, 10 to
13 percent more than planned,”  Jason Kennedy , chief executive
officer of Kennedy Group, a London-based search firm, said in a
phone interview.  The investment bank last had a pretax loss in the third
quarter of 2010, when what Gruebel called “very low levels of
client activity” and a charge related to the bank’s own debt
hurt revenue at the division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 