-- 
UBS Says Trading Loss Was $2.3 Billion

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-09-19T12:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/ubs-estimates-loss-from-unauthorized-trading-at-2-3-billion.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
announced that its loss from unauthorized trading amounted to
$2.3 billion, more than initially reported, while Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said he will stay on.  The loss, first estimated on Sept. 15 at $2 billion, came
from trading in Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index
futures over the past three months, the Zurich-based bank said
in a statement yesterday. UBS made the latest disclosures two
days after London police charged a 31-year-old trader with fraud
and false accounting.  “The positions taken were within the normal business flow
of a large global equity trading house as part of a properly
hedged portfolio,” UBS said in the statement. The magnitude of
the risk was masked by “fictitious positions,” it said.  Gruebel, 67, who joined UBS out of retirement in 2009 after
record losses during the financial crisis led to a government
rescue, told Swiss newspaper Der Sonntag that he doesn’t plan to
resign because of the loss. His comments were confirmed by
spokesman Serge Steiner. In a separate interview, he told Swiss
TV that he is ultimately responsible and will have to “take the
consequences.” Gruebel, whose career in finance spans half a
century, is a former trader who also led UBS’s biggest Swiss
rival, Credit Suisse Group AG.  ‘The Sword’  “It shows that in the end even a guy like Gruebel who
knows a lot about investment banking cannot avoid a
catastrophe,” said Tobias Straumann, a financial historian at
the University of Zurich who was commissioned by UBS to conduct
a probe into its internal controls during the subprime crisis.
He found the management “complacent” and criticized it for
relying too much on internally produced risk management reports.  Questions remain over whether investment-banking chief
Carsten Kengeter or other senior executives will be pushed out
following the loss.  “The sword will have to go up the food chain,”  Jason Kennedy , chief executive officer of Kennedy Group, a London-
based search firm, said in a phone interview.  While the bank said the trading losses occurred over the
past three months, London police charged UBS trader Kweku Adoboli with false accounting offenses dating to October 2008,
and fraud dating back to January 2009, according to the court
charge sheet.  Adoboli didn’t enter a plea, and his  law firm , London-based
Kingsley Napley, declined to comment.  Unprofitable in Quarter  The trader, whom UBS didn’t identify by name, “revealed
his unauthorized activity” following “inquiries directed at
him by UBS control functions that were reviewing his
positions,” the bank said. UBS has covered the risk from the
trading and its equities business is operating normally again
within risk limits, the bank said.  UBS notified the police and regulators of the unauthorized
trades early in the morning of Sept. 15. Adoboli was arrested at
3:30 a.m. and remains in police custody. He is being held until
Sept. 22, when he can request bail at a court hearing.  The bank said on Sept. 15 it may be unprofitable in the
third quarter after the unauthorized trading at its securities
unit. The loss, less than two months after Gruebel said the bank
had “one of the best” risk-management units in the industry,
exposed flaws in its controls.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority and its Swiss
counterpart said they would investigate the trading losses.
Deloitte LLP will carry out the probe on behalf of the FSA and
the Swiss regulator, the Sunday Telegraph reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information.  ‘Controls Failure’  “This is a controls failure,” said  Francois Chaulet , who
helps manage 250 million euros ($345 million) at Montsegur
Finance in Paris. “How are you going to explain to your
shareholders and employees that you’ve lost this amount from the
acts of a single young employee in a trading room.”  UBS rose 0.9 percent to 10.35 francs by 1:55 p.m. in Swiss
trading. The shares dropped 11 percent to 9.75 francs on the day
the bank announced the loss, the biggest decline since March
2009, before rebounding by 5.2 percent on Sept. 16.  Gruebel told staff in a memo yesterday that he was
“shocked and disappointed” by the unauthorized trading,
describing the events as a setback to UBS’s reputation and its
effort to build up capital. He said the loss won’t affect UBS’s
capital base, and the risk of someone violating the bank’s
controls “always exists.”  ‘Buck Stops’  “I and the rest of the firm’s management are fully focused
on thoroughly investigating this issue, and will do all it takes
to determine how this happened and what we need to do to ensure
that it does not recur,” Gruebel said in the memo.
“Ultimately, the buck stops with me.”  David Sidwell, the senior independent director on UBS’s
board and a former chief financial officer of Morgan Stanley,
will lead a three-person committee investigating the trading
loss and the bank’s controls, UBS said.  The two other people on the investigative committee are
board members Ann Godbehere and  Joseph Yam . Godbehere was CFO of
Northern Rock Plc until 2009, and held the same position at
Swiss Reinsurance Co. from 2003 to 2007. Yam is the former head
of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  The trading loss may hurt the bank’s credit rating, Moody’s
Investors Service said today in its Weekly Credit Outlook.  “This development points to ongoing weaknesses in UBS’s
risk management and controls and is credit negative for the
bank,” the report said. “If management is unable to increase
investment banking revenue while appropriately containing risk,
it will further set back profitability with negative effects on
the bank’s credit quality.”  Jobs ‘Under Scrutiny’  UBS had to raise more than $46 billion in capital from
investors, including the Swiss state, to make up for the record
losses during the credit crisis. The bank’s tier 1 capital at
the end of the second quarter was 37.39 billion francs ($42.3
billion), giving it a tier 1 capital ratio of 18.1 percent.  The investment-banking unit had pretax earnings of 1.21
billion francs in the first half of 2011, while UBS as a whole
had net income of 2.82 billion francs in the period.  UBS said last month it will eliminate about 3,500 jobs,
with about 45 percent of the reductions coming from the
investment bank, as stricter  capital requirements  and market
turmoil hurt the earnings outlook. The bank in July scrapped the
target of doubling pretax profit from last year’s level to 15
billion francs by 2014.  Appeasing Shareholders  Gruebel and Kengeter, 44, have been trying to revive
earnings at the investment bank for two years. They hired more
than 1,700 people across the division and brought in new
business heads to replace those that left or were fired. They’ve
also increased risk-taking.  The measures brought limited benefits. UBS’s share among
the nine biggest investment banks of revenue from trading stocks
and bonds and advising clients on capital-market transactions
and mergers more than doubled from 2009 through the first half
of this year, yet it remained the lowest.  UBS was aiming for annual savings of 2 billion francs by
the end of 2013 through the latest job cuts. More reductions are
likely following the trading loss, analysts and recruiters said.  “If you are looking to appease shareholder expectations
that means finding other ways to improve earnings, such as
cutting costs,” said Jon Nicholson, a managing director in
 London  at recruiting consultant Astbury Marsden. “The bonus
pool will be affected and people’s jobs will be under
scrutiny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  