-- 
Mullen Presses Pakistan for Action Against Haqqani Militants

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-18T19:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/mullen-presses-pakistan-for-action-against-haqqani-militants.html
U.S. Admiral Mike Mullen, the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, urged his Pakistani
counterpart to take action against the Haqqani militant group
that the U.S. blames for attacks on Americans in  Afghanistan .  Mullen met for more than two hours with Pakistan’s Army
Chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani in Seville,  Spain  on Sept.
16, said Navy Captain John Kirby, a spokesman for Mullen. The
two were attending a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s military committee to discuss operations in
Afghanistan.  “ Admiral Mullen  conveyed his deep concerns about the
increasing -- and increasingly brazen -- activities of the
Haqqani network,” Kirby said in an e-mailed statement. Mullen
“restated his strong desire to see the Pakistani military take
action against them and their safe havens in North Waziristan.”  The Mullen’s appeal was the latest U.S. effort to elicit
more action from Kayani.  U.S. officials have blamed the Jalaluddin Haqqani militant
group, one of the Taliban factions most closely aligned with
 Pakistan ’s military, for an assault on the U.S. embassy in Kabul
last week and a Sept. 10 truck bomb attack that injured 77
Americans at a base southwest of the capital. While no U.S.
personnel were killed in the embassy attack, there were 11
Afghan civilian deaths and five Afghan police officers died.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters this week
that it was “unacceptable” that the Haqqani network can stage
such attacks in Afghanistan and then find a haven across the
border in Pakistan.  ’Extremely Concerned’  Mullen said during an April visit to Pakistan that he was
“extremely concerned” that the Pakistan army’s Inter-Services
Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, “has a longstanding
relationship with the Haqqani network.”  Still, Mullen, who leaves office at the end of this month,
has combined his exhortations with praise for military action
that Pakistan has taken against other militants.  Mullen and Kayani “agreed that the relationship between
our two countries remained vital to the region and that both
sides had taken positive steps to improve that relationship over
the past few months,” Kirby said in his e-mailed statement.
“They also discussed the state of military-to-military
cooperation and pledged to continue to find ways to make it
better.”  Mullen will be succeeded by General Martin Dempsey, who
most recently served as Army chief of staff.  Kayani has faced pressure from within his own ranks to curb
cooperation with the U.S. after American Navy Seals killed al-
Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in a May raid in Pakistan without
the knowledge of Pakistani authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  