-- 
Multidrug-Resistant HIV Infections Decline As New Medicines Reach Market

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-18T19:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/multidrug-resistant-hiv-infections-decline-as-new-medicines-reach-market.html
The percentage of HIV strains
resistant to three main classes of AIDS drugs has declined since
2007, according to a study that suggests the introduction of new
medicines may be keeping mutated viruses at bay.  As of 2010, drug-resistant HIV fell to 11 percent of cases
from 29 percent in 2007 among the three types of AIDS medicines,
according to a paper presented today at the  Interscience
Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy  in  Chicago .
The study was by Laboratory Corporation of America, a clinical
testing company based in Burlington,  North Carolina .  The decline coincides with the availability of new
medicines including New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Prezista, approved in 2006;  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Selzentry,
approved in 2007; Merck & Co.’s Isentress, approved in 2007; and
German-based Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s Aptivus, approved in
2005, that are more potent and tolerable, the paper said. The
findings show that monitoring drug resistance may provide
important information for treating HIV and drug development.  “The drop correlates really well with the new drugs,”
said Agnes Paquet, a researcher at Labcorp’s Monogram Bioscience
unit, in an interview. “Not just the new classes, but also the
new agents.”  The three classes of medications evaluated in the study
include non-nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors, such as
J&J’s Edurant; nucleoside analog reverse-transcriptase
inhibitors, such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Epivir; and protease
inhibitors, such as  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Kaletra.  Combination Therapies  Patients are currently treated using HIV-fighting drug
combinations that doctors choose based on their expected
efficacy after testing the AIDS virus for resistance to the
medicines, the study said. Since new drug-resistant strains are
constantly emerging, doctors often switch medicines to thwart
resistance as new treatments become available.  More than  one million  people in the U.S. are living with
HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, according to the U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention. An estimated 56,300
Americans become infected with the virus every year.  Researchers in the study analyzed more than 220,000 drug
susceptibility tests performed at Labcorp’s Monogram Biosciences
unit from 2003 to 2010. Results showed a “marked decrease in
the fraction of resistant viruses with reduced susceptibility to
all three drug classes since 2007,” according to the study.  Labcorp’s Monogram Biosciences, based in South San
Francisco,  California , performs thousands of HIV drug resistance
tests each year on patient samples submitted across the U.S. and
 North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  