-- 
Huntsman’s Moderation Alienates Party’s Mainstream: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-09-18T15:01:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/huntsman-s-moderation-alienates-party-s-mainstream-albert-hunt.html
With a vulnerable incumbent
president, the profile of a strong Republican general-election
opponent includes a consistently conservative record that
eschews fringe views, a proven and scandal-free track record as
an executive and respectable national-security credentials.  The candidate who fits that bill is Jon Huntsman, a popular
and successful former governor of  Utah  with a squeaky clean
record. He is a middle-of-the-road conservative Republican and
two-time ambassador, most recently tapped by President  Barack Obama  as his envoy to China. At 51, he’s youthful and telegenic.  He’s also mired in last place in the Republican field in
the latest national polls. He gets 1 percent in surveys this
month by the Washington Post and Bloomberg, trailing obscure
aspirants such as  Herman Cain  and  Rick Santorum .  The Huntsman camp insists it’s premature to write off his
candidacy. He is banking on winning in New Hampshire, the
initial primary, to jump start the campaign. If so, his family
wealth would provide resources for a protracted fight.  Even with his miserable poll standings, he is attracting
some blue-chip support. He received endorsements last week from
Tom Ridge, the former governor of  Pennsylvania  who was the first
secretary of the Department of  Homeland Security , and  John Mack ,
the chairman of Morgan Stanley.  Nevertheless, the post mortems already are being written to
explain how a candidate with such promise is faltering among the
lowly also-rans. Only a few months ago, Huntsman was the
candidate some Democratic strategists said they feared most. The
White House assiduously was collecting a dossier of Huntsman’s
cables and statements to prepare an assault.  Late Start  A late entry into the race -- he returned from China in May
and began the campaign over the summer -- proved more of a
handicap than expected.  “We were doing it on the run,” says Huntsman’s chief
campaign strategist, John Weaver.  More troubling for the Huntsman candidacy than his late
return to the U.S. is where he returned from. The Mandarin-
speaker won high praise as an effective, engaged and loyal
diplomat.  Yet honorable service as Obama’s ambassador to  China  is a
double disqualifier for some of the right-wing bloggers and
conservative political activists who hate both the president and
China.  Economic Plan  Huntsman is a traditional conservative on most economic
issues, and his proposals are the most sweeping in the field. He
would eliminate all  tax deductions , including those for
charities and home mortgages, and lower rates to three levels, 8
percent, 14 percent, and 23 percent. All taxes on  capital gains 
and dividends would be eliminated in a plan that would
especially benefit wealthier taxpayers.  “There are a lot of asset-holders in this country,”
Huntsman said in a Sept. 16 interview.  In addition, he proposes to lower the corporate rate to 25
percent from 35 percent and vows to curtail a lot of government
regulations.  Nevertheless, he has alienated much of his party’s right
wing, which focuses on his support for civil unions for gays and
lesbians or his criticism of the anti-science posture of
Republicans who question evolution or global warming.  These are mainstream positions in a general election, but
the kiss of death in Republican primaries. Already, some
conservative politicians such as South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley have announced that Huntsman is the one candidate they
can’t support.  ‘A Complex Individual’  Even more it may be that Huntsman doesn’t fit the times,
out of sync with an electorate marked by anger and anxiety.  “ Jon Huntsman  is a complex individual; he looks at
problems and sees the complexity,” says  Alex Castellanos , a
leading Republican consultant. “When you speak to him, you get
the big picture but not a simple narrative.”  This is in contrast to some opponents: “ Rick Perry  enjoys
a beneficial simplicity. It’s not hard for him to focus on a
problem and have an immediate solution,” says Castellanos, who
is neutral in the contest, though his son works for Huntsman.  The Huntsman camp insists there’s still time for a
breakthrough. Everything hinges on New Hampshire, and they note
that both the Democratic candidate Gary Hart at this stage in
1983 and the Republican nominee  John McCain  in 1999 were
asterisks in the polls. They went on to win the Granite State
primary months later.  Three Contenders  “There are only three people who have a plausible chance
to win the nomination: Huntsman, Romney and Perry,” says Weaver,
the campaign strategist. In the interview, Huntsman doesn’t
hesitate to take shots at the two frontrunners. Romney, he
charges, lacks sufficient “hands-on foreign policy experience”
and had a mediocre record as governor of  Massachusetts .  Texas Governor Perry, he says, is sending a message that
he’s “out of the mainstream” by questioning  climate change  and
evolution.  Huntsman says the two critical elements in  New Hampshire 
are “time on the ground” and “the clarity of your message.”
He is skipping the Iowa caucuses, and no candidate will spend
more time in New Hampshire.  In New Hampshire, independents can vote in either primary
and Democrats can switch registration; with no real Democratic
presidential primary, Huntsman’s more moderate message could
resonate with these voters.  New Hampshire  Huntsman and his campaign say they can capitalize on a
victory in New Hampshire with the nucleus of a good organization
elsewhere and will be in position to win the crucial Florida
primary. The campaign’s headquarters are in  Orlando .  In a formula that seems more wistful than realistic, the
Huntsman camp insists that while the extremes of the political
spectrum dominate much of the debate, there is an angry center
of the electorate that their candidate can tap into.  More likely, New Hampshire will be the Huntsman campaign’s
swan song. And the question will linger: Shouldn’t he have
waited until the country, and his party, are in a more receptive
mood for his brand of politics, and there was more distance from
his service as an Obama ambassador?  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 