-- 
Turkish Stocks Rebound to World’s Best in Month as Rate Cuts Boost Banks

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-19T15:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/turkish-stocks-rebound-to-world-s-best-in-month-as-rate-cuts-boost-banks.html
Turkey ’s benchmark stock index is
climbing the most among major equity gauges worldwide in the
past month as investors grow convinced that interest rate cuts
will stimulate growth without causing the economy to overheat.  The nation’s benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 7.1
percent since Aug. 16, the best performance among 45 advanced
and developing-nation equity markets included in MSCI Inc.
gauges. Turkey’s index of 16 banks has rebounded 18 percent from
its lowest level since 2009 on Aug. 10.  Turkish equities, which lagged behind peers in the first
seven months this year, climbed after policy makers lowered
borrowing costs on Aug. 4, the third cut since December, to
bolster the economy amid the global slowdown.  Societe Generale 
SA’s  Benoit Anne  said Aug. 19 that he “got it wrong” by
earlier saying Turkish monetary policy was stoking inflation and
overheating the economy. Brazil followed with a rate cut on Aug.
31,  Russia  lowered its repurchase rate Sept. 14 and analysts
predict reductions in  Mexico  and  Poland .  “Foreigners are just starting to realize that our central
bank is doing great things for bank earnings at the moment, and
the ISE is going to outperform as long as banks are being
bought,” said Isik Okte, a trader at Finans Invest, an
Istanbul-based brokerage.  The  ISE Banks (XBANK)  Index rose 4.2 percent last week to the
highest level since July as authorities said lending curbs may
be relaxed. The gauge trades at 8.8 times estimated earnings,
compared with 9.4 times for the MSCI Emerging Markets Financial
Index.  Halkbank, Garanti  State-run lender  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  jumped 5.8 percent
to 11.8 liras. Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank part-
owned by UniCredit SpA, rose 5 percent to 3.8 liras.  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the largest Turkish bank by market value,
gained 5.5 percent to 6.96 liras.  Turkey’s economy expanded 8.8 percent in the second
quarter, more than analysts estimated and down from 11.7 percent
in the first three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  While the central bank’s actions have supported economic
growth, Turkey’s current-account deficit remains too high and
threatens the country’s financial stability, according to Ozgur Altug, chief economist at brokerage BGC Partners in Istanbul.  Turkey’s current-account deficit narrowed to $5.3 billion
in July from $7.7 billion in June as the lira weakened and
economic growth slowed, leaving the 12-month deficit at 9.5
percent of gross domestic product, the central bank said Sept.
12. The gap needs to narrow to 5 percent to 6 percent of GDP to
stabilize the economy, Altug said.  Worst Performer  The lira has depreciated 6.2 percent against the dollar
since the last rate cut, extending this year’s decline to 15
percent, the worst performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies. The currency weakened 1.7 percent to 1.8068
at 6:22 p.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level since March 2009.  While the weaker currency may ease pressure on the current
account, it may spur inflation as prices for imports increase,
Ozgur said. A possible upgrade of Turkey’s debt to investment-
grade status will depend on the balancing act of “achieving
strong growth without high inflation,” Fitch Ratings Managing
Director  Ed Parker  said in an interview Sept. 7.  Turkey’s central bank has lowered its benchmark  interest
rate  by 125 basis points since December to a record-low 5.75
percent last month. Inflation accelerated to 6.7 percent in
August from 6.3 percent a month earlier, government data showed.  Brazil, Russia  “What has changed from an equity perspective is that the
rest of the world just looks so much worse now, and at least
Turkey has growth and its banks are still pretty clean from a
balance sheet perspective,” said Tim Ash, chief economist for
emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“I still think it is unorthodox when a central bank is cutting
rates when it has a record high current-account deficit”
financed by “hot money flows” along with rising inflation and
rapid economic growth, he said in response to e-mailed
questions.  Brazil  cut its key rate to 12 percent from 12.50 percent
last month, citing a “substantial deterioration” in the global
economy. Russia’s central bank unexpectedly lowered its
repurchase rate last week and raised the rate it pays on
deposits to avert a potential ruble shortage in money markets as
a slower global economy threatens the world’s biggest energy
exporter.  Brazil’s Bovespa index of stocks climbed 2 percent since
the cut, while the real lost 8 percent against the dollar.  Stock Forecasts  Turkey “may actually be at the forefront of central bank
policy-making,” and countries including Mexico,  South Africa ,
Hungary and Poland may follow, Anne, the head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale, said in an interview.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendations on
Turkish banks Sept. 14, saying earnings will be helped by cuts
in  reserve requirements  after the government relaxed limits on
loan growth a day earlier.  Banks are “likely to benefit from monetary stimulus as
growth slows,” Goldman analysts including William Mejia and
Waleed Mohsi in Dubai wrote in the report, recommending
investors buy shares of Halkbank.  Shares of Halkbank may rally 36 percent in 12 months and
Yapi Kredi will probably climb 26 percent, according to Goldman.
Halkbank probably will advance 19 percent, and Garanti jump 25
percent, UBS AG wrote in a report Sept. 16, saying the country’s
banking industry is “one of the best placed in emerging  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and  Africa  to absorb the shocks from a global
slowdown.”  “The central bank’s monetary policy, which has come under
some criticism from most commentators, including us, looks
arguably less misplaced, given the global slowdown,” UBS
analysts Alexander Kyrtsis and Margarita Streltses said in the
report. “Concerns over the overheating of the economy have been
removed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  