-- 
Vietnam Cargo Rates to Rise as Smaller Shipping Lines Fail, Gemadept Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-18T17:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/vietnam-ship-rates-to-rise-as-smaller-lines-fail-gemadept-says.html
Gemadept Corp. (GMD) , Vietnam’s biggest
listed freight company, expects local cargo rates to rise from
mid-2012 as the failure of smaller rivals eases competition.  “Many shipping companies are trying to stay alive, so they
have reduced fees to very low levels,” General Director Do Van Minh said in a Sept. 14 interview in Ho Chi Minh City, where the
company is based. “The market will be much better when weaker
ones have been filtered out.”  Local shipping lines have also been hit by a slump in
volumes as higher  interest rates  have caused manufacturers to
curb production, Minh said. Across  Asia , shipping lines are also
struggling with higher fuel costs, overcapacity and lower demand
to carry flat-screen TVs, furniture and sneakers to the U.S. and
 Europe  because of the economic slowdown.  Gemadept fell 2.5 percent to 23,500 dong on Sept. 16. The
stock has fallen 29 percent this year, compared with a 5.7
percent decline in the benchmark VN Index of the  Ho Chi Minh
City  Stock Exchange.  The shipping company’s pre-tax profit from its main
business activities may reach 170 billion dong ($8.2 million) in
2011, compared with the target of 160 billion dong set in May
after the annual shareholder meeting, Minh said. The figure was
93 billion dong in the first half, he said.  “The business situation may improve slightly in the third
quarter,” he said.  Minh declined to forecast a net income figure, saying it
will also depend on the company’s investments in stock market.
In the first half, profit fell 74 percent to 21.5 billion dong,
according to the company website.  Container Terminal  Gemadept is also building a deep-sea container terminal in
southern  Vietnam  with CMA CGM SA. The facility will be
operational by the end of 2013.  Vietnam’s exports last month fell to $8.3 billion from a
revised $9.32 billion in July, according to preliminary figures
from the General Statistics Office in Hanoi.  The central Bank’s repurchase rate stands at 14 percent,
compared with 7 percent in November, after increases designed to
tackle inflation. Still, consumer prices rose 23.02 percent in
August, the fastest pace in almost three years.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  