-- 
Wales Beats Samoa to Rebound at Rugby World Cup; England, France Get Wins

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-18T13:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/wales-defeats-samoa-17-10-at-rugby-world-cup-to-rebound-from-opening-loss.html
Wales  kept alive its chances of
advancing to the  Rugby World Cup  quarterfinals by beating Samoa
17-10 as  England  and France secured their second straight wins
at the tournament.  Winger Shane Williams scored a try with 13 minutes left in
Hamilton, New Zealand, yesterday to secure Wales’s first victory
over Samoa at rugby’s four-yearly showpiece following upset
losses in 1991 and 1999.  Wales rebounded from last week’s 17-16 loss to defending
world champion South Africa to move into third place in Pool D
with matches against Namibia and Fiji, the two lowest-ranked
teams in the five-team group, to come.  “Forget about the performance, we just knew we had to
win,” Wales coach Warren Gatland told reporters. “I’m so proud
of the boys: under a bit of pressure, they just dug deep.”  The top two teams in each of the  four pools  advance to the
quarterfinals. France secured a bonus-point victory with the
last play of the game against  Canada  in Napier last night to
join Pool A leader  New Zealand  on 10 points before they meet
Sept. 24 in Auckland. England leads  Scotland  on points
difference in Pool B following its 41-10 win over Georgia.  Ireland tops Pool C ahead of  Australia  after beating the
Wallabies 15-6 two days ago in the biggest upset so far of the
tournament, which resumes tomorrow when  Italy  plays  Russia .  At Waikato Stadium, Williams picked up a loose pass and
darted over for his national-record eighth  World Cup  try to put
Wales seven points ahead after it had trailed 10-6 at the break.
 James Hook  and Rhys Priestland each kicked two penalties, while
Samoa got a converted first-half try from prop Anthony Perenise
and a penalty.  ‘Into My Hands’  “The ball fell into my hands,” Williams said in comments
distributed by tournament organizers. “I was just there to
finish off.”  Samoa, which trails  South Africa  by three points in the
Pool D standings, had a first-half try from Maurie Faasavalu
ruled out by referee Alain Rolland for a double movement.  “You lose some, you win some,” said Samoa captain Mahonri
Schwalger, whose team faces the Springboks on Sept. 30. “I’ve
got belief in my team. We’ll make the quarterfinals if we win
the next two games. So it’s not over for us.”  In Dunedin, Georgia held an England team  ranked 12 places 
higher by the International Rugby Board to two first-half tries
before the 2003 world champion touched down four times after the
break to pull away. Both teams had 50 percent of the possession,
though  Georgia  spent more time in the opposition half and
allowed six fewer penalties than the 14 from the English.  ‘Sloppy, Rusty’  “We were sloppy at times,” England manager  Martin Johnson 
said in a news conference. “Some guys were a little bit rusty.
We made things a bit more difficult than they were. If we’re
happy with those standards then we’ll go home early, so we’ve
got to be tough with ourselves.”  Inside center Shontayne Hape and winger Chris Ashton each
scored two tries for England. Delon Armitage and Manu Tuilagi
also crossed the line, while Toby Flood added four conversions
and a penalty as England sealed a second straight win after
beating Argentina 13-9 on Sept. 10.  No. 8 Dimitri Basilaia barged over for Georgia’s only try
just before half time, which Merab Kvirikashvili converted to
make it 17-10 at the break. Kvirikashvili missed five penalties.  “We have a lot to improve on but you can only win each
game in front of you and that’s what we’ve done,” England
captain Lewis Moody said in a televised interview.  Clerc’s Hat Trick  In Napier,  France  led Canada 25-19 before scoring three
converted tries in the last 15 minutes to win 46-19. Full-back
Damien Traille went over before winger Vincent Clerc added a
late double to his fourth-minute try. Clerc’s hat trick lifted
his career tally of World Cup tries to nine, a French record.  Morgan Parra booted four conversions and five penalties for
France, while Francois Trinh-Duc added a drop goal. Ryan Smith
scored Canada’s only try, with James Pritchard and Ander Monro
kicking the other points.  France’s win lifted it into second place in the group
behind the top-ranked All Blacks, while Canada stayed in third
place with four points.  “At the end it was easier, but it was a really tough
game,” France assistant coach Didier Retiere said in a
televised interview. “We’ve got a big job on next week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  