-- 
Wall Street Areas Blocked as Police Arrest Seven in Protest

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-09-19T15:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/wall-street-occupied-by-a-few-hundred-people-as-protesters-ranks-dwindle.html
New York  City police limited access
to parts of  Wall Street  for a third day after a weekend of
protests targeting financial firms. At least seven people were
arrested since the demonstrations began.  The size of the protest, dubbed “#OccupyWallStreet,”
dwindled to about 200 people early today near Chase Manhattan
Plaza, down from 1,000 on Sept. 17.  Four demonstrators were arrested today for wearing masks in
violation of a law that bars two or more participants from doing
so, and one was arrested for jumping a police barrier and
resisting arrest,  Paul Browne , a police spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. Two masked protesters were arrested Saturday
for trying to enter a building used by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , he
said.  Protesters are urging President Barack Obama to establish a
commission to end “the influence money has over our
representatives in Washington,” according to the  website  of
Adbusters, a group that asked people to occupy Wall Street “for
a few months.”  Police partitioned Wall Street’s pedestrian walkway
throughout the weekend, preventing the protesters from gaining a
toehold there. Pedestrians were limited today to sidewalks
between Broadway and William Street.  Demonstrators marched around Wall Street and Broad Street,
using the pedestrian walkways created by police, chanting, “All
day, all week, occupy Wall Street.” Anyone who stops and
disrupts pedestrian traffic is subject to arrest, Browne said.  Demonstration Area  The city established a demonstration area on Broad Street
and Exchange Place, adjacent to the New York Stock Exchange,
that protesters chose not to use, Browne said.  New York Stock Exchange owner  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  are among firms with
operations in the area. Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among financial firms
whose main offices aren’t on Wall Street.  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman at NYSE Euronext,  Duncan King  of
Deutsche Bank, and Bank of New York’s  Ron Gruendl  declined to
comment on the demonstration.  Protests also are planned for financial districts in
Madrid, Milan, London and Paris, according to a bulletin from
the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
obtained by Bloomberg News. The NCCIC is part of the  Department
of Homeland Security . Chris Ortman, an agency spokesman,
confirmed the bulletin’s authenticity.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 