-- 
Yankees Beat Toronto as Rivera Ties MLB Record With His 601st Career Save

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-18T00:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/yankees-beat-toronto-as-rivera-ties-mlb-record-with-his-601st-career-save.html
Mariano Rivera  pitched a perfect
ninth inning to secure the  New York Yankees’  7-6 victory over
the Toronto Blue Jays and tie Trevor Hoffman on the all-time
list with 601 saves over his 17-year career.  In other early Major League Baseball games, Atlanta edged
out the New York Mets 1-0, Oakland beat Detroit 5-3, Cleveland
upended Minnesota 10-4, Tampa Bay beat Boston 4-3 and the
Chicago Cubs beat Houston 2-1.  The Yankees trailed 6-2 in the sixth inning when  Alex Rodriguez , who had missed the previous six games with a sprained
left thumb, hit a three-run homer over the left-field wall,
scoring  Mark Teixeira  and  Robinson Cano .  Curtis Granderson hit a two-run homer in the next inning to
put the Yankees ahead 7-6, setting up Rivera’s record-tying save.  Rivera said he didn’t want to celebrate until he breaks the
record.  “Don’t get me wrong, boys,” Rivera told media after
Saturday’s game in Toronto. “601 is a great number. You have to
hit 601 before you can hit 602. It’s a great number. But the
most important thing is we won the game.”  In the ninth inning, Rivera caught Colby Rasmus looking at
a third strike. He got his second out when Brett Lawrie grounded
out to first base. And he closed out the inning with Eric Thames’s fly out to centerfield.  In Atlanta, Braves pitcher Tim Hudson struck out 10 batters
and Chipper Jones hit a run-scoring single in the eighth inning
to lift the Braves over the New York Mets 1-0, allowing Atlanta
to keep its National League wild-card lead over  St. Louis .  The Mets loss came one day after they beat Atlanta 12-2 in
a 20-hit outing. This time, Hudson held the Mets to just four
hits over eight innings and Craig Kimbrel earned his 45th save
in 51 opportunities by striking out the side --  David Wright ,
Lucas Duda and  Jason Bay .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  