-- 
Yemeni Security Forces Fire at Protesters in Sana’a, Killing at Least 20

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-09-18T17:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-18/yemeni-government-forces-al-ahmar-supporters-clash-in-capital.html
At least 20 people were killed when
Yemeni government forces and armed men in plainclothes opened
fire at thousands of protesters in the capital, Sana’a.  Dozens more were injured by gunfire and hundreds suffered
from minor injuries and tear gas inhalation, according to
Mohammed al-Abahi, a doctor and the chief of the field clinic at
Change Square. The death toll reached 20, said Tarik al-Duais, a
doctor at the field clinic, which has appealed for blood
donations.  Today’s rally followed a call to escalate protests by the
Organizing Committee of the Popular Youth Revolution, which
called on Yemenis to remove the “remains of the regime,”
according to an e-mailed statement. Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh has been recuperating in  Saudi Arabia  from
injuries sustained in a June attack on his compound. Gulf Arab
countries have failed in repeated efforts to get the president
and opposition to sign a power-transfer agreement and end months
of unrest.  Four policemen were wounded and an armored vehicle and a
water cannon vehicle were burnt, the Interior Ministry said in a
statement on its website. It accused the opposition of
mobilizing protests “to control public and private facilities
in order to dodge calls for dialogue.”  The National Council for Forces of Peaceful Revolution, an
umbrella opposition group, denied the accusations in an e-mailed
statement, saying demonstrators were protesting with “bare
chests.” It condemned violence against protesters and urged the
 United Nations  and international community to intervene and
“stop the crimes of this gang,” saying, “this monstrous crime
will not go unpunished.”  Troops and armored vehicles were deployed to the streets,
blocking some, according to Ahmed Najmeddin, an eyewitness.  Separately, troops loyal to Saleh fought today with
supporters of Sheikh Sadeq al-Ahmar, head of the Hashid tribal
confederation, in the al-Hasaba northern neighborhood of Sana’a,
resident Naseem Humaid said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 