-- ‘House of Cards’ Gives Netflix First Emmy Award Nominations
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-18T18:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/-house-of-cards-garners-netflix-first-emmy-award-nominations.html
The  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  political thriller
“House of Cards” received nine nominations for Emmy Awards,
including best drama, marking the first time an Internet
streaming service will vie for TV’s top honors.  The show earned series star  Kevin Spacey , who plays a
scheming congressman, a best actor nomination, the Academy of
Television Arts & Sciences said today in Los Angeles. In all,
Netflix won 14 nominations. The major broadcast networks were
shut out of the drama nominations for a second-straight year.  The Netflix nominations show that an upstart Internet
service can challenge the industry’s biggest players, including
broadcast networks and pay-TV programmers, with shows that rate
among the best. The company, based in Los Gatos, California, has
released six original series this year, winning customers who
watch on TVs, smartphones and tablets, and may not subscribe to
a traditional cable or satellite service.  “It’s a reflection of how consumers are now watching
television,” said Bruce Rosenblum, president of television and
digital for Legendary Entertainment and chairman of the academy.
“The more that the teams at Netflix and Yahoo and Amazon and
Hulu develop and produce great episodic storytelling, that’s
what will motivate more people to produce for those platforms.”  In best drama, “House of Cards” will vie with AMC’s
“Breaking Bad,” “Downton Abbey,”  HBO ’s “Game of Thrones,”
Showtime’s “Homeland” and “Mad Men,” also on AMC. Only one
of the nominees, PBS’s “Downton Abbey,” airs on a broadcast
network, underscoring pay TV’s dominance in the genre.  New Kid  CBS’s “The Good Wife” in 2011 was the last broadcast
network drama to be nominated, according to the  Emmy database .
Fox’s “24” was the last broadcast show to win, in 2006.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO led the total nominations with 108,
while Comcast Corp.’s NBC and CBS led broadcasters with 53 each.  The nominations will lift Netflix’s profile and may attract
new subscribers. “Arrested Development,” a Fox show revived on
Netflix this year, garnered a best comedy actor nomination for
 Jason Bateman .  “If there ever was a perception that Netflix was
handicapped in gaining critical recognition for its programs,
that ended today,”  Ted Sarandos , the company’s chief content
officer, said in an interview. “The best writers, directors and
actors know they can participate in the highest quality programs
on Netflix and still be recognized by their peers.”  Including its own shows, Netflix subscribers can stream
past seasons from a third of the nominated programs. Some of
those available include “Breaking Bad,” “Mad Men,” Louie’’
and “30 Rock.”  TV Everywhere  “It no longer matters how a show is delivered, whether
it’s over time on a network or all at once on Netflix,”
Sarandos said.  In addition to Spacey, the best dramatic actor nominees
included Hugh Bonneville, who plays the patriarch Earl of
Grantham in U.K. nobility series “Downton Abbey.” Bryan Cranston was nominated for his portrayal of drug kingpin Walter
White in “Breaking Bad,” along with Jeff Daniels as a TV
anchor in HBO’s “The Newsroom,”  Jon Hamm  as adman  Don Draper 
in “Mad Men” and Damian Lewis, a former Marine turned
terrorist in “Homeland.”  Robin Wright , who plays Spacey’s wife on “House of
Cards,” was nominated for best actress in a drama. She will vie
with  Claire Danes , an intelligence officer from “Homeland,”
 Elisabeth Moss , a copywriter in “Mad Men,” Connie Britton, a
country music star in ABC’s “Nashville,”  Kerry Washington  in
the political series “Scandal” on ABC, and Vera Farmiga from
A&E’s thriller series “Bates Motel.”  TV Comedies  In the comedy category, three of six nominees were
broadcast programs. They include CBS’s “Big Bang Theory,”
“Girls” on HBO, “Louie” on Fox’s FX, ABC’s “Modern
Family,” “30 Rock” on NBC, and “Veep” on HBO. “Modern
Family” is vying for its fourth-straight win for comedy.  Among individual shows, FX’s “American Horror Story:
Asylum” led all programs with 17 nominations, including best
miniseries or movie. Other nominees in the category are HBO’s
“Behind the Candelabra,” “The Bible” from the History
channel, “ Phil Spector ” on HBO, “Political Animals” on USA
and “Top of the Lake” from Sundance Channel  HBO garnered all of the best actor nominations for a movie
or miniseries with  Michael Douglas  and  Matt Damon  in “Behind
The Candelabra,” the feature about Liberace. Toby Jones was
nominated for his portrayal of Alfred Hitchcock in “The Girl,”
while Benedict Cumberbatch received a nod for “Parade’s End”
and  Al Pacino  will vie for the Emmy for his lead role in “Phil
Spector.”  Neil Patrick Harris, star of “How I Met Your Mother,”
will host the  65th Primetime Emmy Awards  on CBS in a live
telecast on Sept. 22. He joined Aaron Paul, who plays Jesse
Pinkman on AMC’s “Breaking Bad,” in announcing today’s
nominations. 