-- Abe Unleashed After Vote Seen in Biggest Risk Drop
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-07-18T05:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/abe-unleashed-after-vote-seen-in-biggest-risk-drop.html
Japan ’s bond risk is falling at the
fastest pace in the developed world on bets Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe will win a stronger mandate for economic stimulus in
this weekend’s parliamentary elections.  Credit-default swaps that insure Japanese government bonds
for five years slid 13 basis points in the past month to 69
basis points yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts for U.S. Treasuries slid three basis points during the
period, while those for German bunds gained three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point.  Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party and its coalition partner
are poised to win a majority in a July 21 upper-house election,
the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday, granting them control
of both chambers of parliament. That will give the premier free
rein to pursue a growth and fiscal consolidation plan known as
Abenomics that has earned plaudits by debt-grading companies
Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service.  “The elimination of the hung parliament will make it
easier for the administration to carry out Abenomics,” said
 Kiyoshi Ishigane , a senior strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees more than $70 billion in Tokyo.
“If you seriously want to consolidate finances, there’s no
other way but to raise economic growth.”  Abe’s party is set to win almost 70 seats in the upper
house election, putting the LDP and its coalition partner on
track to secure more than the 122 seats needed for a majority,
according to the Nikkei poll. His party took control of the
lower house after a landslide victory in December.  JGB Positive  Sovereign CDS are pricing in “the likelihood that the
upper-house election will turn out positive for Abe and improve
the outlook for corporate earnings,” said  Mana Nakazora , a
Tokyo-based chief credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “Resolving
the hung parliament would be positive for JGBs.”  Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said a
coalition victory would help the government pursue its policies,
in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year debt yielded 0.805 percent today,
the least in the world. The nation’s sovereign CDS have come
down from as high as 87 basis points on June 24, according to
Bloomberg-compiled data. A decrease in the contracts signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  The Bank of Japan doubled monthly bond purchases to more
than 7 trillion yen ($70 billion) in April, after Abe urged the
central bank to take steps to overcome 15 years of deflation.
His Abenomics policies also include a 10.3 trillion yen fiscal
spending package and a plan to loosen rules on businesses
ranging from non-prescription drugs to construction.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit market, Sumitomo Realty &
Development Co. sold 20 billion yen of bonds in two tranches,
including 1.098 percent, 10-year debt, according to a statement
from Deutsche Securities Inc. yesterday. The Tokyo-based home
developer offered 10-year securities in 2009 paying a 2.5
percent coupon, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Japan’s corporate notes have returned 0.33 percent since
the end of May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. That
compares with a 0.15 percent gain for the nation’s sovereign
debt and a 1.49 percent loss for corporate bonds worldwide.  The yen weakened 0.5 percent to 100.13 per dollar as of
2:33 p.m. in  Tokyo . It has dropped 21 percent in the past 12
months as Abe pledged to fuel 2 percent inflation.  “Abenomics, we think, is something that has a potential to
stabilize the credit profile and the rating,” Andrew Colquhoun,
the head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch, said on July 15 in
a Bloomberg Television interview.  Sovereign Ratings  Fitch  downgraded  Japan in May 2012 to A+, its fifth-highest
rating, with a negative outlook. Standard & Poor’s ranks Japan
AA-, also with a negative outlook, while Moody’s has an Aa3
grade on the nation, both the fourth-highest level. Domestic
investors account for more than 90 percent of Japan’s debt
holders, according to BOJ data.  “What keeps the Japanese sovereign rating at Aa3 is the
financeability of this debt, as there’s a very strong home bias,
a lack of foreign-currency risk and low interest rates,”
Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based sovereign analyst at
Moody’s, said in an interview on July 16. “If growth materially
picks up, implying that Abenomics has successfully worked
perhaps, that might need to be reflected in the rating, and
similarly so if it fails.”  Japan’s economy probably expanded 2.8 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, after the biggest jump in a year in the
previous three months.  Biggest Debt  The nation’s public debt may balloon to the equivalent of
245 percent of gross domestic product this year,  figures 
compiled by the International Monetary Fund show. That’s the
highest ratio globally, followed by Greece’s 179 percent and
compares with 108 percent for the U.S.  The government’s economic plans stop short of providing
details on how to cut social-security costs that already account
for 31 percent of the government  budget  in the fiscal year
started April 1 in the world’s most-elderly nation.  “Prime Minister Abe will prioritize the economy’s
revitalization above all,” said Hidenori Suezawa, a Tokyo-based
chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., one of the 23
primary dealers obliged to bid at government bond sales. “While
political stability is positive for credit, the flip side of it
is that expansion of fiscal spending is negative.”  The premier has said he will look at economic data in
deciding whether to go ahead with a planned doubling of the 5
percent consumption tax by 2015 to curb the growth in debt.  “Abe’s ability to carry out the tax increases will be
tested in autumn,” said BNP’s Nakazora. “Should he fail, the
negative effects will be gradually felt as Japan risks a
sovereign downgrade and higher funding costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  