-- Abenomics Needs More Margaret Thatcher, Marubeni Chair Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-07-19T01:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/abenomics-needs-more-margaret-thatcher-marubeni-chairman-says.html
Japan Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
should use similar policies to former U.K. leader Margaret Thatcher to bring the world’s third-largest economy out of its
“lost decades” funk, said  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  Chairman Teruo Asada.  From a recession in 1981, the U.K. went on to post its
highest growth rates since World War II as the late prime
minister opened up state-controlled industries to domestic and
overseas investors and sold off such companies as British Gas
and  British Telecom. (BT/A)  Today, four of the six major companies
supplying gas and electricity in the U.K. are owned by overseas
utilities.  Thatcher’s decision to hand over water utility management
to private companies alone improved the U.K.’s fiscal balance,
Asada said in an interview in Tokyo. A move by the world’s most
indebted nation to get the government out of the water business
could open  Japan  to more investment and competition, he said.  Deregulation of “airport, port, highway and such kinds of
concession businesses should be realized and opened to public
and private business groups,” said Asada, whose company is
involved in these industries abroad. Lobbying of the government
on this issue is under way, he said.  Marubeni fell 1.4 percent to 724 yen at 10:19 a.m. in
Tokyo, paring its gain this year to 18 percent. The Topix
benchmark index declined 0.1 percent.  State Control  In the U.K., Marubeni’s domestic rival  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) 
bought Sutton & East Surrey Water Plc for $260 million in
February and another trading house  Itochu Corp. (8001)  last year took
20 percent of Bristol Water Plc. for $68 million. Asia’s richest
man  Li Ka-Shing  is among the foreign investors in U.K. water
companies.  In contrast, Japan’s water market is administrated by the
government via the Japan Water Agency. The electricity market,
the world’s third-largest, is mostly split between 10 regional
utilities that monopolize generation, transmission and
distribution in their areas with little competition.  Japan’s highways are split between three state companies by
region, while ports are owned by local and national governments.  In potentially the first deal of its kind, state-owned New
Kansai International Airport Co. plans to hold a global auction
of its concession next year with a view of raising as much as
1.2 trillion yen ($12 billion), two people familiar with the
matter said in February.  Since being swept into power in December elections Abe has
vowed to revive an economy where property prices have dropped
for 21 consecutive years by seeking to spur 2 percent inflation
within two years and championing fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Yen OK  The result of what’s been dubbed Abenomics is a weakening
of the yen to a five-year low and a 42 percent jump in the
benchmark Topix index this year, the best performance among the
world’s top 10 economies.  There’s no need for further yen weakness as advocated by
some Japanese carmakers, Asada said.  “Some manufacturers say they need a much weaker Japanese
yen,” Asada said. “That’s ridiculous. One hundred yen to the
dollar, plus minus five, is reasonable and favorable for most
companies, especially for the exporters.”  Abe now needs to execute on promises to take the country
into all available free-trade agreements, restart the nation’s
idled nuclear generators and open up public infrastructure
businesses, Asada said.  Lesser Evils  Fears that free-trade accords may kill off Japanese farming
or that monetary stimulus will push up the cost of the national
debt need to be seen in comparison with continuing the status
quo, Asada said.  “We have faced two lost decades,” he said. “Without
Abenomics we’ll have the same thing continuing. In 2013 the
introduction of Abenomics is the right thing.”  Marubeni is among the companies speaking with the
government about greater opening up of so-called concession
industries, such as power generation, to any willing bidders,
Asada said.  Marubeni owns more than 10,000 megawatts of electricity
capacity abroad and very little in Japan, because the market is
dominated by regional utilities and the tariffs being set by the
government are too low to justify new investment, he said.  The company would be keen to use its experience gained
abroad in Japan and to bring in partners as minority investors
to introduce the latest technologies and know-how, he said.  In the water treatment, Marubeni has worked with both
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  and  Suez Environnement Co (SEV) , the two
biggest companies in the industry, he said.  ‘Serious Meetings’  “Many Japanese companies including trading companies have
much experience and know-how through doing the same kind of
business outside of the Japanese market,” he said. “Serious
meetings” with the government on this reform will take place,
Asada said.  On atomic energy, Asada said some reactors idled after the
Fukushima nuclear accident of 2011 need to be restarted. Atomic
energy should account for at least 20 percent of the country’s
total supply. Japan has newly built atomic reactors such as the
No. 3 unit of the Shimane plant in western Japan that have
superior safety systems, he said.  Beyond that, renewable energy may climb to 5 percent to 6
percent of total supply within 15 years, he said. Hydropower
could make up another 10 percent and the rest should be split
between coal and gas-fired stations, he said.  It’s Japan’s power market opportunities that most attracts
Marubeni, Asada said.  “If we’re allowed, our ultimate target is to be involved
in the coal or gas-fired power station business in the Japanese
domestic market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  