-- Actelion Raises Forecast on Accelerated Cost Savings
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-18T16:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/actelion-raises-profit-forecast-on-accelerated-cost-savings.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss drugmaker
that gets almost 90 percent of sales from a treatment for a rare
 lung disease , raised its full-year profit forecast as second-quarter sales beat estimates and it cut spending.  Core earnings will increase by a double-digit percentage in
local currencies, compared with a previous forecast for them to
be unchanged this year, the Allschwil-based company said in a
statement today.  The brighter outlook may renew takeover speculation, said
 Andrew Weiss , an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich.  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN)  considered making a takeover offer for Actelion in 2010,
people with knowledge of the situation said at the time. The
Swiss company has eliminated more than 150 jobs and cut research
spending while waiting for approval of Opsumit, the successor to
the Tracleer medicine that accounts for most of its revenue and
which starts to lose patent protection in 2016.  “Big pharma may become interested again,” Weiss wrote in
a note to clients today. “We see Actelion’s long-term value as
secured.”  The shares rose 1.8 percent to 61.30 Swiss francs at the
close in Zurich, the highest price since October 2009. The stock
has gained 51 percent in the past 12 months, including
reinvested dividends,  compared  with a 26 percent advance in the
Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Appetites Rising  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , the maker of the cancer drug
Nexavar, rejected an unsolicited $120-a-share bid from Amgen
last month and said it’s actively exploring a sale.  Roche
Holding AG  is seeking billions of dollars in financing for a
potential takeover of  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) , people with
knowledge of the situation told  Bloomberg News  last week.
Alexion makes a drug for a rare genetic disease that costs as
much as $400,000 per patient a year.  “Appetite seems on the rise,” Weiss said.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel in 2011 fought off
a hedge fund that sought seats on the board and wanted the
company to consider selling itself.  Actelion is always looking “very hard” for acquisitions
that are “quickly accretive” and has turned down deals because
they were too expensive, Clozel, who co-founded the company,
said in a phone interview.  “We have been overbid by people with much larger pockets
than we have, who do not have the same requirement for
profitability that we have or the discipline that we have,” he
said. “A lot of these assets which we turned down have not been
as profitable as the acquirer would have thought.”  Seeking Partner  Actelion is confirming data from early-stage trials of a
so-called S1P1 modulator against multiple sclerosis and
psoriasis, and may seek a partner if those findings are
verified, Clozel said.  “I think that we might have found a drug which would be
devoid of some of the side effects of the other drugs,
especially during the first dose,” he said on a conference call
with analysts today.  Second-quarter core earnings, which Actelion defines as
sales minus cash operating expenses, were 162.2 million francs
($172 million), compared with analysts’ forecast for profit of
164.7 million francs, the average of seven  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales in the period climbed to 451.7 million francs,
exceeding the average analyst forecast for revenue of 431.5
million francs. The benefits of a cost-saving initiative
implemented last year are bigger and faster than anticipated,
Actelion said.  Tracleer Prices  Sales of Tracleer expanded to 391.9 million francs, beating
analyst estimates, as the company gained from a price increase
in the U.S. and price decreases in Europe were not as severe as
the company expected, said Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley.  Actelion expects the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
decide on approving Opsumit by October, and has said it expects
to start selling the drug this year. The FDA hasn’t scheduled an
advisory committee meeting for Opsumit and the company doesn’t
expect it to, Clozel said. An advisory committee is a panel of
doctors and academics that advise the FDA on a drug’s risks and
benefits, and is usually called when there’s a concern about a
product.  Tracleer and Opsumit are designed to treat pulmonary
arterial hypertension, an incurable disease characterized by
high  blood pressure  in the arteries of the lungs. It affects
between one in 100,000 and one in 1 million people, according to
the American Lung Association.  Actelion said it expects core earnings in 2014 to be at
least similar to this year, compared with a previous forecast
for single-digit growth next year. The company expects at least
single-digit growth in 2015, compared with a previous forecast
for double-digit growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  