-- Air Force Officer’s Groping Case Faces Change in Charges
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-07-18T21:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/air-force-officer-s-sex-crime-case-to-move-to-state-court.html
The Air Force officer who ran the
service’s sex assault prevention office and was criminally
accused of groping a woman in a  Virginia  parking lot may face a
change in charges, a state judge ruled.  An assault and battery charge more closely fits the
allegation against Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski, 41, who
was accused of misdemeanor sexual battery in connection with an
incident in suburban  Washington  near the Pentagon,
Commonwealth’s Attorney Theo Stamos said.  “The appropriate charge in this case is assault and
battery,” Stamos said today at a hearing in Arlington County
General District Court.  Krusinski’s arrest, which stoked anger in Congress and the
Obama administration, occurred two days before the Defense
Department released a survey reporting that there were about
26,000 cases of unwanted sexual contact in the military in 2012,
a 35 percent increase from two years earlier. Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel has called the assaults a “blight” and a
“scourge” on the armed forces.  Judge Thomas Kelley Jr.’s dismissal of the case sets the
stage for prosecutors to present evidence in August to a grand
jury that could indict Krusinski on the new charge, also a
misdemeanor that carries penalties identical to sexual battery,
Stamos said after the hearing.  Prison Term  Conviction on either charge is punishable by a fine of as
much as $2,500 or up to a year in prison, or both, she said.  Krusinski’s attorney, Barry Coburn, said his client was
initially charged with a sex crime because of his  Air Force 
position.  “Given what his job was, the reason this matter became
newsworthy in the first place is because he was charged with a
sex offense,” Coburn said. “We disagree with the decision to
charge him with a criminal offense at all.”  Stamos said Krusinski’s job “had nothing and has nothing
to do with this prosecution.”  Stamos declined to discuss the evidence against Krusinski.
Assault and battery under Virginia law involves unwanted
touching, while sexual battery covers unwanted touching
accompanied by “force, threat, intimidation or ruse”, Stamos
said.  Krusinski was arrested May 5 in Arlington after he
allegedly approached a woman “and grabbed her breasts and
buttocks,” according to a county police statement. The incident
occurred at 12:35 a.m. and Krusinski was drunk, police said.  ‘Grabbed Her’  “Once the civilian trial is complete, we will separately
assess the facts and evidence in the case and determine if there
are applicable disciplinary or administrative actions that are
appropriate,” Lieutenant Colonel Laurel Tingley, an Air Force
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement before the hearing
today. She declined to comment further on the case.  Krusinski had been branch chief for the sexual-assault
prevention and response office since February. He was removed
from the job pending an investigation of the parking-lot
incident, the Air Force said at the time of his arrest. He has
been free on bail since.  The Air Force has revamped the office, increasing its staff
to 31 from four and putting a general in charge. The expanded
office began operating June 3 under Major General Margaret
Woodward, who reports to the Air Force vice chief of staff,
according to an e-mailed statement from Lieutenant Colonel Jill
Whitesell, an Air Force spokeswoman.  New Office  “The Air Force recognized the need for a more prominent,
stand-alone, directorate-level office,” Whitesell said.  Such efforts haven’t mollified  New York  Democratic Senator
 Kirsten Gillibrand , who opposes the practice of letting the
military chain of command decide whether sexual assault cases
are prosecuted. Her push to give that authority to military
prosecutors instead picked up support this week from two
Republican colleagues,  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky  and  Ted Cruz  of
 Texas .  “There is no accountability because the trust that any
justice will be served has been irreparably broken under the
current system where commanders hold all the cards,” Gillibrand
said in remarks prepared for a news conference yesterday.  Assault victims “may be deterred from reporting their
assault if they have to report it to their boss,” Paul said at
yesterday’s press conference.  Personnel Posts  Krusinski was commissioned in 1994 after his graduation
from the Air Force Academy. He has spent the bulk of his
military career in personnel posts, including stints at the
Pentagon in the Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency, at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton,  Ohio , and at
MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa,  Florida , according to the Air
Force office of public affairs.  He deployed to  Iraq  from November 2009 to May 2010 and to
 Afghanistan  from August 2011 to February 2012, records show.  The case is Virginia v. Krusinski, GC13002001-00, Arlington
County General District Court (Arlington, Virginia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  