-- Airports of Thailand Rises on Passenger Growth: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-07-18T05:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/airports-of-thailand-rises-on-passenger-growth-bangkok-mover.html
Airports of Thailand Pcl , the
nation’s largest airport operator, advanced to a record in
Bangkok share trading after passenger numbers jumped.  The shares  climbed  6.7 percent to 190 baht at 12:15 p.m.
local time. The stock was the biggest percentage gainer in the
820-member MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which dropped 0.2
percent. The benchmark SET Index jumped 1.5 percent, heading for
the highest close since June 10.  Total passengers at the state-controlled company’s six
facilities rose 19.5 percent last month from a year earlier to
6.54 million, according to data released on its  website . The
stock also gained after Kao Hoon newspaper  reported  the company
will consider a 1-for-10 stock split to boost liquidity after
the jump. Chairman Sita Divari said today he is unaware of a
plan to split the stock, which has surged 96 percent this year.  “Airports of Thailand’s earnings will be spectacular this
year because of surging passengers at its airports,” Siam Tiyanont, an analyst at Phillip Securities ( Thailand ) Pcl, said
by phone today. “The report on a stock split also contributed
to the jump as it made individual investors optimistic about the
stock’s affordability.”  The company’s main focus is on accelerating the expansion
of the country’s main  Suvarnabhumi international airport  in
Bangkok to cope with surging passenger numbers, Sita said.  Airports of Thailand plans to increase the capacity of
Suvarnabhumi to 60 million passengers from 45 million now,
Acting President Pongsak Semson said yesterday. The expansion
will be completed in 2016, he said.  The stock is  valued  at 26.7 times reported earnings, the
most expensive since March 2012, compared with the benchmark
index’s 17 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  