-- Taliban Commander Regrets Attack on Shot Pakistan Girl Activist
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-07-18T05:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/taliban-commander-regrets-attack-on-shot-pakistan-girl-activist.html
A Taliban commander in  Pakistan  said
he regrets an attack on Malala Yousafzai, the schoolgirl shot in
the head by his group for her advocacy of girls’ education,
according to a letter released to reporters.  Adnan Rasheed, who wrote that he was sharing his personal
views rather than those of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, said
the assault on Yousafzai was shocking and that he wished it had
never happened, according to a copy of the letter appearing on
the website of British broadcaster  Channel 4 .  Associated Press 
said yesterday it had confirmed the authenticity of the letter
from other senior Taliban members.  While traveling to school in Pakistan’s Swat Valley in
October, Yousafzai was shot in the head and neck in retaliation
for her campaign for girls to be given equal rights to
schooling, defying threats from Taliban militants in her
hometown of Mingora. The attack triggered global condemnation.  Yousafzai, who is living in the U.K. as she recovers,
gained global recognition after the attack. During her address
to the United Nations youth assembly last week on her 16th
birthday, she vowed to continue her struggle against illiteracy,
poverty and terrorism.  Taliban guerrillas carry out attacks in Swat, an area they
previously controlled before a 10-week army offensive starting
in May 2009 ended their rule. The military campaign, which began
after Taliban beheaded local officials and burned schools in a
two-year fight to impose Islamic law, uprooted 2 million people
from their homes in the forested, mile-high valley that lies 250
kilometers (155 miles) north of the capital, Islamabad.  Mighty Pen  Rasheed, who didn’t apologize for the attack, said his
group attacked her because she was part of a campaign to malign
the Taliban and its objectives. The group doesn’t oppose
education for girls or boys, the letter said.  “You have said in your speech yesterday that pen is
mightier than sword, so they attacked you for your sword not for
your books or school,” said Rasheed, who according to AP
escaped during a prison break last year. He’s reported to have
taken part in an attempt to kill former Pakistan military leader
 Pervez Musharraf .  In the rambling letter, which quotes British philosopher
Bertrand Russell and  Henry Kissinger , Rasheed said he had wanted
to warn Yousafzai of the dangers she faced as they came from the
same tribe but had been unable to do so.  Now attending school in the U.K., Yousafzai in her speech
on July 14 decried the continuing attacks against girls and
women in her homeland and denounced the Taliban, who seek to
impose their strict interpretation of Islam in Pakistan and
 Afghanistan .  While Pakistan Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  has said he
wants to open peace negotiations with the Taliban, the
guerrillas rejected talks after the May 29 killing of their
number two commander in a U.S. drone missile strike.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  