-- Allianz Joins AIG on List of Too-Big-to-Fail Insurers
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-19T14:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/allianz-joins-aig-on-fsb-s-list-of-too-big-to-fail-insurers-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
and  Allianz SE (ALV)  are among insurers deemed systemically important
by global financial rule makers, meaning they may face tougher
capital standards and tighter regulation.  The list of nine too-big-to-fail insurers, including
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  in the U.S. and
 France ’s  Axa SA (CS) , was published late yesterday by the Financial
Stability Board, the Basel, Switzerland-based body set up by the
Group of 20 nations.  The FSB, led by Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney , is
coordinating global regulators’ response to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression to prevent a repeat of the
turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and bailout of AIG.  “Today marks an important step toward more broadly
addressing the risks associated with systemically important
financial institutions,” Carney said in a statement on the
FSB’s website. “A sound capital and supervisory framework for
the insurance sector is essential for supporting financial
stability.”  Also on the list are Prudential Plc and  Aviva Plc (AV/)  of the
U.K.,  China ’s  Ping An Insurance Group Co. (2318)  and  Italy ’s
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA. (G)   Systemic Risk  “Even though we continue to be of the opinion that the
insurance business in general and Allianz in particular does not
represent a systemic risk, we acknowledge the decision of the
FSB and will continue to support its efforts for more stable
financial markets,” Dieter Wemmer, chief financial officer of
Munich-based Allianz, said in a statement today. “We are well
positioned to manage the new requirements.”  Allianz shares dropped as much as 1.2 percent and were down
0.2 percent at 4:41 p.m. in Frankfurt trading, valuing the
company at 53.6 billion euros ($70.3 billion). Aviva shares
dropped 0.1 percent and Generali slid 0.4 percent.  Prudential
Plc (PRU)  shares rose 0.3 percent in  London .  “The FSB’s decision on this issue is not a rational but
rather a political one,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based
analyst with  Vontobel Holding AG. (VONN)  “As we don’t have any global
solvency standards, we don’t really know yet what the
implications will be for the companies on this list.”  ‘Loss Absorbency’  Insurers identified as too big to fail will have draw up
recovery and resolution plans to limit the economic fallout
should they go bust, the International Association of Insurance
Supervisors said.  Implementation details for higher “loss absorbency
requirements” are to be developed by the end of 2015 and will
apply from January 2019, the FSB said. The nine companies on the
list, which will be revised every year, will immediately face
stricter supervision, the FSB said.  “Since the financial crisis, supervisors across the sector
have worked diligently to address risks to the global financial
system from systemically important financial institutions,”
Peter Braumueller, chairman of the IAIS executive committee,
said in a statement. “The measures and framework put forward by
the IAIS today complete a major piece of this reform in a manner
specifically designed for the insurance sector.”  The companies on the FSB list were included based on
criteria such as size, global activity and the amount of non-insurance businesses they have, the IAIS said.  Size Important  “It appears that size continues to play a significant role
in the designation methodology,” the Geneva Association, an
insurance lobby group based in the Swiss city, said in a
statement. The list overstates the importance of top-ranked
insurers compared with other institutions in the financial
services industry, it said.  “Our expectation is that the FSB will rely on regulators
in the U.S. to implement G-SII policy measures for U.S.-
headquartered companies,”  Bob DeFillippo , a spokesman for
Prudential Financial, said in a statement using an abbreviation
for global systemically important insurers. “Prudential will
remain engaged at both the global and domestic level on
developing regulatory standards that are beneficial to consumers
and preserve competition.”  A group of U.S. regulators led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew this month said AIG is systemically important, meaning it
could threaten the financial system if it failed.  Competitive Threat  The group, called the Financial Stability Oversight
Council, also voted to designate Prudential Financial as
systemically risky. Prudential Financial, the second-largest
U.S. life insurer, is appealing the designation, which may
impose tougher capital rules and extra oversight from the U.S.
Federal Reserve.  “If companies are incorrectly designated as G-SIIs,
application of heightened capital standards could end up either
harming their ability to compete or could unintentionally lead
to the type of systemic threat that the FSB and IAIS are trying
to avoid,” Leigh Ann Pusey, president and CEO of the American
Insurance Association, said in an e-mailed statement.  AIG received a U.S. rescue that began in 2008 and swelled
to as much as $182.3 billion to save the firm from collapse,
after bets tied to housing soured. The insurer, led by CEO
 Robert Benmosche  since 2009, repaid the funds last year.  AIG’s rescue spared European banks from raising as much as
$16 billion in capital amid the crisis, according to a 2010
report from a U.S. Congressional Oversight Panel. The banks had
purchased contracts from AIG to cut the capital regulators
required them to hold to guard against losses on some holdings.
Banks that purchased protection from AIG included  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   Reviewing Policy  “AIG looks forward to working with our international,
federal and state regulators to develop a regulatory framework
for large global insurers that is both robust and consistent,”
Jon Diat, a spokesman for the New York-based company, said in a
statement.  MetLife is reviewing the proposed policy measures, said
 John Calagna , a spokesman for the New York-based company.  MetLife fell 1.6 percent to $48.04 at 9:45 a.m. in  New York 
trading. Prudential Financial lost 1.2 percent and AIG slipped
0.4 percent.  In November 2011, the Group of 20 nations endorsed the
FSB’s policy measures on global systemically important financial
institutions and regulators published a list of too-big-to-fail
banks. The FSB said in June it will follow up next year with a
list of too-big-to-fail reinsurers.  Consumer Impact  Ping An will continue to augment its operational management
standards and risk management capability, the insurer said
today, adding that its solvency is above regulatory requirement.  Generali said it was put on the list because of its non-insurance activities, adding it has a “stated strategy of
narrowing its business focus onto core insurance activities, and
disposing of non-core assets.”  Axa declined to comment.  Prudential Plc said in a statement on its website that it
wants to understand the implications of its designation before
determining its position. Aviva couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  The  Institute of International Finance , a trade group that
represents financial firms, said it supports efforts to contain
 systemic risk  and called on regulators to ensure new rules are
tailored for the  insurance industry .  “Any recommendation by national or international
regulators that certain insurers hold higher levels of capital
should consider the impact on consumers, including the impact on
price and availability of certain products,” the Washington-based group said in a statement on its website. “It is
essential for measures to be implemented in a cross-border
consistent manner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  