-- Cowdery’s Resolution Buys Allstate Life Business in U.S.
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-18T13:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/allstate-to-sell-lincoln-benefit-to-limit-risk.html
Clive Cowdery, who earned a fortune
cutting deals that consolidated the U.K. life-insurance
industry, is making a foray into the U.S. by buying a business
from Allstate Corp. for $600 million (394 million pounds).  Resolution Life Holdings Inc., a company founded by
Cowdery’s London-based Resolution Group, agreed to buy Lincoln
Benefit Life Co. from Allstate, according to a statement
yesterday from the Northbrook, Illinois-based company. The
buyer’s strategy is to acquire other U.S. life businesses that
are in runoff, or are no longer selling new policies.  Allstate is among insurers that have sought to sell life
and annuities assets as low interest rates pressure returns.  Axa
SA (CS)  agreed in April to divest a U.S. life unit to  Protective Life
Corp. (PL)  as part of a $1.06 billion transaction.  Canada ’s  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  struck a deal last year to sell a U.S. annuity
business for $1.35 billion to a firm owned by Guggenheim
Partners LLC shareholders.  “This is an interesting departure,” Josh Stirling, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a phone interview
about Cowdery’s latest deal. “There’s been a fair amount of
runoff acquisition of life companies in the United Kingdom, and
you haven’t seen a lot of those folks come over to the  United
States .”  Cowdery, 50, generated a personal fortune by buying runoff
pools of life-insurance policies at discounts to their embedded
value, from 2003 to 2008. He released capital by merging them,
cut costs and captured  cash flow  from expiring coverage. He sold
the firm, also named Resolution, to Pearl Group Ltd. at the
market’s top for 5 billion pounds in 2008.  Missed Targets  A more-recent attempt in the U.K. hasn’t been as
successful.  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , which is separate from Resolution
Life Holdings, has missed targeted returns to shareholders and
wound down a plan to buy ailing life insurers. In May, the
company said that first-quarter sales dropped 17 percent to 242
million pounds as clients delayed enrolling in pension plans.  Allstate Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson , 55, has
sought to limit risk and boost returns at Allstate Financial,
his company’s life-insurance business. Selling Lincoln Benefit
will reduce the amount of capital the unit will have to hold by
about $1 billion, according to yesterday’s statement.  Normal after-tax returns had averaged about 1 percent of
transaction reserves at Lincoln Benefit, Allstate said in the
statement. The unit had $341 million of premiums and contract
charges, or 15 percent of Allstate Financial’s 2012 total.  Allstate’s Exit  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home
insurer, also said yesterday that it would stop issuing fixed
annuities at the end of the year and sell the products from
other companies instead. Wilson sold a variable-annuities
business to Prudential Financial Inc. in 2006 and said in 2011
that “we don’t get attractive returns” on some of the
remaining annuity deposits at Allstate.  Wilson’s company gained 2.4 percent to $52.25 at 9:50 a.m.
in  New York , the biggest increase in the 22-company Standard &
Poor’s 500 Insurance Index. Allstate has jumped 30 percent this
year, matching the rise in the index.  Resolution will begin servicing existing Lincoln Benefit
customers after a 12- to 18-month transition, according to the
statement.  Resolution Group “has a consistent track record of
establishing businesses in the  United Kingdom  for the management
of in-force life-insurance policies,” Allstate said in the
statement. “Resolution Life has a long-term view of the market
and is committed to retaining in-force customers and providing
excellent customer experiences and support.”  Shareholder Equity  The deal is expected to be completed by the end of the year
and will result in a loss of $475 million to $525 million for
Allstate, according to the statement. Shareholder equity will
fall by $575 million to $675 million, including unrealized
capital gains and losses, the insurer said.  The return on equity of Lincoln Benefit is “well below
Allstate’s consolidated ROE, making this sale welcome news
despite the book-value hit,” Keefe, Bruyette & Woods analysts
led by  Meyer Shields  wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “We
think it will be received favorably by investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  