-- AmEx Falls on EU Fee Risk After Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-18T17:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/amex-falls-on-eu-fee-risk-after-revenue-misses-estimates.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, dropped after second-quarter
revenue missed some estimates and a European Union plan to cap
fees sparked concern the lender would face price competition.  American Express slid 3 percent to $74.50 at 1:17 p.m. in
New York, the  second-worst  performer in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average. (INDU)  The stock has climbed 30 percent in the past year.  The European Commission, the 28-nation EU’s executive arm,
will propose that so-called swipe fees, or interchange, paid by
retailers on bank-card transactions be capped at 0.2 percent for
debit payments and 0.3 percent for credit, according to draft
plans obtained yesterday by Bloomberg News. The proposal
wouldn’t affect much of American Express’s business, the New
York-based lender said in a statement.  “It’s giving investors pause,” Jason Arnold, an analyst
at RBC Capital Markets who rates the stock “underperform,”
said in a telephone interview. The plan could force AmEx to
reduce the fees it charges merchants, already among the
industry’s highest at about 2.5 percent, as the caps would make
its cards even more expensive compared with rivals.  AmEx “could lose network volume if merchants steer
consumers toward lower-cost payment options,” he wrote in a
research report today.  American Express reported record second-quarter profit
yesterday.  Net income  rose 4.9 percent to $1.41 billion, or
$1.27 a share, from $1.34 billion, or $1.15, a year earlier,
according to a statement. Net revenue rose 3.5 percent to $8.25
billion, missing the $8.28 billion average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Indirect Impact’  James Friedman, an analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group
LLP, said the “excellent quarter” isn’t enough to support the
stock’s valuation and cut his rating of the company from
positive to neutral. He also cited the risk the European
Commission’s plan could pose to earnings.  “There’ll be an indirect impact, but that’s something
again that will be very dependent on what the final rules
actually say and how we need to react in the marketplace,”
Daniel Henry, American Express’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts. “It’s hard to
really specifically say what’s going to happen because we don’t
even know what the draft rules are exactly nor what the final
rules what will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  