-- AMR Nearing US Airways Merger Focuses Overseas With Longer Trips
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-07-18T17:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/amr-nearing-us-airways-merger-focuses-overseas-with-longer-trips.html
American Airlines, close to
completing its merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , is boosting
capacity by 2.7 percent this quarter as it adds flights in
overseas markets including South Korea and South America.  For the year, the unit of  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  is boosting flying by
1.5 percent, most coming from the increases in long-haul flying
in the three months ending September, Chief Executive Officer
Tom Horton said today in a telephone interview.  “We’ve been growing capacity in some growth markets, South
Korea,  Mexico , Central America and South America, so we’re
seeing a bit of that effect in the third quarter in
particular,” Horton said. Overall capacity “we think is still
pretty modest.”  Airlines have avoided adding capacity in recent years to
maintain pricing power and keep planes full, especially in times
of economic uncertainty or weakness in demand. Sluggish demand
that weighed on results in April and May, when revenue for each
seat flown a mile dipped 2.9 percent and 1.8 percent
respectively, hasn’t continued, Horton said.  The benchmark gauge had “sequential improvement” during
the second quarter, rising 1.7 percent in June, and so far
bookings in July are “roughly in line with where they were last
year” despite the added capacity, he said.  “We’re encouraged by that given that we’ve got this bit of
capacity increase in the quarter,” Horton said.  Merger Reaffirmed  American reaffirmed today that the merger with US Airways
will close this quarter, in conjunction with AMR’s exit from
bankruptcy protection. Horton will become chairman of the
combined company, while US Airways CEO Doug Parker retains that
role.  AMR today also reported second-quarter profit of $357
million, excluding $137 million of reorganization costs and
other expenses.  Including those items, net income totaled $220 million, or
59 cents a share, the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier said today
in a statement. The company posted a loss of $241 million, or 72
cents, in the same period a year earlier.  Revenue was little changed at $6.45 billion, as American
kept 84.8 percent of seats filled on its main jet fleet. AMR’s
fuel expenses slid 3.2 percent to $2.14 billion, while wages and
salaries tumbled 18 percent to $1.45 billion.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in November
2011 ahead of a fourth straight year of annual losses, listing
$24.7 billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt. The company’s
plan of reorganization provides the potential for full recovery
for AMR’s unsecured creditors, and a recovery of at least 3.5
percent for shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  