-- Anglo American Quarterly Iron-Ore Output Falls, Copper Rises
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-07-18T10:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/anglo-american-quarterly-iron-ore-output-falls-copper-increases.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a mining company
with operations from  Australia  to Brazil, said second-quarter
iron-ore output fell 1 percent from a year as its biggest
production site recovers from strikes.  Iron-ore volumes were 11.3 million metric tons, the London-based miner said today in a statement. Copper rose 14 percent to
182,900 tons and platinum-equivalent refined production advanced
2 percent to 594,000 ounces.  “Weakish iron ore sales are the main concern, and an area
to be monitored,”  Investec Plc (INVP)  said in an e-mailed note to
clients. Iron-ore production was 2 percent below its estimate,
the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Cutifani , who is scrutinizing
every aspect of the company’s business after taking over from
Cynthia Carroll in April, will announce the outcome of his
review next week. The evaluation focuses on the performance of
Anglo’s divisions, allocation of capital and the importance of
South Africa to its portfolio, he said last month.  Production of export metallurgical coal, used in
steelmaking, fell 9 percent to 4.4 million tons. Output of
export thermal coal from South Africa declined 5 percent to 4
million tons and from  Colombia  fell 3 percent to 3 million tons.  Anglo may report a 31 percent plunge in underlying profit
to $1.17 billion when it releases interim results on July 26,
according to the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The stock was little changed at 1,356 pence at
10:33 a.m. in London trading.  Diamond Mines  Anglo also mines diamonds in southern Africa and  Canada .
Production at De Beers, a gem producer owned by Anglo, jumped 10
percent in the second quarter to 7.9 million carats because of
“favorable ore grades” at the Orapa and Jwaneng mines in
 Botswana , Anglo said. While output at the Venetia mine in  South
Africa  declined 60 percent, full operations will be restored in
the second half, it said.  The company’s copper output at Los Bronces in Chile
increased 13 percent to 101,700 tons. Production from the
country’s Collahuasi mine jumped 25 percent to 37,700 tons.  Anglo booked a negative provisional pricing adjustment of
$189 million in the first half after selling copper at 318 cents
a pound, compared with 370 cents the previous year, it said.  The  Kumba Iron Ore (KIO)  unit said second-quarter production at
Sishen in South Africa decreased by 9 percent to 8.6 million
tons from a year earlier as its biggest mine continued to
recover from strikes late last year. The Kolomela mine increased
output 49 percent to 2.6 million tons, countering the output
loss from Sishen, Kumba said.  Platinum Unit  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer of the
metal, said July 15 that first-half profit almost doubled after
the rand weakened, curbing the impact of cost increases in South
Africa. Earnings excluding one-time items may have risen as high
as 5.35 rand (54 U.S. cents) a share from 2.73 rand a year
earlier. Amplats, as the company is known, will release full
results next week.  Platinum producers in South Africa, which has the largest
known reserves of the metal, have seen costs rise after strikes
led to above-inflation wage gains, while demand wanes. Amplats
intends to cut 6,000 jobs as part of a plan to return to profit
by idling shafts and reducing annual output by 350,000 ounces.
Talks with unions on the proposal are due to end on Aug. 10.  “Overall, not a great set of results, especially when
compared to the better results from the other majors,” Numis
Securities Ltd. said in a note. Anglo stock is expected to
remain less attractive “with exposure to the weaker commodities
and ongoing issues in South  Africa , especially upcoming labor
negotiations” and power-price increases, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  