-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Area Grows More Than Forecast
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-07-18T14:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/manufacturing-in-philadelphia-area-expands-more-than-forecast.html
Manufacturing (OUTFGAF)  in the Philadelphia
region expanded more than forecast in July, the latest sign of
an improving outlook for the industry after a slowdown earlier
this year.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index increased to 19.8, the highest level since March 2011,
from 12.5 the prior month. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the area, which covers eastern  Pennsylvania ,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware . The median  forecast  of 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a reading of 8.  The data follows figures this week that showed production
climbed in the U.S. last month while manufacturing in the  New
York  area expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months.
Domestic demand is being bolstered by a pickup in automobile
sales and a boost in  capital spending  as companies look past
sequestration and global growth risks.  “Manufacturing may have gone through a little bit of a
soft patch, but it seems to be coming back,”  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New
York, said in an interview before the report. “The trend here
is positive.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from minus 2 to
17.5.  Sales, Jobs  The Philadelphia Fed’s shipments gauged climbed to 14.3 in
July, the highest this year, from 4.1. A gauge of  employment 
rose to 7.7, the strongest since April 2012, from minus 5.4 in
June.  New orders  advanced at a slower pace this month with the
index declining to 10.2 from 16.6 in June, which was the highest
in more than two years.  Philadelphia-area manufacturers grew more optimistic about
the future, today’s report showed. The outlook index for six
months from now rose to 44.9, the highest level since March
2011, from 33.7 in June.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and Empire State factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing, which makes about 12 percent
of the economy. The next ISM report is due Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  