-- Apache to Sell Assets to Riverstone for $3.75 Billion
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-07-18T23:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/apache-to-sell-gulf-of-mexico-shelf-operations-to-fieldwood.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the third-worst
performer this year among a group of U.S. oil and natural gas
producers, agreed to sell wells and acreage in the shallow
waters of the  Gulf of Mexico  to private-equity firm Riverstone
Holdings LLC for $3.75 billion in cash.  The sale to Riverstone’s Fieldwood Energy includes 1.9
million net acres with estimated reserves of 133 million barrels
of oil and liquids and 636 billion cubic feet of gas, the
Houston-based  oil company  said today in a statement. In addition
to the cash, Riverstone will assume about $1.5 billion in future
costs associated with shutting the wells. Apache will keep a 50
percent stake in certain blocks for future exploration.  In May, Apache doubled the amount of assets it planned to
sell this year to $4 billion, saying it would use $2 billion to
reduce debt and other proceeds to buy back as many as 30 million
shares. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Farris said
in a March interview that everything was up for review as Apache
began to streamline operations after a $16 billion acquisition
spree that began in 2010 and ended last year.  “This transaction is an important step toward rebalancing
our portfolio,” Farris said in today’s statement. “At the end
of this process, we expect Apache to have the right mix of
assets to generate strong returns, drive more predictable
production growth, and create  shareholder value .”  Current Output  The sale is projected to close on Sept. 30 with an
effective date of July 1, Apache said. Fieldwood agreed to offer
work to “substantially all” of Apache’s shelf employees.  Daily output from the assets is the equivalent of more than
95,000 barrels of oil, Fieldwood said.  The sale is probably a good deal for Apache, as it takes
the company almost to its $4 billion proceeds target, said  James Sullivan , an analyst with Alembic Global Advisors in New York
who has a neutral rating on Apache shares and owns none. The
company may look to sell deep-water Gulf holdings and part of
its operations in  Egypt  to put a valuation on that portfolio, he
said.  Depending on what is sold, deep Gulf properties may fetch
an estimated $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion, Sullivan said.  “Now they can afford to be a little more picky in terms of
pricing,” Sullivan said in a phone interview today.  Third-Worst  Riverstone was founded in 2000 and has about $25 billion of
equity capital raised across seven investment funds, according
to a statement today. It has invested in such entities as
Magellan Midstream Partners LP and Coastal Carolina Clean Power
LLC, according to its website.  Apache is the third-worst  performer  in 2013 on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Index, beating
only QEP Resources Inc. and Newfield Exploration Co.  The announcement was released after the close of trading in
 New York , where Apache rose about 2 percent to $85.25 at 5:11
p.m. As of the close, the shares had increased 6.5 percent this
year.  Apache was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and law firm
Bracewell & Giuliani LLP. Vinson & Elkins LLP and Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP were legal advisers to Fieldwood.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  