-- Apollo, Providence Win Dismissals of Bid-Rig Claims
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-18T22:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/apollo-providence-win-dismissals-of-bid-rig-claims.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
Providence Equity Partners Inc. won dismissal of a bid-rigging
case from a judge who let stand conspiracy claims against other
financial firms, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington rejected motions to
throw out claims against  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Bain Capital
Partners Inc., Carlyle Group LP, KKR & Co., Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP, Silver Lake Technology Management, TPG Capital LLP
and Goldman, according to a filing in  Boston  dated July 16 and
posted in the docket today.  A trial may now proceed on claims by shareholders of
acquired companies that the private-equity firms and banks
conspired to rig bids. Harrington in March denied motions by all
of the financial firms to dismiss the case, though he did limit
the basis on which the conspiracy counts could continue. The
ruling posted today stemmed from that narrowed focus.  “The evidence only supported an overarching agreement
between the defendants to refrain from jumping each other’s
announced proprietary deals,” Harrington said in the new order.
As for Apollo and Providence, Harrington said, “the evidence
does not support a connection to the overarching conspiracy.”  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, and Andrew Cole, a
spokesman for Providence, declined to comment on the ruling.  Conspiracy Alleged  Individuals and pension funds that held shares in companies
including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , Neiman Marcus Group,  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA)  and Aramark Holdings Corp. sued in 2007 and 2008,
claiming “a conspiracy among private equity firms to rig bids,
restrict the supply of private equity financing, fix transaction
prices and divide up the market for private equity services for
leveraged buyouts.”  The financial firms argued at a December hearing that the
plaintiffs hadn’t provided evidence of an “overarching
conspiracy.” They also said the transactions represented
legitimate practices of the mergers and acquisitions business.  One of the largest deals named in the suit was the
$32.1 billion buyout of HCA by companies including KKR and Bain.  “There is no evidence that Providence was involved in the
HCA and Freescale transactions and the evidence of its
involvement in other transactions is insufficient,” Harrington
said. “Apollo’s ultimate decision not to jump the HCA deal does
not, on its own, tend the exclude the possibility that its
decision was independently arrived at.”  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital, 07-cv-12388, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  