-- S&P 500 Gains on GE Earnings as Gold Rises, Dollar Slips
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-19T22:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/asian-futures-signal-stock-rebound-on-u-s-as-wti-climbs.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
to a record close, erasing earlier losses, as better-than-estimated results from  General Electric Co. (GE)  overshadowed
disappointing earnings from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Gold
advanced and the dollar slumped.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,692.09 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after reversing an intraday decline of 0.3 percent. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased less than 0.1 percent.
Treasuries advanced for a second straight week. The dollar slid
against most major currencies and gold advanced 0.7 percent. Oil
settled higher after swinging between gains and losses during
the trading session.  GE shares rallies while Microsoft, the world’s largest
software maker, and Google, owner of the most popular Internet
search engine, tumbled as earnings missed estimates. The
People’s Bank of China said it will abolish the floor on lending
rates beginning tomorrow. Finance ministers and central bankers
from the Group of 20 nations meet this weekend in Moscow.  “Earnings have held up reasonably well,” said  Henk Potts ,
who helps oversee $282 billion as an equity strategist at
Barclays Plc’s wealth unit in  London . “We’ve seen some winners
and some losers coming through. There has been disappointment
around technology, but we don’t necessarily think that is going
to be a long-term trend.”  Per-share earnings topped analysts’ estimates at about 73
percent of S&P 500 members that have reported for the quarter,
Bloomberg data show. About 53 percent have beaten revenue
projections.  Technology Earnings  General Electric advanced 4.6 percent to the highest level
since 2008 after saying its order backlog reached a record amid
demand for jet engines and drilling equipment.  Google dropped 1.6 percent as mobile advertising crimped
average prices. Microsoft plunged 11 percent, the most since
2009, after missing projections by the biggest margin in at
least a decade as demand weakens for personal computers running
Windows. Advanced Micro Devices Inc. tumbled 13 percent after
forecasting a drop in third-quarter gross margin, even as it
predicted higher sales. The technology results followed
disappointing reports yesterday from  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Earnings from technology companies have disappointed the
most among 10 groups in the S&P 500. The 17 companies that have
reported have  missed  estimates by an average 3.6 percent.
Analysts predict the group will report an 8 percent decline in
profit, compared with a 2.4 percent increase estimated for the
S&P 500 as a whole.  Weekly Gain  U.S. stocks rallied to record highs yesterday as earnings
from Morgan Stanley and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  beat estimates
and jobless-benefit claims declined to a two-month low. The S&P
500 has climbed 0.7 percent in the past five days, for a fourth
straight weekly gain. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities has
 surged  150 percent from a 12-year low in 2009, driven by profit
growth and three rounds of central bank monetary stimulus.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of protecting against swings on the S&P 500,
dropped 8.9 percent to 12.54. The  VIX (VIX)  is at its lowest level
since May 17, before Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
signaled the central bank could start scaling back monetary
stimulus.  ETF Flows  U.S. equity exchange-traded funds are getting money at the
fastest rate since September 2008 as stock investors shrug off
concern that the Fed is poised to slow stimulus.  About $27.9 billion was sent to American share ETFs in the
last 13 days, about four times the amount deposited last month
and the most in almost five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from about 1,500 funds. Securities tracking everything
from shares to bonds and commodities have received $32.4 billion
in July, the most since September.  The ETF flows show that Americans are gaining confidence in
the economic recovery and beginning to favor shares. That would
reverse the trend since 2008, when investors looked for safety
after the financial crisis and housing collapse and poured the
most money into bonds.  “If you are looking for the source waters of the recent
melt-up in U.S. stock markets, look no further than U.S.-listed
exchange-traded funds,” Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist
at ConvergEx Group in New York, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Investors have fallen very much in love with U.S.-based
securities of late.”  Quelling Concerns  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year Treasuries fell four basis point to 2.49
percent. Treasuries capped a second weekly gain after Bernanke
quelled concern that a reduction of U.S. stimulus was imminent.
The Fed chief said yesterday it was “way too early to make any
judgment” about starting tapering in September. The previous
day, Bernanke said the Fed’s quantitative easing is “by no
means on a preset course.” Policy makers are scheduled to meet
next on July 30-31.  Moody’s Investors Service revised the U.S.’s Aaa credit
rating outlook to stable from negative yesterday. It cited the
falling budget deficit.  In Europe, the Stoxx 600  rose  less than 0.1 percent, after
dropping as much as 0.5 percent earlier. SAP AG, the world’s
biggest maker of applications for businesses, lost 2.3 percent.
ARM Holdings Plc retreated 2.6 percent. The company designs
chips for phones running Google’s Android operating system.  Royal Vopak NV slumped 5 percent for the largest drop on
the Stoxx 600 after forecasting lower earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for 2013 than analysts had
estimated. The world’s biggest chemical- and oil-storage company
also said it will raise as much as 350 million euros ($460
million) by selling preferred shares.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.7 percent, led by
technology shares and paring its second consecutive weekly gain.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. dropped the most in more
than four years after it forecast sales that trailed estimates.
Taiwan’s Taiex slid 1.6 percent, the most in five weeks. The
Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1.5 percent and  Russia ’s
Micex Index added 0.3 percent.  The dollar weakened against most major peers, falling most
against the Swedish krona and South African rand. The U.S.
currency slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3138 per euro. JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a measure of currency
fluctuations, slid to a seven-week low.  China Lending  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.4 percent against the U.S.
currency after the People’s Bank of China said it would remove
limits on lending rates. The announcement builds on pledges by
Premier Li Keqiang to expand an overhaul of interest rates, a
development the World Bank says must be a priority in reform of
the financial system.  The yen fell against 14 of its 16 major peers before upper-house elections in  Japan . Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s Liberal
Democratic Party and its coalition partner New Komeito are on
track to win more than 65 of the 121 upper house seats being
contested, according to a poll published in the Nikkei newspaper
on July 17. Victory will strengthen the prime minister’s ability
to carry out a plan of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and
deregulation known as Abenomics.  Indonesia ’s rupiah posted its longest losing streak on
record as the central bank manages a gradual depreciation of the
onshore exchange rate toward offshore levels.  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI) , a gauge of commodities, slipped 0.1 percent
after declining as much as 0.6 percent and rising 0.5 percent
during the day. Gold rose for a second day to $1,294 an ounce.
Wheat jumped for the first time in six sessions, climbing 0.6
percent, after China, the world’s biggest consumer, increased
purchases of the grain from the U.S.  Crude rose 1 cent to $108.05 a barrel, after rallying as
much as 1.2 percent earlier in the session. Oil capped a fourth
weekly gain, reaching the highest level since March 2012.  West Texas Intermediate crude became more expensive than
Brent for the first time in almost three years as pipeline and
rail shipments helped clear a bottleneck that reduced the price
of the U.S. benchmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Sutherland in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  