-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Fall on China Growth Risks
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-07-18T10:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/asian-stocks-rise-as-bernanke-eases-concerns-on-tapering.html
Asian  stocks  outside  Japan  fell
after the  International Monetary Fund  said risks are rising for
slower growth in  China . Japanese shares rose as the yen fell.  China Shanshui Cement Group slumped 11 percent in Hong Kong
after saying first-half profit will drop. Innolux Corp. and AU
Optronics Corp. fell at least 4.6 percent in Taipei on a report
Taiwan and Korean panel makers cut output this month. SoftBank
Corp., Japan’s third-biggest mobile phone company, rose 4
percent after forming a fuel-cell venture with Bloom Energy
Corp.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index fell 0.2
percent to 441.65 as of 6:34 p.m. in Hong Kong. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, which includes Japanese stocks, increased 0.1
percent to 135.99 after rising as much as 0.4 percent. Shares
rose after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S.
asset purchases are not on a preset course.  China’s leadership “seems to be accepting a lower
trajectory of growth and they don’t look like jumping in and
taking short-term measures,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a Hong
Kong-based portfolio manager at Principal Global Investors,
which manages $250 billion globally. “Bernanke’s testimony was
in line with expectations and what he has been saying over the
past week or two.”  The  Asia-Pacific measure  advanced 5 percent this year
through yesterday, with consumer discretionary stocks leading
the gain and energy shares falling the most among the 10
industry groups on the measure. The Asian benchmark gauge traded
at 13.3 times estimated earnings as of yesterday, compared with
15.2 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.3 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Regional Gauges  Japan’s Topix index rose 0.7 percent, gaining for a fourth
day as the yen fell against 15 of its 16 major counterparts,
boosting the earnings outlook for exporters.  South Korea ’s Kospi
index lost 0.6 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.2
percent, while  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index slipped 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index lost 0.1 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.1 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index fell 0.8 percent and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
gained 0.3 percent.  The IMF said yesterday risks are increasing that China’s
economic growth this year will fall short of the lender’s 7.75
percent estimate as it urged the nation to follow through on
policy reforms to sustain expansion.  China Shanshui Cement slumped 11 percent to HK$3.11 in Hong
Kong after saying first-half profit will drop at least 40
percent from a year earlier on excessive capacity.  China Property  Chinese developers dropped as the nation’s June new home
prices increased from a year earlier in 69 of 70 cities the
government tracked, raising the prospect of more property curbs.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest state-owned
developer, dropped 1.4 percent to HK$21.20. China Resources Land
Ltd., which gets all of its revenue on the mainland, lost 3.3
percent to HK$20.25.  Futures of the  S&P 500  were little changed today. The
 measure  added 0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday. The Fed’s asset
purchases “are by no means on a preset course” and could even
be expanded should economic conditions warrant, Bernanke said in
prepared testimony to the House Financial Services Committee
yesterday.  “We’re going to be responding to the data,” Bernanke
said. “If the data are stronger than we expect, we’ll move more
quickly” to reduce purchases. If data “don’t meet the kinds of
expectations we have about where the economy’s going, then we
would delay that process or potentially increase purchases for a
time.”  Bond Purchases  Weekly U.S. jobless claims data due today may help
investors assess the outlook for the Fed’s $85 billion-a-month
bond buying program, which has contained increases in borrowing
costs and stoked global equity gains over the past three years.  Innolux and AU Optronics, which make thin film transistor-liquid crystal displays, fell after the Commercial Times
reported Taiwan and Korean panel makers cut output amid weak
demand and falling prices. Innolux lost 6.7 percent to NT$13.95
and AU Optronics slid 4.6 percent to NT$10.40.  SoftBank rose 4 percent to 6,450 yen in  Tokyo . Its joint
venture with Bloom aims to market and distribute the California
startup’s fuel-cell technology in Japan, the companies said.  Woolworths Ltd.,  Australia ’s largest retailer, fell 1.1
percent to A$33.32 in Sydney after saying it expects to lose
A$157 million ($144 million) in the year ended June for its
Masters home-improvement joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  