-- Atom-Treaty Overhaul Needed, IAEA Lawyer Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-07-18T11:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/atom-treaty-overhaul-needed-iaea-lawyer-says.html
Restrictions on international
monitors using data to ward off atomic-weapon development and
the risks of reactor meltdowns must be overhauled, said a United
Nations lawyer who has helped lead negotiations on  Iran ’s
nuclear program.  International Atomic Energy Agency monitors currently
cannot access data from an affiliated UN group that could
enhance their ability to catch illicit weapons work and mitigate
radiation threats. While the data, collected through a $1
billion network built by the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban
Treaty Organization, is available to governments and
researchers, the IAEA doesn’t have access because member states
have failed to push for the change.  “The need for cooperation and coordination and the value
of cooperation between CTBTO and the IAEA is so clear,”  Laura
Rockwood , the Vienna-based IAEA’s head of non-proliferation and
policy, said yesterday in response to a question at a panel
discussion. “It makes no sense whatsoever as a practical,
technical mechanism that this impermeable curtain exists.”  Even as IAEA monitors account for declared nuclear material
by visiting atomic sites worldwide, they don’t have the power to
detect atmospheric atomic traces left by concealed uranium and
plutonium processing. That prevents inspectors from early
discovery of possible weapon activities at plutonium-producing
reactors in countries like Iran and North Korea.  Krypton Gas  Iran has encouraged the IAEA to use the CTBTO’s detection
technologies in order to counter accusations that the country is
developing nuclear weapons. The data network can detect Krypton-85, the gas released when uranium is processed into plutonium.  “CTBTO data identifying a previously unknown source of
Krypton-85 or other particulate radionuclides could be very
important,” Robert Kelley, a former IAEA inspector and U.S.
nuclear-weapon scientist, said today in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “The IAEA and the CTBTO are limited by mandates of
their member states.”  While the CTBTO’s  treaty  stipulates “each state party
shall have the right to participate in the international
exchange of data,” the IAEA cannot tap into the information
without the consent of member countries.  “These treaty regimes are distinct, they have distinct
members and distinct organs that take decisions,” CTBTO legal
director Lisa Tabassi said yesterday in Vienna.  The value of data sharing between the organizations became
evident in 2011 after  Japan ’s three Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
reactors melted down following an earthquake and tsunami. Member
states demanded a data-sharing exception be made so that fallout
from the accident could be traced.  “Sometime it takes a crisis to focus member states’
attention,” said Rockwood, who will retire later this year
after more than two decades at the agency. Sentiment among
governments may be “shifting” to allow for more sharing, she
said.  Fukushima showed the IAEA how CTBTO data can be used “to
understand future hazards in a release and be able to act in
advance,” Kelley said. “Competent sharing would require
preparation and practice in advance. Sharing on an ad-hoc basis
is very dangerous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  