-- Aussie 10-Year Yield at One-Month Low as Taper Concern Eases
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-18T06:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/aussie-dollar-near-one-week-high-as-bernanke-eases-taper-concern.html
Australia ’s benchmark  10-year
government bond yield  dropped to a one-month low before Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke begins a second day of
testimony following remarks that signaled no imminent exit from
stimulus that has helped inflate asset prices across the world.  The Aussie dollar fell for a second day after a report
showed Australian businesses turned pessimistic about near-term
prospects, adding to the case for an interest-rate cut by the
Reserve Bank. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar dropped for the first
time in four days after a report showed  consumer confidence 
weakened. Both currencies slumped after the International
Monetary Fund said risks are increasing that China’s economic
growth this year will fall short of the lender’s forecast.  “Australian bond yields are following U.S. Treasuries
lower and also reflecting concern about Chinese growth and the
RBA, given rising unemployment in Australia,” said  Damien McColough , the head of fixed-income research at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney.  Australia’s 10-year bond yield fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 3.67 percent today, after touching
3.65 percent, the least since June 20. The  three-year rate  fell
five basis points to 2.66 percent.  The Australian currency dropped 0.7 percent to 91.72 U.S.
cents and fell 0.1 percent to 91.89 yen as of 4:42 p.m. in
Sydney. New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.4 percent to 78.74 U.S.
cents and bought 78.89 yen from 78.75.  Bernanke Again  U.S. government debt rose yesterday after Bernanke told the
House Financial Services Committee in prepared testimony that
asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course” and could
be reduced more quickly or expanded as economic conditions
warrant. He will testify before the Senate today.  Australia’s business confidence index for the next three
months dropped to minus 1 in the second quarter from 2 in the
previous three-month period, National Australia Bank Ltd. said
in a survey released today.  “The Aussie still has a long-term target of the high 80s
going into the end of the year,” said Kara Ordway, a currency
strategist at City Index Group Ltd. in Sydney. “With some of
the data coming out of the Asian region and  China  in particular,
certainly if domestic data continues to look weak then the RBA
definitely has a case for further easing.”  There’s a 63 percent chance that the Reserve Bank of
Australia will cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low
of 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent next month, Bloomberg
calculations based on swaps show.  A gauge of  consumer confidence  in New Zealand fell to 119.8
in July from 123.9, ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. and Roy Morgan
Research said in a report.  “Downside risks” to the IMF’s 7.75 percent growth
estimate have risen after a gauge of manufacturing weakened in
June, the Washington-based fund said yesterday in its annual
assessment of China’s economy. The report, which forecasts a
second-half pickup, doesn’t reflect July 15 government data
showing expansion slowed to 7.5 percent last quarter.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell for a second day,
declining 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  