-- Australia Group Sues to Block Whitehaven Coal Mines
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-19T00:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/australia-group-sues-to-block-whitehaven-coal-mines.html
An Australian environmental group
sued to block the construction of  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) ’s A$766
million ($702 million) Maules Creek mine and a neighboring coal
development, saying they’ll devastate forest areas.  The Northland Inland Council for the Environment Inc. said
in an e-mailed statement it filed the lawsuit yesterday in
Sydney Federal Court under the Federal Environment Protection
and Biodiversity Conservation Act seeking to overturn a February
government approval for the projects. A copy of the complaint
wasn’t immediately available from the court, although the case
is listed on its website.  “Vast areas of forest that provide habitat for native
plants and animals, including the Koala, will be bulldozed and
converted into an open-cut coal pit,” Phil Spark, a spokesman
for the council, said in the statement.  The action is the latest from environmental groups that are
stepping up efforts to discourage coal mining in parts of
Australia, the world’s biggest source of the commodity. Coast
and Country Association of Qld Inc. filed a complaint in
February to block a plan by Indian entrepreneur G.V. Krishna
Reddy’s GVK Group and  Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman, to
build a $10 billion coal mine, port and rail project. Last year,
environmentalists failed in a bid to block Xstrata Plc’s
construction of the Wandoan coal mine in Queensland.  Rio Mine  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s plan to expand a coal mine in the
Australian wine-growing region of  Hunter Valley  was rejected by
a judge in April because of environmental concerns, overturning
an earlier government approval.  The Maules Creek challenge differs from the Rio Tinto case
because the suit isn’t asking the court to determine the merit
of the project, only whether the minister made legal errors in
approving the mines, Whitehaven said today in a statement.  If the court finds an error occurred, the company said it
will ask that it be fixed and reapproved. The filing of the
lawsuit doesn’t prevent the mine construction from starting,
Whitehaven said.  A preliminary hearing on Northern Inland Council’s lawsuit
is scheduled for Aug. 13 in Sydney.  “If these mines proceed, they will rip the heart out of
our local farming community,” Peter Watson, a farmer near the
proposed Whitehaven mines, said in the statement.  Start Expected  Whitehaven,  Australia ’s second-biggest independent coal
producer, received final approval for the Maules Creek mine
construction on July 4. The company has said it expects to start
production in the first half of next year. The company has said
it was “extremely disappointed” over delays in getting
approvals after starting the process in August 2010.  Northern Inland Council said it’s also challenging the
approval of Idemitsu Kosan Ltd.’s Boggabri coal mine.  “The decision to approve these highly controversial mines
was made in haste, after documents were leaked, and on the basis
of potentially false or misleading information,” Spark said.  The case is Northern Inland Council for the Environment Inc.
v Minister for the Environment, Heritage and Water and
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. NSD1404/2013. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  