-- Australia Would-Be Prime Minister Fighting Tax Office
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-07-18T07:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/australia-would-be-prime-minister-fighting-tax-office.html
Clive Palmer , the Australian mining
entrepreneur seeking to become the next Prime Minister, is
fighting with the tax office over the sale of the biggest
magnetite iron ore project in the country.  Palmer, who sold his Sino Iron Pty unit to  Citic Pacific
Ltd. (267)  in 2006 for $215 million, recorded capital gains of A$261
million ($239 million) that year and A$38 million in 2007,
according to a court filing by his mining company Mineralogy Pty
that was made public today. Palmer now wants the assessments for
the two years set aside, saying subsequent calculation have
shown he had incurred a loss of A$7.3 million instead and wasn’t
liable for any taxes.  Citic Pacific, controlled by  China ’s biggest state-owned
investment company, is building the $8 billion Sino Iron project
in  Western Australia . The development has been beset by problems,
including a more than four-fold increase in its budget and
wrong-way currency bets that cost the company HK$14.6 billion
($1.9 billion) in 2008.  Palmer also attempted to kick Sino Iron off the project
earlier this year, claiming in a lawsuit filed in Perth that its
mining rights and site-lease accords should be ended for failing
to pay royalties. He backed off that claim and a judge decided
he didn’t need to rule on the issue. Palmer and Sino Iron remain
in a dispute over how much in royalties Palmer is owed.  Lifetime Limits  Sino Iron, in 2006, agreed to pay 30 Australian cents a
metric ton of mined ore and between 6 percent and 10 percent on
the total aggregate tons produced, based on the prevailing ore
price, according to the court documents released today. Sino is
allowed to produce 12 million tons of iron products annually,
with a lifetime limit of 1 billion tons, according to the
agreement.  The documents were released today by Federal Court Justice
Richard Edmonds over objections from Richard Schulte,
representing the Commissioner of Taxation, who said they should
remain sealed. Mineralogy’s lawyer Bradley Jones didn’t object
to the release of the documents in the lawsuit, which was filed
May 29.  Palmer has created the Palmer United Party, which says it
will run candidates in all Australian districts in the next
federal election, to be held later this year. He had said he
hopes to be the next Prime Minister.  The case is Mineralogy Pty v. The Commissioner of Taxation
of the Commonwealth of  Australia . NSD952/2013. Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  