-- AutoNation Profit Rises as Car Sales Boost Repairs
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-07-18T20:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/autonation-profit-rises-as-car-sales-lead-to-boost-for-repairs.html
AutoNation Inc. (SAH) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new cars and trucks, reported second-quarter
earnings that met analysts’ estimates as gains from parts and
service helped overcome lower profit per new vehicle sold.  Net income rose 14 percent to $89.9 million, or 73 cents a
share, from $78.6 million, or 64 cents, a year earlier, the Fort
Lauderdale, Florida-based company said today in a statement. The
earnings matched the average of 12  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 13 percent to $4.43 billion.  AutoNation is earning more from its parts and service
operations after 25 consecutive months of industywide gains in
U.S. new-vehicle sales, according to Bloomberg Industries.
Rising deliveries are leading to more cars and trucks returning
to dealerships for maintenance and repairs, the most lucrative
business for auto retailers.  “We are in the early innings of the recovery in the
customer care business,” Chief Executive Officer Mike Jackson
said in a telephone interview. “We did the calculation on where
the turning point would be, and we had it called practically
down to the day.”  Gross profit from parts and service increased 11 percent to
$280.2 million in the quarter. Those gains bolstered earnings as
gross profit per new vehicle sold fell 7.6 percent to $2,007.
That was the lowest since 2010’s third quarter, Matt Nemer, a
Wells Fargo & Co. analyst in San Francisco, said in a report.  AutoNation fell 1.1 percent to $44.98 at the close in New
York. The shares have risen 13 percent this year, trailing the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ’s 18 percent increase.  Service Payoff  AutoNation invested more in the tire and express repair
businesses starting in early 2012 so the company would benefit
from a rising number of vehicles in operation, which trails
moves in new-car sales, Chief Operating Officer Mike Maroone
said in a telephone interview.  “We looked in the mirror and said, ‘We don’t have enough
resources applied against what is the most lucrative part of the
business,’” Maroone said. “This is the first of what should be
a multiyear payoff.”  The profit increase from improving the parts and service
business has been underappreciated by investors, Gary Balter, a
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in New York, said in a July 3
report. Balter raised his rating to the equivalent of a buy and
said the shares may climb to $53 in the next year.  “The rising parts and service tide should have a
meaningful impact on bottom line growth,” he wrote.  AutoNation completed the process of renaming its more than
200 mass-market brand franchises in this year’s first half after
posting record profit for 2012.  The dealership group’s non-luxury domestic and import
franchises now use the AutoNation name. For example, a store
between Miami and the company’s Fort Lauderdale headquarters is
now AutoNation Chevrolet of Pembroke Pines. Previously, it was
Maroone Chevrolet of Pembroke Pines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  