-- Baht Rises as Bernanke Eases Tapering Concern; Thai Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-18T01:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/baht-rises-as-bernanke-eases-tapering-concern-thai-bonds-steady.html
Thailand ’s baht advanced the most in
a week after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke allayed
concern the U.S. plans to curb stimulus that has fueled demand
for emerging-market assets. Bonds were little changed.  Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee yesterday that the Fed’s asset purchases
“are by no means on a preset course” and could even be
expanded should economic conditions warrant. The baht touched a
two-week high after exchange data showed foreign investors
bought more Thai equities than they sold on each of the last six
days, boosting their holdings by $265 million in the longest run
of net purchases in almost two months.  “Bernanke’s comments were positive for emerging-market
assets,” said  Tsutomu Soma , manager of Rakuten Securities
Inc.’s fixed-income business unit in  Tokyo . “The market’s focus
has shifted to the situation in the U.S. and the baht will
continue to move on that factor. That baht saw a quite sharp,
one-way decline and that situation will probably stabilize.”  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent, the most since July
11, to 30.97 per dollar as of 8:31 a.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 30.90, the strongest
level since July 2. The baht has retreated 7.8 percent from an
April level of 28.56 that was the strongest since 1997.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, declined 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 6.98 percent.  Bond Inflows  Global funds purchased $192 million more debt than they
sold this month through yesterday after selling a net $1.48
billion in May and June, Thai Bond Market Association data show.  The Thai government will continue to reduce the budget
deficit each year even as it plans to invest 2 trillion baht
($65 billion) on infrastructure over the next seven years,
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong told reporters in Bangkok
on July 16.  The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 was
little changed at 3.69 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Thai bonds handed investors a return of 0.3 percent this month
through yesterday, a performance second only to the  Philippines 
among Asia’s 10 biggest economies excluding  Japan , HSBC Holdings
Plc indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  