-- Bank Sohar Gains on Bets Dhofar Merger to Succeed: Muscat Mover
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-07-18T12:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bank-sohar-gains-on-bets-dhofar-merger-to-succeed-muscat-mover.html
Bank Sohar jumped to the highest
level in almost three years on bets the lender will combine with
Bank Dhofar SAOG to create Oman’s second-biggest bank.  Shares of the Muscat-based lender increased 2.8 percent to
0.218 rial, the strongest level October 2010, at the close in
the Omani capital, taking its advance this week to 7.4 percent.
Volume rose to 4.4 million shares, or 2.1 times the the stock’s
three-month daily average. Bank Sohar was the biggest gainer on
the benchmark MSM30  Index (MSM30) , which climbed 0.6 percent.  Bank Dhofar will start talks with smaller competitor Bank
Sohar “to explore the possibility of merger between,” the
larger lender’s board said in a  statement  July 16, potentially
creating an Omani bank with $10 billion in assets. The proposal
is subject to interest of Bank Sohar, due diligence and
regulatory approvals, it said. Bank Dhofar shares fell 0.3
percent, trimming this week’s gain to 1.9 percent.  “People believe that this can go further from here towards
a potential merger,” said Adel Waleed Nasr, local brokerage
manager at United Securities LLC in Muscat. “Investors believe
that since Bank Dhofar wants to merge with Bank Sohar, it means
there might be a good premium on that.”  Oman’s government spending plan is boosting demand for
financing and commercial bank lending will rise by 15 percent to
20 percent this year, central bank Governor Hamud Bin Sangur Al-Zadjali said in March. Oman has the second-smallest economy
among the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which also
includes  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab Emirates .  Two analysts  recommend  investors buy Bank Sohar shares,
while five have a hold rating on the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bank Sohar shares have rallied 24 percent
this year, compared with a 15 percent advance for Oman’s
benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  