-- Barclays to Hire Eight for Japan Equities on Market Rebound
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-07-18T06:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/barclays-to-hire-eight-for-japan-equities-on-market-rebound-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to hire about
eight people for  Japan  equities by the end of the year to boost
sales and trading operations in the world’s best-performing
major stock market.  About five of the positions will be in equity research and
the other three in sales and trading, Kazutoshi Ohkubo, head of
equities at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd., said in an interview
in Tokyo. The firm is looking for researchers in sectors
including electronics, he said.  Barclays joins Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG in
bolstering Japan equity staff as stocks rally amid Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s push to revive the world’s third-largest
economy with fiscal and monetary stimulus. The London-based bank
is hiring in  Tokyo  even after announcing plans in February to
eliminate 3,700 jobs worldwide this year to reduce costs.  “Abe’s stimulus efforts make it a perfect time to expand
equities operations in Japan,” Ohkubo, a 45-year-old managing
director, said yesterday. “Our increased presence in Japan
enables us to hire the talent that will make our organization
more efficient and competitive.”  Barclays has already started hiring for Japan equity sales,
Ohkubo said. Kaori Hayami, formerly of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
joined Britain’s second-largest bank by assets this week, he
said. Kazuya Yamamoto began earlier this year.  The bank stopped rating companies in the retail, automotive
and electronics industries at the end of January, Ohkubo said.
Analysts who left include Kei Nihonyanagi, who went to Bank of
America; Maki Shinozaki, now at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities
Co.; and Haruka Mori, who joined JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Japan’s benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares has climbed 42
percent this year, outpacing the  S&P 500 (SPX) ’s 18 percent gain. The
Topix closed 0.7 percent higher today.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, hired seven Japan equity
sales and trading staff, according to an internal memo obtained
by  Bloomberg News  this month. Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
unit recruited six people for Japan equities, a memo from the
U.S. bank showed last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  