-- Barclays Says Abu Dhabi Sheikh No Longer Holds Shares in
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-19T16:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/barclays-says-abu-dhabi-sheikh-no-longer-holds-shares-in-lender.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest lender by assets, said  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan no longer owns the company’s shares.  His PCP Gulf Invest 3 Ltd. liquidated its 758.4 million
Barclays shares as of June 20, according to a filing last month
from the London-based bank. The stock fell 4.4 percent in  London 
trading that day to 288.1 pence.  Barclays raised 5.3 billion pounds ($8.1 billion) from
Qatar and Abu Dhabi in October 2008 as it sought to avoid taking
funds from the U.K. government at the peak of the financial
crisis. In 2010, PCP converted the warrants it had acquired into
stock at about 197.8 pence a share. It then bought protection
against any loss in value in its 6.3 percent shareholding from
Nomura Holdings Inc.  “He’s made quite a lot of money out of it, so I’d think
that’s one reason he’s sold out,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at
Shore Capital in Liverpool,  England , who recommends buying the
stock, said by phone today. “The only concern would be he’s a
big shareholder and the stock’s trading at a discount to book
value.” Barclays trades at a 22 percent discount to book value.  The sale explains some of the lender’s performance in June,
said Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos Securities Plc in London
who rates the lender a sell. Barclays was the second-worst
performer in the six-member FTSE 350 Banks Index that month,
losing 13 percent, after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which
declined 19 percent.  Share Advance  “The triggering event for this notification is the
termination and settlement of hedging transactions over PCP3’s
total holding,” the company said in the June 24 filing. “There
are now no shares and no  voting rights  in Barclays held, or
deemed to be held, by PCP3.”  Barclays rose 0.9 percent to 320 pence today, extending its
gain this year to 22 percent. Barclays declined to comment. The
Financial Times reported the sale yesterday.  The deal doesn’t affect the bank’s outlook or earnings,
said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Plc in London with a buy
rating on Barclays. “They were simply an investor who put up
some money when others were unwilling to,” he said.  How much profit Mansour made from selling this stake is
difficult to say without knowing what other hedging deals may be
in place, said Gordon.  Had the stake been all in shares, he could have made as
much as 685 million pounds based on June 20’s closing price of
288.1 pence and a warrant price of 197.8 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  