-- Batista Collapse Has Prosecutors at BNDES’s Door: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-07-18T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/batista-collapse-has-prosecutors-at-bndes-s-door-brazil-credit.html
The implosion of Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s empire is increasing pressure on the
nation’s state development bank to disclose the loans it made to
his companies.  While BNDES, as the government-owned lender is known, has
said it made loans totaling 10.4 billion reais ($4.7 billion) to
Batista’s companies in response to a request by Bloomberg under
Brazil’s freedom of information law, it has declined to say how
much is outstanding. BNDES has rejected requests by prosecutors
and lawmakers to reveal how much debt it is owed by the
companies, prompting a proposal by Congressman Cesar Colnago to
exclude BNDES financing and equity operations from protection by
bank secrecy laws.  The collapse of Batista’s fortune, down an estimated $31
billion from its peak, is raising concern BNDES may suffer
losses, posing a risk to taxpayers, said Aldo Musacchio,
professor of business administration at the  Harvard Business
School . Moody’s Investors Service said July 8 that BNDES is the
most exposed Brazilian lender to Batista’s firms, almost four
months after it downgraded the bank because of increased
dependence on the Treasury and deteriorating capital ratios.  Loss Potential  “They have this feeling they are not supposed to disclose
information because they are a bank, but they are owned by the
government and are doing industrial policy,” Musacchio said in
a telephone interview. “They could lose from these loans and
that may be reflected eventually in a hit to public finances.”  Yields on BNDES benchmark dollar bonds due 2020 have jumped
2.05 percentage points this year to 4.95 percent, more than the
0.93-point average increase in similarly rated emerging-market
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of
America Corp.  Brazil ’s banking secrecy law prohibits BNDES from divulging
the outstanding amount of its loans to Batista’s companies, the
bank said in an e-mailed statement. BNDES says its mandate is to
release information about its operations to the maximum extent
the law allows. The bank has responded to 700 formal requests
for information under Brazil’s Access to Information Law.  An official at the Finance Ministry press department
declined to comment.  Federal prosecutors last month appealed a federal court’s
decision to refuse their demand that BNDES release details of
all its loans from the past 10 years on its website and be
required to release that information going forward, according to
a statement on the federal prosecutor’s office website.  Batista Pledge  Batista pledged his own wealth to guarantee 2.3 billion
reais in loans from BNDES, the bank said. Another 8.6 billion
reais of its loans involve guarantees from companies including
 MMX Mineracao SA (MMXM3) ,  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) ,  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and  LLX
Logistica SA. (LLXL3)  For most of those loans, the corporate guarantees
are replaced with guarantees from the projects when they are
completed.  BNDES said its structuring of guarantees for Batista’s
group was done with the usual rigor that the bank uses for its
operations, following the best banking practices, according to
an e-mailed statement July 15.  BNDES’s 4.9 billion reais in loans to Batista’s holding
company, EBX Group Co., is equal to 10.1 percent of the bank’s
tier 1 capital, Moody’s said in a report July 8.  “When you study a loan in a project such as a port, if
they were guaranteed by the project’s cashflows, we don’t have a
way to evaluate the dimension of the cashflows,” Ceres Lisboa,
analyst at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “The
difficulty of understanding the guarantees makes our values more
like estimates than accurate accounts.”  ‘Too Small’  Moody’s cut BNDES’s long-term rating by two levels to Baa2,
the second-lowest investment grade, in March, citing increasing
dependence on the Treasury and accounting maneuvers that boosted
2012 profit by 2.4 billion reais by allowing it to avoid mark-to-market losses in the stock market. The Treasury lent the bank
326 billion reais between 2008 and 2012.  The government’s use of BNDES to stimulate the economy by
expanding credit has already “deteriorated” the bank’s capital
ratios, Lisboa said. The bank’s lending doubled since 2007 to
156 billion reais last year.  Vinicius Pasquarelli, emerging-market debt trader at
Standard Credit Group LLC, said BNDES’s outstanding loans to
Batista’s companies are too small to have an impact on the
bank’s total credit portfolio of 492 billion reais.  “If you compare all the Batista stuff to BNDES, it’s
nothing,” he said. “At the end of the day, math is math, and
numbers are numbers. It’s too small.”  Widening Deficit  Concern BNDES’s lending may saddle the government with
losses comes a time when the nation’s budget deficit has widened
to the biggest in almost four years. The government recorded a
12-month trailing shortfall of 130.6 billion reais in May.  The government’s worsening finances have helped push the
 extra yield  investors demand to own Brazilian government dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries to 211 basis points, or 2.11
percentage points, from 140 basis points at the end of 2012,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global index.  BNDES allowed at least two projects of MPX to postpone loan
payments that were due as early as June 2012 in contracts worth
a combined 483 million reais, according to Colnago, a member of
the opposition PSDB party.  ‘Black Box’  The bank said in an e-mailed statement on July 15 that its
treatment of Grupo EBX is “rigorously equal” to that of any
other company that takes credit from the bank and that Batista
hasn’t received privileged treatment.  If the bank has nothing to hide about the way it has
treated Batista, it should make its loan details public, Colnago
said in a telephone interview from Brasilia.  “It is clear that BNDES is using public resources and is
increasing  public debt  without any transparency,” Colnago said.
“BNDES establishes benefits to companies that should be open
for society to see. We should open the black box of BNDES.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  