-- Bernanke Reiterates Fed Would Act to Combat Too-Low Inflation
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-18T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bernanke-reiterates-fed-would-act-to-combat-too-low-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank if necessary will act to combat
too-low inflation, seeking to avert potential damage to the
economy and any threat of a broad-based decline in prices.  “The committee is certainly aware that very low inflation
poses risks to economic performance -- for example by raising
the real cost of capital investment -- and increases the risk of
outright deflation,” Bernanke said in testimony prepared for
the Senate Banking Committee, repeating comments he made
yesterday to a House panel. “We will act as needed to ensure
that inflation moves back toward our 2 percent objective over
time.”  Fed officials, debating the possible timing for a reduction
in $85 billion in monthly bond buying, may have more leeway to
continue their purchases as price gains slow. Inflation as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures price index,
the Fed’s preferred gauge of price increases, rose 1 percent in
May from a year earlier, near the lowest level in almost four
years.  Monetary policy will remain “highly accommodative” for
the foreseeable future amid unemployment that is “high and
declining only gradually,” Bernanke said in the second day of
his semi-annual testimony to Congress. The U.S. added 195,000
jobs in June and the jobless rate remained at 7.6 percent.  “With inflation subdued, we intend to continue our
purchases until a substantial improvement in the labor market
outlook has been realized,” he said, reiterating his comments
to the House Financial Services Committee.  The Federal Open Market Committee is next scheduled to meet
July 30-31.  Bernanke’s testimony may be his last, as his second four-year term expires Jan. 31. While Bernanke, 59, hasn’t described
his plans, President  Barack Obama  said in June the Fed chief
stayed in his post “longer than he wanted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  