-- Bernanke Says Fed May Delay QE Taper If Economy Misses Forecasts
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bernanke-says-fed-may-delay-qe-taper-if-economy-misses-forecasts.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  opened the door to a delay in reducing the central
bank’s bond buying program, saying it will depend on data that
economists say are falling short of the Fed’s own forecasts.  The Fed’s $85 billion in monthly asset purchases “are by
no means on a preset course,” Bernanke said yesterday in his
semiannual testimony to Congress. He added that the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will “be responding to the data.”  Bernanke’s comments, which also emphasized the risks to the
economy from  federal budget  cuts and slowing growth overseas,
pushed Treasuries and U.S. stocks higher as investors reduced
bets the Fed would start to trim bond purchases in September.
His testimony is set to continue at 10:30 a.m. today before the
Senate Banking Committee.  “Bernanke doesn’t seem to be in a hurry to taper,” said
 Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York , who formerly worked for the New
York Fed. “The probabilities of a September taper have come
down.”  The Treasury 10-year yield fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.49 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. It touched 2.46
percent, the lowest since July 3. The  Standard & Poor’s  500
index rose 0.3 percent to 1,675.60, extending its gain for the
year to 17.9 percent.  Bernanke said last month that the Fed may start to trim
bond purchases later this year and end the program around the
middle of 2014 if the economy meets its forecasts for growth of
2.3 percent to 2.6 percent for 2013, with unemployment projected
to fall to 7.2 percent to 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  Growth Outlook  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said that given his estimate for a 1 percent pace of
expansion in the second quarter, growth would have to exceed a 3
percent rate in the second half to meet the Fed’s growth
estimate for the year.  “The trajectory of the third quarter isn’t phenomenal,”
Feroli said. “What I take from Bernanke’s remarks is the
message that they aren’t totally confident. The odds of a
September taper got nudged down a little.”  Recent reports on trade, inventories and  consumer spending 
have prompted economists to mark down their estimates for
second-quarter growth.  The trade deficit unexpectedly jumped in May as imports
climbed to the second-highest level on record while exports
stagnated. Inventories increased at a slower pace in May, and
retail sales excluding autos were little changed in June.  New Forecasts  St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, which updates
its estimate of GDP with each new piece of data, now forecasts
the economy grew at an 0.7 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, down from a 1.7 percent estimate at the start of July.
The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.8 percent pace in
the first quarter.  The economy will expand at a 2.3 percent pace in the third
quarter and 2.6 percent in the final three months of the year,
according to the median of 68 responses in a Bloomberg survey of
economists conducted July 5 to July 10.  Any further slowing in the economy would probably cause the
Fed to reassess how fast asset purchases should be trimmed, said
Tim Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon in Eugene who
formerly worked at the  U.S. Treasury .  Bernanke “pushed back against the idea that the path of
scaling back quantitative easing is calendar dependent,” Duy
said.  ‘Well Above’  In his testimony, the 59-year-old Fed chairman said the 7.6
 unemployment rate  in June is “well above” normal levels while
labor market conditions remain “far from satisfactory.”  “If the data are stronger than we expect, we’ll move more
quickly” to  reduce purchases , he told lawmakers. If data
“don’t meet the kinds of expectations we have about where the
economy’s going, then we would delay that process or potentially
increase purchases for a time.”  Bernanke also said the Fed could keep buying bonds for
longer if “financial conditions -- which have tightened
recently -- were judged to be insufficiently accommodative to
allow us to attain our mandated objectives.”  The 10-year Treasury yield rose as high as 2.74 percent
this month from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before Bernanke
said the FOMC may trim its bond buying in its “next few
meetings” if officials see signs of sustained improvement in
the labor market.  Inflation Forecast  The FOMC said in a June 19 statement that keeping the
federal funds rate between zero and 0.25 percent “will be
appropriate at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and the forecast for inflation in one to two years
doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Bernanke’s comments in June on tapering, and an employment
report showing non-farm payrolls rose by 195,000 in both May and
June, prompted economists such as  Laurence Meyer , a co-founder
of Macroeconomic Advisers, to focus on September as the probable
date of a reduction in asset purchases.  Those perceptions were reinforced by June 28 comments by
Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein , who indicated September could be an
appropriate time for the committee to make a decision.  Bret Barker, managing director and portfolio manager at Los
Angeles-based TCW Group Inc., which manages $128 billion, said
policy makers still have good reason to start tapering in
September.  Minutes from Fed meetings show that several of the 19 FOMC
members have been cautious about the costs and benefits of the
third round of quantitative easing, raising questions about
whether a delay in tapering would bring on more dissents.  Opposed Stimulus  Esther George, president of the Kansas City Fed, is the
only voting member who has opposed the stimulus this year,
saying it may destabilize financial markets and push up long-term inflation. Yet minutes from the June meeting said about
half of the 19 FOMC participants wanted to end the program this
year.  “Before, the message from the Fed seemed be the benefits
outweighed the cost, while now it is the flipside,” Barker
said, referring to bond purchases. Economic data would have to
be “atrocious” to prevent a slowing in the pace of purchases
in September. If data remains weak, Fed officials might opt to
reduce purchases by $10 billion instead of $20 billion, he said.  The testimony to Congress may be the last for Bernanke,
whose second four-year term ends in January. While the Fed chief
hasn’t commented on his future plans, many congressmen in the
House yesterday paid their respects to Bernanke.  “When it’s time for the T-shirts to be passed out at your
retirement party,” said Representative  Bill Foster , “a very
good candidate” would be what the Illinois Democrat called a
$18 trillion recovery in household net worth brought about by
Bernanke’s policies. “It’s one of the most impressive
achievements,” Foster said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  