-- Bernanke Says Too-Big-to-Fail Banks May Face New Capital Demands
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-18T22:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bernanke-says-too-big-to-fail-banks-may-face-new-capital-demands.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said banks could face further demands for capital if
the latest efforts still leave the financial system vulnerable
to a failure by one of the biggest firms.  “There’s probably more scope for capital if we’re not
comfortable with the status of these firms,” Bernanke told a
Senate Banking Committee hearing today, addressing efforts to
end the idea that some lenders are “too big to fail.”  U.S. regulators approved tougher rules this month that
affirm global minimums for capital and leverage, and proposed a
higher threshold for eight of the nation’s largest lenders. The
leverage ratios, which call for capital equal to 5 percent of
assets at parent companies and 6 percent for their banking
units, are designed to prevent a repeat of 2008’s credit crisis.  When asked whether soaring second-quarter profits, such as
the 42 percent jump reported by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , demonstrate that
banks are taking big risks in trading again, Bernanke said
regulators are “quite aware of these portfolios.” The Fed is
using capital rules, stress tests and limits on proprietary
trading to curb banks, he said, and if those efforts don’t quell
concerns, “additional steps would be appropriate.”  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, asked
whether he agreed with Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew’s comment
yesterday that too big to fail should be ended by this year or
“other options” would be warranted. Bernanke suggested more
leeway on that timing.  “Maybe I’d take another year from now,” Bernanke said.  The chairman echoed remarks this week from Fed Governor
 Daniel Tarullo , who said regulators should focus on protections
around banks’ reliance on certain types of wholesale funding,
and that further  capital requirements  could help.  “The big area I think we need to do more on is short-term
funding,” Tarullo, the Fed governor responsible for financial
regulation, said at a July 15 event. Letting a bank lean heavily
on transactions such as  repurchase agreements  could “make the
institution and the system susceptible to runs” of the kind
that toppled Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 