-- Bernanke Calms Treasuries After Taper Concern Drove Yield Surge
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-07-18T05:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bernanke-calms-treasuries-after-taper-concern-drove-yield-surge.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s pledge to keep  interest rates  low drove Treasury
volatility to the weakest level since he warned a month ago that
the central bank may start trimming its bond purchases.  The Merrill Lynch Option Volatility Estimate Move Index
fell to 81.92 basis points yesterday, the least since June 18.
The figure has fallen from 117.89 basis points on July 5, which
was the most since December 2010. The one-year average is 64.55.  The Fed plans to “maintain a high degree of monetary
accommodation” after its asset-purchase program ends, Bernanke
 told  U.S. House lawmakers yesterday. Policy makers have kept
their target for overnight loans between banks in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Treasury yields surged
to an almost two-year high after Bernanke said June 19 the Fed
may begin to slow its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, its
policy known as quantitative easing, this year.  “We went through a rough spell,” said  Ward McCarthy ,
chief financial economist at Jefferies LLC in  New York , one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed. “I
think we’re settling in now. He’s trying to draw attention to
the fact that, well, even when QE ends, we’re going to leave
rates low for a long period of time,” he said yesterday on the
Bloomberg Radio program “The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen
Hays .  U.S. 10-year  yields  climbed to 2.75 percent on July 8, a
level not seen since August 2011. The yield was 2.49 percent as
of 2:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The
1.75 percent note due May 2023 traded at a price of 93 5/8.  The range for the yield will probably be 2.375 percent to
2.75 percent, McCarthy said.  Currencies Calmer  Currency markets have calmed, as shown by a decline in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index to 9.98
percent today, set for the lowest close since June 4.  Policy makers have succeeded in reducing price swings that
greeted the Fed’s discussion of tapering, Bernanke said
yesterday.  “Markets are beginning to understand our message, and the
volatility has obviously moderated,” he said.  Bernanke also said the central bank’s asset purchases are
not on a “preset course” and they may be increased or
decreased depending on the strength of the economy. He is
scheduled to address a Senate panel today.  Fed Worried  “The Fed became a little bit worried about how much the
10-year bond yield went up when they began discussing this
tapering,” said David M. Jones, the chairman and chief
executive officer of DMJ Advisors LLC, who has written five
books on the central bank. “That’s why the theme of this
testimony is they’re not on a preset course for tapering.”  The Fed’s policy committee said June 19 that keeping its
target for the so-called  federal funds rate  in the range of zero
to 0.25 percent “will be appropriate at least as long” as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the forecast for
inflation in one to two years doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  Ten-year yields may still rise to 3 percent or more, Jones
said. “It will still be a jolt to the  bond market  the day that
that tapering begins,” he said, also speaking on “The Hays
Advantage.”  The U.S.  unemployment rate  was 7.6 percent in June, based
on the latest figures from the Labor Department.  The  difference  between yields on two-year notes and same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 1.59 percentage points. The average for the past five
years is 0.81 percentage point.  Smooth Adjustment  Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain said
the Fed has fostered a “slow, smooth” adjustment in the bond
market as it plans to curtail its debt purchases.  “This was an unprecedented program and the fact that
they’ve been able to announce the end to it, or the impending
end to it, without a major dislocation has to be very pleasing
for them,” he said yesterday prior to Bernanke’s comments.  “I’m very glad that we’re getting a slow, smooth
continuous adjustment as opposed to a highly volatile one,
particularly in credit and mortgage markets,” Jain told
Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin in  Singapore .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  