-- Billabong to Study Rival Refinancing Deal from U.S. Debt Funds
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-07-18T06:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/billabong-to-study-rival-refinancing-deal-from-u-s-debt-funds.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surfwear company that’s accepted a refinancing offer from a
group led by Altamont Capital Partners, said it would study a
competing proposal from two U.S. distressed-debt investors.  The company will take legal advice on what to do about the
proposal from  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC, chairman Ian Pollard said at a media event in
Sydney today, adding that he hadn’t seen the offer.  Centerbridge and Oaktree delivered an unconditional
recapitalisation proposal to Billabong at 2:15 p.m. Sydney time
today, according to an e-mailed statement from external
spokewoman Marsha Jacobs. The proposal will deliver them 61
percent of Billabong shares in return for canceling debt, while
saving the surfwear maker a net $150 million in interest
payments over five years, according to the statement.  “I will have a look at what they put forward,” Pollard
said. “Obviously we as directors will be mindful of what our
responsibilities are to shareholders.”  The funds’ proposal is “superior” to that presented by
the Altamont group and can be executed any time up to Oct. 31,
according to the e-mailed statement from Jacobs.  The deal would provide “immediate liquidity” and includes
the issue of a six-year, A$100 million loan at an interest rate
of 8 percent to repay principal outstanding under the existing
syndicated loan agreement, the funds said. It would save
Billabong from having to sell its DaKine brand, which the
Altamont group has proposed to buy for A$70 million.  Scott Olivet, who Altamont has proposed as the new chief
executive officer, would remain in that post under the proposal,
which would give the funds the majority of seats on Billabong’s
board, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  