-- Billionaires to Sell Leyland Assets to Cut Debt
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-07-19T11:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/billionaires-to-sell-leyland-assets-to-cut-debt-corporate-india.html
Ashok Leyland Ltd. (AL) , India’s third-most indebted automaker, plans to raise 5 billion rupees ($84
million) selling assets to pare liabilities after reporting its
first loss in 12 years.  India’s third-largest truckmaker will also cut wages to
lower costs, said Chief Financial Officer K. Sridharan. Ashok
Leyland controlled by the billionaire Hinduja brothers sold 4.3
billion rupees of  investments  last year, he said.  “We have created enterprises in the recent past which have
blossomed into profit making entities,” said Sridharan in an
interview in an eighth floor conference room at Ashok Leyland’s
steel and glass office tower in  Chennai . That will help the
company “generate funds from the assets we have created. Call
it, in a way, downsizing the balance sheet.”  The measures may help Ashok Leyland, which reported a
record loss in the three months ended June, cut debt by about 23
percent. That will give Managing Director Vinod K. Dasari space
to focus on defending the company’s share in  Asia ’s second-largest truck market as rivals  Daimler AG (DAI)  to  Volvo AB (VOLVA)  offer
discounts and add products to lure customers.  “Ashok Leyland’s costs have been rising and while they
want to be a pan-India focused truckmaker, they haven’t”
managed to win the market share they expected, said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Financial Services Ltd., who
cut his  recommendation  on the stock to sell citing its debt
burden. “There will be an erosion in market share whenever new
players come in.”  Quarterly Loss  Ashok Leyland, set up in 1948 to assemble Austin Motor
Co.’s A40 cars, had 43.6 billion rupees of  debt  as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sridharan is targeting
to reduce liabilities by 10 billion rupees in the year that
started April 1.  The company  reported  a loss of 1.4 billion rupees in the
three months to June 30, its first unprofitable quarter since
the same period in 2001, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s shares have declined 44 percent this year
making it the worst performing stock in the  S&P BSE Auto index .
They fell 1 percent to 15.2 rupees at close in Mumbai.  The maker of trucks, buses and tractors, which has hired
Mahendra Singh Dhoni,  India ’s most successful cricket captain,
to endorse its products, is close to selling its U.S.-based unit
Defiance Testing & Engineering, Sridharan said. It’s also
looking for buyers for its warehouses and regional sales yards,
he said.  Working Hours  Ashok Leyland is paring its proposed expansion by 20
percent to 4 billion rupees in the year that started April 1,
Sridharan said. It is also cutting salaries by 5 percent for
executives starting with Managing Director Dasari and reducing
working hours, he said.  The company, which also runs equal ventures with Nissan
Motor Co. and Deere & Co. to make light commercial vehicles and
construction equipment, took on debt to acquire the truck unit
of  Czech Republic ’s Avia AS in 2006 and  Optare (OPE)  Plc in 2010.  Avia will stop making trucks at its Letnany plant in  Prague 
from July 31, according to a  statement  on the company’s website.
Optare has posted losses for five straight years to the 12
months ended March 31, 2012.  “These investments are dragging down the balance sheet,”
said Surjit Singh Arora, an analyst with Prabhudas Lilladher
Pvt. in Mumbai. “Given the global economic slowdown, the
foreign ventures haven’t worked out. They need to reduce their
their debt or it will further reduce returns for shareholders.”  Market Share  At home, Ashok Leyland’s market share narrowed to 13.3
percent in March, from 16 percent in 2008, as growth in Asia’s
third-largest economy slowed. Industrywide commercial vehicle
sales have declined 8.1 percent in the first three months of the
year that began April 1, after falling 2 percent in the year
ended March 31.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s biggest truckmaker, controls 56
percent of the market, while second-ranked  Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd. (MM)  has 18 percent.  Daimler, the world’s biggest truckmaker, is investing about
$800 million in a factory it opened last year to build carriers
ranging from 6 tons to 49 tons in India. Daimler will unveil 17
models by 2014, and the factory will be able to initially
produce 36,000 trucks a year, Daimler said then.  Mahindra partnered  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  in 2005 to
build trucks, while Volvo AB, the world’s No. 2 truck maker,
invested $275 million in a venture with Eicher Motors Ltd. to
make vehicles in India in 2008. Mahindra agreed to buy out
Navistar’s stake in the venture in 2012.  Hinduja’s Wealth  To attract customers, Ashok Leyland was offering discounts
averaging 169,000 rupees on its trucks, Sridharan said, before
it decided to slash them to 50,000 rupees, and then increase
them back to 140,000 rupees.  Ashok Leyland will add new models including intermediate
goods carriers in the 7.5-ton to 16-ton space, Sridharan said.
There is demand for these vehicles as more hub-and-spoke freight
movement occurs, he said.  The company, acquired in 1987 by the Hinduja brothers,
whose wealth is valued at $8.3 billion, is also awaiting
government contracts under a federally funded urban renewal
program to sell its low-cost, low-floor bus called “Janbus,”
or people’s bus, Sridharan said.  India will buy 10,000 buses as part of the 148.7-billion
rupee Jawarharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, Finance
Minister P. Chidambaram announced in the  federal budget  in
February 28.  “This is probably one of the longest down cycles that
we’ve seen,” Dasari said on an earnings call on July 17. “We
are using this opportunity to look at it as a blessing in
disguise, use this opportunity to fix things structurally so
that we’re protected for the long run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  