-- BlackRock’s Profit Rises 32% as Deposits Boost Fees
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-18T20:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/blackrock-s-profit-rises-32-as-deposits-boost-fees.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said second-quarter profit climbed 32 percent as
investor deposits into multi-asset products and index funds
boosted fees.  Net income rose to  $729 million , or $4.19 a share, from
$554 million, or $3.08, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding certain items,
adjusted earnings of $4.15 a share beat the $3.81 average
 estimate  of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit included a
pretax gain of $39 million related to the initial public
offering of PennyMac, a mortgage firm BlackRock backed in 2007.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, 60, has said
BlackRock has the potential to increase its asset base by about
5 percent annually by developing new exchange-traded funds to
meet client needs and expanding its reach among individual
investors. Market declines reduced BlackRock’s assets from a
record in the first quarter to $3.86 trillion as of June 30.
Investors put a net $11.9 billion into BlackRock’s funds in the
quarter, while market losses cut assets by $62.3 billion.  Deposits into BlackRock’s funds were “better than
expected,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based analyst at
Jefferies & Co., wrote today in a note to clients. “The primary
difference was inflows into index fixed-income products and
multi-asset products,” said Fannon, who had expected net
withdrawals of $1.5 billion in the quarter.  June Selloff  BlackRock rose 2.4 percent to close at $278.91 in New York.
The  shares  have gained 35 percent this year, compared with the
29 percent increase in the 20-member Standard & Poor’s index of
asset managers and custody banks.  Stock and bond markets worldwide fell in June amid concern
that the Federal Reserve may reduce its bond purchases.
Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond mutual funds
in June, the biggest monthly redemptions in records going back
to 1961, according to estimates from the Investment Company
Institute. Stock funds industrywide gathered a net $300 million
in June, according to ICI estimates.  “Institutions worldwide stayed the course,” Fink said
today in a telephone interview. “We are seeing a rotation from
 index-oriented  fixed-income products to more unconstrained
products -- that’s where we believe this great rotation will
come from.”  Fund Deposits  BlackRock, which acquired Barclays Global Investors in
December 2009 to expand into passive investments, was helped by
the diversity of its product offerings during the quarter, Fink
said. The firm offers actively managed stock and bond funds, the
iShares ETFs, hedge funds and portfolios that use mathematical
models.  The firm saw deposits of $5.1 billion from individual
clients, driven by sales of unconstrained bond funds and multi-asset income funds, and $7.8 billion from institutions, mainly
into index products. Investors pulled $963 million from the
firm’s iShares exchange-traded funds, mainly those tracking
 emerging markets , bonds and commodities.  BlackRock has revamped equity and fixed-income teams to
revive deposits into active products. Chris Leavy, chief
investment officer of BlackRock’s fundamental equity unit in the
Americas, replaced portfolio managers at strategies that
represented about 40 percent of the division’s $115 billion.  About 42 percent of BlackRock’s actively managed stock
funds have beaten benchmarks over the past five years. Fink said
in today’s interview that rebuilding its active equity brand is
a two-year to three-year process. Active stock funds lost $4.3
billion to client redemptions during the quarter, while their
ETF counterparts attracted $2.7 billion.  Investment Fees  Money managers such as BlackRock, which earn fees based on
the assets that they manage for clients, traditionally benefit
from rising stock markets and investor deposits into higher-fee
active funds. The U.S. benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
increased 2.4 percent in the second quarter while the MSCI All
Country World Index of global stocks fell 1.2 percent.  BlackRock’s investment advisory fees, earned for managing
client money, rose 9 percent to $2.2 billion from a year
earlier. Performance fees, earned by funds for beating certain
benchmarks, more than doubled to $89 million.  BlackRock in October created the iShares Core Series, which
is made up of six ETFs with lowered fees and four new ones,
after the firm lost market share to Vanguard Group Inc., the
Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based money manager that boosted
assets in its funds with lower-cost products. BlackRock had
earlier combined the sales teams for its iShares unit, the
world’s largest provider of ETFs, and BlackRock’s retail funds.
In March, BlackRock enhanced its partnership with Boston-based
Fidelity Investments to sell more ETFs directly to retail
investors.  ‘Client Mix’  “We view BlackRock’s institutional-heavy client mix and
ETF market leadership as providing downside support against any
prolonged retail outflows,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by
Matthew Kelley wrote in a July 8 research note.  ETFs have been the fastest-growing segment of the asset-management business, benefiting money managers such as
BlackRock, Vanguard and  State Street Corp. (STT)  In the 12 months
ended May 30,  ETF assets  in the U.S. increased 33 percent to
$1.48 trillion, according to data from the Washington-based
Investment Company Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  