-- Blackstone Files for IPO of Shopping-Center Unit Brixmor
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2013-07-18T22:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/blackstone-files-for-ipo-of-shopping-center-unit-brixmor.html
Brixmor Property Group, the second-largest U.S. shopping-center landlord, filed to go public, part
of owner  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s plan to exit property investments
after markets recovered from the financial crisis.  Brixmor didn’t disclose in a regulatory filing today the
number of shares it will sell or the price it will seek. The New
York-based company, organized as a real estate investment trust,
may raise as much as $100 million in the initial public
offering, a placeholder amount that will probably change. The
stock sale probably “will raise $700 million or more,”
according to  Renaissance Capital LLC , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based IPO research firm.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm, hasn’t
said whether it would sell any shares in the IPO. The company
began telling investors in 2012 that it anticipated major
divestitures within two years, raising the prospect of IPOs
including the Hilton Worldwide Inc. hotel chain, and sales of
office buildings acquired in the $39 billion purchase of Equity
Office Properties Trust in 2007.  “There will continue to be a growing series of real estate
realizations as we go forth over the next 12 to 18 months,”
Blackstone President  Tony James  said today on a conference call
to discuss the firm’s second-quarter earnings. The firm sold
$2.1 billion of property assets last quarter, including shares
of  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the No. 2 U.S. mall landlord,
he said.  Share Rally  Blackstone, based in  New York , is taking advantage of a
rally in shares of REITs that own and operate shopping centers.
The  Bloomberg REIT Shopping Center index  is up about 10 percent
from a low on June 20 after falling from a five-year high in May
amid concern that rising interest rates would increase
landlords’ costs.  Shopping-center REITs trade at a premium of about 5 percent
to the price their assets would fetch in the private market,
according to Cedrik Lachance, managing director at  Newport
Beach , California-based Green Street Advisors Inc.  “The REIT market is vibrant,” he said. “Blackstone’s
been an enormous buyer of real estate in the U.S. in the past
decade, and as its funds go through their life cycle, it’s
appropriate to expect sales” such as Brixmor.  Blackstone plans to keep a majority stake in the company,
its third-largest real estate holding, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Brixmor said
its portfolio being offered in the IPO is made up of 522
shopping centers with 87 million square feet (8.1 million square
meters) of space. The assets that form Brixmor’s core were
acquired in a $9 billion purchase of U.S. shopping centers from
 Australia ’s  Centro Properties Group  in 2011.  IPO Proceeds  Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Wells Fargo Securities are serving as joint
book-running managers for the offering, according to the filing.
The shares will trade under the symbol BRX.  Brixmor will use the proceeds from the offering primarily
to repay debt. The company obtained a $2.75 billion credit
facility from a group of banks on July 16, according to the
filing.  Revenue rose 2.3 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier to $287.1 million, Brixmor said in the filing. The
company’s net loss narrowed by almost half to $19.5 million from
$37.9 million.  Pappagallo Hiring  Brixmor in May hired Michael Pappagallo as president and
chief financial officer. He had been chief operating officer of
 New Hyde Park , New York-based  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , the biggest
U.S. shopping-center landlord, which is valued at $9.2 billion.
The hiring of a well-known executive of a public company was
seen by some analysts as a sign that Blackstone was considering
an IPO.  Shopping centers are typically home to supermarkets,
drugstores or discount chains and tend to be open-air, compared
with enclosed malls that have more-upscale retailers. Brixmor’s
properties are anchored mainly by grocers such as  Kroger Co. (KR)  or
discounters including TJX Cos.  Shopping centers have become more popular with investors as
retail demand improves. Average occupancy at U.S. shopping-center REITs was 93.6 percent at the end of 2012, the highest in
four years, and rents have grown for 12 straight quarters,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  Brixmor’s occupancy across its portfolio was 90 percent as
of March 31, unchanged from the previous three months, the
company said on May 17. Kimco’s was 93.7 percent in the first
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  