-- BlackRock Predicts Won, Taiwan Dollar to Outperform Rest of Asia
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-18T09:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/blackrock-predicts-won-taiwan-dollar-to-outperform-rest-of-asia.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, predicts North Asian currencies will outperform
those in Southeast Asia as current-account surpluses shield
their economies from a reduction in U.S. monetary stimulus.  The South Korean won and the Taiwanese dollar will be among
the bigger beneficiaries of improving demand in the U.S. because
of their reliance on exports, Joel Kim, head of Asia Pacific
fixed income, said in a press briefing today in Singapore. The
won is Asia’s best-performing currency this month, while
 Malaysia ’s ringgit and Indonesia’s rupiah are leading losses in
Southeast Asia.  “People are going to focus on final demand for developed
markets coming back, which will ultimately be good, especially
for Northeast Asian economies,” said Kim at BlackRock, which
was overseeing $3.9 trillion in assets globally as of end-March.
“The won has done quite well over the last couple of weeks.
That’s one of our overweights in our portfolio.”  The U.S. is the second-biggest export market for South
Korea and  Taiwan , with shipments accounting for half of the
former’s gross domestic product and 60 percent for the latter.  South Korea’s currency advanced 1.4 percent this month and
reached a six-week high of 1,114.06 per dollar on July 17,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It closed 0.4 percent
lower at 1,126.18 in  Seoul  today. The Taiwan dollar fell 0.3
percent today to NT$30.025 and is little changed from June 28.
The ringgit has weakened 1.1 percent in July, the rupiah 0.6
percent and the Philippine peso 0.5 percent.  China Slowdown  BlackRock is less optimistic on the prospects of
appreciation in the yuan because of  China ’s growth slowdown.
Asia’s largest economy expanded 7.5 percent in the second
quarter, compared with 7.7 percent in the prior three months.
The  yuan  is the sole gainer in Asia this year, having climbed
1.5 percent.  “As China decelerates, it’s not unlikely that the
stability and the slow appreciation facing the  renminbi  at one
point is going to be reversed,” Kim said. “And you might even
see some depreciation.”  South Korea had a  current-account surplus  of $8.6 billion
in May, the most since at least 1980, while Taiwan had an  excess 
of $11 billion in the first quarter.  In Southeast Asia, the  Philippines ’ current-account surplus
widened 56 percent to $3.4 billion in the first quarter from the
previous three months, central bank data show. Malaysia’s
surplus shrank 62 percent to 8.7 billion ringgit ($2.7 billion),
while  Thailand  posted deficits for three of the first five
months of this year, according to official figures.  India, Indonesia  BlackRock is “a lot more cautious” on countries such as
 Indonesia  and  India  because of their current-account deficits
and “relatively poor fundamentals,” Kim said. “The
Philippines is an exception as the fundamentals are much
better.”  Growth in the region is slowing and inflation isn’t a
concern, except for countries like Indonesia, supporting Asian
bond markets, Kim said.  The Asian Development Bank on July 16 joined the
International Monetary Fund in lowering forecasts for developing
Asia, saying the slowdown in China will hurt the regional
outlook.  Gross domestic product in developing Asia will probably
increase 6.3 percent in 2013 and 6.4 percent next year, the
Manila-based ADB said in the report. In April, it forecast
expansion of 6.6 percent for this year and 6.7 percent in 2014.
The IMF reduced its growth estimate for the region to 6.9
percent from 7.2 percent.  The recent sell-off in the region’s bonds has offered
buying opportunities in certain markets such as  Singapore , South
Korea and Thailand, while debt in Indonesia and India will
probably drop further, according to BlackRock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  