-- Boeing 787 Probe Urges Disabling of Honeywell Beacon
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-07-19T04:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/boeing-787-probe-spurs-honeywell-beacon-shutdown-lithium-checks.html
A  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) 
beacon has been linked to last week’s fire on a parked  Boeing
Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner and should be deactivated on all of the
planes, U.K. investigators said.  The emergency locater transmitter can be removed quickly
and won’t idle the 68-jet fleet, Boeing said yesterday after the
U.K.’s Air Accidents Investigation Branch urged that the units
be disabled. The agency didn’t tie the fire at London’s Heathrow
airport to the devices, saying the blaze “coincides” with the
ELT’s location on the 787 and that the probe continues.  “The best outcome will be certainty that it was a one-off
item, and that can’t be determined yet,”  Howard Rubel , a New
York-based aerospace analyst with Jefferies LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “But this was a reasonable outcome.”  The July 12 incident was the first involving an emergency
device installed in thousands of planes and added to the snags
for Boeing’s marquee jet, which was grounded for three months
after  lithium-ion batteries  melted down in two 787s’ power
systems in January. Hours after the U.K. report, a  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  787 bound for  Tokyo  returned to  Boston  after an on-board indication of a possible fuel-pump fault.  Boeing rallied 2.7 percent to $107.63 at the close in  New
York  yesterday on news of the U.K. inquiry’s preliminary report,
then slipped 1.3 percent to $106.25 in extended trading as word
spread about the aborted JAL flight. Honeywell’s shares rose 0.6
percent to $82.97.  Electrical System  While the ELT batteries have different lithium chemistry
than those in the electrical system, the U.K. investigators
cited the potential danger from last week’s fire on an Ethiopian
Airlines Enterprise 787 and said U.S. regulators should lead a
review into lithium-battery powered ELTs on other aircraft.  “Had this event occurred in flight it could pose a
significant concern and raise challenges for the cabin crew in
tackling the resulting fire,” the AAIB said. Shutting off the
lithium-battery-powered transmitter is a precautionary step
“until appropriate airworthiness actions can be completed.”  One airline, U.K. charter carrier Thomson Airways, said it
had removed ELTs from its 787s.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
has performed visual checks of the transmitters on its six
Dreamliners “with no findings,” Christen David, a spokeswoman
for the Chicago-based company, said in an e-mail.  Japanese Law  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the biggest 787 operator, hasn’t
received any Boeing request to remove the transmitters,
spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka said by telephone. The carrier hasn’t
received any request from Boeing to remove the device. Japan
Airlines is conducting visual checks on the transmitters after
U.K. investigators recommended deactivating the beacons,
Spokesman Kazunori Kidosaki said by phone. Both the carriers
said Japanese law requires the transmitters to be in service.  India ’s aviation safety regulator will make a decision
after Air India Ltd. receives a directive from Boeing, Arun Mishra, director general of civil aviation, said in a phone
interview. Rohit Nandan, chairman at  Air India , which operates
seven 787s, didn’t immediately respond to two calls and a text
message to his mobile phone.  The 787’s high public profile, value to Boeing and ground-breaking design as the first jetliner built chiefly of composite
plastics have kept investors attuned to any flight disruptions,
Jefferies’s Rubel said in a research note.  The AAIB’s action “has no impact on the operation of the
787 and it continues in service,” said Rubel, who has a buy
rating on Boeing. “With current navigation and air traffic
control systems, the ELT is only required on a minimal number of
routes, we believe.”  Emergency Beacon  Honeywell’s emergency beacon broadcasts a signal to help
rescuers locate a downed plane. The 3-pound, 3-ounce (1.45
kilogram) device uses its batteries for power, according to the
company’s website.  The transmitter on the Ethiopian 787 is the only one to
have been linked to a “significant thermal event,” the AAIB
bulletin said.  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell has
manufactured 6,000 units fitted to a wide array of aircraft.  Removing the beacon is a “simple maintenance task” that
takes about an hour, Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. Boeing will issue instructions to airlines
about the procedure and provide assistance as needed, he said.  ‘Prudent’ Move  Bill Kircos, a Honeywell spokesman, said deactivating the
ELTs on 787s and inspecting devices from all manufacturers is
“prudent,” though it would be premature to “jump to
conclusions.” The company expected no financial impact at this
time from the AAIB’s recommendations to regulators, Kircos said
by e-mail.  Dreamliner flights have continued worldwide since the fire
at carriers including ANA and Addis Ababa-based Ethiopian, which
has kept its other three planes in service.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  is reviewing the
U.K. report “to determine the appropriate action,” Lynn Lunsford, a spokesman, said by e-mail. Planemaker Airbus SAS has
“taken note” of the recommendations, and “a first look of our
own records does not show any incident of this nature,” said a
spokesman, Stefan Schaffrath.  Electrical Short  The U.K. investigators said it wasn’t yet clear whether
last week’s fire was caused by a release of energy in the ELT’s
lithium-manganese dioxide battery or by an external mechanism
such as an electrical short.  The plane suffered “extensive heat damage” in the rear,
including to its composite-plastic fuselage, the AAIB said. The
ELT is the only aircraft system in the area of the fire with
stored energy capable of sparking a fire, the agency said,
adding that flight crew had not reported any technical issues
and that ground power had been switched off.  A search of U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
accident files didn’t show any cases of accidents or incidents
linked to fires on ELTs during the past 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  