-- Bradesco’s Record Share Gap Signals Reversal: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-18T15:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bradesco-s-record-share-gap-signals-reversal-corporate-brazil.html
The record  premium  that  Banco
Bradesco SA (BBDC3) ’s common shares have over preferred stock is
puzzling analysts and investors who say the securities should be
trading at a discount.  Bradesco’s common shares closed at 32.90 reais yesterday,
or 4.30 reais more than the preferred stock, even though voting
shares pay a dividend that’s almost 10 percent less. The common
stock of the Osasco, Brazil-based company climbed 48 percent in
the past year before today, the best performance of Brazil’s
five biggest banks by market value, compared with a 5.6 percent
gain for preferred shares.  More investors are buying Bradesco’s common shares after
they were added to the MSCI Brazil Index in November and became
part of Brazil’s benchmark Ibovespa index in May. Some pension
funds and other institutional investors are required to hold
predetermined amounts of stock included in major indexes.  “The logical situation here is for the common shares to be
traded at a discount of 10 percent over non-voting stocks to
reflect the lower dividend,” Otavio Vieira, a partner at hedge
fund Fides Asset Management in Rio de Janeiro, said in a
telephone interview. “This premium seems to be exaggerated.”  Common shares are now the most shorted banking stock in
 Brazil , signaling that investors expect the securities to fall.
The ratio of borrowed shares is 13 percent, up from 6.2 percent
at the start of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
common shares rose 0.2 percent to 32.95 reais, while the
preferred stock was up 0.4 percent to 28.70 reais at 12:16 p.m.  Bradesco declined to comment on the performance of the two
classes of shares, according to an e-mailed statement.  Acquisition Target  The premium for common shares would be justified only if
there were concern corporate governance was insufficient or if
the bank was an acquisition target, Vieira said, adding that
neither alternative is “on the radar.”  “There are no current reasons to justify” the premium,
Banco Itau BBA SA’s analysts including Regina Longo Sanchez
wrote in a research note on May 2, when the gap between the two
securities was at 1.95 reais. Sanchez declined to comment
further, according to Itau BBA’s press office.  The voting shares traded at a discount on almost every day
from September 2007 until March, when they surged past preferred
shares.  The bank started its American depositary receipts program
backed by voting shares in March 2012, spurring an increase in
the stock’s trading volume that allowed them to be included in
the  MSCI index  for Brazil.  Adjusting Spreads  “Some funds follow the MSCI index and had to adjust their
portfolios to include the ADRs, and Brazilian pension funds did
the same once the voting shares were added to Ibovespa,” Carlos Daltozo, an analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  in Sao Paulo, said in
a telephone interview. “These spreads will tend to adjust to a
10 percent discount in the medium term according to the lower
dividend.”  Voting shares’ average trading volume more than doubled
this year from the same period in 2012, compared with a 10
percent increase for non-voting shares.  Regardless of the gap between voting and preferred shares,
the outlook for Bradesco is positive because valuations are
attractive, according to Nick Robinson, head of Brazilian
equities at Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, which manages about
$15 billion of Latin American shares.  Bank Exposure  “Buying banks is a way of gaining exposure to Brazil’s
consumption growth without paying too much for it,” Robinson
said by telephone from Sao Paulo. Bradesco is the top holding of
Aberdeen’s Latin America Equity Fund, which gained 0.9 percent
in the past year while the MSCI Latin America Index slumped 11
percent.  Aberdeen, with a 1.1 percent stake, is the  largest investor 
in Bradesco’s voting shares after controlling shareholders,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Given that holders of preferred shares get a higher
dividend, the voting stock probably won’t keep trading at a
premium much longer, said Rodolfo Amstalden, an equity analyst
at consulting firm Empiricus Research.  “The increased trading volume on the voting shares helps
explain the recent outperformance, but I think this is more than
priced in,” Amstalden said in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “At some point, this gap will start to narrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  