-- Brazil Says Correct to Carry on Half-Point Rate Increases
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-07-18T13:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/brazil-says-appropriate-to-carry-on-half-point-rate-increases.html
Brazil ’s central bank said it’s
appropriate to carry on with half-point interest rate increases
in a bid to ensure inflation won’t hurt demand and investments.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously last week to boost the benchmark Selic rate by 50
basis points for the second straight time. The Selic has been
lifted in each of the past three meetings to 8.50 percent from a
record low 7.25 percent in March.  Tombini has carried out this year the world’s biggest
interest rate increase amid major economies as the fastest
inflation in 20 months saps growth. More than 1 million
Brazilians took to the streets last month as the cost of living
surged and growth remained slow. Policy makers said today the
persistence of above-target inflation would hurt the economy.  The monetary policy committee “considers appropriate to
continue the current pace of the monetary policy adjustment,”
central bankers said in the minutes of their July 9-10 meeting
published today.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 9.43 percent at 10:04 a.m. local time. The
real fell 0.5 percent to 2.2376 per  U.S. dollar .  ’Relatively Aggressive’  The current pace of interest rate increases is “relatively
aggressive” to ease inflationary pressures and reduce the pass-through of a weaker currency to consumer prices,
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil,
said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Rostagno expects policy makers to raise the key rate by 125
basis points through the end of the year.  The real has dropped 9 percent in the past two months, the
worst performance among the 16 most traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The central bank said the  currency depreciation  will
be a source of inflationary pressure in the short term that can
be mitigated with an adequate monetary policy.  Brazil’s  inflation  in June accelerated to 6.70 percent, the
national statistics agency said earlier this month. That
compares with 6.50 percent in May, and marks the fastest
increase pace October 2011.  Close to Zero  Monthly inflation in July will be close to zero, President
 Dilma Rousseff  said on July 17, adding that price increases will
slow to the central bank’s tolerance range by the end of the
year. Policy makers target inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  The central bank said the short-term risk for inflation is
currently low and will help monetary policy reduce expectations
for consumer price increases.  Consumer confidence  fell 3.5 percent in June from the
previous month to its lowest level this year, according to an
index published by the National Industry Confederation. Retail
sales in May were unchanged from the previous month after
climbing at half the pace forecast by analysts in April.  Brazil’s economy  expanded  0.55 percent in the first three
months of this year, compared with 0.64 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012. Analysts covering Brazil have reduced their
2013 growth forecast for nine straight weeks to 2.31 percent,
according to a July 12 central bank survey of about 100
economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  