-- Brazilians Fire Back After Soccer Head Questions World Cup Host
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-18T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/brazilians-fire-back-after-soccer-head-questions-world-cup-host.html
Brazil ’s government underlined the
right of its citizens to protest after FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said soccer’s governing body may have erred in selecting
that country to host next year’s  World Cup .  More than a million people took to Brazil’s streets during
last month’s Confederations Cup, a test event for the World Cup,
to demand better public services and to complain about the
 government spending  almost 30 billion reais ($13.5 billion) on
the World Cup.  A repeat of Brazil’s biggest demonstrations in two decades,
which took place in all six World Cup host cities, would lead
FIFA to conclude that awarding the biggest single-sport
tournament to the country might have been a mistake, Blatter
said.  “If this happens again we have to question whether we made
the wrong decision awarding the hosting rights,” Blatter said.  FIFA spoke with government officials in Brazil after the
host nation beat world champion Spain 3-0 in the June 30 final
of the two-week Confederations Cup. Blatter said he plans to
meet with Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  in September.  “We did emphasize the fact of this social unrest being
there for the entire duration of the Confederations Cup,”
Blatter said. “The government is now aware that next year the
World Cup shouldn’t be disturbed.”  Clashes between police and demonstrators caused tear gas to
waft inside Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana Stadium during the first
half of the final of the tournament dubbed the “Demonstrations
Cup” by protestors.  ‘Democratic Country’  “The success of the Confederations Cup proves Brazil is
the correct choice to host the World Cup,” Brazil’s sports
ministry said in an e-mailed statement after Blatter’s comments.
“As for the demonstrations, Brazil is a democratic country that
guarantees its citizens full freedom of expression.”  Three months ago,  Jerome Valcke , FIFA’s top administrator,
said “less democracy is sometimes better for hosting a World
Cup.”  Protests, which were triggered by a rise in bus fares, have
diminished since the Confederations Cup. Demonstrators blocked
traffic outside the home of Rio Governor Sergio Cabral yesterday
and one woman held a banner saying “No World Cup.”  “These protests were like alarm bells for the government,
the senate, the parliament,” Blatter said. “They should work
on it so that this is not going to happen again.”  Brazil won the right to host the World Cup in October 2007
as the only remaining candidate following  Colombia ’s withdrawal
six months earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  