-- Bumi to Hand Cash to Holders After $501 Million Bakrie Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-07-18T16:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/bumi-agrees-to-sell-bumi-resources-stake-to-indonesia-s-bakries.html
 Bumi Plc, the coal producer at the
center of a dispute between financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  and
 Indonesia ’s Bakrie family, plans a “substantial” cash return
to investors from the $501 million sale of a mining asset.  The company, owner of stakes in two of Indonesia’s biggest
exporters of power-station coal, agreed to sell its 29.2 percent
stake in  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  to the Bakrie Group, it said in a
statement today. The proposed transaction was first announced on
July 11 and is part of a two-step plan to separate Bumi Plc from
the Bakries.  Bumi has been at the heart of a battle for control between
co-founders Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old British banking
dynasty, and the Bakries, one of the country’s wealthiest
families. Each made rival proposals last year to unwind the $3
billion deal that brought them together in 2011. Earlier this
month Bumi Chairman Samin Tan agreed to buy the Bakrie family’s
23.8 percent holding in  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  for $223 million.  The sale leaves the company with more than $500 million in
cash and the board “intends to return a substantial proportion
to shareholders in the near-term,” London-based Bumi Plc said.  The current market value of the PT Bumi stake is $314
million, it said. The transaction will be put to its
shareholders at a general meeting planned for the autumn, the
company said.  More Work  The terms of the sale “are highly attractive to Bumi
shareholders,” Julian Horn-Smith, Bumi’s senior independent
director, said in the statement. “However, more needs to be
done before we are able to present a comprehensive package for
shareholders to consider.”  Selling the Bumi Resources stake to the Bakries was a
condition for a deal that sees the family selling its 23.8
percent holding in Bumi Plc to Tan’s  PT Borneo (BORN)  Lumbung Energi &
Metal. The exit of the Bakries as investors will allow Bumi to
reorganize its board, including appointing a new independent
chairman, Bumi said.  Trading of Bumi stock has been suspended in London since
April 19 when it last traded at 259.3 pence. The company said
last month it remained in talks with the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority to end the suspension. No update on the
resumption of trading was provided in today’s statement.  Bumi will be removed from all FTSE indexes at zero value on
July 25 should it remain suspended July 22, according to a
statement today from the stock index compiler.  ‘Unrecognizable’ Deal  Bumi said Feb. 12 that the “core financial terms” of a
deal involving the Bakrie Group canceling its 23.8 percent stake
in the London-traded company, in exchange for 10.3 percent of
Bumi Resources and $278 million, were “fixed.”  Rothschild, who owns a 14.8 percent stake in Bumi, today
criticized the handling of the separation from the Bakries.  “The proposed transaction is unrecognizable from the one
that was described on Feb. 12 as being ‘fixed,’” he said in e-mailed comments. “No independent chairman in their right mind
will want to be involved with a company which, if this deal is
allowed to stand, will be continue to be controlled by the
Bakrie Concert Party via Samin Tan.”  U.K. regulators should step in to “ensure the interests of
independent shareholders are protected,” he said.  Separately, Rothschild has started legal proceedings
against Bumi and other parties including Tan, director Alex
Ramlie and entities related to the Bakries, according to an e-mailed statement from the company.  “These proceedings are an unnecessary distraction and
serve no useful purpose,” Bumi said today. The court’s
timetable means there are unlikely to be any “material steps”
in the litigation until after the planned shareholder vote, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  