-- Canada Dollar Rises as Sales Data Signal Faster Economic Growth
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-07-18T21:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/canadian-dollar-falls-for-second-day-after-central-bank-updates.html
The Canadian dollar rose against all
of its 16 most-traded peers, drawing strength from a government
report pointing to a revival of economic growth.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, erased a loss
against its U.S. counterpart after  wholesale sales  rose at the
fastest pace in more than two years in May, reaching a record on
sales of fertilizer and food. The currency weakened yesterday
after Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said the nation’s
economy has significant slack and inflation remains muted,
pushing back the potential for an interest-rate increase.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said curtailing the
U.S. central bank’s asset purchases remains linked to
indications of economic improvement.  “Wholesale sales suggest there could be a bit of an upside
to the rather soft expectations people had for growth in the
second quarter,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in a telephone interview.  The loonie appreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0378 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained 1.1 percent against the
yen and 1.3 percent versus the South African rand. One loonie
buys 96.36 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart slowed to 7.07 percent,
reaching the lowest on a closing basis since May 14. Implied
volatility, used to set option prices and gauge the expected
pace of currency swings, reached a one-year high of 8.87 percent
on June 24.  Bonds Decline  Government bonds snapped a rally.  Canada ’s 10-year
benchmark government bonds fell, pushing yields up after they
declined yesterday to the lowest level on a closing basis since
June 20. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 dropped
24 cents today to C$92.17, pushing the yield up three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.40 percent.  Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of notes
due November 2015 on July 24, the Bank of Canada said.  In his first interest-rate decision as Bank of Canada
governor, Poloz inserted a line in his monetary policy report
saying near-record low interest rates are appropriate “as long
as” there is significant economic slack in the economy and low
inflation.  Wholesale sales rose 2.3 percent to C$50.3 billion ($48.3
billion), Statistics Canada said in Ottawa, compared with the
median estimate for a 0.3 percent gain in a Bloomberg  survey 
with 15 responses.  Economic Outlook  The Bank of Canada raised its economic growth forecast for
this year yesterday to 1.8 percent from an April prediction of
1.5 percent, while lowering the 2014 projection to 2.7 percent
from 2.8 percent. Both figures exceed Bloomberg consensus
forecasts of 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent.  The consumer price index rose 1.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with 0.7 percent in May, data scheduled
to be released 8:30 a.m. in Ottawa is forecast to show.  “Tomorrow’s Canadian inflation data should not be much of
an attention-getter, so look for us to move generally in sync
with overall moves in the U.S. dollar,” John Curran, a senior
vice president CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said in a note to clients.  Bernanke yesterday stressed the asset purchases the Fed has
used to lower interest rates “are by no means on a preset
course” and could be reduced or expanded as the economy
warrants, in remarks to Congress.  “The overwhelming view is that the jury is still out on”
when the Federal Reserve will begin withdrawing stimulus,
 Stephen Gallo , European head of currency strategy at Bank of
Montreal in  London , said in an e-mail. “The market is toying
with the likely timing.”  The loonie gained 1.2 percent in the past three months
against nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The euro led gainers with
a 3 percent advance followed by the U.S. dollar’s 2.5 percent
increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  