-- CapCo Agrees With Transport for London on Earls Court Framework
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-07-18T16:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/capco-agrees-with-transport-for-london-on-earls-court-framework.html
Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC) 
and Transport for  London  agreed on the outline of a venture that
would develop land at Earls Court Exhibition Centre in the
southwest corner of central London.  The two companies will develop the sites and an undisclosed
amount of additional land owned by CapCo if the deal is approved
by both boards of directors, according to a joint statement
today. TfL, London’s subway- and bus-system operator, would
likely have a 37 percent stake in the venture and CapCo would
own the rest, they said in the statement.  “The revenue generated from the deal will be reinvested
back into London’s transport network to deliver increased and
improved services,” Graeme Craig, director for commercial
development at TfL, said in the statement. “It reflects a new
approach we are taking with our extensive property portfolio to
work with leading developers whilst retaining our interest.”  Developers including CapCo, part owner of London’s Covent
Garden market, that own land for housing are benefiting from
rising home prices in London, low  interest rates  and U.K.
government incentives to make it easier for people to buy
residences. About 7,500 homes are planned at Earls Court and
West Kensington on 77 acres (31 hectares) of land owned by the
London-based developer, according to the statement.  CapCo owns long-term leases on both exhibition buildings at
Earls Court, which is about a two-mile walk from Hyde Park. TfL
holds the freehold, meaning it owns the land and has no control
over the buildings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  