-- Capital One Profit Beats Estimates as Card Spending Climbs 12%
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/capital-one-profit-beats-estimates-as-card-spending-increases.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that gets more than half its revenue from credit cards,
posted a second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
a boost in U.S.  consumer confidence  helped fuel spending.  Net income  surged to $1.12 billion, or $1.87 a share, from
$93 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier, the McLean, Virginia-based company said yesterday in a statement. Profit from
continuing operations, which excludes some items, was $2.07 a
share, beating the $1.73 average  estimate  of 28 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank has spent more
than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005, making Capital One
the eighth-biggest U.S. commercial bank at the end of last year.
The firm has sought to return more capital to shareholders,
announcing this month that it will repurchase as much as $1
billion of stock after completing the sale of a Best Buy Co.
credit-card portfolio.  “They’ve become a more mature and slow-growth company, and
management has realized that,”  Scott Valentin , an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview
before results were announced. “That’s sparked the discussion
about returning more capital.”  The lender  acquired  the Best Buy assets, comprising private
label and co-branded credit cards, from HSBC Holdings Plc last
year as part of a deal that added about $30 billion in assets.
Capital One also picked up more than $80 billion in deposits
last year with the purchase of ING Groep NV’s U.S. online bank.  Consumer Sentiment  Capital One shares rose 2.3 percent to $68.60 in  extended
trading  yesterday. The stock climbed 16 percent this year
through the close of regular trading, trailing the 28 percent
advance for the 24-company KBW Bank Index.  Net revenue climbed 12 percent to $5.64 billion, beating
the $5.52 billion average estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg
survey. Net interest margin, the difference between what banks
pay depositors and what’s earned on loans, widened by 0.12
percentage point from the first quarter to 6.83 percent.  The results included a $119 million loss from discontinued
operations that was driven by a $183 million addition to
reserves to cover the repurchase of faulty mortgages.  Consumer sentiment  improved  last month as Americans grew
more upbeat about the economy. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan index of confidence rose to 84.1 in June from 78.6 at
the end of March.  Credit Losses  Credit-card write-offs averaged 4.28 percent for Capital
One in the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future
defaults, averaged 3.05 percent, the data show. Both figures
were the highest among the six biggest U.S. issuers.  Capital One has sought to cut credit losses by shifting its
marketing to attract affluent customers who spend more and pay
their balances in full each month. The company employs actor
 Alec Baldwin  to promote its Venture card and comic  Jimmy Fallon 
to publicize its cash rewards card. Both cards are geared toward
wealthier consumers, Valentin said.  “We will continue to tightly manage costs and  credit
quality , drive resilient growth in businesses we are
emphasizing, and focus on returning capital to our investors to
deliver sustained  shareholder value ,” Fairbank, 62, said in the
statement.  Card purchases rose 12 percent to $50.8 billion from a year
earlier, according to the statement. U.S. card balances were
$70.5 billion at the end of June, little changed from March.
Auto loans advanced 5.1 percent to $29.4 billion from the first
quarter.  Manhattan Skyscraper  The lender is in talks to take about 250,000 square feet of
offices at 299 Park Ave., a 1.2 million-square-foot Manhattan
skyscraper on the market for sublease by UBS AG, two people with
knowledge of the negotiations said earlier this week. A deal
would place the bank in the heart of Midtown’s financial
corridor, diagonally across from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
headquarters.  Consumer spending  in the U.S., where 93 percent of Capital
One card purchases are made, climbed at a 1.5 percent annualized
rate in the second quarter, according to Commerce Department
figures disclosed this week.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, posted a record profit earlier this week as customer
spending rose. Net income at the New York-based firm rose 4.9
percent to $1.41 billion. AmEx fell 3.6 percent yesterday on top
of a 1.9 percent decline on July 17, the biggest two-day drop
since November 2011, amid investor concern that a European
Commission plan to cap card fees may crimp profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  