-- Carbon Credits Surge to Six-Month High as EU Refines Eligibility
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-07-18T12:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/carbon-credits-surge-to-six-month-high-as-eu-refines-eligibility.html
United Nations Emission Reduction
Units surged 39 percent after Europe specified which credits are
ineligible for use in its carbon market, the world’s biggest.  ERUs for December jumped as high as 25 euro cents ($0.33) a
metric ton, the highest since Jan. 31, on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . The European Commission, the bloc’s
regulatory arm, upgraded its carbon registry yesterday to
clarify which offsets can be used to meet emissions obligations.  ERUs fell to a record low in May after the European Union
said it may restrict the use of some offsets from countries
including Russia and Ukraine should they fail to adopt new
carbon goals as of this year. The credits, created from carbon-reducing projects in developed nations and emerging countries,
may now narrow the price gap with more expensive Certified
Emission Reductions from developing countries, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The majority of ERUs issued since the start of the year are
“likely to be confirmed as eligible” because they have been
certified by an audit firm, Richard Chatterton, a London-based
analyst for New Energy Finance, said in an e-mailed note.  ERUs were trading at 22 euro cents a ton at 1:55 p.m. in
London, while CERs fell 1.9 percent to 52 euro cents. Factories,
power stations and airlines in the EU market can use either CERs
or ERUs to match a limited portion of their emissions
obligations.  “The difference between the CER and ERU price will
continue to narrow as the market gains confidence that ERUs will
ultimately be able to be exchanged for EU allowances,”
Chatterton said.  Price Plunge  ERUs plunged to a record 6 cents on May 1 amid a surplus of
carbon permits in Europe, where slowing economic growth has
damped demand for the credits. EU lawmakers are still debating a
plan to temporarily reduce supply and boost prices.  EU carbon allowances rose 1 percent to 4.17 euros a ton.  The UN 1997 Kyoto Protocol supports the development of
carbon-cutting projects by awarding investors with ERUs or CERs
that can be sold to companies and governments with pollution
caps. One credit is equivalent to a one-ton reduction of carbon
dioxide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  