-- Carbon’s Longest Rally to Persist on Supply Crunch
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-07-18T21:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/carbon-s-longest-rally-to-persist-on-supply-crunch.html
The longest-ever rally in United
Nations carbon prices shows little sign of easing as traders bet
companies running emission-reduction projects will stop creating
credits because it’s no longer profitable to do so.  UN-approved Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs, for
December have more than doubled to 49 cents (64 U.S. cents) from
a record low in April on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
costs a combined 50 to 80 cents a ton to have emission cuts at
clean-technology projects verified and the corresponding
certificates issued by the UN, said Luca Bertali, an emissions
broker in London at TFS Green, a unit of Cie. Financiere
Tradition SA, one of the largest inter-dealer brokers.  Prices for the credits used by 34 of the richest nations
from  Germany  to  Australia  to offset domestic emissions by
investing in greenhouse-gas-reduction projects elsewhere tumbled
98 percent since peaking at 23.38 euros in 2008 as the global
economic slowdown cut demand. The number of CERs being issued by
the UN in 2014 may drop 23 percent from this year, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Unless the price of CERs covers the costs of verification
and the UN share of proceeds, people aren’t going to deliver
them,” Bertali said in a telephone interview. “We’ll see the
result a year from now.”  UN contracts climbed to a seven-month high of 56 euro cents
a ton on July 3, when the European Parliament approved a plan to
reduce the region’s record surplus of permits and buoy prices
that had dropped to all-time record lows. They closed at 49
cents on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London after seven
weeks of gains, the longest streak since they were first offered
in March 2008.  CDM Support  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, set up by the 1997
 Kyoto Protocol , has supported the development of more than 6,900
projects in 87 countries and was worth 6.6 billion euros last
year, according to New Energy Finance. Falling UN and European
Union carbon prices shrank the value of emissions traded
worldwide by 36 percent to 61 billion euros last year, New
Energy Finance said in a January report.  Investors in CDM projects get CERs that they can sell to
companies and governments with pollution caps. The EU allows
emitters to use UN offsets to comply with obligations in its
cap-and-trade program, the largest in the world. One credit is
equivalent to a one-ton reduction of carbon dioxide.  One such investor is the Climate Cent Foundation, a group
formed by the Swiss Petroleum Federation, the Swiss Trade &
Industry Federation and the Swiss Road Traffic Federation, which
buys CERs from a 15 megawatt hydroelectric plant in  Peru ,
according to the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate
Change , or UNFCCC. The facility is designed to generate 42,000
CERs a year for as many as 21 years from July 2009, which can be
used to meet emission caps.  Unbuilt Projects  The low UN carbon offset price may mean new emission-reduction projects won’t be built or existing facilities are
dismantled, according to Renat Heuberger, chief executive
officer of project developer South Pole Carbon Asset Management
in Zurich.  “It’s going to be a significant amount,” he said July 12
in an e-mailed response to questions. “For example, in the
landfill and biogas space there is no point keeping the
collection systems in place if CER prices are so low.”  CER supply in 2014 will total 260 million tons, down from
the record 339 million supplied in 2012, according to New Energy
Finance. July issuance of CERs will be 12.5 million tons, the
fourth consecutive month of declines and the lowest since
February, according to UNFCCC data. The UN regulator has issued
202 million credits this year.  Limited Gains  UN credit price gains may be limited because of caps on
demand for existing and future certificates together with
oversupply. Market rules will restrict European demand for CERs
from 2013 through 2020 to 578 million tons, compared with an
immediately available supply of about 500 million tons,
according to New Energy Finance. Any shortfall will be met by
future issuance, which may be as much as 1.3 billion tons
through 2020.  “There’s a total of about 500 million tons of offset
supply in the market at the moment that hasn’t been submitted as
part of compliance,” Richard Chatterton, an analyst at New
Energy Finance in  London , said by phone on June 19. “That’s a
huge overhang, which could push the price back below the cost of
issuance.”  Trading volume in CER futures has dwindled this year to 10
million tons a week on average, a 67 percent slump from 2012,
according to ICE Futures data. This decline in activity is
contributing to price volatility as there are fewer parties
available to buy or sell at a given time, said Fred Payne, a
carbon trader at CF Partners (U.K.) LLP, a risk advisory and
investment firm specializing in renewables and commodities.  “If you want volume, you’re going to have to pay the offer
price, and that’s squeezed prices higher,” Payne said in a July
3 phone interview.  Price Recovery  Project owners and investors may still be generating CERs
on expectations that prices will recover, according to  Trevor Sikorski , a London-based analyst at Energy Aspects Ltd. By
issuing credits now, they can profit from an increase in price,
he said July 12 by e-mail.  “It’s hard to understand why issuance occurs at prices
below 0.50 euros, which either suggests enough projects have
issuance costs below that or you have some project developers
that are happy to punt on the CER price going higher,” said
Sikorski, a former head of carbon analysis at Barclays Plc. “I
think that this would be relatively odd behavior unless you had
very deep pockets and a high risk threshold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  