-- Carrefour Stabilizes in France as Sales Gain in Latin America
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-07-18T08:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/carrefour-sales-fall-as-economy-weighs-on-demand-in-europe.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , France’s biggest
retailer, said stronger sales in Latin America helped cushion a
drop in Europe during the second quarter, while revenue at its
French hypermarkets is stabilizing.  Sales at stores open a year or more were unchanged,
excluding currency shifts and gasoline, Boulogne-Billancourt,
France-based Carrefour said today in a statement. A 1.1 percent
drop in its domestic French market beat the consensus estimate
of a 1.8 percent drop, according to Citigroup Inc. analysts.  Carrefour, which has said it doesn’t expect the economic
climate to improve in 2013, plans to boost  capital spending  this
year in an effort to regain French shoppers with refurbished
outlets and a broader multichannel offer. Austerity measures and
rising unemployment are restraining  consumer spending  in Europe,
while retailers including Groupe Auchan SA and  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  are competing more aggressively on price.  “Today’s data points to stability in the French sales
trends at both the main formats suggesting that the recent price
adjustments and renewed focus on operational execution have
helped,” Citigroup’s Alastair Johnston wrote in a note.  Carrefour  rose  as much as 2.4 percent in Paris trading and
was up 1.9 percent at 22.75 euros as of 10:45 a.m.  Carrefour sees “further encouraging signs” in its
domestic business, Chief Financial Officer Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Jean Sivignon said on a call with analysts,
pointing to “steady progress in price perception.”  French Hypermarkets  Revenue at French hypermarkets open at least a year fell
1.1 percent, excluding gasoline, though food sales continued to
grow in the period, the grocer said. Supermarket sales decreased
1.8 percent on the same basis, while convenience and other
formats gained 0.8 percent, Carrefour said.  Analyst estimates of about 2.2 billion euros for full-year
recurring operating income are “reasonable,” Sivignon said,
repeating an earlier forecast.  Sales in the rest of Europe “were affected by unfavorable
weather conditions, which came on top of the adverse impact on
consumption of the economic environment,” Carrefour said.  Same-store revenue in the region fell 4.3 percent,
excluding currency shifts and gasoline, led by declines in Italy
and Spain. Revenue also fell in  Belgium , the company said.  Same-store sales in  Latin America  advanced 8 percent,
excluding currency shifts and gasoline. Growth was strong in all
formats in  Brazil , while a regulatory price freeze continues in
 Argentina , Carrefour said.  The depreciation of the Brazilian real and the Argentine
peso against the euro had a negative effect on sales in the
region. The real has lost about 7.5 percent against the euro
this year, while the peso has dropped almost 9 percent.  The full-year profit outlook relies on the real and peso
not deteriorating further against the euro, Sivignon said.  In  Asia , second-quarter sales fell 0.1 percent, excluding
currency shifts and gasoline.  Total revenue in the quarter fell to 20.5 billion euros
($27 billion). Analysts predicted 20.4 billion euros, according
to the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  