-- Deaths Force End to Celgene Trial to Expand Top Cancer Drug
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-18T20:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/celgene-stops-trial-for-expanded-use-of-revlimid-on-deaths.html
Celgene Corp. (CELG)  stopped a trial of
Revlimid, its biggest-selling drug, after more people died using
the product than those who were given a competing therapy.  The study was designed to expand use of the medicine,
approved for multiple myeloma, in older patients with a type of
blood cancer known as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The
trial was put on hold by U.S. regulators on July 12, the company
said today in a statement.  Thirty-four of 210 patients getting Revlimid died, compared
with 18 of 211 patients on chlorambucil, a chemotherapy drug,
leading up to the regulator’s action, according to the
statement. Celgene, based in Summit,  New Jersey , said it hasn’t
found a reason for the imbalance and plans to continue other
trials in lymphocytic leukemia.  The study halt isn’t a major blow for Celgene, said  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co . “We view today’s
news as a very minor setback and would use any weakness as a
buying opportunity,” he said in a note to clients today.  Revlimid generated  $3.77 billion  in sales in 2012, 68
percent of Celgene’s total revenue. Celgene fell 2.6 percent to
$133.05 at the close in New York. The stock has gained 98
percent in the past 12 months.  Celgene has been seeking to increase use of Revlimid by
adding new indications. The halted final-stage trial was
designed to support use of the drug in people age 65 and older
who had other diseases or conditions that would have kept them
from using regular chemotherapy. Most of the patients in the
study had multiple diseases, such as diabetes, heart failure or
 kidney failure , Celgene said.  Blood Cancer  Revlimid is approved as a second-line treatment for
multiple myeloma, a cancer in white blood cells that
disproportionately affects older people. About  100,000 people  in
the U.S. are diagnosed each year with blood cancers, including
leukemia and lymphoma, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  Celgene has determined that second primary malignancies,
new cancers arising after treatment, weren’t a factor in the
outcome of the study, Greg Geissman, a company spokesman, said
in a telephone interview today. It’s still analyzing the trial
to determine whether any specific factors played a role in the
imbalance, such as age, co-morbidities or regional differences
in care.  Elderly, Frail  “A majority of these patients that had died were much
older, even 80 or older,” Geissman said. “These are patients
who were not eligible for standard treatments. It’s a patient
group in need, but elderly and frail, unfortunately.”  Celgene amended the trial design earlier this year to
exclude patients over 80 from receiving Revlimid after observing
the imbalance, and the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  decided
to put the study on hold, Geissman said. More recent data since
Celgene’s decision showed three additional deaths in the
Revlimid arm versus 10 in patients on chlorambucil, bringing the
totals to 37 out of 225 patients on Revlimid and 28 out of 225
patients on chlorambucil, he said.  The clinical hold doesn’t affect Revlimid in other diseases
or in other studies in CLL, Geissman said. The company also is
testing the drug in patients who have received one and two lines
of therapy already, without restricting the studies to older
patients, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  