-- Charter Said to Work With Goldman on Time Warner Cable Offer
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-19T20:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/charter-said-to-work-with-goldman-sachs-on-time-warner-cable-bid.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , backed
by billionaire  John Malone , is working with Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to pursue a bid for  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , according to
people with knowledge of the situation.  The move signals that Malone and Charter Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Rutledge  are serious about revisiting a potential
merger after being rebuffed by Time Warner Cable earlier this
year, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private.  Time Warner Cable rejected an informal approach at the end
of May because Charter -- a smaller company -- didn’t offer a
premium, people familiar with the situation said last month.
Malone, who owns  27 percent  of Charter, is scouting potential
acquisitions in an effort to turn the Stamford, Connecticut-based cable company into “a horizontal acquisition machine.”  “Malone has clearly thrown down the gauntlet,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “He believes the
cable industry needs further consolidation.”  Charter rose 3 percent to $128.31 at the close in New York.
The shares have climbed 68 percent this year. Time Warner Cable,
up 20 percent in 2013, rose 2.3 percent to $116.47.  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Charter, declined to comment,
as did Time Warner Cable’s Justin Venech and Goldman Sachs’s
 Michael DuVally .  Deal Options  Malone’s holding company,  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , is
considering a range of options for financing a merger, people
familiar with the deliberations said last month.  “The whole name of the game in the cable business is
scale,” Malone, 72, said in June at Liberty’s investor meeting.  Acquiring Time Warner Cable would be a challenge for
Charter because of its smaller size and existing debt. Charter
has a market value of $12.6 billion, compared with $33.1 billion
for Time Warner Cable.  Malone -- who has a personal net worth of $6.8 billion,
according to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  -- has decades of
experience negotiating cable deals in the U.S. and Europe. He
built Tele-Communications Inc. in the 1970s and 1980s into one
of the largest pay-TV companies before selling it to AT&T Corp.
in 1999. That company later became part of Comcast after a $58.7
billion transaction in 2002.  Cable Empire?  After buying his stake in Charter in May, Malone set out to
use the business to rebuild a U.S. cable empire. He said last
month he was interested in both large and small cable
acquisitions to give Charter more scale in negotiating
programming contracts with content providers such as Walt Disney
Co. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal.  “If he is looking for a transformative transaction, then
Time Warner Cable would certainly fit the bill,” Sweeney said.  Malone’s acquisition plan could add $20 billion to Time
Warner Cable’s outstanding obligations of $24.8 billion,
increasing debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization to 5.4 times, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. That’s in line with a speculative-grade rating in the
Ba category, at least two levels below Moody’s current Baa2
ranking.  Time Warner Cable bond prices have tumbled since  Bloomberg
News  reported June 27 that Malone was mulling an acquisition.
The bonds are the worst performer in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Media Index since that date, dropping 3.58 percent
through yesterday. The potential sale may subordinate unsecured
creditors and cut the company’s ratings to junk from its BBB
ranking from  Standard & Poor’s .  The company’s $1.5 billion of 5 percent notes due February
2020 fell 3 cents to 99.9 cents on the dollar after trading as
high as 111.4 cents last month, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  