-- China One-Year Swap Increases Most in a Week on Taxes, Dividends
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/china-one-year-swap-increases-most-in-a-week-on-taxes-dividends.html
China’s one-year interest-rate swap
climbed the most in a week on speculation cash supply will
tighten as funds are set aside for taxes and dividends.  Companies usually park money with the government to meet
tax requirements in the first month of every quarter, according
to  Ju Wang , a strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc. About 200 of the
995 stocks in the  Shanghai  Composite Index will have gone ex-dividend this month. The People’s Bank of China refrained from
selling bills or conducting money-market operations this week
and maturing notes  added  160 billion  yuan  ($26 billion) to the
financial system.  “Liquidity may become a bit tight because of companies
paying tax and listed firms paying dividends,” said HSBC’s Ju,
who is based in  Hong Kong .  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, gained four
basis points to 3.92 percent as of 11:28 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is the biggest
increase since July 10.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, rose 10 basis points to 3.70 percent, according to
a weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank
Funding Center. The overnight repo rate increased four basis
points to 3.01 percent, a separate weighted average shows.  Rate Spike  The opening overnight transaction recorded today was 5.92
percent, the highest this month. There is speculation that a
“large” targeted injection of funds by the central bank will
expire on July 22, according to a note today written by Barclays
Plc strategists Igor Arsenin and  Rohit Arora , who are based in
Singapore.  The monetary authority said June 25 it used short-term
liquidity operations and standing lending-facility tools to
alleviate a cash squeeze in the world’s second-largest economy.
The weighted average for the seven-day repo rate reached a
record 12.45 percent on June 20.  The People’s Bank of China sold 50 billion yuan of three-month deposits on behalf of the Ministry of Finance today at a
yield of 4.3 percent, according to a statement on its website.
That is less than the 4.66 percent Shanghai interbank offered
 rate  for similar-term funds.  --Judy Chen. Editors:  James Regan , Robin Ganguly  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 