-- China Resources Defends Shanxi Coal Mine Acquisition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T05:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/china-resources-defends-shanxi-coal-mine-acquisition.html
China Resources Power Holdings Co. (836) 
said it paid a fair price and complied with disclosure rules on
coal assets bought in 2010, responding to allegations of
misconduct over the deal.  The Hong Kong-listed company fell the most in more than two
months yesterday after the official Xinhua News Agency posted a
letter on its website by one of its reporters that said the
power generator and the chairman of its state-owned parent
intentionally overpaid for three coal mines in Shanxi province.
The letter also accused the company of failing to file stock
exchange statements and renew mining rights for the deal.  China Resources  Power obtained two independent assessments
on the value of the acquisition, the company said in a  statement 
filed to  Hong Kong ’s stock exchange today. It didn’t have to
report the deal to the exchange because its equity in the
acquisition was below 50 percent, the threshold for filings, it
said. The company has renewed mining rights for one of the three
mines and is applying for approvals on the other two, it said.  “Compliance with the requirements of the listing rules and
striving for the best interests of the shareholders have always
been the top priority of the company,” it said in the
statement. “The Company reserves the right to take legal action
against any party which intentionally released to the public
false or unsubstantiated information which jeopardized the
reputation of the company.”  Shares Gain  The company’s shares gained as much as 3.3 percent to
HK$18.58 and traded 1.6 percent higher as of 1:30 p.m. in Hong
Kong. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index  was little changed.  The  letter  written by Xinhua reporter Wang Wenzhi said the
parent’s Chairman Song Lin overpaid when China Resources Power
spent 7.9 billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) for an 80 percent stake in
coal-mine assets in Shanxi that another party valued at half the
price, according to the letter.  “It’s a positive move for the company to respond in a
timely manner, otherwise the negative news could dominate talk
and continue to drag down share prices,” Shi Yan, an analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in  Shanghai , said today. “Where the dispute
goes next really depends on what new evidence will emerge from
China Resources’ opponents.”  Xinhua reporter Wang’s letter was first posted at
Xinhuanews.net and later picked up by Chinese news portals
including Sina.com and Sohu.com. He wrote that another company
had offered 5.2 billion yuan for the entire asset a few months
before the China Resources bid.  Wang didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  Unit Merger  China Resources Power offered HK$24.64 a share for all the
shares of  China Resources Gas Group Ltd. (1193) , a natural gas
distributor under the same state-owned parent, both companies
said in a joint statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange on May
10.  The open letter may add an extra layer of uncertainty to
the merger plan and hinder its approval by minority
shareholders, Wu Fei, an analyst at Bocom International, said
today.  A  shareholders’ meeting  will be held on July 22 in Hong
Kong to decide whether the deal can move forward, according to
company filings to Hong Kong’s stock exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Monahan at 
 amonahan@bloomberg.net  