-- China Imposes Duties on Polysilicon From U.S., S. Korea
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T16:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/china-imposes-duties-on-polysilicon-from-u-s-to-korea.html
China , the world’s biggest solar-module maker, plans to impose tariffs of as much as 57 percent
on polysilicon shipped from the U.S. and South Korea, saying it
wants to stop the product from being sold below cost.  The U.S. units of  Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC)  are among
companies to receive the highest rate of tariff and South
Korea’s  OCI Co. (010060)  will have the lowest at 2.4 percent, according
to a statement on the Chinese commerce ministry website
yesterday. Importers of the raw material to make solar panels
must pay the duties beginning July 24.  The decision marks the preliminary ruling of a probe opened
last year. The investigation is a response to a U.S. decision in
2012 to impose tariffs of as much as 250 percent on Chinese
solar panels after a plunge in prices led to the bankruptcy of
manufacturers such as Solyndra LLC, which was based in Fremont,
 California .  The Chinese ruling is “positive” for domestic polysilicon
manufacturers such as  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  because it
may reduce supplies from abroad, boosting prices for the raw
material in China, Timothy Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
Citigroup Inc. said yesterday in a note to investors.  It may also spur further talks between China and the 28-nation European Union to iron out a separate trade dispute over
solar pricing, the analyst said.  U.S. Probe  The U.S. opened its probe in 2011. China’s polysilicon
industry suffered “material damage” because of the dumping of
polysilicon, according to the ministry. The average  price  of
modules fell 20 percent last year, and  polysilicon  was down 40
percent.  The highest tariff “on any company will be a fairly
difficult blow,”  Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said yesterday by phone. “There’s no
way that module manufacturers can tolerate a 57 percent increase
in polysilicon price.”  Chinese polysilicon makers led by GCL-Poly and  Daqo New
Energy Corp. (DQ)  ramped up production in the second quarter as
imports declined.  ReneSola Ltd. (SOL)  said on July 1 it revived
production at its Sichuan polysilicon plant with an annual
capacity of 10,000 metric tons.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  