-- China Home Prices Rise as Big Cities Post Record Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T08:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/china-s-june-home-prices-rise-as-major-cities-post-record-gains.html
China ’s June new home prices rose in
all but one city, led by the biggest metropolitan centers and
underscoring Premier Li Keqiang’s struggle to rein in
speculative investment even as the economy cools.  Prices climbed in 69 of the 70 cities the government
tracked last month from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in a statement today, matching the data in May.
The southern business city of Guangzhou posted the biggest
increase with a 16 percent advance from a year earlier. Prices
climbed 13 percent in Beijing and 12 percent in  Shanghai . All
three cities had their biggest gains since the government
changed its methodology for the data in January 2011.  “With the economy slowing down and other industries
weakening, investors don’t have many choices but seek out
property investment for good returns,” Yao Wei, China economist
at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, said by phone today. “Many
of the government measures have targeted the supply, which
actually pushed home prices up further.”  China in March stepped up a three-year campaign to cool
home prices, with only the capital city of Beijing issuing the
toughest measures among 35 provincial cities. Beijing became the
only region to raise the minimum down payment on second homes
from 60 percent and to enforce a 20 percent capital-gains tax on
existing homes.  Slowing Growth  China’s economic growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from last year, the government’s data showed on July 16.  The ruling Communist Party made progress last month in
reining in credit growth as officials seek to put the nation’s
expansion on a more sustainable footing.  The only decline in new home prices last month was in the
eastern city of Wenzhou, where they fell 2.8 percent from a year
earlier, according to the data.  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index, which tracks 24
developers, was 1.7 percent lower at the close of trading, the
biggest drop among the five industry groups on the Shanghai
Composite Index. The benchmark measure slid 1.1 percent.  Existing home prices rose 14 percent in Beijing last month
from a year earlier and increased 10 percent in Shanghai and
Guangzhou, according to the data.  New Direction  Private data also showed rising housing values. Home prices
jumped 7.4 percent from a year earlier last month, the biggest
gain since an eight-month series of declines ended in December,
according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner.  “The government really has to think of a new direction for
property policies, because its previous measures all have hit
the wrong areas,” Yao said.  China may delay a planned nationwide property tax trial
program, Zhang Ming, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences’ Institute of World Economics and Politics,
wrote in a commentary published in the Securities Daily today.  The value of home sales rose 24 percent in June from May,
the biggest monthly gain this year, the statistics bureau
reported this week.  “Property is still a very important industry in China; we
shouldn’t worry too much about further tightening,” Albert Lau,
Shanghai-based China head and managing director at property
broker  Savills Plc (SVS) , said at a press conference on July 16. “We
can’t afford to have weak exports and sluggish property at the
same time and everything else will follow.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  