-- China Seen Surpassing the U.S. as Superpower, Poll Shows
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/china-seen-surpassing-the-u-s-as-superpower-in-polling.html
People around the world see the U.S.
as a waning superpower with  China  poised to supplant it,
according to international polling conducted for the Pew
Research Center.  The polling shows people in many countries already view
China as the leading economic power. Among the 39 countries
surveyed, six -- including the U.S. and  Japan  -- had pluralities
or majorities saying that China will never replace the U.S.  “Regardless of which country is seen as the economic
powerhouse today, many publics believe China will eventually
replace the U.S. as the world’s leading superpower, if it has
not already done so,” according to the  report  released today by
the Washington-based Pew Center’s Global Attitudes Project.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
in Paris said in a March 22 report that  China’s economy , now the
world’s second-biggest, is on course to overtake the U.S. as the
largest in about 2016, when adjusted for relative  purchasing
power .  China has an economic gap to close if it is to do. Its
 gross domestic product  of $8.23 trillion last year was about
half the $15.68 trillion  of the U.S ., according to International
Monetary Fund data. That gap narrows when purchasing power is
taken into account, putting China’s output at $12.41 trillion,
according to the IMF.  China’s military forces are decades behind those of the
U.S., as the Chinese work to develop their first aircraft
carriers and to expand their ballistic missile arsenal.  China’s Neighbors  The Pew report’s broader findings were summarized in its
title: “America’s Global Image Remains More Positive Than
China’s But Many See China Becoming World’s Leading Power.”  Across the nations surveyed, Pew found that a median of 63
percent gave the U.S. a favorable rating, compared with 50
percent for China. Those surveyed in many nations voiced concern
about China’s rise, the authors wrote.  “Globally, people are more likely to consider the U.S. a
 partner  to their country than to see China in this way, although
relatively few think of either nation as an enemy,” according
to the report.  China’s military power is viewed with trepidation by people
in some regional neighbors including Japan,  South Korea ,
 Australia  and the  Philippines , according to the report.  “By a wide margin, the Japanese give China its worst
ratings –- only 5 percent express a positive view,” according
to the report. “Territorial disputes have increased tensions
between these two historic rivals over the past few years, and
82 percent of Japanese describe these disputes as a big or very
big problem.”  Soft Power  Also, the U.S. maintains an advantage in measures of what’s
known as soft power in  Latin America  and sub-Saharan  Africa ,
regions where China has been increasing its economic investments
in recent years as it seeks influence and raw materials.
Elements of soft power include scientific advances, music,
movies, and ways of doing business.  The findings came from polling the Pew Research Center
conducted in the 39 countries among 37,653 respondents from
March 2 to May 1. The margin of error varies among the
individual national polls.  The survey found rising tensions between the American and
Chinese publics.  “Just 37 percent of Americans express a positive view of
China, down from 51 percent two years ago,” according to the
report. “Similarly, ratings for the U.S. have plummeted in
China -– in a 2010 poll conducted a few months after a visit to
China by President  Barack Obama , 58 percent had a favorable
impression of the U.S., compared with 40 percent today.”  European Attitudes  On economic power, the report finds a shift in perceptions
since the 2008 financial crisis, particularly in Western
European nations. In the U.K, 53 percent of those surveyed said
China is the leading economy, while 33 percent named the U.S.
About 6 in 10 Germans said China occupies the top position,
while 19 percent cited the U.S.  The U.S. is generally seen as the world’s leading economy
in Latin America, Africa and in much of China’s own backyard.
More than 6 in 10 in Japan, the Philippines, and South Korea
named the U.S. as the leading economic power, according to the
report.  Two-thirds of the Chinese believe their country either
already has or someday will supplant the U.S., according to the
polls. Americans are divided: 47 percent said China has or will
replace the U.S., while 47 percent said this will never happen.  “American opinion has shifted significantly since 2008,
when only 36 percent said China would become the top global
power and 54 percent believed it would never replace the U.S.,”
according to the report.  Youth Attitudes  Young Chinese and Americans showed an interest in each
others’ nations.  The U.S. is viewed favorably by half of Chinese ages 18 to
29, much more so than by their elders, according to the polling,
which included 3,226 Chinese and has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.5 percentage points.  About 57 percent of young Americans view China favorably,
compared with 27 percent of those more than 50 years old,
according to a poll of 1,002 Americans with a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  Because of its large population, China’s economy lags far
behind the U.S. when its output is adjusted on a per capita
basis. By that measure, China’s gross domestic product was
$6,076 in 2012 compared with $49,922 for the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  