-- McIlroy Says He’s ‘Brain Dead’ After Shooting 79 in British Open
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-18T16:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mcilroy-says-he-s-brain-dead-after-shooting-79-in-british-open.html
Rory McIlroy said he feels “brain
dead” after shooting an 8-over-par 79 in today’s opening round
at the British Open.  The 24-year-old is 13 strokes behind leader  Zach Johnson  at
Muirfield in Gullane, Scotland. He shot a 7-over 42 on the final
nine holes in recording his second-worst score at golf’s oldest
major championship.  “It’s just so brain dead,” the frustrated Northern
Irishman told reporters. “Seriously, I feel like I’ve been
walking around out there like that for the last couple of
months. I’m trying to get out of it. I just don’t quite know
why.”  McIlroy won his second major title at the  PGA Championship 
in August and is winless this season after switching equipment
suppliers to  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in January. In his last four starts, he’s
missed two cuts, and tied for 41st at the  U.S. Open  and for 57th
at the Memorial Tournament.  “I don’t know what you can do,” he said. “You’ve just
got to try and play your way out of it. But it’s nothing to do
with technique. It’s all mental out there. Sometimes I feel like
I’m walking around out there and I’m unconscious.”  McIlroy has been criticized for having too many outside
distractions in his life, which includes a relationship with
tennis champion  Caroline Wozniacki . Three-time British Open
champion  Nick Faldo  said this week McIlroy should concentrate on
golf and nothing else.  “No, not at all, no, no,” McIlroy said today. “I’m fully
focused on the golf out there.”  He said he can’t complicate things in tomorrow’s second
round if he wants to play on the weekend.  “The thing that I need to do tomorrow is just go out there
and freewheel it and try and make birdies and try and play with
that little bit of whatever it is I have usually,” McIlroy
said. “That’s what I’ve to try and go out and do tomorrow, even
though it’s going to be tough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at the  British Open  in Gullane, Scotland at
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 