-- Citigroup Boost for Iraqi Bond Amplified by UN Vote: Arab Credit
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2013-07-18T13:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/citigroup-boost-for-iraqi-bond-amplified-by-un-vote-arab-credit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s decision to open in
Iraq and the easing of United Nations sanctions dating back to
the Saddam Hussein era are driving yields on the OPEC oil
producer’s bonds down from a four-year high.  Yields on the Middle Eastern nation’s $2.7 billion security
due January 2028 slid 137 basis points to 7.43 percent in the
eight days from June 24 after Citigroup became the first U.S.
lender to venture into Iraq since Hussein was toppled a decade
ago. That compares with a 39 basis-point drop to 5.19 percent in
the HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai  Middle East  Conventional Sovereign US
Dollar Bond Index in the period. Iraq’s bonds yielded 7.4
percent at 4:20 p.m. today in  Baghdad .  Citigroup,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) 
are the latest international banks to expand in the second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. The UN Security Council added to investor confidence
by voting on June 27 to remove the threat of military
enforcement on the issues of Kuwaiti people, property and
archives missing since Iraq invaded the country in 1990.  Citigroup’s announcement “had an impact because it meant
that big banks are going into Iraq,” Sanjay Motwani, president
of Singapore-based Sansar Capital Management LLC, which manages
a fund with $30 million invested in Iraqi equities, said in a
telephone interview. “The  risk premium  for Iraq sharply dropped
after June 24, mainly in anticipation of the UN decision to ease
the sanctions, which was eventually adopted June 27.”  Oil Output  Iraq, with the world’s fifth-largest proven oil reserves,
is boosting output and rebuilding its economy after decades of
sanctions, war and neglect.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  OAO Lukoil (LKOH)  and
other companies helped boost production by 24 percent in 2012.
The government is increasing spending by 18 percent this year to
$118 billion, and the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts an
annual economic growth rate of 9 percent, the fastest after
 Libya  among 18 countries in the region.  The spread between Iraqi sovereign bonds and U.S.
Treasuries, which peaked this year at 653 on June 25, has
narrowed since then by 127 basis points, or 1.27 percentage
points, JPMorgan Chase’s EMBIG Sovereign Spread Iraq index
shows. The spread was 506 basis points yesterday.  ‘Strong Performer’  “In a global context, Iraq has been a strong performer,”
Gabriel Sterne, a London-based economist at Exotix Holdings Ltd.
whose research includes 40 frontier-market sovereigns, said in a
July 16 e-mail. “There is the usual trade-off between political
risk and strong revenues that investors have to weigh up. So I
think the bonds are roughly fairly valued.”  Car bombings and other violent acts threaten to undermine
the country’s stability. The yield on Iraq’s bonds gained 20
basis points after July 2 amid a wave of deadly violence. At
least 337 people have been killed in attacks across the nation
so far this month, the  Associated Press  reported, citing police
and local officials.  Iraq faces internal political wrangling and a dispute
between the central government in Baghdad and the semi-autonomous Kurdish region, which has halted oil exports by
pipeline since December. Street protests by minority  Sunni
Muslims , worsening relations with  Turkey  and the civil war in
neighboring  Syria  contribute to tensions in the country.  UN Vote  The UN Security Council boosted Iraq’s prospects when it
agreed that the issue of missing Kuwaiti citizens and
disagreements over Kuwaiti archives and property should be
resolved peacefully, under Chapter 6 of the UN Charter. The
council kept the constraints pertaining to an arms embargo and
war reparations under Chapter 7, which allows the use of force.  Iraq  has set aside 5 percent of its oil revenue to pay
compensation to  Kuwait  for war-related damages and will repay
the $11 billion it owes by 2015, Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said June 12.  “The fact that some sanctions under Chapter 7 have been
lifted means that it will be easier for international banks to
trade and have a relationship with local Iraqi banks,” Sansar’s
Motwani said.  Foreign banks were barred from the nation until after the
U.S.-led invasion ousted Hussein’s government. Today, 15
international banks operate in the country of 33 million people.
They compete with seven state banks, 23 private lenders and nine
Islamic banks, according to the central bank’s website.  Asiacell Listing  The country’s stock exchange attracted investors in the
February listing of Asiacell Communications PJSC, which raised
$1.3 billion in the Middle East’s biggest initial public
offering since 2008.  Citigroup plans to open representative offices and branches
in Baghdad and the cities of Basra and Erbil to benefit from an
estimated $1 trillion of infrastructure spending, Mayank Malik,
the U.S. bank’s chief executive officer for Jordan, Iraq, Syria
and the Palestinian territories, said in a June 27 interview.
The lender is also among international banks seeking to finance
a pipeline to export Iraqi oil and natural gas through Jordan.  Standard Chartered  plans to open branches this year in
Baghdad and Erbil, followed by a third office in Basra, a
southern oil hub, in 2014. JPMorgan Chase signed a one-year
agreement on July 6 to help the Trade Bank of Iraq finance
imports of goods and services, John Gibbons, managing director
and EMEA regional executive for the New York-based bank, said in
a July 7 interview.  “Foreign banks entering Iraq are mainly there for trade
finance, as companies from their respective countries need
financial tools and services to do business in Iraq,” Abdul-Aziz Hassoun, executive director of the League of Private Banks,
an Iraqi business group, said by phone on July 17.  “Iraq is a promising market because of the rising oil
revenue and infrastructure projects which have helped boost the
level of trade finance on an annual basis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  