-- CME Agrees to Clear Credit-Swap Futures Being Designed by TrueEX
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-18T14:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/cme-agrees-to-clear-credit-swap-futures-being-designed-by-trueex.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s
largest derivatives market, will provide clearing services for
new credit-default swap futures being developed by trueEX Group
LLC and  Standard & Poor’s .  The contracts will be available for trading on CME’s Globex
electronic system, the companies said today in a statement. The
deal among the three companies is non-binding and subject to
final approval, they said. S&P Dow Jones Indices began offering
three credit-spread indices on April 10 that are tied to debt
issuers listed in the S&P 500 Index of stocks.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in 2010 to overhaul financial-market regulation, is moving most credit swaps into
clearinghouses. The contracts, historically traded privately
between banks and investors, will also be available on
electronic systems after the unregulated market contributed to
and complicated efforts to resolve the credit crisis.  Futures on credit swaps would open the market to small
 hedge funds  and other investors who couldn’t afford to
participate in the over-the-counter market or didn’t want to
take the risk of counterparty failures.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , based in Atlanta and known
as ICE, began offering  futures  in June linked to credit indexes
owned by Markit Group Ltd. Swaps tied to those benchmarks are
the most actively traded derivatives in credit markets.  Both CME, based in Chicago, and ICE also clear over-the-counter credit swaps. CME has struggled to compete in that
market, with $345 billion in cleared contracts since 2009,
according to its  website . ICE has processed $42 trillion of the
contracts with its clearinghouses, it said earlier this month.  Credit swaps, used to protect against losses on debt such
as corporate bonds, pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 