-- CNPC Said to Weigh Buying Petrobras Assets in South America
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/cnpc-said-to-weigh-buying-petrobras-assets-in-south-america-1-.html
China  National Petroleum Corp., the
country’s largest oil producer, is considering buying Petroleo
Brasileiro SA assets in South America, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The assets in Colombia and Peru could be worth about a
combined $2 billion and CNPC may face competition from other
South American producers, said two of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  Petrobras (PBR) , the most indebted publicly traded oil company,
has been shedding assets to help finance projects in Brazil’s
deep waters. State-run Petrobras sold half of its African assets
to  Grupo BTG Pactual SA (BBTG11)  for $1.5 billion last month. CNPC has
been the most acquisitive Asian energy company this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The move is in line with CNPC’s overall strategy to
expand its upstream assets globally, as the company tries to
grab more assets while crude prices stay relatively stable,”
Grace Liu, an oil analyst with Guotai Junan Securities Ltd.,
said by phone from Shenzhen. “CNPC and PetroChina already own
many assets in  South America , so adding a few more would not be
as risky as venturing into a totally new region.”  PetroChina Co. is CNPC’s Hong Kong-traded unit. Brent, a
benchmark that helps determine the price of more than half the
world’s oil, averaged $105.68 a barrel in the past year,
compared with $104.38 per barrel in the prior twelve months.  Rio De Janeiro-based Petrobras declined to comment on the
sale of the Peru and Colombia assets. CNPC’s Beijing-based
spokesman Li Runsheng did not answer two calls to his office.  Petrobras is seeking funds to support its plans to spend
$237 billion in the five years through 2017. Investments are set
to surge as it develops the ultra-deepwater Libra field,
Brazil’s largest discovery.  Continued Hunt  State-owned CNPC in March announced it will spend $4.2
billion to buy a stake in  Eni SpA (ENI) ’s African natural gas assets
in  Mozambique . The Beijing-based producer is also set to pay
about $5 billion to purchase a stake in Kashagan project from
state-backed KazMunaiGaz National Co. in Kazakhstan, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Chinese companies will continue to hunt for natural
resources assets overseas, especially in so-called frontier
markets, said Fang Fang,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment
banking head for China, in an interview in Beijing yesterday.  Firms from China purchased about $28 billion worth of
assets abroad in the first half of the year, about the same as
the year-earlier period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Dealmaking still lags behind 2009, when a record $37 billion of
outbound transactions were struck in the first half, the data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  Hong Kong  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  