-- Colorado Cities Ban Pot Retailers in Face of Drug Binge
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/colorado-cities-ban-pot-retailers-in-face-of-drug-binge.html
Greeley is the seat of  Colorado ’s
Weld County, the third-largest U.S. agricultural region, yet its
lawmakers want nothing to do with cultivating weed.  The City Council has voted to ban marijuana retail sales,
as well as the cultivation, testing and manufacturing of pot-related products within its boundaries. The action last month
follows a statewide referendum legalizing cannabis for adults.  “The council didn’t believe having actual retail sales and
cultivation is in the best interest of public policy,” said Roy Otto, the city manager. “The biggest element of the conflict is
if the federal government is going to do anything relative to
enforcing their authority on this.”  Greeley is one of more than two  dozen  Colorado cities and
counties that prohibited retail sales of marijuana after passage
of a constitutional amendment in November that made possession
of as much as an ounce (28 grams) of pot legal for those over
21. The change also opened the door to retailing the weed.  The state’s 271 municipalities and 64 counties must decide
by Oct. 1 whether they will allow retail pot sales, according to
 Amendment 64 , as the law is known. If they choose to do so, they
must designate a licensing authority under which businesses
would apply. Merchants can open up starting Jan. 1.  The law allows adults to possess marijuana for recreational
use, even if the city or county they’re in bans retail sales.
Advocates for legalization say it will help stamp out a black
market for the drug.  High Stakes  The stakes are high for the state, which plans to use tax
revenue from recreational pot to support a regulatory structure
that will effectively monitor the development of what is an
illegal industry in all other states except  Washington .  “If municipalities and counties either delay, or are slow
in implementing retail marijuana, or opt out of it completely,
that revenue stream is going to impact the state’s ability to
hire and build its regulatory and enforcement structure,” said
 Kevin Bommer , deputy director at the Denver-based Colorado
Municipal League.  Coloradans will vote in November on whether to  tax  retail
marijuana sales up to 25 percent. Local lawmakers in Boulder and
Denver are discussing adding a 5 percent city tax on top of any
state levies.  Some communities are basing their decision to allow retail
sales in part on whether the state devises a robust regulatory
structure for recreational pot -- which will require adequate
 tax revenue , Bommer said.  Chicken, Egg  “There’s a circle here -- it’s a chicken and an egg thing
-- something’s got to come first,” Bommer said.  A case in point is Aurora, the state’s third largest city,
where council members said they were concerned about the state’s
ability to monitor pot retailers.  “The state went ahead full steam with medical marijuana
and now they’re discovering there were issues they didn’t
address,” said  Debi Hunter Holen , an at-large City Council
member.  “It’s not that we don’t want retail marijuana in our
city,” she said. “It’s that we want to make sure our rules are
in place and we can get a better picture of what the state
wants.”  The Aurora council voted to place a moratorium on
recreational cannabis sales through May 2014, asking City
Manager George ‘Skip’ Noe to present it with licensing
guidelines by then.  Regulators Stretched  The state Revenue Department, the agency that regulates
Colorado’s medical marijuana industry, told the legislature in
May that it lacked the resources to keep tabs on the existing
1,400 or so pot-related businesses. About 105,000 patients
patronize about 500 cannabis dispensaries in the state.  The agency released more than 60 pages of preliminary  rules 
for retailers on July 1, including requirements that pot
products include labels declaring potency. It also requires
disclaimers that the drug remains illegal outside the state and
that there may be health risks tied to consumption.  The rules will be revised later this year. The state will
start accepting applications from medical marijuana dispensaries
for retail licenses on Oct. 1.  With the rules shaping up, lawmakers in some cities and
counties say they are looking to the U.S. government for a
response to Amendment 64. The matter is still under review, said
Allison Price, a U.S. Justice Department spokeswoman.  Six-Month Moratorium  In Washington state, localities aren’t allowed to ban
retail pot sales under a ballot initiative voters passed on Nov.
6, said Mikhail Carpenter, a spokesman for the Washington State
Liquor Control Board. Some communities have placed a six-month
moratorium on these businesses, he added. The board released
 proposed rules  earlier this month.  Officials in Colorado cities and counties that are choosing
to allow retail sales say they’re looking forward to cashing in
on additional tax revenue if nearby communities ban pot shops.  “From our perspective, the more of our neighbors who opt
out, the more tax revenue for us,” said Sal Pace, a
commissioner in Pueblo County, located along the foot of the
 Rocky Mountains  in the southwest corner of the state. “If
Colorado Springs and El Paso County opt out, we think there’s a
really significant business opportunity.”  Five medical-marijuana shops in Pueblo County generate up
to $10,000 a month in sales taxes, a number that commissioners
estimate may reach $75,000 a month with the addition of
recreational pot retailers, Pace said.  Conservative Areas  The places that have banned recreational sales tend to be
in more Republican areas, including much of the eastern plains.
The state’s largest cities remain undecided on retailers.  In Denver, where about half of medical marijuana sales take
place, the City Council is discussing how to regulate
recreational pot shops, including whether to place a two-year
moratorium on new retail stores.  Colorado Springs  lawmakers directed the city attorney to
draft two ordinances related to recreational marijuana
storefront sales. One would let the city ban such sales, the
other would impose a temporary moratorium, said Vicki Gomes, a
spokeswoman for the City Council. The council will discuss the
measures on July 23.  Fort Collins , the state’s fourth-largest
city, plans to discuss the issue at a work session July 30.  Proponents of legalizing recreational use said that some
towns are banning retail sales even though their residents
backed the new law.  “I think a number of localities are deciding prematurely
to prohibit these businesses,” said Mason Tvert, a spokesman
for the  Marijuana Policy Project , a Washington, D.C.-based group
that advocates legalizing pot. “If enough localities are
banning these businesses, it increases the possibility that a
black market for marijuana will continue to exist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  