-- Community Health Cuts 2013 Forecast as Admissions Fall
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/community-health-cuts-2013-forecast-as-admissions-fall.html
Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) , the
second-largest U.S. hospital system, reduced its earnings
forecast for the year as admissions declined.  Income from continuing operations will be $2.95 to $3.25 a
share, the Franklin, Tennessee-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts were expecting profit of $3.65 a share, the
average of 24  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company said
second-quarter revenue was little changed at $3.24 billion.  Weaker patient volume and higher-than-anticipated bad debts
are helping stall revenue growth, Community Health said. The
company, which had been subpoenaed in 2011 by federal
investigators seeking documents related to Medicare and Medicaid
billing, also said it received an additional subpoena on July 9
relating to the same investigation.  “This is not good news and the stock will go down,”
 Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC, said in an interview. “It has significant
implications. It’s going to be hard for Community to be seen as
a buyer of”  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA)   Health Management, a hospital operator considering
strategic alternatives, reached its highest market value in six
years earlier this month after Reuters reported that the company
had attracted takeover interest from Community Health.  Community Health fell 19 percent to $38.25 in extended
trading yesterday after closing at $47.13 in New York. The
shares had gained 54 percent this year through yesterday.  For the three months ending June 30, Community Health said
that, on a same-store basis, adjusted admissions decreased 2.6
percent compared with the same period last year. The company
owns, operates or leases 135 hospitals in 29 states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  