-- Consumers Most Penny-Wise in Almost 50 Years: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-07-18T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/consumers-most-penny-wise-in-almost-50-years-chart-of-the-day.html
Consumers in the U.S. are spending
more closely in line with their incomes than in any expansion in
the past 48 years, learning the lesson of the last recession
that living beyond your means often ends badly.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the correlation between wages
and purchases in the economic rebound that started in June 2009
is 94 percent, the highest of the seven expansions since 1965,
according to data compiled by economists at  RBC Capital Markets 
in  New York . That’s 18 percentage points above the closest
period, 1971-1973, and 88 percentage points higher than the
2002-2007 cycle, when consumers tapped  home equity  during the
housing boom to finance spending.  “The consumer has really cleaned up their balance sheet --
they’re growing consumption based on the rate of growth of their
earnings, which at the end of the day builds a more solid
foundation,” said Jacob Oubina, a senior economist at RBC.
“We’d just like to see a little bit more credit usage, because
it’s been non-existent.”  The correlation between what Americans earn and buy is a
sign that the consumer purchases that make up about 70 percent
of the economy are a sustainable component of the recovery. The
easing in lending rules that is now taking place is a positive
development that could encourage consumers to purchase more big-ticket items such as cars and houses, giving spending and the
economy a needed boost, said Oubina.  Nonetheless, easier credit alone won’t be enough to propel
economic growth past 3 percent, said Oubina. It will also
require bigger gains in wages and an improving labor market, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  