-- Corporate-Default Rate to Increase as QE Ends, IACPM Survey Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/corporate-default-rate-to-increase-as-qe-ends-iacpm-survey-says.html
Corporate defaults will rise as the
 Federal Reserve  considers curtailing stimulus measures,
according to a survey by the  International Association of Credit
Portfolio Managers .  The 12-month credit default outlook index, in which
negative numbers indicate an expectation of higher defaults,
moved to minus 35.6 in June from negative 7.6 in March,
according to the survey, which was released today. IACPM’s 87
 members  include banks, insurance companies and asset managers in
17 countries.  Respondents said that a rise in defaults, which are already
extremely low, would be a return to more “normal conditions.”
Investors are looking for indications as to when the Federal
Reserve will begin scaling back its monthly bond purchases,
known as quantitative easing, which has provided a boost to
credit markets.  “There have been very few corporate defaults because of
easy financing for firms,” Som-lok Leung, the New York-based
executive director of the IACPM, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “You’re at a place where defaults can’t go anywhere
but up, and one of those triggers is when central bank liquidity
will be pulled.”  The Fed has been buying $40 billion in mortgage-backed
securities and $45 billion of Treasuries every month since
September to spur economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said yesterday in testimony to the House Financial Services
Committee that the central bank’s purchases “are by no means on
a preset course.”  ‘Dampen Defaults’  The Fed’s bond purchasing program “has lifted assets above
what they normally would be and that has done a lot to dampen
defaults,”  Adrian Miller , the director of fixed-income strategy
at GMP Securities LLC, said in a July 16 telephone interview
from New York. “Companies that would have been washed out were
given a lifeline.”  The trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default rate
rose to 2.8 percent at the end of the second-quarter, from 2.5
percent in the prior period, according to a July 11 Moody’s
Investors Service report. The rating firm expects that to rise
to 3.2 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  