-- Credit Suisse Sued by Highland Over Real Estate Appraisal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-18T20:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/credit-suisse-sued-by-highland-over-real-estate-appraisal.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  was sued for
more than $350 million by Highland Capital Management LP
entities that claim the bank marketed loans for the Yellowstone
Club in  Montana  and other developments based on fraudulent
appraisals.  Credit Suisse used “bogus” appraisals that inflated the
value of collateral backing the loans, leading to investor
losses when the loans went bad, the Highland entities said in a
court filing July 16 in New York State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan .  “Armed with these bogus appraisals, Credit Suisse duped
the lenders into investing hundreds of millions of dollars in
under-collateralized loans that eventually imploded,” according
to the plaintiffs.  Highland Capital, the Dallas-based debt manager founded by
James Dondero and Mark Okada, is suing Credit Suisse over
dividend recapitalization loans syndicated by the bank. The
loans were borrowed by real estate developers based on the value
of projects and used to pay dividends, according to court
papers. The Zurich-based lender marketed and sold more than
$3 billion of the loans.  Investment Funds  The plaintiffs, Allenby LLC and Haygood LLC, were assigned
the claims by investment funds that participated as lenders in
the loans. A related case was filed against Credit Suisse by
Claymore Holdings LLC on July 16 in state court in  Dallas .  Highland Capital and entities connected to it are behind
the lawsuits, Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New
York, said.  Benson called the claims an “unfounded attempt by a
sophisticated investor to misuse the legal system to recover
losses” and said the bank will fight the lawsuits.  The New York case stems from loans for Yellowstone, the
Turtle Bay Resort in  Hawaii , the Park Highlands Master Planned
Community in North Las Vegas, Ginn Clubs & Resorts and Rhodes
Homes. The Dallas case involves a $540 million refinancing for
Lake Las Vegas, a 3,592-acre master planned community that filed
for bankruptcy in 2008.  The New York plaintiffs accused Credit Suisse of using
“compliant stooges in two global appraisal firms” to overvalue
the communities that secured the loans to persuade the lenders
to invest.  Same Court  Credit Suisse sued entities of Highland Capital in  New York 
yesterday, accusing them of failing to honor commitments to
purchase and pay for interests in commercial loans, which the
bank said has cost Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC and its Cayman
Islands branch tens of millions of dollars in damages.  The lawsuits involve different properties but similar types
of properties and investments, Benson said.  The suit involves a series of trades made between May and
July 2008 whereby Credit Suisse agreed to buy parts of
commercial loans with a face value of more than $78 million, and
Highland hasn’t paid the amounts owed on the loans or interest,
according to court filings.  Highland Capital Management declined to comment on the
lawsuits, Stefan Prelog of Walek & Associates, which handles
media inquiries for the company, said in an e-mail.  Former timber baron Tim Blixseth and his ex-wife,  Edra Blixseth , founded the Yellowstone Club, near Big Sky, Montana,
in 2000 as a ski resort for millionaires looking for vacation
homes. Members paid a combined total of $205 million for 72
properties in 2005 alone.  Personal Use  The couple took cash for their personal use from a
$375 million loan arranged by Credit Suisse that year, according
to a court ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Ralph B. Kirscher in
Montana. Finances at the club deteriorated thereafter, and the
club eventually went bankrupt, Kirscher found.  Sam Byrne’s buyout firm, Boston-based CrossHarbor Capital
Partners LLC, acquired the club out of bankruptcy for $115
million in 2009. Members include Microsoft Corp. Chairman  Bill
Gates  and singer  Justin Timberlake , and prices range from more
than $2 million for a condominium to $18 million for a 350-acre
ranch.  The cases are Allenby LLC v. Credit Suisse AG, 652491/2013;
Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC v. Highland Crusader Offshore
Partners LLP, 652492/2013, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan); and Claymore Holdings LLC v. Credit
Suisse AG, 13-07858, Dallas County,  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  