-- Crude Reaches 16-Month High as Discount to Brent Narrows
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-18T19:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/crude-increases-for-second-day-as-jobless-claims-fall.html
West Texas Intermediate rose to the
highest level in almost 16 months as U.S. jobless claims
declined and equities advanced. WTI’s discount to Brent narrowed
to less than $1 for the first time since 2010.  Prices climbed 1.5 percent after the Labor Department said
 jobless claims  dropped last week to the fewest since early May.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  reached a record intraday high
on better-than-forecast earnings. The Brent-WTI spread
contracted to 93 cents as inventories decreased at Cushing,
 Oklahoma , a major U.S. hub.  “The economy looks good,” said Jeff Grossman, president
of New York-based BRG Brokerage and a  New York Mercantile
Exchange  floor trader. “Crude is working its way higher in
sympathy with the stock market. Everyone is buying and they
can’t hold it back.”  WTI for August delivery gained $1.56 to $108.04 a barrel on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement level
since March 19, 2012. The volume of all futures traded was 19
percent above the 100-day average for the time of day at 2:46
p.m. Prices are up 12 percent this month.  Brent for September settlement rose 9 cents to end at
$108.70 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was
22 percent below the 100-day average. The European benchmark
grade’s premium to WTI contracted to 89 cents based on
settlement prices for September contracts.  ‘Getting Crazy’  “The Brent-WTI spread is just getting crazy,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based commodity analyst at
energy management firm Schneider Electric Professional Services.
“The jobless claims give us a boost.”  WTI, the main U.S. crude grade, had been typically the more
expensive grade until mid-2010. The convergence between Brent, a
gauge for more than half the world’s oil, and WTI shows how
improved pipeline networks and the use of rail links have helped
to unlock a glut at America’s oil-storage hub at Cushing, the
delivery point for WTI futures.  Stockpiles at the hub dropped 3.57 million barrels in the
two weeks ended July 12 to 46.1 million, the least since Nov.
30, the Energy Information Administration reported yesterday.
Total  crude inventories  fell by 6.9 million barrels to 367
million as refiners processed the most crude in almost eight
years.  Cushing Stockpiles  “WTI is driven by refining demand for crude oil and the
exceptionally strong draws at Cushing,” said Brison Bickerton,
head of strategy at Freepoint Commodities LLC in  Stamford ,
Connecticut.  The U.S. jobless claims dropped to 334,000 last week from a
revised 358,000 the prior period, the Labor Department said. The
median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
345,000.  Manufacturing (OUTFGAF)  in the Philadelphia region expanded more than
forecast in July, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s
general economic index showed. The gauge covers covers eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  “We are seeing a better economy with the jobless claims,”
said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at commodity
trading firm Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “The report is better
than expected and it helps oil.”  S&P Rises  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed as much as 0.7
percent to an all-time high of 1,693.12.  “There seems to be enough trade flow focused in the market
segments that are rising to keep the overall upside open,”  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York, said in an e-mail. “A drop in U.S. initial claims for
 unemployment benefits  and gains in the  S&P 500  are also
supporting the crude oil rally.”  Investors also watched Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.
Equities and commodities gained yesterday after Bernanke told a
House committee that there was no preset course for the central
bank’s asset purchases, tempering speculation that it would
begin to taper stimulus as early as September.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 20.2 percent, compared with 20.7 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 630,894
contracts as of 2:40 p.m. It totaled 692,223 contracts
yesterday, 4.9 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  