-- Dell Delays Ballot on CEO’s Takeover Amid Vote Search
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/dell-adjourns-meeting-without-vote-result-on-founder-s-buyout.html
The battle for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  moved into
a new, crucial phase as  Michael Dell ’s camp was given another
week to round up votes for his proposed $24.4 billion takeover
even as he was said to remain adamant about not sweetening his
$13.65-a-share offer.  Facing almost certain defeat of the leveraged buyout, the
Dell board postponed a shareholder meeting yesterday until July
24, a move that would allow Dell more time to persuade investors
to change their minds or corral the 23 percent of eligible
voters said to have abstained from casting ballots.  Chief Executive Officer Dell and Silver Lake Management LLC
need a majority of holders to vote in favor of their
transaction, excluding the CEO’s 16 percent stake. As of
yesterday morning, Dell hadn’t lined up all of the 42 percent,
or about 740 million shares, needed to prevail.  “There is going to be a lot of arm-twisting,” Jason Subotky, senior vice president at Yacktman Asset Management Co.,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. He said the
founder’s offer is too low.  “They are going to be pounding the
shareholders to change votes and get people to vote.”  While opponents including  Carl Icahn  and Yacktman are
pressing for a higher price, Michael Dell isn’t seeking more
financing from Microsoft Corp. or the banks that secured debt
for the deal, according to people familiar with the situation.  The current bid calls for Michael Dell to roll over about
$3.6 billion worth of Dell stock and to contribute as much as
another $750 million in fresh cash.  Shares Rise  “The challenge this week for Dell and Silver Lake is to
get out and contact shareholders, especially those who
abstained,” said Jeff Fidacaro, an analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co. “It’s going to get down to the wire.”  Dell  shares  rose 1.9 percent to $13.12 at the close in New
York yesterday. The proposal Dell and  Silver Lake  put to a
shareholder vote represents a premium of 25 percent over the
computer maker’s closing share price of $10.88 on Jan. 11, the
last trading day before news of a deal surfaced.  Leading the charge against the deal is Icahn, who has made
a series of offers aimed at blocking the buyout. With an 8.7
percent  stake  in Dell, Icahn most recently suggested a buyback
at $14 a share that would keep the company publicly traded, plus
a warrant that could be exchanged for additional stock should
Dell climb higher than $20.  Unfortunate Delay  “It is unfortunate, although not surprising,” that Dell’s
board delayed the vote, Icahn said in a joint statement
yesterday with Southeastern Asset Management Inc., which has
teamed with him to scuttle the CEO’s buyout. “This delay
reflects the unhappiness of Dell stockholders with the Michael
Dell/Silver Lake offer.”  CEO Dell, who founded the company as a college student in
1984, in February proposed taking it private to stem years of
ebbing sales and profit as consumers shift away from PCs to
tablets and smartphones. He has argued it will be easier to make
investments in mobile devices and data-center computing without
the need to satisfy profit-hungry public investors.  Since  announcing  the buyout Feb. 5, the special committee
of Dell’s board has argued that the company’s prospects of a
turnaround are better outside of the public lens.  Investor Opposition  As of last week, investors opposed to the CEO’s transaction
owned more than 20 percent of Dell shares, according to a report
from shareholder adviser Glass Lewis & Co., which is backing
Dell’s bid with Silver Lake. In addition to Yacktman, opponents
may also include Harris Associates LP and  Pzena Investment
Management Inc. (PZN) , according to the report.  Separately, T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which holds 4.1
percent, reiterated its opposition to the Dell-Silver Lake offer
earlier this week, saying the buyout doesn’t “reflect the value
of Dell.”  BlackRock Inc., Vanguard Group Inc., and  State Street
Corp. (STT) , three of Dell’s largest shareholders, indicated late this
week that they’re voting in favor of the Silver Lake-led deal,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. BlackRock
had previously been leaning against the buyout, another person
said. Those funds, like any Dell shareholder, can still change
their votes before the final tally.  Representatives of all three investment firms declined to
comment. Representatives for T. Rowe also declined to comment
and Silver Lake didn’t respond to a request for comment.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment on
the vote delay.  The buyout by Dell and partner Silver Lake won key
endorsements this month from Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc. and two other influential proxy advisory firms. It also has
the backing of a special committee of Dell’s board that
evaluated potential transactions on the company’s behalf.  “There’s a lot of CEOs that have tried to take companies
private to get away from the market,” said Michael Cusumano, a
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan
School of Management . “It’s an uphill battle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  