-- Dell Buyout Group Said Not to Be Pursuing More Financing
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-07-18T18:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/dell-buyout-group-said-not-to-be-pursuing-more-financing.html
The buyout group led by Michael  Dell (DELL) 
isn’t seeking to sweeten its $24.4 billion offer for Dell Inc.
with more financing from Microsoft Corp. or the banks that
secured debt for the deal, people with knowledge of the
situation said.  Dell’s board postponed until July 24 the shareholder
meeting originally set for today to give shareholders more time
to weigh in on the sale to Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell
and  Silver Lake  Management LLC.  The delay prolongs months of jousting between the buyout
group and investors seeking a higher price, while giving Dell
and Silver Lake more time to win over shareholders who have
balked at their $13.65-a-share proposal, saying it undervalues
the computer maker.  Representatives for  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake declined
to comment, as did a spokesman for Microsoft.  Michael Dell, 48, isn’t prepared to get the deal done at
any cost and is maintaining a rational and unemotional approach
to the situation, said a person familiar with his thinking.  Dell is the 57th-richest person in the world, with a net
worth of $14.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . While he could conceivably use his personal fortune to
increase the current offer, he’s already pledged some of his own
money during this process and has calculated that even without
raising the bid, he can keep control of the company he founded
in the long run, said the person.  The shareholder vote will be held next week at the
company’s  Round Rock , Texas-based headquarters.  Dell shares rose 2.1 percent to $13.15 as of 2:22 p.m. in
 New York . The proposal Dell and Silver Lake put to a shareholder
vote represents a premium of 25 percent over the computer
maker’s closing share price of $10.88 on Jan. 11, the last
trading day before news of a deal surfaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  