-- Dempsey Says Assad Gains in Syria as McCain Demands Views
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-18T19:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/dempsey-says-assad-gain-in-syria-as-mccain-demands-views.html
Army General Martin Dempsey, the top
U.S. military officer, said  Syria ’s President Bashar al-Assad is
gaining against rebel forces as senators pressed for more
aggressive U.S. action.  “Currently, the tide seems to have shifted in his favor,”
Dempsey said of Assad today at a Senate Armed Services Committee
hearing on the general’s nomination for a second two-year term
as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , who has demanded
action such as imposing a no-fly zone over Syria, pressed
Dempsey without success today to disclose what he’s recommended
to President  Barack Obama . McCain plans to hold up Dempsey’s
confirmation until he gets answers, according to  Brian Rogers ,
his communications director.  The president has authorized providing small arms to the
Syrian opposition.  “You testified this February you had advised the president
to arm vetted units of the Syrian opposition,” McCain said.
“In April, you testified you no longer supported the position.
Now we read in published reports that the administration has
decided to arm the Syrian opposition units. How do we account
for those pirouettes?”  Dempsey said he had been concerned at one point “that the
extremist groups were prevailing inside the opposition.” He
said he supports “the building of a moderate opposition and
including building its military capability.”  Dempsey said the Obama administration is evaluating whether
to conduct “kinetic strikes” against the Syrian regime,
without elaborating, and said “it would be inappropriate for me
to try to influence the decision” by “rendering an opinion in
public about what kind of force we should use.”  He said he would let the committee know what his
recommendations are “at the appropriate time.”  Options List  Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , the panel’s Democratic
chairman, echoed McCain’s frustration and asked Dempsey to
submit within days an unclassified list of military options in
Syria that evaluates the strengths and weaknesses of each.  “There is a real uncertainty among some of us as to what
your role is in terms of telling us your personal opinion on
things, what your role is in terms of giving advice to the
president” on options for Syria, Levin said.  Dempsey said he would compile the list “as well as the
framework of a strategy in which they might make sense.”  Syria’s civil war, which began with peaceful protests in
March 2011, has killed more than 93,000 people, by United
Nations estimates. It has also sent hundreds of thousands
refugees fleeing into neighboring countries such as Jordan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  