-- Denuclearized Senate Augurs Return to Better Days
-- B y   I r a   S h a p i r o
-- 2013-07-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/denuclearized-senate-augurs-return-to-better-days.html
The Senate narrowly avoided
catastrophe this week, reaching an agreement at the eleventh
hour, and reminding those of us who remember it of how the upper
house worked in its better days.  The Senate’s  compromise  on the “nuclear option” -- Majority
Leader  Harry Reid ’s proposal to change the institution’s rules
mid-session on handling the nomination of executive-branch
appointees -- deserves praise. Almost every senator, including
Reid, knows that changing the Senate rules in the way he
proposed could cause incalculable harm. Likewise, almost every
senator, including Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , knows that
executive-branch nominations should be confirmed by a simple
majority vote, not the 60 votes required to overcome a
filibuster by an intransigent minority party. Credit goes to
Reid for forcing the issue after facing months of unprecedented
obstructionism. But credit is also due to  Senate Republicans ,
who did one of the rarest things in politics: admitted they were
wrong and changed course.  Compromise is what the Senate achieves when it is working
properly. Because of its tradition of  unlimited debate ,
requiring unanimous consent to conduct business, the Senate
seems always to walk a line between paralysis and chaos.  Gary Hart , who served in the Senate in the 1970s and ’80s, once
described it as “a kind of controlled madhouse.” In the ’70s,
when the upper house still functioned effectively, almost every
major legislative battle -- including President  Jimmy Carter ’s
energy program, the bailout of Chrysler Corp. and the extended
protection of  Alaska ’s wilderness -- came to a point where the
opposition seemed insurmountable and common ground looked to be
unreachable. In each case, the Senate achieved a compromise and
the legislation passed.  Filibuster Debates  The Senate, however, has always had bitter fights regarding
the rules of the filibuster. In 1978, Majority Leader  Robert Byrd  enraged many of his fellow senators by  circumventing  the
rules to crush a post-cloture filibuster -- a procedure used to
indefinitely delay a bill even after a vote to bring debate to
an end -- by Howard Metzenbaum and James Abourezk who were
trying to stop the deregulation of natural gas. The next year,
Byrd raised the threat of the nuclear option while negotiating
successfully with Minority Leader  Howard Baker  to eliminate the
use of the post-cloture filibuster. In 2005, Majority Leader
 Bill Frist  invoked the  nuclear option  after the minority
Democrats opposed several of President  George W. Bush ’s judicial
nominations. The crisis was defused when the so-called  Gang of
14  engineered a compromise that judicial nominees would be
filibustered only in “extraordinary circumstances” -- a term
that unfortunately went undefined.  The Senate will inevitably return to considering its rules
and the proper scope of the filibuster. For now, though, its
goal should be to regain the once-respected place it held in our
political system, serving as what  Walter Mondale  called the
“ nation’s mediator .” In its best years, the Senate was a
politically demilitarized zone, a governing body that included
conservative Southern Democrats and liberal Northern and
Midwestern Republicans striving together and keeping their
partisan interests in check.  When I worked in the Senate 35 years ago, the “ spirit of
compromise ,” as described by political researchers Amy Gutmann
and Dennis Thompson, was ever-present. The senators believed in
the Senate as an institution and set out to pursue its
collective agenda. Filibusters were real yet rare, acts of deep
conviction. Holds on legislation and executive nominations were
courteously extended for only a short time. Straight party votes
were infrequent because during debates, senators weighed the
arguments presented and were even known to change their minds.
Legislation often passed with less than 60 votes, something that
would be unheard of in the Senate today.  The Senate’s decline has been long and the downward spiral
has accelerated in recent years. In particular, the Senate I
knew bore little resemblance to the  dysfunctional group  that
served in the 112th Congress from 2011 until January of this
year.  New Hope  Fortunately, this year has been different, and better. By
the end of 2012, frustration within the upper chamber over its
polarized and paralyzed state had hardened into disgust which
then turned into a determination to change. With the battle over
nominations at least temporarily behind us, we can see signs of
the Senate beginning to make a comeback.  The passage of the immigration bill was reminiscent of how
the Senate used to work. Crafting important legislation in the
past almost always required the formation of bipartisan
coalitions, such as the  Gang of 8 , which worked to write and
pass the immigration bill. It has been heartening to watch the
Senate function once again as a place where competing interests
are heard, hard bargaining occurs and compromises are reached.  The Senate’s agreements this year go beyond the immigration
bill. Although it was rejected soundly in the  House of
Representatives , the Senate passed a farm bill last month, as
well as its first budget in four years. It also had a serious
debate over  gun control , even if the outcome was disappointing.
In May, Democrat  Frank Lautenberg , who died last month, and
Republican  David Vitter  reached a  surprising breakthrough 
compromise in the regulation of toxic chemicals, and Republican
 John McCain  and Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  have come together to
introduce a bill reviving several parts of the Banking Act of
1933 -- usually referred to as  Glass-Steagall .  As  Alan Simpson , the former Republican senator from
 Wyoming , once said: “If you’re in politics and you don’t believe
in compromise, you should find another line of work.” This
week’s compromise over the executive-branch nominations was a
legislative triumph and it raises expectations for future
agreements on much tougher issues. Let’s hope that the Senate of
the 113th Congress continues to judge unacceptable the failure
to find compromise.  (Ira Shapiro is the  author  of “The Last Great Senate:
Courage and Statesmanship in Times of Crisis.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ira Shapiro at  ira.s.shapiro@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net  