-- Detroit Pension Funds Sue to Block City Bankruptcy Filing
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/detroit-pension-funds-sue-to-block-city-bankruptcy-filing.html
Two Detroit pension funds sued the
city’s emergency manager and the governor of  Michigan , asking
that a court find a bankruptcy filing would conflict with the
state’s constitutional protection of public retirees’ rights.  The General Retirement System and the Police and Fire
Retirement System of the City of Detroit filed the lawsuit
yesterday in state court in Ingham County, Michigan, seeking a
judgment that Governor  Rick Snyder  can’t authorize a bankruptcy
filing that could reduce pension benefits.  The funds also sued Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr,
who was appointed by Snyder in March to lead the city out of a
fiscal crisis that has put it on the brink of a Chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy.  “It appears imminent that the governor will grant the
emergency manager the unconditional power to proceed under
Chapter 9,” pension-fund lawyers said in complaint. “The
emergency manager will seek to have the city’s pension debts
impaired” unless the funds accept Orr’s imposition of cuts.  Reducing payments to city retirees would conflict with a
provision of the state’s constitution that bars such action,
according to the suit, filed on behalf of the plans and more
than 32,000 active and retired  Detroit  employees. Two similar
lawsuits were filed by individual retirees in the same court
earlier this month.  Hearing Set  A hearing on the other suits is set for July 22 in Ingham
County Circuit Court in Mason.  “As a matter of policy, the emergency manager’s office
doesn’t comment on pending litigation,” said Bill Nowling,
Orr’s spokesman.  The lawsuit is “premature and speculative given that there
is no Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing or even a determination by the
governor for such an action,” Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for
Snyder, said in an e-mail. “We’re fully confident in both the
spirit and constitutionality of the state’s most recent
emergency manager law.”  The new suit is General Retirement System of the City of
Detroit v. Orr., 13-768-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County,
Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  