-- Dexia Cost French Taxpayers 6.6 Billion Euros, Auditor Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-18T12:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/dexia-cost-french-taxpayers-6-6-billion-euros-auditor-says.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the bank being wound down
after two bailouts, has cost French taxpayers 6.6 billion euros
($8.7 billion), the national auditor said.  “High risks will still persist for a long time,” Didier Migaud, who heads the audit body, known as the Cour des Comptes,
said at a Paris press briefing today. Dexia’s break-up scenario
supposes “a rapid crisis exit,” and a new recapitalization
from the governments can’t be ruled out, he said.  Capital writedowns net of income from a state guarantee
amount to 2.7 billion euros for the French government, while
Caisse Des Depots et Consignations, the state-owned bank that
was the biggest French investor in Dexia in 2008, lost about 3.9
billion euros, according to a report published today. The
auditor didn’t calculate Dexia’s losses for Belgian taxpayers.  Dexia, once the world’s largest lender to local
governments, has been dismantled after receiving two bailouts
over the past five years. France and  Belgium , which wrestled for
more than a year over a second rescue, in December injected 5.5
billion euros in the bank through preferred shares and lowered
the cost of its government funding guarantees.  Dexia was initially bailed out in 2008 after it ran out of
short-term funding. In 2011, it became the sovereign-debt
crisis’s first casualty in the core of Europe. Dexia had a 2.87
billion-euro net loss in 2012 as it sold most of its remaining
lending units and funding costs exceeded interest income.  Second Rescue  While the second taxpayer-funded rescue almost wiped out
shareholders, it was aimed at enabling Chief Executive Officer
Karel De Boeck to restore market confidence in Dexia’s ability
to honor its debt, reduce borrowing costs and minimize losses in
winding down a company that European Union Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  called “the largest bad bank in
the EU.”  Dexia, which plans to carry most of its residual assets to
maturity, won’t be profitable before 2018, De Boeck told Belgian
lawmakers in November. Its core Tier 1 capital ratio improved to
19.7 percent because of the bailout funds, up from 8.5 percent
on Sept. 30.  That safety margin is less comfortable than it may look
because Basel III capital rules would inflate risk-weighted
assets by about 16 billion euros from the 55.3 billion euros
reported under current rules at the end of last year, De Boeck
said in Brussels in February as the company announced annual
results. He forecast a loss of about 950 million euros this
year.  Sovereign Debt  The European Commission in December authorized the
“orderly resolution” of the Dexia group, the sale of its
refinancing unit for French local authorities, known as Dexia
Municipal Agency, and the restructuring of Belfius Bank NV, the
Belgian consumer-banking unit acquired by Belgium in 2011.  Dexia also remains exposed to  Europe ’s sovereign debt, with
a maximum credit risk of almost 61 billion euros in Italy and
 Spain , or about 5.5 times the bank’s Tier 1 capital as of Dec.
31, the bank has said. About 9 percent of its 66 billion-euro
residual bond portfolio is rated non-investment grade.  The French auditor pointed to 10.5 billion euros of
structured “sensitive” debt to French local governments as an
“important risk” in winding down what remains of Dexia. The
French structured municipal-debt portfolio has now mostly been
transferred to SFIL, a newly created state-owned municipal
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 