-- Drummond Colombia Coal Workers Vote to Strike Over Pay Dispute
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-07-18T05:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/drummond-colombia-coal-workers-vote-to-strike-over-pay-dispute.html
Workers at  Drummond Co. , Colombia’s
second-biggest thermal coal producer, could strike as early as
July 20, after voting not to accept the company’s latest pay
offer.  About 3,000 port and mine workers overwhelmingly rejected
Drummond’s offer of a 4.5 percent wage increase,
Sintramienergetica union negotiator Humberto Suarez said. Union
leaders will study the company’s response before deciding
whether to stop work, he said.  “We have the votes to strike, but we are waiting to see
what the company does,” Suarez said yesterday evening, in a
phone interview from Santa Marta.  A strike would cost the government between 2 and 3 billion
pesos ($1.1 million to $1.6 million) per day in lost royalties,
according to Mining Ministry estimates, and could act as a drag
on the government’s attempt to reverse a  slowdown  in growth.
Coal is Colombia’s biggest export after oil.  The government has called for a meeting with union
officials today, Suarez said. The company did not immediately 
reply to an e-mail seeking comment sent outside normal business
hours.  On July 12 Drummond offered workers a three-year pay deal
of a 4.5 percent pay rise, followed by an increase of 1.25
percent plus inflation plus in the second year, then inflation
plus 1.5 percent. Workers seek an increase of about 8 percent,
union official Alberto Solano said July 12.  Exports from Drummond were interrupted in February, after
the company’s loading license was suspended after a sinking
barge dumped coal into the sea. On Feb. 7, workers at Cerrejon,
Colombia’s biggest coal mine, which is joint-owned by  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  went on strike
for more than a month in a dispute over pay and benefits.  Colombia’s central bank cited “paralysis” in the Andean
nation’s coal industry in its decision to cut its benchmark
interest rate half a percentage point to 3.25 percent at its
March policy meeting. The Finance Ministry estimates that the
slump in coal output cut first quarter economic growth by half a
percentage point. Coal is Colombia’s biggest export after oil.  The economy expanded 2.8 percent in the first quarter from
the year earlier, compared to 4.8 percent growth in  Peru  and 4.1
percent in  Chile .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  