-- The Myth of China’s Economic Reform
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-07-18T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/the-myth-of-china-s-economic-reform.html
Can we please have a moratorium on
the word “Likonomics”? Premier  Li Keqiang ’s plans to overhaul
the Chinese economy have hardly earned such a grand moniker yet.  Say what you will about “Thatchernomics” or “Reaganomics,”
but  Margaret Thatcher  and  Ronald Reagan  fundamentally altered
the British and American economies. No one is rolling their eyes
at “Aquinomics,” President  Benigno Aquino ’s thus-far successful
prescription for the  Philippines , the onetime “sick man of
 Asia .” By contrast, Likonomics is a ridiculously premature nod
to ideas that are, at best, still on the drawing board and might
never come off it.  In  Japan , economists and a cheerleading media now seem to
realize they bought into “Abenomics” too hastily, creating the
myth that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s revival plan is succeeding
when it has only just begun. Game-changing reform efforts take
several years to implement. We are a long way from knowing if Li
has the skill or political will to manhandle  China  onto a more
sustainable growth path, led by domestic demand.  How will we know? There are three clues to whether
Likonomics is more than a hollow slogan.  First, can Li avoid further stimulus? The premier’s
supposed shock-therapy program already has its own myth: that
China is engineering a sharp slowdown. Li doesn’t WANT growth to
slide toward 5 percent -- no Chinese leader in his right mind
would at a time when protests are becoming commonplace. Rather,
China’s export- and investment-led growth model is burning out
on Li’s watch.  Magic Wand  Well before Li and President Xi Jinping officially took the
reins in March, exports were falling, manufacturing was
contracting and economists were downgrading forecasts. Big
reforms are always easier when growth is booming. If Li could
wave a magic wand and get gross domestic product back into
double-digit territory without pumping more air into China’s
credit bubble, he would in a Shanghai minute. He needs
reasonable growth to stabilize his power base and figure out how
to turn the economy upside down without crashing it.  At the same time, Li’s program is about “deceleration,
deleveraging and improving growth quality,” according to
economist  Huang Yiping  of Barclays Capital Asia Ltd. in  Hong
Kong , who is credited with coining the term Likonomics. Carrying
it out will hasten China’s downshift. The premier is sure to
face mounting calls for the government to throw new cash at the
economy -- from businesses and from 1.3 billion Chinese, who are
becoming more vocal and defiant.  Li himself has pledged that China’s growth and employment
will stay above a certain floor. That raises doubts about
whether he’s ready to accept the pain necessary to see through
his reforms. Economists are already buzzing about a “Li Keqiang
put” not unlike former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s. More stimulus would only exacerbate China’s
overcapacity problem and make the eventual debt reckoning bigger
and costlier.  Second, is Li ready to allow a headline-grabbing default or
two? The secret to China Inc.’s success has been plentiful and
mispriced credit. Reckless borrowing, largely through local
government-financing vehicles, was the fuel behind China’s years
of double-digit growth. Special-purpose companies set up by
authorities across China used this cheap money to fund giant
infrastructure projects.  Companies such as China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group
Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest shipyard outside state control,
are already begging for bailouts. Entire cities such as Ordos --
a white-elephant project in  Inner Mongolia  -- need help, too.
According to the National Audit Office, the brand of financing
vehicles that got Ordos in trouble amassed totaling $1.7
trillion at the end of 2010 (you can bet it’s much, much higher
now).  Cutthroat Politics  Only after a big default or two will markets begin to price
Chinese risk appropriately, allowing Beijing to liberalize
 interest rates . Is Li willing to accept the consequences --
turmoil in markets, mass unemployment and credit downgrades?  That’s nothing compared to the third test: inviting the
Communist Party’s wrath. There’s ample reason to doubt Li’s
doctorate in economics will help him navigate Beijing’s
cutthroat politics. If you think Abe faces resistance from
vested interests, imagine what awaits Li as he tries to get
Communist Party power brokers, ambitious regional leaders, a
vast network of state-owned companies and the Chinese people to
make sacrifices.  Li must take on thousands of party stalwarts who make
millions, or billions, of dollars from dodgy land grabs,  insider
trading  and old-fashioned rent-seeking. Politics will stymie
Li’s every effort to reduce the state’s role in the economy and
create the vibrant private sector China needs in order to
thrive. We’ll have a sense of whether he’s serious when the
number of unnamed-source gripes in the official media starts to
spike.  We are years from knowing if Li can live up to the example
set by  Deng Xiaoping , who truly did revolutionize China’s
economic system. If Li can, Likonomics will deserve to go down
in history as a model for developing nations everywhere. Until
then, let’s give the phrase a rest.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 