-- The Pointless Debate Over Obamacare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-18T22:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/the-pointless-debate-over-obamacare.html
President  Barack Obama ’s  remarks 
this week on the Affordable Care Act had the trappings of
importance: members of Congress in the audience, ordinary
citizens on stage. All that was missing, as is too often the
case in the health-care debate, was anything important to say.  The president made a show of saying that, thanks to the
law,  8.5 million  Americans will get 2012 premium rebates from
their insurance companies, averaging $100 a family. That amounts
to less than  5 percent  of all Americans with health insurance,
he neglected to note, and the checks aren’t a lot of money,
given that the average annual worker contribution for employer-provided family coverage last year was $ 4,316 .  In his defense, Obama was responding to an even more
farcical bit of political theater staged by  House Republicans ,
who voted to delay the health law’s mandate that individuals buy
insurance. It was the  38th  time the House has voted, futilely,
to stop or slow Obamacare.  Such posturing only contributes to public confusion over
the law -- and keeps Republicans and Democrats alike from
addressing essential steps toward health-care reform.  Instead, it seems, the closer the law gets to fully taking
effect, the more misleading and irrelevant the political
arguments become.  Supports and detractors of the law alike have, for example,
made an issue of how much insurance plans sold on the new state
exchanges will cost. Republicans argue that premiums in
 California  will be higher than what people now pay for
individual coverage; Democrats say premiums in  New York  will be
lower.  Half Right  Both are half right. Premiums for individuals probably will
be higher in some states, and for good reason -- insurance plans
sold on exchanges will be required to provide good coverage, and
insurers will be prohibited from turning away people with pre-existing medical conditions.  And yes, some New York premiums will be  50 percent lower ,
but only for people who buy insurance on their own -- a group
that now includes just 17,000 people, according to the New York
Times. Even this limited success probably won’t be replicated
elsewhere, because few other states have placed the same
requirements on insurers that have made coverage so expensive in
New York.  In any case, there’s little percentage in trying to predict
state-by-state premium prices when much larger issues loom. The
exchanges themselves still need to be set up, and  half  the
states have yet to agree to expand Medicaid coverage under the
law. Republicans and Democrats should address their differences
over how to make both these programs work.  Much remains to be done, as well, to rein in health-care
costs. The Affordable Care Act contains several  pilot projects 
that aim to reduce the growth of health-care spending by
encouraging doctors and other providers to operate more
efficiently. These efforts have far more potential to lower
insurance premiums than the rebate requirements Obama touted
this week do.  So far, however, their prospects are at best unclear. This
week, we learned that  nine of 32  hospitals and health systems
taking part in a flagship experiment with “accountable care
organizations” dropped out; none had seen the savings the
program was meant to achieve. Leaders of both parties should be
looking for ways to improve these and other cost-saving
strategies.  Every time Republicans and Democrats stage votes and
speeches over Obamacare that won’t go anywhere or don’t much
matter, they squander an opportunity to improve the law.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 