-- Leading Economic Indicators Index in U.S. Was Unchanged
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-07-18T20:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/leading-economic-indicators-index-in-u-s-was-unchanged-1-.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
was unchanged in June, indicating the world’s largest economy
will follow a fitful path in shaking off the effects of federal
spending cuts and tax increases that slowed growth in the first
half of 2013.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months was weaker than the median forecast of 47
economists in a Bloomberg survey that called for a 0.2 percent
gain. Other reports today showed fewer Americans than projected
filed  claims  for jobless benefits and manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly accelerated.  “We expect things to continue to pick up, although it’s
probably not going to be an even trajectory,” said  Scott Brown ,
chief economist at Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida . “We’re still definitely on the recovery path.” Brown
was one of two economists in the Bloomberg survey to project the
leading index would be unchanged.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week said
policy makers could delay reducing the central bank’s bond
buying program if the economy stumbled and emphasized the risks
to growth from government budget cuts and slowing overseas
markets. The most recent data showing American factories and the
job market are improving mean the expansion will get a needed
spark in the second half of the year.  The number of workers filing applications for unemployment
insurance payments dropped by 24,000 to 334,000 in the week
ended July 13, the fewest since early May, as the effects of the
annual auto-plant shutdowns began to ebb, figures from the Labor
Department showed. The  median forecast  of 49 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg projected 345,000.  Shares Climb  Stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes to records, amid
better-than-estimated earnings and the drop in jobless claims.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to 1,689.37
at the close in  New York .  The leading index climbed a revised 0.2 percent in May, up
from a previously reported 0.1 percent increase, the New York-based group said. Economists’ estimates for the June data in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from no change to an increase of 0.5
percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  increased to 19.8, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey and the highest level since March 2011, from 12.5 the
prior month, another report today showed. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the area, which covers eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The median  forecast  of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a reading of 8.  Manufacturing Rebound  The data follow figures this week that showed production
climbed in the U.S. last month while manufacturing in the New
York area expanded in July at the fastest pace in five months.
Domestic demand is being bolstered by a pickup in automobile
sales and a boost in  capital spending  as companies look past
sequestration and global growth risks.  “The stuff that we have in hand is actually pretty
encouraging,” said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at
 Societe Generale  in New York, who projected a reading of 17.5,
the highest forecast in the Bloomberg survey. “We think the
second half of the year is going to be better than the first.”  Four of the 10 indicators in the leading index weakened in
June, led by fewer building permits and declines in orders to
U.S. factories. Better credit conditions and fewer jobless
claims were among the indicators that improved.  Obstacles Remain  “Some segments of the economy are turning around faster
than others, resulting in positive but moderate growth,”  Ken Goldstein , an economist at the Conference Board, said in a
statement. “The biggest uncertainties remain the pace of
business spending, the improvements in consumer spending power
and the impact of slower global growth on U.S. exports.”  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern U.S. railroad, is among
companies that are optimistic about the economy in the second
half of 2013. Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX this week reported
second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  “Looking at the key economic indicators, they continue to
point to slow, steady growth in the  U.S. economy ,” Clarence
Gooden, chief commercial officer of CSX, said on a conference
call yesterday. “Overall demand across the diverse markets we
serve was generally positive for the quarter, consistent with
the broader economy.”  Consumer sentiment last week held close to a five-year
high, according to another report today. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell to minus 28.4 in the period ended July 14,
its first drop in five weeks, from minus 27.3 a week earlier
that was the strongest reading since January 2008.  Outlook Dims  At the same time, Americans grew more pessimistic about the
prospects for the world’s largest economy in a sign that not all
is rosy. The monthly Bloomberg consumer  economic expectations 
gauge fell to a five-month low of minus 5 in July from minus 1.
The share of households saying the expansion will pickup was at
a 10-month low.  Bernanke, in testimony to the House Financial Services
Committee yesterday and the Senate Banking Committee today, said
the central bank’s monthly asset purchases “are by no means on
a preset course.” Fed policy makers have said they want to
assure the economy and labor markets have sufficient momentum
before reducing their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  While risks to the economy have diminished since late last
year, Bernanke said, the slow pace of the recovery means that it
remains “vulnerable to unanticipated shocks, including the
possibility that global economic growth may be slower than
currently anticipated.”  In addition, “the risks remain that tight federal fiscal
policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters
by more than we currently expect, or that the debate concerning
other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt
ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  