-- ECB’s Asmussen Says Fiscal Consolidation Must Continue in Europe
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-07-18T09:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ecb-s-asmussen-says-fiscal-consolidation-must-continue-in-europe.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board Member Joerg Asmussen said fiscal consolidation by euro-area countries must continue while the bank keeps  interest rates 
low for as long as necessary.  “We need to continue to focus on sound fiscal policies,”
Asmussen said at a panel discussion in Vilnius that included
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde .
“The debate on austerity versus growth is a completely wrong
debate. We cannot leave the young generation with the double
burden that at the one hand they have no job and on the other
hand they have to pay for the debt level they inherit.”  Demonstrators from  Greece  to  Belgium  have protested this
year against government spending cuts, while bond yields have
risen since May in euro-area periphery countries amid concern
austerity fatigue will derail economic reforms. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  this month gave unprecedented guidance that
interest rates will be kept low for an extended period of time.  “More needs to be done” to create jobs, Lagarde said
during the panel discussion, citing  Germany ’s apprenticeship
programs as an example. On fiscal policy, “we believe some
countries are doing enough and should keep doing so, we also
believe there are a few countries which are doing a little too
much. There is no question that monetary policy cannot be a
substitute for everything else that needs to be done.”  Asmussen reiterated that interest rates will stay low for
as long as needed and said the ECB’s Outright Monetary
Transactions program to buy the bonds of struggling governments
is “absolutely still valid.” The OMT, which hasn’t yet been
used, requires countries to agree to conditions imposed by the
European Stability Mechanism and would need the involvement of
the IMF, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  