-- ECB Changes Collateral Rules as It Seeks to Boost Lending
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-18T15:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ecb-changes-collateral-rules-as-it-seeks-to-boost-sme-lending.html
The  European Central Bank  altered
its collateral rules for refinancing banks and said it’s looking
at ways to boost lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will reduce the  risk premium , or
haircut, applicable to asset-backed securities to 10 percent
from 16 percent, according to an e-mailed statement today. It’ll
also lower the quality threshold for six ABS classes that are
subject to loan-level reporting requirements to two A- ratings
from two AAA ratings. At the same time, the central bank will
tighten rules for retained covered bonds so the total effect on
eligible collateral will be “overall neutral,” it said.  ECB policy makers are attempting to diversify funding
sources as companies’ access to credit is limited amid the 17-nation euro area’s longest-ever recession. ABS accounted for 338
billion euros ($442 billion), or 14 percent, of the collateral
deposited by the region’s banks at the ECB as of March 31. While
President  Mario Draghi  said on June 6 that the ECB is
considering easing collateral rules to boost lending, today’s
changes are likely to have a limited impact.  No Game Changer  “If the effect is broadly neutral, I find it hard to call
this a game changer,” said Richard Barwell, senior European
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  London . “But they
seem more open toward ABS, which is positive, because they’re
trying to take steps to get credit flowing to SMEs.”  Bank lending to companies and households in May was 1.1
percent lower than a year ago, according to the ECB. Smaller
companies such as Quattria S.L., a designer furniture firm near
 Barcelona , and Atika Karam, a Granada-based consultant for
companies seeking to export to  Morocco , say they aren’t getting
the funding they need.  Draghi said on May 2 that the ECB started consultations
with the  European Investment Bank  and the European Commission to
promote a functioning market for ABS backed by loans to
enterprises and households. Bank lending in the euro area
accounts for about 80 percent of corporate financing, compared
with about 20 percent in the U.S.  Euro-area banks had 837 billion euros of ABS  eligible  as
collateral as of March 31, or more than twice as much as they
deposited at the central bank in anticipation of any loan
requests, ECB data show. Total eligible collateral in the system
was estimated at 14.5 trillion euros, of which 2.48 trillion was
kept at the ECB.  Mezzanine Tranches  Policy makers will “continue to investigate how to
catalyze recent initiatives by European institutions to improve
 funding conditions ” for SMEs, according to today’s statement,
which marks a biennial review of the bank’s risk-control
framework. The focus will be on “the possible acceptance of
SME-linked ABS guaranteed mezzanine tranches as Eurosystem
collateral in line with established guarantee policies,” it
said.  “Favoring asset-backed securities, which includes some
backed by SME loans, could help a bit to ease the credit
conditions for SMEs in the periphery,” according to  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “But the key
players remain the European Union for regulation of such ABS and
the EIB and national development banks for guarantees, which
could one day reduce the risk of ABS to such a degree that the
ECB might purchase them outright if needed.”  Haircut Changes  The central bank also changed the haircuts it applies to
sovereign bonds pledged as collateral in refinancing operations.
While it reduced the risk premium on most securities rated at
least A-, it raised haircuts on bonds rated from BBB+ to BBB-,
the lowest three investment grades. That shift will affect banks
that use  government bonds  issued in countries including Italy
and  Spain .  In addition, the ECB adjusted eligibility criteria and
haircuts applied by national central banks to pools of credit
claims and some additional credit claims eligible under the
temporary collateral framework. The changes will come into force
once they’re formalized with relevant legal acts and, if needed,
national implementing provisions, the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  