-- Nigeria’s Amcon Says No Agreement Made With Ecobank Chairman
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-07-18T14:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ecobank-chairman-lawson-reaches-agreement-with-nigeria-s-amcon.html
The Asset Management Corp. of
 Nigeria , created to buy lenders’s bad debts, said it’s in
advanced discussions with  Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  Chairman
Kolapo Lawson following a report that he had fallen behind on
loan repayments.  Amcon, as the government agency is known, has yet to reach
an agreement with Lawson over debts owed, Kayode Lambo, a
spokesman for Amcon said by telephone today from Lagos,
Nigeria’s commercial capital, declining to comment further.
Lawson said by e-mail that he’s reached an agreement with Amcon
officials, which he understands is subject to the agency’s board
approval.  Ecobank,  Africa ’s most geographically diverse bank, said
yesterday that Lawson had reached an agreement with Amcon. The
 Central Bank of Nigeria  informed the lender in April that Lawson
failed to honor a pledge to repay debt owed to the agency, the
London-based Financial Times newspaper reported on July 16,
citing documents it had seen.  “Ecobank has confirmed that the matters concerning Mr.
Lawson’s dealings with Amcon have been discussed at the board
and, we understand, Mr. Lawson has reached an agreement with
Amcon on this issue,” the Lome, Togo-based lender said in an e-mailed statement.  Ecobank owes Abuja-based Amcon 1.2 billion naira ($7.4
million), the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter. Agbara Estate, whose chairman
is Lawson, has “long outstanding” debts of 1.6 billion naira
with Ecobank’s Nigerian unit, the newspaper said.  South Africa ’s
Public Investment Corp., the lender’s biggest shareholder,
yesterday urged Ecobank resolve the dispute.  Fully Secured  “The loan to Agbara Estates, which is not yet due to be
paid, was contracted between two management teams acting at
arm’s length in the ordinary course of business, and was
completed well before I became chairman of the ETI Group,”
Lawson said earlier in an e-mailed statement today. “It is
fully secured by a real estate project which has since increased
in value and the overall value of the project is significantly
higher than the loan. The board has every assurance that the
loan will be paid off before its due date.”  Lawson doesn’t have a personal loan with Ecobank, the
lender said in its statement. Companies on which he serves as a
director have “business relations” with the lender and one of
them has a “contracted loan facility” which is secure and the
current repayment schedule is not yet due, Ecobank said.  Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a spokesman for the Nigerian  central
bank , declined to comment.  Debt Crisis  Amcon, which according to data compiled by Bloomberg owns
10.7 percent of Ecobank, was set up in 2010 after a debt crisis
threated the collapse of Nigeria’s banking industry.  Founded in 1985, Ecobank has expanded operations to 33
African countries and  France , with representative offices in
Beijing, Dubai, Johannesburg,  London  and Luanda,  Angola . Its
assets totaled $19.6 billion at the end of March.  Ecobank’s  shares  trading in Nigeria were unchanged at 15
naira at the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, the commercial capital.
Ecobank stock has increased 33 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 192.4 billion naira. The 10-member
Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking 10 Index has climbed 25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  