-- Men’s Wearhouse to Buy Joseph Abboud for $97.5 Million
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-07-18T20:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/men-s-wearhouse-to-buy-joseph-abboud-for-97-5-million.html
Men’s Wearhouse Inc. (MW) , the menswear
retailer that ousted its founder last month, agreed to buy the
Joseph Abboud clothing brand for $97.5 million in cash as the
chain seeks to offer exclusive brands.  The purchase of JA Holding Inc. from funds affiliated with
J.W. Childs Associates LP is expected to close in the third
quarter, Houston-based Men’s Wearhouse said today in a
statement.  “This will be a fairly seamless transaction and will
positively impact the company longer term,”  Richard Jaffe , an
analyst at Stifel Financial Corp. in New York, wrote in a note
to clients today. “Men’s Wearhouse’s focus on offering better
brands has attracted new customers and has improved Men’s
Wearhouse as a destination for the male shopper.”  The purchase reunites Men’s Wearhouse Chief Creative
Director Joseph Abboud with the brand he created and gives the
retailer an exclusive label to sell through its more than 1,100
stores. The deal also marks Chief Executive Officer Doug Ewert’s
first major move since the Men’s Wearhouse board removed founder
George Zimmer as executive chairman over strategy disagreements
on June 19.  Men’s Wearhouse plans for exclusive brands to make up 65 to
70 percent of the business long-term, Ewert  said  on an earnings
conference call June 13. Exclusive brands currently make up 45
percent of the business, he said.  Offering high-fashion products at a higher price may help
Men’s Wearhouse widen its profit margin, Jaffe wrote.  $695 Suits  Joseph Abboud clothing is sold in department and specialty
stores, including  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  and Bloomingdale’s Inc.
according to the brand’s website. Most suits start at $695 on
the Nordstrom website.  “We want to liberate the self-made artist in each man,”
Bernardo Rojo, the brand’s creative director, says in a video on
the Joseph Abboud website.  Although Joseph Abboud clothing will be sold exclusively at
Men’s Wearhouse, the company will honor its short-term wholesale
contracts with other retailers, Jaffe wrote in the note.  The acquisition also includes JA Holding’s U.S. tailored
clothing factory that employs 450 workers.  “On the surface, I don’t think it’s a great move,” Ivan Feinseth, chief investment officer at Tigress Financial Partners
LLC in New York, said in a telephone interview. “They’re just
buying one of their suppliers. Men’s Wearhouse’s business plan
is based on where they can source products the cheapest. This
neutralizes their ability to play vendors against each other.”  Men’s Wearhouse  rose  0.5 percent to $39.15 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 26 percent this year, compared
with an 18 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Ken Dennard, a Men’s Wearhouse spokesman who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, declined to comment beyond the
press release. Zimmer declined to comment on the purchase
through Lindsay Andrews, a spokeswoman with Sard Verbinnen & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  