-- England Resumes Second Ashes Test at 289-7
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-19T00:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/england-closes-on-289-7-as-second-ashes-cricket-test-begins.html
England will resume at 289-7 against
Australia in their second cricket Test today after  Ian Bell ’s
third straight Ashes century helped the home team recover from
the loss of three early wickets on day one.  Part-time spin bowler  Steven Smith  dismissed Bell for 109
and also removed Jonny Bairstow and Matt Prior in the final
session to tip the momentum back Australia’s way as England
slipped from 271-4 at Lord’s in London yesterday.  England, which leads the best-of-five contest 1-0, had
slumped to 28-3 in the first six overs of play after winning the
toss before Bell led a recovery with partnerships of 99 with
Jonathan Trott and 144 with Bairstow, who scored 67.  “We’d take where we are having been three down early this
morning,” Bell told reporters after becoming the fourth England
player to score centuries in three consecutive Ashes Tests. “It
was a real good day’s Test cricket, a real fight all the way
through. The important thing for us now is to try and win the
first hour against the new ball.”  England lost three wickets in the space of 11 balls after
play began following a presentation of both teams to  Queen
Elizabeth II . Captain Alistair Cook and Joe Root got out leg
before wicket and  Kevin Pietersen  edged a Ryan Harris delivery
to wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin .  Trott scored 58 before becoming seam bowler Harris’s third
victim. Harris replaced Mitchell Starc in one of two changes to
Australia’s lineup from the first Test. Usman Khawaja, who took
the catch to dismiss Trott, came in for batsman  Ed Cowan .  Smith’s Wickets  After Bell and Bairstow lifted England to 271-4, Australia
ended the day with a flurry of wickets in the final hour through
the leg spin of all-rounder Smith, who had taken four wickets
previously in his Test career.  Bell brought up his 19th Test century before edging to
 Michael Clarke  at slip and Smith took a catch off his own
bowling to remove Bairstow. Prior then edged behind to Haddin
with just 12 runs added to the total.  Tim Bresnan , who replaced dropped bowler  Steven Finn  in
England’s only change from its 14-run win in Nottingham, will
resume on 7 not out, with Jimmy Anderson on 4.  Harris, who ended day one with 3-43, said Australia will
try to get the remaining wickets as quickly as possible and
restrict England to a score of about 310 or 320.  “Anything less than that will be great,” he said. “The
fightback with the wickets at the end put it in our favor I
think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  