-- Ericsson Sales Fall Short Amid Huawei Competition
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-18T15:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ericsson-sales-fall-short-amid-huawei-competition.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB) , the largest maker of
wireless-network equipment, posted sales that missed estimates
as competition with Huawei Technologies Co. for contracts to
build and service phone systems intensified. The stock fell.  Second-quarter sales were little changed at 55.3 billion
kronor ($8.4 billion), Stockholm-based Ericsson said today in a
statement. Analysts predicted 56 billion kronor, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Ericsson’s gross margin, a
measure of profitability, also trailed projections.  Wireless operators are investing in their networks as
consumers increasingly use data-hungry tablets and smartphones
to browse the Web and watch video clips. Even as the market
grows,  competition  from  China ’s Huawei and Finland’s Nokia
Siemens Networks is putting pressure on margins.  “Ericsson’s profitability is a disappointment,” said
Hannu Rauhala, an analyst at Pohjola Bank in Helsinki who
recommends buying the stock. “They said the business mix would
improve, and gross margins were better than last year, but they
still have a huge amount of less-profitable rollouts to work
through.”  The  shares  fell 4.8 percent, the biggest drop since May
2012, to 75.75 kronor in  Stockholm , paring the gain to 16
percent this year.  Huawei Challenge  Network sales advanced about 1 percent to 28.1 billion
kronor, with gains in North and South America as well as western
and central Europe, and declines in northeastern  Asia . Sales at
the support solutions business fell 33 percent.  Huawei, China’s largest maker of phone equipment, said in
February it is targeting a 9 percent increase in revenue this
year for its division that designs and builds wireless networks.
The unit had sales of $25.7 billion in 2012.  The Shenzen-based company, already near Ericsson in
development spending, is boosting its research budget this year
to improve mobile and fixed-network performance as well as audio
and video transmissions, Li Yingtao, its head of R&D, said in an
interview this month.  Ericsson’s net income rose to 1.47 billion kronor from 1.11
billion kronor a year earlier, when it had about 600 million
kronor in restructuring charges. The latest quarter’s numbers
included about 900 million kronor of such expenses.  Fundamentals ‘Attractive’  Gross margin, or the proportion of sales remaining after
production costs, was 32.4 percent, compared with the 33.1
percent average projection.  Network-modernization deals in  Europe , which demand more
labor hours and are often less profitable, led to the gross
margin slumping to 30.2 percent in 2011, the lowest since at
least 1989. Ericsson said today business has started to shift to
more lucrative capacity projects.  Wireless carriers are investing more into data connections
as consumers buy more smart devices. AT&T Inc., the largest U.S.
phone company, said in January it is slowing the pace of share
buybacks as it expects capital expenditure to rise to $21
billion this year from $19.5 billion in 2012.  SoftBank Corp. (9984) 
plans  capital spending  for U.S. unit  Sprint Corp. (S)  of $8 billion
this year and in 2014 before dropping to $6 billion annually for
the four years after that.  “While the macroeconomic situation in Europe remains
challenging and the political uncertainty in parts of Region
Middle East, such as  Egypt , increases, the long-term
fundamentals in the industry remain attractive,” Ericsson Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  