-- Hermes Says Sales Growth May Top 10 Percent Goal This Year
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-07-18T07:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/hermes-says-sales-growth-may-top-10-percent-goal-this-year.html
Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the French
maker of Kelly bags, said sales growth this year may top 10
percent after reporting revenue that surpassed analysts’
estimates in the second quarter.  Sales climbed 12 percent to 910.4 million euros ($1.2
billion), the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts predicted 897.4 million euros, according to the average
of five  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales excluding
currency swings rose 16 percent, topping estimates for 13.5
percent growth.  “Management tends to be conservative with forward looking
statements, so you can usually add some to the outlook,” said
Rey Wium, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg.
While the earnings were “overall better than expected,”
revenue growth of just 3 percent for watches reflects on the
general Swiss watch market, he said.  Leather-goods sales advanced 12 percent, accelerating from
the first-quarter’s 7.3 percent gain, as Hermes was better
equipped to serve Asian demand for its Birkin and other handbags
after opening two new workshops last year. The company expects
production capacity to increase steadily throughout 2013.  “Demand for Hermes items remains strong,” Hermes said in
the statement. “In light of the sales achieved in the first
half of the year, consolidated sales at constant rates could
slightly exceed the mid-term growth target of 10 percent.”  Currency Swings  The  shares  rose 2.4 percent to 257.15 euros at 9:30 a.m. in
Paris, giving the company a market value of 27.2 billion euros.
A close at this price would be the biggest gain since June 25.  Revenue excluding currency shifts advanced 16 percent in
 Asia , 15 percent in  Europe  and 22 percent in the Americas. In
 Japan , where Hermes gets about 16 percent of revenue, sales
advanced 8.9 percent, the company said.  Revenue from clothing and fashion accessories rose 23
percent, while silk and textiles had a 10 percent gain and
perfume sales rose 22 percent. Tableware sales increased 12
percent, Hermes said.  Global luxury sales will rise 4 percent to 5 percent this
year, excluding currency shifts, Bain & Co. estimates. Growth
will be sustained as booming demand in southeast Asia offsets a
slowdown in China and Europe, according to the consultant.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, (MC)  the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, owns about 22.6 percent of Hermes. LVMH was
fined 8 million euros this month for breaching disclosure rules
when it built its stake in the company.  Hermes said in March that profitability may slip this year
as the Japanese yen weakens against the euro. Last year, a
declining euro helped boost operating profit as a percentage of
sales to a record 32.1 percent, CEO  Patrick Thomas  said at the
time. Earnings should rise this year, he said then. Hermes makes
the majority of its products in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  