-- ESM May Help Ease Irish Mortgage Funding Costs, EU Official Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-18T15:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/esm-may-help-ease-irish-mortgage-funding-costs-eu-official-says.html
The euro-area’s new bailout fund may
play a role in easing the funding costs of Irish banks’
unprofitable  mortgage loans  that are priced at a fixed spread
over the European Central Bank benchmark rate, according to a
European official.  Irish authorities and its bailout masters are considering
how the European Stability Mechanism, the  government and
capital market solutions may help the nation’s lenders fund
tracker loans, according to the official, who asked not be
named, as the matter is being debated. He didn’t give any more
details. Both sides aim to have a solution in place by the time
the nation’s banks face stress tests next year, the person said.  More than half of Irish mortgages are set at a fixed
 interest rate  over the ECB benchmark. The nation’s banks stopped
offering such products in 2008 as their own borrowing costs
soared as the real-estate market started to implode. Tracker
mortgages have a “profit drag” equivalent to about 0.4 percent
of their assets, International Monetary Fund official Craig
Beaumont said today.  Irish authorities and troika officials are carrying out
“significant technical work” on a range of solutions for such
mortgages, Beaumont said on a conference call with reporters
today, following the conclusion of the eleventh review of
Ireland’s international bailout program.  Options include securitizations, guarantees and “all sorts
of financial engineering,” he said, without giving more
details. Beaumont said on a call on June 19 that Irish
guarantees of portfolios of residential mortgages may lower the
funding costs of these low-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  