-- Lew Says Treasury Plays Role in Senate Housing-Finance Talks
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-07-18T21:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/lew-says-treasury-has-role-in-housing-finance-talks-correct-.html
Treasury Secretary  Jacob Lew  said
his agency has been involved in a bipartisan Senate effort to
overhaul U.S. housing finance while retaining a government
backstop for mortgages in the event of a financial crisis.  “In the Senate you have a bipartisan effort which we’ve
been engaged in the conversations over,” Lew told Bloomberg
Television’s  Peter Cook , referring to a bill introduced in June
by Senators  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, and  Mark Warner ,
a Virginia Democrat.  Lew’s comments, to be broadcast on Bloomberg Television’s
“Capitol Gains” on Sunday, represent Treasury’s first public
acknowledgment of its role in congressional efforts to reshape
the nation’s housing finance system after the 2008 credit
crisis. President Barack Obama has declined to put forth its own
plan for fear of subjecting it to a partisan fight.  Treasury has also been in talks with Senators  Tim Johnson ,
the South Dakota Democrat who leads the Banking Committee and
 Mike Crapo  of Idaho, panel’s top Republican, on another housing
finance bill that they are writing.  “They’re looking for a way to accomplish goals that very
much reflect our goals,” Lew said.  Those goals include limiting taxpayer risk, getting private
capital back into the mortgage markets and maintaining access to
credit for worthy borrowers, he said.  Timothy F. Geithner , Lew’s predecessor at Treasury,
released a white paper in February 2011 outlining three options
for winding down and replacing  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
U.S.-owned mortgage financiers. The options ranged from near-complete privatization to a system in which the government would
serve as a catastrophic reinsurer of mortgage securities, with
private capital taking most of the up-front risk.  Treasury Blueprint  Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development have been working on a blueprint that would most
closely mirror the option with a catastrophic government
guarantee. The Corker-Warner bill broadly reflects the approach
of that blueprint, which hasn’t been made public.  “There are details in all these proposals that are going
to require more work, and we’re going to have to scrutinize, but
that reflects the principles that the administration has laid
out,” Lew said.  The Corker-Warner bill would require private capital to
take at least 10 percent of the first losses on mortgage
securities. It would allow the government to step in with more
aid during a financial catastrophe, a measure Treasury pressed
for, Corker said yesterday.  ‘Emergency Piece’  “One of the things we did all the way through was to deal
with the administration,” Corker said during a discussion on
the bill at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington. “They
had some expertise that obviously we don’t have directly on our
staffs, and that countercyclical piece, that emergency piece,
was something that they care deeply about.”  In the House, Republicans have drafted a bill that would
wind down  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac with no government-backed
replacement. Written by Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas
Republican who leads the House Financial Services Committee, the
measure would leave the Federal Housing Administration as the
sole U.S. mortgage backstop. No Democrats are backing the
legislation.  “If you contrast what the conversation is in the Senate to
the conversation in the House, it’s kind of interesting that one
is a bipartisan conversation and the other is not,” Lew said.
“This is going to require a bipartisan solution, and we look
forward to being a part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  