-- Mexico’s PAN to Push Own Bill Opening Pemex Ahead of Pena Nieto
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-18T19:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mexico-s-pan-to-push-own-bill-opening-pemex-ahead-of-pena-nieto.html
Mexico’s opposition  National Action
Party  plans to present an energy bill seeking constitutional
changes to open state-owned oil producer  Petroleos Mexicanos  to
more competition and reverse eight years of falling output.  The plan to be presented July 31 will offer exploration
concessions for private companies, said Gustavo Madero, the
party’s president, who pledged to do “everything necessary” to
win passage. The proposal would attract up to $30 billion in
private investment, boost Mexican gross domestic product growth
by as much as two percentage points annually and reserve
majority control of projects for Mexican investors, other
officials from the PAN, as the party is known, said today at a
news conference.  The PAN’s announcement preempts a proposal by the ruling
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, of President Enrique Pena Nieto, who said last month his plan would be presented in
September to break the monopoly of Pemex in  oil fields  through
an alliance between the nation’s three biggest parties. Congress
must pass an electoral reform before the PAN will approve any
energy initiative, lower house lawmaker Ricardo Anaya, said at
the press conference.  “The model of the Mexican oil industry is exhausted,”
Madero said at the news conference in Mexico City. “It’s an
unworkable and unsustainable model that needs to be reformed at
its base so that it can return to being productive.”  The bill would create 100,000 new jobs, Anaya told
reporters today.  Luis Alberto Villarreal, the PAN’s coordinator in the lower
house of Congress, said the party’s proposed overhaul would be
the broadest energy proposal presented in decades.  Mexico  City’s former mayor, Marcelo Ebrard, has said his
opposition Democratic Revolution Party, the third member in the
Pact for party should “strongly” oppose Pena Nieto’s oil plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  