-- MF Global Trustee to Boost Distributions to Ex-Customers
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-07-18T21:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mf-global-trustee-to-boost-distributions-to-ex-customers.html
MF Global Inc.’s former customers
should get “significantly” increased distributions in coming
months, and the goal is still 100 percent recoveries, the failed
brokerage’s trustee said.  Customers who traded on U.S. exchanges may get
distributions starting in early September that would bring their
percentage recoveries into “the high nineties” while customers
who traded on foreign exchanges may get “in the sixties,”
trustee James Giddens said in a statement today.  “These further distributions are dependent on final
approval of a motion by the trustee to confirm the allocation of
property already received,” Giddens said. His projections
assume that agreements with MF Global’s U.K. unit and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  take effect in mid-August.  A prior projection in June estimated customers would get
94 cents on their dollar. Giddens said at the time that disputes
including a lawsuit against directors and officers delayed the
potential for full recovery.  Most customers have already recovered 89 percent of what
they were owed, Giddens said in a report covering his progress
from Dec. 5 to June 4. He said today he eventually expects to
file a motion with the  bankruptcy court  in  Manhattan  that may
allow a final distribution of 100 cents on the dollar to all of
MF Global’s commodities futures customers.  Management Sued  A pending lawsuit against the company’s former management,
including ex-New Jersey Governor and onetime Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Co-ChairmanJon Corzine, will affect the size and timing of
further distributions, Giddens has said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent company,
filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way
$6.3 billion bet on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most indebted
nations. The company listed assets of $41 billion and debts of
$39.7 billion.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  