-- Fannie Mae Regulator Nominee Watt Backed by Senate Banking Panel
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-18T15:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/fannie-mae-regulator-nominee-watt-backed-by-senate-banking-panel.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee
approved the nomination of Representative Mel Watt as Federal
Housing Finance Agency director, setting up a floor fight over
President Barack Obama’s pick to oversee  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   The panel today approved Watt, a North Carolina Democrat,
in a 12-10 party-line vote that reflected lawmakers’ divisions
over the nomination. He now faces an uphill battle to win
Republican support for full Senate confirmation.  If Watt is backed by all 54 lawmakers who caucus with the
Democrats in the 100-member chamber, he would need support from
at least six Republicans to gain the 60 votes needed to bring
the nomination to the Senate floor. Senator  Richard Burr  of
North Carolina is the only Republican so far to endorse Watt.  The FHFA is the chief overseer of  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) , the mortgage financiers that have operated under U.S.
conservatorship since they were seized amid losses in 2008. Watt
would replace Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco, who has been
criticized by Democratic lawmakers and consumer-advocacy groups
for doing too little to help struggling homeowners.  Republicans have criticized Watt’s past support of Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac  and calls for cutting the principal owed on
troubled mortgages. Republicans also argue that Watt isn’t
qualified for the job because he is a politician rather than a
technician. Watt, 67, has served in Congress since 1992.  ‘Wrong Signal’  “To end up having a politician overseeing two entities
that politics have helped destroy, to me was not the place for
us to go,” Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from Tennessee,
said at a Bipartisan Policy Council event yesterday. “I just
think it sends the wrong signal.”  The Watt vote comes after threats to change the Senate
rules on stalled contentious nominations. On July 16, the Senate
reached an agreement to end filibusters and confirm  Richard Cordray  as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
In return, Obama agreed to withdraw and replace two nominees for
the National Labor Relations Board.  It is not clear if the recent Senate bipartisanship on
nominations will translate to a Watt confirmation. If he gets
the 60 votes needed to close debate, he’d need only a simple
majority to gain confirmation. Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia
Democrat, said it is a test of the nomination deal.  “This will be an early test to see whether the new and
improved Senate has a 36 hour lifetime or longer,” Warner said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  