-- FCA’s Wheatley Says Co-Op Bondholders Were Warned of Risks
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-18T16:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/fca-s-wheatley-says-co-op-bondholders-were-warned-of-risks.html
Investors in Co-Operative Bank Plc
bonds were warned of the risks before they bought them, said
Martin Wheatley, chief executive officer of the U.K.’s Financial
Conduct Authority.  “It’s not a deposit, it’s a bond, it’s subject to certain
risks,” Wheatley told journalists at a conference in  London 
today. “The prospectus has all the risk warnings you’d expect
to see.” Wheatley said that if the investors have concerns they
can go to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which mediates
between financial companies and clients.  Co-Operative Bank said last month it will swap some debt
for equity as part of a plan to raise 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3
billion) of capital after the failure of its bid for 632  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  branches exposed the deficit. The Manchester,
England-based bank has about 7,000 bondholders with holdings of
25,000 pounds or less.  Mark Taber, organizer of a group of individual bondholders,
wrote to Wheatley last week to ask that individual investors be
told their options and not be frightened into selling their
holdings at a loss.  “The regulator has known about the Co-Op’s problem for
years, but did nothing and told no one,” Taber said today. He
referred to Prudential Regulation Authority CEO  Andrew Bailey ’s
July 2 testimony that he told the Co-Op it should raise capital
in 2011.  “People have been buying and holding Co-Op bonds on the
basis of a safe bank, and it turned out it wasn’t,” Taber said
in a telephone interview. “That wasn’t in the prospectus.”  Bondholder Groups  Taber wrote to Bailey this month to ask for a review of the
bank’s plan to raise 1.5 billion pounds, including its rationale
for raising that amount. The PRA said it received the letter and
will respond.  His group is one of at least three seeking to negotiate a
better terms in the restructuring. Aurelius Capital Management
LP, a New York-based hedge fund, and some other bondholders are
considering hiring a legal adviser, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter. A third bondholder committee comprising
U.K. insurance companies is being formed by the  Association of
British Insurers , the Financial Times said last month.  Co-Operative Bank’s capital has been depleted by soured
consumer and commercial real estate loans stemming from the
purchase of Britannia Building Society in 2009. Loan impairments
more than quadrupled to 468.7 million pounds in 2012, the Co-Op
said in March. The bank had a pretax loss of 673.7 million
pounds in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  