-- FDA Fees to Review Drugs Would Be Unfrozen in House Bill
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/fda-fees-to-review-drugs-would-be-unfrozen-in-house-bill.html
About $1 billion in annual fees that
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and other drug and device companies
pay the U.S. to review new products would be exempt from  federal
budget  cuts under a bipartisan bill proposed in Congress.  Across-the-board budget cuts that began to take effect this
year, known as sequestration, have kept the  Food and Drug
Administration  from using all of the fees it collects. The bill
introduced today in the  House of Representatives  shields that
money and frees the FDA to put it toward product reviews.  “If the intent of sequestration is to limit public
spending, withholding private monies is counterintuitive,” said
Representative  Anna Eshoo , a California Democrat and bill
sponsor, in a statement. “It discourages investment in medical
innovation and denies patients access to timely therapies.”  The FDA is supposed to collect $720 million for brand-name
drugs, $299 million for generic medicines and $98 million from
device companies this fiscal year, according to a Congressional
Budget Office assessment. Some of the money currently being paid
to review products is going into a “black box” the FDA can’t
touch, said Todd Gillenwater, senior vice president of public
policy at the California Healthcare Institute.  “Our membership in California is really incredulous that
this could happen at all,” Gillenwater, whose La Jolla-based
group represents drug and device companies and is backing the
bill, said in an interview. “That they could agree to write
these checks, bigger checks, and they’re just sitting there.”  Slower Pace  While the FDA has been able to continue reviewing
applications, the industry is worried the agency may soon start
to slow down if the fees remain frozen, Gillenwater said. A
slower pace would affect patients’ access to new medicines.  The FDA is required to cut about $209 million from its $4.1
billion fiscal 2013 budget from March through the end of
September, including about $85 million from drug and device user
fees. Congress is considering further cuts for fiscal 2014.  A spokeswoman for the FDA didn’t immediately respond to a
request to comment on the legislation.  Representative Leonard Lance, a Republican from  New Jersey ,
is also sponsoring the bill, as are Representative Mike Rogers,
a Republican from  Michigan , and Representative Doris Matsui, a
California Democrat. The bill would have to pass the Republican-controlled House and then the Democratic-led Senate before being
signed into law by the president.  The bill doesn’t address user fees paid by food and tobacco
companies for product reviews and inspections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  