-- Fed’s Messages Raise Volatility in Threat to Profits: Currencies
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-18T11:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/fed-s-messages-raise-volatility-in-threat-to-profits-currencies.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s mixed messages
on monetary policy are stoking volatility in the $4 trillion-a-day  currency market , raising the odds that companies will have a
harder time setting up exchange-rate hedges designed to protect
overseas earnings.  “A low-volatility environment certainly is better,”
 Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank AG
in  Frankfurt , said in a July 16 telephone interview. “It would
create problems if a high-volatility environment would be
something permanent. This would certainly end up causing
problems when people have to roll their hedge positions.”  After reaching its highest level in almost three years in
May, the U.S. Dollar Index slid to about a four-month low and
back up to a three-year high as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
other policy makers at the U.S. central bank alternately said
they should and shouldn’t reduce their stimulus measures.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the dollar
against the U.K. pound climbed this week to the most relative to
six-month contracts since 2010. The euro and the Norwegian krone
had similar moves, signaling that volatility is going to be at
its most extreme in the short term.  Earnings ‘Headwind’  Coca-Cola Co.’s second-quarter income was hurt 3 percent by
swings in currencies, and that “headwind” is likely to
increase this quarter, Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard said
on a July 16 conference call.  St. Jude Medical Inc., the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based maker
of heart-rhythm devices, yesterday reduced its forecast for
sales for the second half of 2013 by as much as $20 million and
earnings by about 2 cents per share after adjusting its
assumptions for exchange rates.  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  officials said on a conference call yesterday
that a weaker euro and pound versus the dollar would temper
earnings for the fiscal year.  International Business Machines Corp., the largest
computer-services provider, said in its second-quarter earnings
conference call yesterday that it sees a “currency headwind”
in the second half of the year.  Philip Morris International Inc., the maker of Marlboro
cigarettes, reported second-quarter earnings today that trailed
analyst estimates after a stronger dollar cut overseas sales.  Forward Agreements  Companies use agreements to lock in future foreign-exchange
rates, known as forward contracts, options to buy and sell
currencies and other types of hedges to mitigate the effects of
currency swings on revenue.  An advance in options implied volatility, a gauge of
traders’ expectations of the pace of future currency swings,
lifts the price of the contracts and boosts hedging costs for
companies using them.  One-month volatility on the euro against the dollar
exceeded that on six-month options by 17 basis points July 15.
That’s the most since July 3, when it was at the widest since
March 22. A similar measure for the dollar against the pound was
82 basis points July 16, the biggest gap since May 2010.  Bernanke said July 10 that the U.S. central bank would
maintain a “highly accommodative monetary policy for the
foreseeable future.” That was after he had said on June 19 that
officials may start dialing down their unprecedented bond-buying
program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014.  The dollar slid as much as 0.1 percent versus the euro
yesterday before climbing as high as 0.6 percent as Bernanke
said the central bank’s $85 billion of monthly bond purchases
“are by no means on a preset course.” It appreciated 0.2
percent to $1.3108 per euro at 12:53 p.m.  London  time.  Mangled Message  “Stop-go monetary-policy communication amongst some of the
world’s most powerful central banks is leading to much
volatility,”  Chris Turner , head of currency strategy at ING
Groep NV in London, said in a telephone interview on July 15.  “Most agree that the dollar is set for quite a decent
rally,” he said. “But this is kind of like a race and we are
still in the starting blocks. Bernanke sort of said, ‘on your
marks, get set,’ and then went back to ‘on your marks’ with
regard to the taper.”  The spread on the pound-dollar options narrowed yesterday
after the  Bank of England  minutes showed policy makers voted
unanimously against boosting their asset-purchased program,
causing sterling to gain as much as 0.7 percent to $1.5268, the
strongest level since July 4.  Revenue Hits  A JPMorgan Chase & Co. index tracking swings in Group of
Seven-nation currencies averaged 1.4 percentage points more this
month than it did in the first half. It’s averaging 10.7 percent
in July, compared with a 9.4 percent average from the start of
January to the end of June. Implied volatility on one-month
euro-dollar options rose to 9.5 percent on July 3, the most
since March.  FIREapps, a Scottsdale, Arizona-based company that advises
clients and makes software to help reduce the impact of currency
swings, said about 27 percent of 800 companies it surveyed noted
that currency swings hurt revenue in the first quarter, compared
with less than 5 percent two years earlier.  FIREapps said 213 of the companies reported negative
effects on revenue from currency swings totaling $3.67 billion
in the first quarter, according to an analysis of earnings
conference calls.  “Based on our hedge positions, current spot rates and the
cycling of our prior-year rates, we expect currencies to be a 4
percent headwind on our  operating income  for the third quarter
and full-year,” Coca-Cola’s Fayard said two days ago.  That was after the world’s biggest soft-drinks maker, based
in Atlanta, said profit dropped 4 percent last quarter.  Choppy Going  “Unfavorable” foreign-exchange rates versus those that
held the prior year reduced second-quarter sales by about $31
million, John Heinmiller, St. Jude’s executive vice president,
said on the conference call yesterday. Revenue fell less than
analysts estimated.  The dollar’s strength is contributing to a projected 1.5
percent decline in second-quarter earnings for nonfinancial
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the second-worst
performance since 2009.  Analysts see at least three more quarters of weakening for
the yen and euro, cutting the dollar value of goods from Tiffany
& Co. trinkets to Delta Air Lines Inc. tickets sold overseas.  A lack of policy clarity made movements in foreign exchange
“choppy,” Caio Natividade, London-based head of foreign-exchange and commodity quantitative strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a telephone interview on July 15. “Once there is
more clarity on the path of monetary policy, measures of  risk
premium  should compress again, and as that happens you will get
better behaved currency movement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  