-- FIFA Loses Bid to Block Free TV Access to World Cup Matches
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-18T14:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/fifa-loses-bid-to-block-free-tv-access-to-world-cup-matches.html
Soccer’s global body FIFA lost a
fight to block free TV access to  World Cup  matches after the
European Union’s highest court said top games should be
available to all viewers if governments insist.  The EU Court of Justice also ruled that European body UEFA
can’t prevent fans with access to a TV from watching national
teams in European Championship matches for free.  The court in Luxembourg said today it’s for EU countries
alone “to determine the events which are of major importance”
and available to anyone with a TV set.  A ruling in FIFA’s favor could have ended decades of
tradition in the U.K., where the World Cup, the most-watched
sporting event, must be shown on free television channels
including the British Broadcasting Corp.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, allowed
the U.K. in 2007 to earmark all World Cup games and the final
tournament of  UEFA ’s European Football Championship for free-to-air television broadcast. That and the approval of a similar
decision by  Belgium  to limit World Cup games only to free TV,
breach the associations’ property rights, FIFA and UEFA had
argued.  “The concept of enforcing free-to-air coverage of all 64
matches at the FIFA World Cup distorts the media market,
negatively impacting FIFA’s ability to reach football fans with
new services,” Zurich-based FIFA said in an e-mailed statement.  Strict Policy  FIFA said it “has a strict policy” regarding free-to-air television “to make at least 22 matches available on that
basis.” This includes “all home team matches, the opening
match, semi-finals and the final of the FIFA World Cup.”  The 2010 and 2014 FIFA World Cup coverage “exceeded and
will vastly exceed this allocation in  Europe ,” FIFA said.  UEFA said today’s decision “not only distorts competition
in a free market, but also reduces the possibility to generate
income that can then be distributed to the amateur game via
solidarity payments.”  The top court today clarified that EU countries are obliged
to communicate the reasons to the Brussels-based commission that
justify why in their view the final stage of the World Cup or
the European Championships “constitutes in its entirety, a
single event of major importance” in the countries concerned.  ‘Avaricious World’  “This is another example of the hard-pressed consumer
attacked by the avaricious world of business finance,”  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co in  London , said
in a phone interview.  “TV rights and consumption of sport is very hot,” he
said. “The availability of sports through streaming on tablets,
phones and desktops has seen those rights come from nowhere to
becoming very valuable. Broadcasters and servers are all trying
to figure out how to monetize it all.”  FIFA and UEFA, based in Nyon,  Switzerland , were appealing a
lower court ruling from 2011 concerning TV access to games on
British and Belgian channels.  In the present cases, in the U.K. and in Belgium, the court
said “it is apparent” that those games “have always been very
popular among the general public” and have traditionally been
shown on television for free.  The cases are:  C-201/11 P  UEFA v. Commission;  C-204/11 P 
FIFA v. Commission;  C-205/11 P  FIFA v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  