-- Gene Mutation in Mouse Study May Point to Obesity’s Cause
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/gene-mutation-in-mouse-study-may-point-to-obesity-s-cause.html
A genetic mutation linked to obesity
in mice can cause weight gain without overeating, a discovery
researchers at Boston Children’s Hospital say suggests the gene
may govern how the body uses energy.  Mice altered to silence the gene, called Mrap2, had to be
underfed by 10 percent to 15 percent to keep their weight gain
as low as normal mice, according to the study released yesterday
in the journal  Science . An analysis of 500 people found the
equivalent human gene mutation in four people with severe, early
onset obesity.  The mutant mice grew to twice the normal size and the
weight gain was exaggerated further when they ate a high-fat
diet. The finding suggests the body’s mechanisms for energy use
and weight gain among some obese people may be different than
among skinnier peers.  “These mice aren’t burning the fat, they’re somehow
holding onto it,” Joseph Majzoub, the chief of endocrinology at
Boston Children’s Hospital and a study author, said in a
statement.  Of the 500 obese humans whose genes were sequenced, the
four people with the mutation had become obese at an early age.
Only one had a mutation that totally disabled the gene. That
suggests the mutation induced in the mice is responsible for
less than 1 percent of the obese population.  Obese people have too much body fat, which increases the
risk of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and certain
cancers, according to the  National Institutes of Health . Obesity
is calculated using body mass index, which is measured by height
and weight. A person with a BMI higher than 30 is considered
obese. That means a person who stands 5 foot 9 inches is obese
if he or she weighs 203 pounds or more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  