-- European Bonds Rise Amid Stimulus Optimism as Spain Sells Debt
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-07-18T15:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/germany-s-10-year-bonds-rise-third-day-before-spanish-debt-sale.html
European government bonds rose for a
third day as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
testimony to U.S. lawmakers buoyed optimism that central banks
around the world will maintain stimulus.  Ten-year bund yields fell to the  lowest  in a month.  Spain ’s
securities gained as borrowing costs fell at a 3.1 billion-euro
($4.1 billion) sale of debt maturing between 2016 and 2023.
Dutch, Finnish and Austrian bonds also rose as the European
Central Bank revised its collateral rules for refinancing banks.
France’s bonds advanced as the nation sold notes in the first
bond sale since  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s credit ranking.  “Bernanke was more dovish yesterday than he has been
recently, and that’s helping core bonds,” said Anders Moeller Lumholtz, a senior analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen.
“Central bank communication is key at the moment and whenever
we have the Fed or  European Central Bank  speaking they are
pushing the market around.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield dropped three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.51 percent at 4:24 p.m.  London  time
after reaching 1.50 percent, the lowest since June 7. The 1.5
percent bond due in May 2023 rose 0.28, or 2.80 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 99.895.  The rate on similar-maturity Dutch bonds fell three basis
points 1.94 percent, the least since June 19.  Debt Auctions  The U.S. central bank could keep buying bonds for longer if
“financial conditions -- which have tightened recently -- were
judged to be insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain
our mandated objectives,” Bernanke said yesterday in testimony
to the House Financial Services Committee, keeping the door open
to a delay in reducing the Fed’s stimulus program. He was
scheduled to testify to the Senate Banking Committee from 10:30
a.m. in  Washington  today.  Bond yields have gyrated in the past month as central banks
gave mixed messages about the future direction of monetary
policy as economies recover at different speeds.  The German 10-year yield jumped to as much as 1.85 percent
on June 24, the most since April, after the Federal Reserve said
five days earlier it may start reducing stimulus as early as
this year. The yield has dropped 14 basis points since July 4,
when ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank will keep
 interest rates  low for an “extended period.”  Collateral Changes  The ECB said today it’s looking at ways to boost lending to
small- and medium-sized companies by changing the eligibility of
asset-backed securities. The Frankfurt-based central bank will
reduce the  risk premium , or haircut, applicable to asset-backed
securities to 10 percent from 16 percent, according to an e-mailed statement.  The ECB also changed the haircuts it applies to sovereign
bonds pledged as collateral in refinancing operations. While it
reduced the risk premium on most securities rated at least A-,
it increased haircuts on bonds rated from BBB+ to BBB-. That
shift will affect banks that use  government bonds  issued in
countries including Italy and Spain.  The Madrid-based  Treasury  sold more than its maximum target
of 3 billion euros. Its three-year benchmark was sold at an
average yield of 2.768 percent, down from 2.875 percent on July
4. A five-year note yielded 3.735 percent, down from 3.792
percent earlier this month, and its 10-year benchmark bond was
priced to yield 4.723 percent, versus 4.765 percent on June 20.  ‘Modest Amount’  “The auction went relatively smoothly, also on the back of
modest amount on offer,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Group in London, wrote in a note to clients
about the Spanish sale. “That said, uncertainties for the
Spanish debt remain elevated and market dealers show some
skepticism in maintaining outright long positions as risks of
another leg of selloff going into August remain high.”  A long position is a bet that an asset will rise.  The Spanish 10-year yield decreased six basis points to
4.67 percent, while rates on similar-maturity French bonds fell
three basis points to 2.17 percent.  France  auctioned a combined
7.99 billion euros of two-, four- and five-year notes. The
nation also sold index-linked debt due between 2021 and 2040.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Belgium and German, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Finland’s 10-year yield dropped four basis points to 1.80
percent. The rate on  Greece ’s 2023 bonds declined for a sixth
day, dropping 12 basis points to 10.28 percent after the
country’s parliament passed a bill approving austerity measures
needed to win the next tranche of international aid.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. French securities dropped 0.3 percent, while Spanish
bonds returned 5.6 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  