-- Glaxo Shot Stops Oral Sex Virus Linked to Michael Douglas Cancer
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-07-18T11:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/glaxo-shot-stops-oral-sex-virus-linked-to-michael-douglas-cancer.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s (GSK)  Cervarix
vaccine prevented a viral infection that’s transmitted by oral
sex and is linked to throat cancer such as the type Michael Douglas suffered from, a study found.  In a trial among 5,800 women in Costa Rica, there were 93
percent fewer oral infections with human papillomavirus, or HPV,
among those who got Cervarix after four years than those who got
a hepatitis A vaccine, according to a  study  published yesterday
in the journal Plos One.  The finding is the first to show that a vaccine already
approved to prevent cervical cancer caused by HPV infection can
also prevent the virus being acquired orally, according to the
International Agency for Research on Cancer, which led the
study. The virus is almost three times more common among men
than women and men are four times more likely to get
oropharyngeal cancer, leading to calls for boys to be routinely
vaccinated against HPV as well as girls.  “If similar results are observed in men, vaccination of
boys may become an important public health measure,” Rolando
Herrero, who led the research at the Lyon, France-based IARC,
said in a  statement  today.  Both Cervarix and  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Gardasil are approved for
girls, and Merck’s vaccine is also approved for boys. Neither is
approved to prevent oral cancers.  The virus infects four out of five sexually active people
at some point in their lives and is known to cause cervical,
vulvar, vaginal, penile and anal cancer. HPV may cause more
cases of throat cancer in men than smoking, according to a 2011
report that predicted throat cancers linked to the virus would
become more common than HPV-related cervical cancer by 2020.  Oral Sex  About 10 percent of men are orally infected with HPV,
compared with 3.6 percent of women, according to a 2012 study.  Douglas, 68, an Academy Award-winning actor and star of
films including “Wall Street” and “Fatal Attraction,” was
quoted by the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper last month as saying
that his throat cancer, diagnosed in 2010, was caused by oral
sex, not smoking or drinking.  Douglas said in an interview he’s now cancer-free, and has
check-ups every six months, the Guardian reported.  Some countries have made the HPV vaccines available for
boys as well as girls. In the U.S., where two-thirds of
teenagers and young adults say they have had oral sex, the shots
are recommended for boys ages 11 and 12. More than 280,000 boys
in  Australia  will be eligible for free doses of Merck’s Gardasil
this year, estimated to prevent a quarter of new HPV infections,
Health Minister Tanya Plibersek said in February.  The study was funded by the U.S. National Cancer Institute
and London-based Glaxo provided the vaccines used in the trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  