-- Goldman Witness Says Tourre Didn’t Disclose Paulson Role
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-18T19:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/goldman-witness-says-tourre-didn-t-disclose-paulson-role.html
The  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
employee who ran the firm’s mortgage correlation trading desk
testified that  Fabrice Tourre  failed to tell investors about the
role of Paulson & Co. in the deal at the center of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s fraud case against him.  Jonathan Egol, now a Goldman Sachs managing director, told
jurors in  Manhattan  federal court today that he is “not aware
of any” disclosures to investors that Paulson, the  New York 
hedge fund that stood to make money from the failure of Abacus
2007-AC1, a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, helped
select the mortgage-backed assets underlying it.  Egol said Tourre did make sure to tell a superior that
Paulson helped pick the portfolio of 90 subprime mortgage-backed
securities when Goldman’s money was at risk.  The SEC sued Tourre and Goldman Sachs in 2010 over the
Abacus transaction. Paulson, run by billionaire  John Paulson ,
used the deal to bet against mortgage-backed securities.
Investors on the other side of the bet lost more than $1
billion. Goldman Sachs, based in New York, paid a then-record
$550 million to settle the case.  The SEC sued Tourre after dropping a plan to file claims
against Egol, according to interviews with SEC enforcement staff
conducted by the agency’s inspector general, which were made
available to  Bloomberg News  through a Freedom of Information Act
request. Egol testified yesterday that Tourre was the Goldman
Sachs employee primarily responsible for the Abacus transaction.  Four Hours  Egol testified for about four hours, yesterday and today,
under questioning from SEC lawyer Matthew Martens. He’s being
questioned by Tourre’s lawyers this afternoon. The SEC told U.S.
District Judge Katherine Forrest yesterday that after Egol, it
plans to call former Goldman Sachs saleswoman Gail Kreitman as a
witness and play a Jan. 17, 2007, recorded call between Kreitman
and ACA Financial Guaranty Corp.’s Lucas Westreich.  The SEC claims Kreitman told Westreich that Paulson was
taking a long, rather than a purely short, position in Abacus,
passing along false information she got from Tourre. The agency
says ACA, which lost money in a long bet on the transaction,
would have refused to serve as portfolio selection agent and
wouldn’t have invested in the transaction if it had known that
Paulson stood to gain from its failure.  The SEC said it expects Kreitman to testify that she
doesn’t recall who told her Paulson was buying the equity
tranche in Abacus, but that she generally recalls Tourre was the
most likely source of the false information.  Streamlining Case  The SEC had planned to call David Gerst, another one of
Tourre’s former Goldman Sachs colleagues, after Egol. SEC
lawyers told Forrest they moved up Kreitman as part of an effort
to streamline their case.  The change in the SEC witness list came after Martens spent
most of yesterday battling with Paolo Pellegrini, the former
Paulson executive who helped Paulson’s fund make more than $15
billion shorting subprime mortgages.  Pellegrini frequently argued with Martens and claimed the
SEC tricked and intimidated him in its investigation into the
Abacus transaction.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  