-- Guy Walks Into Citigroup Branch, Loses $40,000
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-07-18T22:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/guy-walks-into-citigroup-branch-loses-40-000.html
Looking at the way that U.S.
Senators Elizabeth Warren and John McCain are pitching their
proposal for a 21st-century version of the Glass-Steagall Act, I
can’t help but wonder if they’re making a mistake.  Mostly they have  promoted  their new  bill  in  terms  of
protecting taxpayers and the broader economy from a too-big-to-fail bank that might need another bailout. A lot of voters don’t
get the connection between the problem and the solution being
proposed, and it’s debatable if there is one. Here’s a better
argument: The reason it’s a good idea to separate securities
firms from commercial banks is to protect consumers from brokers
selling schlock investments.  If the senators are going to persuade Congress to bring
back  Glass-Steagall , they should show examples of real,
sympathetic people. This brings me to the story of Philip L.
Ramatlhware, an immigrant from Botswana who went to a  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  branch in downtown Philadelphia one day five years ago to
open a regular bank account.  He was 48 years old at the time and disabled, after being
hurt in an accident as a passenger on a Greyhound bus. His
English wasn’t good, he had no college education and his last
job had been at a fast-food kiosk at the Philadelphia airport.
In April 2008, he received $225,000 in a settlement for his
injuries, part of which went to pay legal fees. He was holding
the settlement check when he walked into the branch.  Arbitration Claim  Immediately he was referred to a broker for a “financial
consultation,” according to an arbitration claim he filed
against Citigroup. The broker assured him the money would be
invested in “guaranteed” funds and that he could have access
to them whenever the need arose, the complaint said. Ramatlhware
gave him $150,000 to invest. The broker put $5,000 into a bank
certificate of deposit, bought a $133,000 variable annuity and
invested the rest in a series of mutual funds.  Less than six months later, Ramatlhware had lost $40,000,
according to the complaint. Citigroup settled the case in 2010
for $22,500, without admitting liability, according to a report
on the case by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  There are countless tales like this of banks cross-selling
unsuitable investments to unsophisticated customers. For
whatever reason, lots of people trust the advice they get from
someone working in the lobby of their local retail bank branch,
even if they normally would never set foot in a brokerage firm.  Here’s another example from Finra’s files, involving a
Michigan couple, Alberto Ferrero and Qingwen Li, who filed a
claim in 2010 against CCO Investment Services, a unit of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  They sought $60,000, plus attorneys’
fees and other damages. They were awarded almost $72,000.  Their story began one day in April 2007 when they walked
into their local bank, Charter One, also owned by RBS. Here’s
how the arbitrator explained the November 2012  ruling  in their
favor:  “Claimants are recent immigrants to the United States, and
they had very limited investment experience,” wrote James
Graven, an attorney from Toledo,  Ohio , who was the arbitration
panel’s chairman. “Claimants went to their bank to roll over
their CD. The bank directed them to a registered representative.
Claimants’ primary objective was capital preservation.  “The broker recommended a solicited trade placing one
third of claimants’ net worth in one speculative fund. The
broker made material misrepresentations and omissions concerning
risk. Claimants lost approximately 50% of their investment in 18
months. The broker invested claimants’ whole account into one
high risk junk municipal bond fund.”  The banking industry has a  long   history  of preying on
unsuspecting depositors by selling them garbage securities
without regard to suitability. This was a  big reason  Glass-Steagall was originally  enacted  during the Great Depression. It
has been a recurring problem ever since key portions of the act
were repealed during President Bill Clinton’s administration.  Auction Rates  There were $61 billion in settlements between large banks
and the Securities and Exchange Commission over sales of
 auction-rate securities , the market for which crashed in 2008.
At Wachovia Corp., for example, the SEC  said  bank employees
helped recruit retail depositors for the investments. (Wachovia
was bought by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in 2008.)  Most recently, according to a July 8 article by  American
Banker , the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency warned
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  early last year that the bank had
wrongfully steered clients into in-house investment products. As
a result of its findings, the OCC required the company to refund
fees to an unknown number of customers. Unfortunately, we don’t
know many more details because the examination findings are
confidential (which should make this ripe for a congressional
inquiry). American Banker said its source was a person with
direct knowledge of the findings.  Now back to Senators Warren, a Democrat from  Massachusetts ,
and McCain, the  Arizona  Republican. What they should do is
canvass the country for the most gut-wrenching stories they can
find about ordinary depositors who have been ripped off by their
banks’ broker-dealer arms. Then invite them to testify before
Congress and tell the country what happened, in their own words.
The Senate  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , where
McCain is the ranking Republican, would be an ideal forum.  The best way to keep the sharks from preying on the
customers in the bank lobby is to not let them in there in the
first place. If this also helps make systemically dangerous
banks smaller, that’s all for the better.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 