-- IBM Boosts Annual Forecast After Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-07-18T21:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ibm-boosts-annual-forecast-after-earnings-beat-estimates-2-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services company, raised its annual
forecast after second-quarter earnings topped analysts’
estimates, lifted by cost cuts and share buybacks.  Excluding a $1 billion restructuring expense, profit was
$3.91 a share last quarter, the Armonk, New York-based company
said yesterday in a statement. That beat the $3.78 that analysts
projected on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
IBM now expects to earn at least $16.90 a share in 2013, up from
the $16.70 it forecast earlier this year.  IBM has managed to increase profit by shifting away from
low-margin businesses, cutting jobs and repurchasing stock --
even as revenue declines. The company is betting that faster-growing areas such as cloud computing and data analysis can
offset a broader slowdown in information-technology spending.  “We have to take them at their word that they’re going to
see some productivity improvements due to the workforce changes,
and some strength in software and services,” said  Josh Olson ,
an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri .
“They’re getting a benefit from software growing at a faster
pace than the other businesses, and that’s contributing to the
profit beat.”  The shares  climbed  1.8 percent to $197.99 at the close in
New York. The stock is up 3.4 percent this year, trailing an 18
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Earlier Shortfall  By beating earnings estimates, IBM rebounds from a rare
stumble in the previous quarter, when its profit missed
projections for the first time in eight years. Even so, revenue
continued to decline, falling 3.3 percent to $24.9 billion from
a year earlier. Analysts had expected  $25.3 billion . Sales
declined in every IBM business division other than software.  In addition to a slump in demand, currency changes took a
toll on IBM’s results last quarter. In  Japan , where the company
made about 10 percent of its sales last year, the yen fell 5
percent versus the dollar in the second quarter. The company was
“significantly impacted” by the yen’s weakness, Chief
Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on a conference call.  “Because our business in Japan is more heavily skewed to
local services, we have less ability to hedge cross-border cash
flows as compared to most other countries,” Loughridge said.  Intel, Accenture  Other technology companies are suffering as well.  Intel
Corp ., the world’s largest chipmaker, reported its fourth
straight revenue decline yesterday as customers shunned personal
computers, choosing tablets and smartphones instead.  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s largest technology-consulting
company after IBM, gave a sales forecast last month that missed
analysts’ estimates. Accenture blamed customers deferring
decisions on long-term contracts.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , meanwhile, has
missed sales estimates for two straight quarters, hurt by
slumping hardware revenue and a shift by customers to
applications delivered online.  IBM said today that one recent deal with UniCredit SpA is
indicative of how it aims to transform its business. The 10-year
outsourcing deal, worth multiple billions, will employ analytics
and cloud computing to devise new ways for the bank to do
business.  IBM prioritizes earnings over revenue growth in its  five-year road map , which is targeting profit of $20 a share by 2015,
up from the $15.25 earned last year. The plan calls for a
combination of buybacks, acquisitions and investments in faster-growing markets to reach that goal.  Hardware Shakeup  Following the previous quarter’s earnings shortfall, Chief
Executive Officer Ginni Rometty shook up the management of IBM’s
struggling hardware division. She replaced Rod Adkins with Tom Rosamilia, who had been overseeing corporate strategy. That
division saw a 12 percent decrease in sales last quarter, an
improvement from the 17 percent drop in the first quarter.  IBM also embarked on a restructuring program last quarter,
cutting jobs globally. More than  3,300 workers  were dismissed in
the U.S. and  Canada  alone, according to Alliance@IBM, an
employee group.  The company said in April that divestitures would help
offset the $1 billion cost of the restructuring. At the time,
IBM was in talks to sell parts of its server division to  Lenovo
Group Ltd. (992) , according to people familiar with the discussions.
The negotiations broke down in early May due to disagreements
over price, one person said.  ‘Active Discussions’  Yesterday the company said it was reducing its expectations
for second-half gains from a divestiture.  “The substantial second-half gain that we were counting on
in our view of EPS will not likely close at the end of this
year, but we’re still in active discussions,” Loughridge said.
“We have a very disciplined M&A process. We’re not going to
underprice or rush a divestiture simply to close within 2013.”  Second-quarter  net income  fell 17 percent to $3.23 billion,
or $2.91 a share, from $3.88 billion, or $3.34, a year earlier.
The company paid $1 billion in dividends and made $3.6 billion
in stock buybacks in the period, boosting earnings per share.  The company is seeing growth in high-margin businesses and
bookings look promising, Loughridge said.  “We’re exiting the quarter stronger than we entered,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  