-- Life Expectancy Gap Persists as Blacks Die Before Whites
-- B y   M a r y   C a m i l l e   I z l a r
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/life-expectancy-gap-persists-as-blacks-die-before-whites.html
Higher death rates among blacks in
the U.S. due to heart disease, cancer, homicide, diabetes and
childbirth conditions drive a persistent gap in  life expectancy 
for the group compared with whites, a government study found.  While Americans overall are living longer than in the
1970s, the five conditions accounted for a 3.8 year difference
in life expectancy in 2010 between blacks and whites, according
to a report today by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Whites born in 2010 are expected to live to 78.9
years, while blacks will make it to 75.1 years, the  study  found.  The report studied the relationship between cause of death
and racial differences in life expectancy. Though the gap has
narrowed from 7.6 years in 1970, the findings show where
improvement is needed to help eliminate racial disparities.  “If the decline rate continues, the disparity will keep
getting smaller, which would be great,” said Kenneth D.
Kochanek, the study’s lead researcher from the Atlanta-based
CDC’s  National Center for Health Statistics . “But we have no
way of knowing yet.”  Black men experience the most risk from  heart disease  and
cancer, living only 71 years on average while white women live
10 years longer with the highest life expectancy. Black men were
also subject to greater risk from homicide whereas black women
were affected more by diabetes.  The gap with whites was contained somewhat by fewer blacks
dying from suicide, unintentional injuries, Parkinson’s, and
chronic liver and lower respiratory diseases.  Narrowing Gap  After a slight increase in the 1980s, the CDC has seen the
difference between black and white life expectancy decline in
the past 10 years, Kochanek said. Since 1970, researchers have
seen a 17 percent increase in life expectancy for blacks and the
years between the life expectancy rates drop. Kochanek said that
the preliminary data from 2011 confirms a continued decline in
the racial gap.  “We highlighted causes so that people could understand the
magnitude of something like heart disease, which accounts for a
whole year of difference in life expectancy,” he said.  About  600,000 people  in the U.S. die from heart disease
every year, making it the number one killer, according to the
CDC. Heart disease alone costs the nation $108.9 billion each
year, according to the  American Heart Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Camille Izlar in  at 
 mizlar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  