-- Military Aid to Egypt Maintained in House Panel’s Measure
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-07-18T20:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/military-aid-to-egypt-maintained-in-house-panel-s-measure.html
The U.S. would continue to send
about $1.3 billion a year in military aid to  Egypt  if the State
Department certifies that certain conditions are being met,
under a draft spending bill to be considered by the House
Appropriations Committee.  The bill, which provides for State Department and Foreign
Operations funding for the next fiscal year, would make the
military aid contingent on the State Department certifying that
Egypt is meeting the obligations of its 1979 treaty with  Israel .
The State Department also would have to certify that Egypt is
planning free and fair elections while protecting human rights
and civil society organizations.  President  Barack Obama  requested $1.55 billion in U.S. aid
to Egypt in his fiscal 2014 budget proposal. The White House and
most leaders in Congress have so far avoided using the word
“coup” in describing the July 3 ouster of Egyptian President
Mohamed Mursi by the country’s military.  U.S. law prohibits directly providing “any assistance to
the government of any country whose duly elected head of
government is deposed by a military coup d’etat or decree,” or
a coup “in which the military plays a decisive role.”  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee today that
aid to Egypt’s military should be maintained.  “They are worth the investment,” Dempsey said, urging a
resumption of funding as soon as possible if the law required a
cutoff.  Administration Questioned  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain  has questioned the
administration’s reluctance to act more quickly to suspend aid
to Egypt.  “It is difficult for me to conclude that what happened was
anything other than a coup in which the military played a
decisive role,” McCain said in a July 8 statement.  The bill, which is scheduled to be considered tomorrow by
an Appropriations subcommittee, includes $1.3 billion in
military aid, described as funding for counterterrorism and
border security programs in Egypt’s  Sinai peninsula .  It also would provide $1.37 billion for economic support
worldwide to countries, though the breakout by country wasn’t
disclosed. Several countries would have to meet specified
conditions to receive aid. The White House requested $250
million in economic assistance for Egypt.  Military aid to Egypt funds M1A1 tanks jointly produced
with  Falls Church , Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , as
well as F-16 fighter jets manufactured by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Embassy Security  The total spending measure would provide $34.1 billion in
discretionary funds, $8 billion or 19 percent less than what was
enacted for this year for the State Department and foreign
operations, according to the committee. The bill would provide
about $6 billion less than the current level of spending when
accounting for automatic cuts known as sequestration.  “Funding is prioritized for embassy security, critical
strategic partners in the  Middle East  and  Latin America ,
democracy assistance, and life-saving HIV/AIDS and refugee
programs,” Representative Kay Granger, a Texas Republican and
chairwoman of the State-Foreign Operations Subcommittee, said
today in a statement.  The measure would provide $14.6 billion for State
Department operations and related agencies, including matching
the White House request for $4.8 billion in embassy security.
Operations at the U.S. Agency for International Development
would receive $1.4 billion, including $250.7 million for
operations in  Afghanistan , Iraq and  Pakistan .  ‘Devastating’ Cuts  The proposed funding for the department is $2.4 billion
less than the enacted level for the current fiscal year, a
reduction that prompted criticism from the administration.  State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters
today in Washington that the proposed cuts “would be
devastating if put into effect, would hurt our ability to stand
up for American interests and values around the world,”  “The U.S. can’t lead if we retreat in this way,” she
said.  Among the State Department’s concerns, she cited a 41
percent cut to economic and development assistance, as well as a
reduction in agricultural programs for  Africa .  The measure would reinstate the “Mexico City Policy” that
prohibits U.S. assistance to organizations overseas that promote
or perform abortions. A separate provision would cap funding for
family planning and reproductive health programs at the fiscal
2008 level of $461 million, in addition to prohibiting money for
the United Nations Population Fund, also known as the UNFPA.  Additionally, no funds under the measure could be spent to
implement the UN Arms Trade Treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  