-- Tim Hortons Doughnuts Fail to Score in U.S.
-- B y   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-07-18T19:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/tim-hortons-doughnuts-fail-to-score-in-u-s-.html
New York  City tourist Raeann Boynton
stares at the  Tim Hortons  restaurant menu on 53rd Street and
says she’s not impressed.  “If I have the option to go to Starbucks or Tim Hortons,
I’m going to Starbucks,” said the 17-year-old student from  New
Orleans  who ordered an ice capuccino at Tim Hortons during a
recent holiday in New York. Starbucks has “much more variety,
and it’s more convenient since there are so many of them.”  Tim Hortons’ failure to catch on with consumers like
Boynton in the U.S., where the coffee and doughnut chain’s
Canadian charm means little in a crowded fast-food market, is
causing growing unrest among its shareholders.  Activist investors say the $664 million U.S. expansion over
the last decade has been a  waste . At stake may be a forced
retreat from a market that promises the Oakville, Ontario-based
company potential growth as it reaches saturation at home.  “They are meeting the point at which they won’t be able to
open any more stores in Canada,” said  Jim Danahy , chief
executive officer of Customer LAB, a Toronto-based retail
consulting firm, in an interview. “They know long-term growth
will have to come from the US.”  Tim Hortons recently faced criticism of its U.S. strategy
from activist investors Highfields Capital Management LP of
 Boston  and New York-based Scout Capital Management LLC, which
hold 4 and 5 percent of the company’s shares, respectively. Both
investment firms pressured the company to scale back U.S.
expansion, and instead direct capital to share buybacks.  Wake-up Call  “The company’s consistent and long-standing
underperformance should long ago have been a wakeup to Tim
Hortons’ board and management,” Scout said in a letter on June
25. “We urge you to curtail the use of the company’s cash flow
to fund real estate or new store capex in the U.S.”  Scout Capital declined to offer further comment, said Josh
Pekarsky, a spokesman for the company, in an email on July 16.
Highfields Capital didn’t respond to a voicemail asking for
comment yesterday.  With a U.S. market share of only 2.7 percent, according to
retail consulting firm Technomic Inc., Tim Hortons hasn’t been
able to replicate the institutional status that it enjoys in
 Canada , where it claims to sell eight of every 10 cups of coffee
sold. The chain was founded in Hamilton in 1964 by late National
Hockey League player Tim Horton, the man credited with inventing
the slap shot. The chain plays off its founder’s hockey roots,
sponsoring minor hockey development programs, and can be found
in practically every city in the country. The company has 3,453
locations in Canada, more than McDonald’s Corp.  New York Stores   Even with the slow growth in the U.S., investors have
pushed the shares higher. Tim Hortons has risen 22 percent this
year,  compared  with a 1.7 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index, Canada’s benchmark equity gauge.
Seattle-based Starbucks has gained 28 percent, while McDonald’s
of  Oak Brook ,  Illinois  has risen 13 percent. Tim Hortons’ market
value is C$9.09 billion, making it the fifth-largest publicly
traded fast-food company in the world.  The company’s  revenue  growth has slowed from a double-digit
pace a decade ago. Sales are expected to rise about 4 percent
this year, down from 9 percent last year and 12 percent in 2011,
according to Bloomberg data. Adjusted earnings per share growth
is also projected to drop for a third straight year.  U.S. Share   Tim Hortons entered the U.S. in 1984 with a store in
Tonawanda, New York. The company has since expanded to 10 more
states, opening 804 stores in areas including  Indiana ,  Maryland ,
 Kentucky ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania . It also expanded into the
 Middle East , the U.K. and Ireland, according to the company’s
website.  Tim Hortons’ spokeswoman Hailey Dedominicis didn’t respond
to an voicemail asking for further comment on its U.S.
expansion.  While it dominates in Canada, the company derives only 5.3
percent of its revenue from its U.S. locations, which account
for 18 percent of its total stores, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Canadian stores generated C$182,000 ($175,000) in
operating profit per store last year, whereas U.S. stores
generated C$20,000 per store, said Derek Dley, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Corp., in a phone interview July 16.  Analysts have attributed the comparatively poor results in
the U.S. to the company’s inability to adapt its marketing to
U.S. consumers, along with the chain’s small market presence.  More Options  “Competitiveness and brand would be the two biggest issues
for them in the U.S.,” said Bobby Hagedorn, a St.Louis-based
analyst at  Edward Jones , in an interview. “There’s just more
options, and they’re just so much smaller.”  Hagedorn said the Canadian chain’s brand doesn’t hold any
weight when compared with peers like Dunkin Donuts and  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)   “I don’t think they’ve advertised as much as they could,
that has a lot to do with it,” said Darren Tristano, executive
vice president at  Technomic , a Chicago-based food industry
research and consulting firm. In the U.S., consumers are loyal
to local chains they’ve been going to for decades and more
advertising is needed, Tristano said in a phone interview.
“When you’re Tim Hortons in Canada, you’re used to winning
battles.”  Hockey Rinks  The brand’s U.S. ad presence pales in comparison to its
major competitors, said Boynton, the New York tourist who is
also a hockey fan.  “The only time I ever see their name is on the advertising
boards inside hockey rinks,” she said. “I always see Dunkin’
advertising.”  “The growth patterns we are seeing in the U.S. are no
different than we saw in the early days of development markets
in Canada,” said Paul D. House, the departing chief executive
officer at Tim Hortons, in a May 8 earnings call. Tim Hortons is
scheduled to report second-quarter results on Aug. 8.  The chain’s U.S. locations are branded as Tim Hortons Cafe
& Bake Shops in an attempt to emphasize fresh offerings and
explain the concept to unfamiliar consumers, says Danahy.  For customers like Chuck Kroneck of Macomb Township,
Michigan, the name change isn’t enough.  “In places where people really know hockey, they say ‘hey
let’s go to Tim Hortons,’” he said after wandering into a
nearly empty New York location. “Otherwise, they’re going
somewhere else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  