-- Argentine Bonds Rally on Alleged IMF Backing in Debt Case
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-18T16:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/imf-said-to-consider-backing-argentina-in-defaulted-debt-case.html
Argentine bonds rallied the most in
four months on speculation the International Monetary Fund is
considering supporting Argentina in its request to have the U.S.
Supreme Court review its case with defaulted bondholders.  The yield on the nation’s restructured dollar bonds due
2017 fell 186 basis points, or 1.86 percentage point, to 15.22
percent, the lowest since Feb. 11, at 12:48 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
4.50 cents to 81.61 cents on the dollar.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde will ask the fund’s
executive board to submit a friend-of-the-court brief in support
of Argentina’s June 24 petition to the Supreme Court to take a
case involving holdout creditors from the nation’s $95 billion
default in 2001, two people familiar with the request said. The
IMF board is scheduled to meet to discuss the case on July 23,
according to two IMF officials who asked not to be named because
the meeting is not public.  “Win, lose, or draw, there are going to be a couple more
innings to this game,” Ray Zucaro, who helps oversee $350
million of emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management in
Newport Beach,  California , said in a telephone interview. “The
IMF has never weighed in. Now it looks like the Supreme Court
angle is gaining potential.”  The South American nation claims a federal appeals court in
New York was wrong when it ruled in October that investors in
restructured Argentine debt can’t be paid unless holders of the
nation’s defaulted bonds, led by billionaire Paul Singer’s
Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit, are also
paid.  Default Risk  The IMF declined to comment in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.
Alfredo Scoccimarro, a spokesman for Argentine President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Argentina hasn’t issued debt in capital markets abroad
since the default and speculation the nation would opt to
suspend payments on performing debt rather than pay holdouts has
pushed the price of its credit-default swaps to the highest in
the world.  The cost to protect Argentine debt against non-payment over
five years with credit-default swaps fell 339 basis points to
2,110 basis points at 12 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by CMA Ltd.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell 123 basis points to 1,016 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
That’s still the highest in  emerging markets .  Debt Restructuring  In asking the Supreme Court to take the case, Argentina
argued that the lower-court ruling “represents an unprecedented
intrusion into the activities of a foreign state within its own
territory that raises significant foreign relations concerns for
the United States.”  The move by the Washington-based lender would come two
months after the fund’s staff published a  report  warning that
the court’s decision on Argentina, if upheld, “could exacerbate
collective action problems and risk undermining the sovereign
debt restructuring process” around the world.  “The Argentine decisions, if upheld, would likely give
holdout creditors greater leverage and make the debt
restructuring process more complicated,” the report said.  Fernandez and her predecessor and husband Nestor Kirchner
have criticized the IMF’s role during the nation’s 2001 economic
crisis and policies that they say increase sovereign debt while
sacrificing economic growth and social aid.  IMF ‘Dictatorship’  The government hasn’t allowed the fund to review its
finances, as required of all members, since 2006, the same year
it paid off its entire debt with the IMF of about $10 billion to
end what Kirchner called the lender’s “dictatorship” in a
speech on March 1, 2007. Relations grew even more tense after
Kirchner replaced senior staff at the national statistics
institute.  In February, Argentina became the first nation censured by
the IMF for not providing accurate data on inflation and
economic growth under a procedure that could end in expulsion.
The government says consumer prices rose 10.5 percent in June
from a year earlier, less than half the 23.8 percent estimate
from private economists.  Argentina has said that forcing it to pay the defaulted
bondholders immediately would expose it to $43 billion in
additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a new default.  Those potential claims surpass the nation’s  foreign
currency reserves  used to pay debt, which stand at $37.4
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  