-- India Proposes Boosting Troops Along Chinese Border, PTI Reports
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-07-18T14:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/india-proposes-boosting-troops-along-chinese-border-pti-reports.html
India, which had a military standoff
with China in April, proposes to boost its troop strength along
the two countries’ disputed border,  Press Trust of India 
reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  cleared a plan yesterday at a
cabinet meeting to create a corps, including the deployment of
an additional 50,000 troops at a cost of 650 billion rupees
($10.9 billion), the  news agency  reported late yesterday. The
Indian Air Force will deploy mid-air refueling tankers and
 Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT) .-built C-130J Hercules aircraft in the
corps headquarters at Panagarh in the state of West Bengal,
according to PTI.  Sitanshu Kar, the spokesman at the Defense Ministry in  New
Delhi , didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone.  The potential for conflict along the Himalayan frontier,
scene of a brief 1962 war, was highlighted in April as India
alleged Chinese troops had crossed into Indian-held territory in
Ladakh in northern India, triggering a three-week confrontation
that ended with an agreement negotiated by army commanders.  India accuses China of occupying 38,000 square kilometers
of territory in  Jammu and Kashmir , while the government in
Beijing lays claim to 90,000 square kilometers of land in
Arunachal Pradesh, a state in India’s northeast. More than a
dozen rounds of talks have failed to resolve the dispute.  Suspended Ties  Military relations between the two countries were suspended
in August 2010 after China issued a visa to an Indian army
officer in charge of forces in Kashmir without stamping his
passport, an act seen as questioning India’s rule over the
disputed Himalayan territory. China has a close alliance with
Pakistan, which has waged two wars with India over Kashmir.  China opposes Tibet’s spiritual leader, the  Dalai Lama , who
campaigns for Tibetan autonomy and human rights from exile in
northern India.  Leaders of both countries have sought to raise bilateral
trade and investment as discussions on a formal border pact
continue. India and China, home to more than a third of the
world’s people, have vowed to raise commerce to $100 billion by
2015, from Indian Commerce Ministry estimates of $75.6 billion
in the year to March 31, 2012.  By ensuring an amicable relationship, China and India will
provide “new engines for the world economy,” Premier  Li
Keqiang  said during a visit to the Indian capital in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  