-- Inflation Risks to Spur Demand for Aussie Linkers, Westpac Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s ,   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-07-18T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/inflation-risks-to-spur-demand-for-linker-products-westpac-says.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender by market value, expects an increase in
investor demand for debt products linked to the consumer-price
index as risks grow that central banks will stoke inflation.  Westpac, which participates in public markets for
 government securities  linked to the CPI, is also active in
arranging private transactions to help clients manage their
exposure to inflation, Tony Masciantonio, the lender’s head of
debt markets, said yesterday in an interview in Sydney.  Record demand this week at a sale of federal bonds pegged
to consumer price changes underscores the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia’s estimates that a weakening of the local currency
will spur inflation. Westpac’s push to build CPI-linked
capability is part of a broader effort to expand its debt
business in Australia and in  Asia .  “We’ve got lots of government, infrastructure, property
clients who have  CPI (AUCPIYOY)  exposure, and we have institutional and
other clients who want to invest in that exposure,” said
Masciantonio. “Building that capability makes absolute sense.”  While inflation has so far been benign, there is a
possibility that global policy makers could unintentionally
spark price rises following unprecedented levels of monetary
easing, he said. It doesn’t take much for people to start
thinking about the prospect of accelerating inflation, he said.  Record Low  The RBA has already cut its benchmark rate to a record low
2.75 percent and traders are betting on at least one more
quarter-point cut by the end of 2013, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  is
contemplating a possible tapering of the quantitative easing
program that has helped push down borrowing costs.  Investors bid for 8.98 times the A$200 million ($183
million) of Feb. 21, 2022 in federal inflation-linked bonds
offered on July 16, the highest bid-to-cover ratio for any notes
in data from the Australian Office of Financial Management
dating to 1982.  Westpac is the top arranger of bonds so far this year in
Australia, having trailed Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group
Ltd. for the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “For us absolutely Australia and New Zealand is our core
market and we want to be the top player in this market,”
Masciantonio said. “It takes a while to build momentum and how
it has fallen our way year to date is pretty pleasing.”  Adding Staff  The bank has added staff in Australia including John Chauvel, who was hired this year to run Westpac’s debt capital
markets business. It also increased its presence in Asia,
quadrupling the size of its Singapore dealing room and adding
staff from trading to origination and sales.  Westpac is also assessing how to help clients raise debt in
the so-called Term Loan B market in the U.S., said Masciantonio.
If it went ahead with such transactions, the bank would operate
selectively as borrower demand is currently curbed by market
volatility and the high hedging costs of raising loans offshore,
he said.  “Like I suspect all the major banks are, we are absolutely
looking at Term Loan B because it is a competitive threat to us
servicing our existing clients,” he said.  In the U.S., Australian companies have borrowed over $9
billion since October last year, when  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) , the nation’s third-biggest iron ore miner, raised $5
billion in the Term Loan B market, replacing bank facilities on
looser terms. The lenders are typically U.S. institutional
investors rather than banks.  “If that market became massive like the U.S. private
placement market, then we would have to do something more
meaningful,” said Masciantonio. “It really depends how that
market evolves and how much our clients use it and how much of a
competitive threat it is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  