-- Insurance Premiums Seen Lower Than Forecast on Health Law
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-18T16:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/insurance-premiums-said-lower-than-forecast-on-health-law.html
Premiums for some medical plans to
be sold to the uninsured next year will be 18 percent less
costly than government analysts expected under President  Barack
Obama ’s signature health-care law, his administration reported.  A benchmark measure of the Affordable Care Act’s promise
shows monthly rates for “silver” plans will average $321 in 11
states examined in a  report  today from the Health and Human
Services Department.  Congressional Budget Office  estimates from
last year saw silver premium rates averaging $392, HHS said.  Obama touted the findings at a White House event designed
to promote the benefits of a law that his Republican opponents
in Congress are trying to derail before the core provisions take
hold Jan. 1. The report shows that only one state,  Vermont ,
reported premiums for silver plans higher than the CBO estimate
-- $400. New Mexico had the cheapest at $226.  “They’re trying to get the message out that health reform
is a good deal,”  Joseph Antos , a health economist at the
 American Enterprise Institute  who advises the CBO, said in a
phone interview. “They’re comparing it not to what people
actually pay today, or what people expect to pay, but rather
frankly a guess from the Congressional Budget Office from last
year that really doesn’t represent a good indicator of whether
people are happy with their options or not.”  The White House press secretary,  Jay Carney , cited a report
from  New York  state officials yesterday that forecast health
insurance premiums will drop about 50 percent on average for
consumers who buy new plans through a state-run marketplace
created under the health-care law.  Meeting Targets  “This is in line with what we’ve seen in other states,
like California and  Oregon ,” Carney said. “Competition and
transparency in the marketplaces, plus the hard effort by those
committed to making the law work, are leading to affordable,
new, and better choices for families.”  Obama, citing slower growth of health-care costs and
rebates some consumers have received from their insurers, said
in his speech today that the law has proven effective at
delivering “more choices, better benefits, a check on rising
costs and higher quality health care.”  The health-care law seeks to expand coverage to most of the
nation’s 50 million uninsured people. About 7 million people are
expected to enroll in exchange plans next year, rising to 25
million by 2018, according to the CBO. The law also encourages
states to expand their Medicaid programs for the poor to cover
people earning close to poverty-level wages.  Young Buyers  Many people who are uninsured probably expect coverage on
the exchanges “to be such a good deal that you can’t pass it
up,” Antos said. While that should be true for people with
extremely low incomes, once you get above about 200 percent of
poverty “that’s absolutely not going to be true,” he said.  The HHS report examines the price of silver plans because
they determine the amount of subsidies people will receive when
they shop in the exchanges. There will be four levels of
coverage available through the exchanges -- bronze, silver, gold
and platinum. Bronze plans, covering 60 percent of the cost of
care, will be the cheapest. Platinum covers 90 percent of care.  For the president’s plan to succeed, almost 40 percent of
the 7 million people targeted in the first year need to be
young, healthy adults to balance the cost of insuring older
people at higher risk of illness.  Health Access  The cheapest bronze plan  available  to a 25-year-old in Los
Angeles County’s 90021 zip code next year will be $152 a month,
and subsidies would reduce the premium for many purchasers. That
same person today could buy a basic health plan from  Kaiser
Permanente  for as little as $88, according to the online broker
 EHealth Inc. (EHTH)  That policy doesn’t cover all of the benefits that
would be required under the health law, and anyone with a health
condition would likely be quoted a higher price or perhaps
denied coverage altogether.  The health law keeps insurers from denying coverage and
also requires them to charge the same rates to men and women
starting next year. It also prohibits them from charging older
people more than three times the cost of the cheapest plan for
young adults. People earning as much as four times higher than
the poverty level -- meaning an income of about $94,000 for a
family of four this year -- will be eligible for subsidies that
will further reduce the plans’ cost beyond the advertised
prices.  “The reforms in the health care law ensure consumers will
have access to better coverage at a lower cost in 2014,” HHS
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a  statement .  Public Perception  About 60 percent of men ages 18 to 34 who currently buy
insurance on their own may be eligible for subsidies or expanded
Medicaid programs next year, according to the report’s authors,
Laura Skopec, a program analyst in the HHS’s Planning and
Evaluation division, and Richard Kronick, the deputy assistant
secretary for health policy in the division.  “Concerns expressed that millions of young men will be
priced out of coverage due to the new rating reforms may be
unfounded,” Skopec and Kronick wrote.  Obama has been trying to combat negative public perceptions
about the law that have resulted from Republican opposition as
well as his administration’s failures to promote and implement
it.  Earlier this month, the administration decided to delay a
requirement that businesses with 50 or more employees provide
workers with insurance, a key part of the law’s goal of
expanding coverage to most of the nation’s uninsured people.  House Votes  Republicans seized on that decision as evidence that the
law is unworkable and should be repealed. Yesterday, the
Republican majority in the House voted to scale back two of the
most significant provisions of the law, the individual and
employer mandates.  “I recognize there are still a lot of folks, in this town
at least, who are rooting for this law to fail,” Obama said.
“We’re just going to blow through that stuff and keep on doing
the right thing for the American people.”  With the House bills unlikely to pass the Democratic-controlled Senate, the votes were largely symbolic measures
designed to highlight opposition to the law and put Democrats on
the defensive. Twenty-two Democrats voted with Republicans to
delay the individual mandate, which requires most Americans to
carry insurance beginning Jan. 1.  Building Enrollment  Republican-controlled state legislatures and governors also
have refused to cooperate with the law’s initiative to expand
Medicaid coverage for the poor and declined to set up exchanges
where individuals can buy insurance, leaving the job to the
federal government.  The HHS report examined 2014 premiums for California,
Colorado,  New Mexico , New York, Ohio, Oregon,  Rhode Island ,
Vermont,  Virginia , Washington state and Washington, D.C.  All but Ohio and Virginia have been largely cooperative
with the federal government in implementing the health-care law.  “It is theoretically possible that the 11 states for which
we have data are not representative of the rest of the nation,”
Skopec and Kronick wrote. That “seems unlikely,” they said,
because health care costs in the 11 states are in-line with
national averages, as are premiums for insurance plans sold to
small businesses.  A “likely explanation” for their findings, they said,
“is that greater competition and greater transparency are
driving down prices” for plans to be sold in new government-run
marketplaces called exchanges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  