-- Intangible Investment Rewrites Economic History as GDP Meets R&D
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2013-07-18T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/intangible-investment-rewrites-economic-history-as-gdp-meets-r-d.html
On July 31, the U.S. Bureau of
Economic Analysis will rewrite history on a grand scale by
restating the size and composition of the gross domestic
product, all the way back to the first year it was recorded,
1929.  The biggest change will be the reclassification of research
and development. R&D will no longer be treated as a mere
expense, like the electricity bill or food for the company
cafeteria. It will be categorized on the government’s books as
an investment, akin to constructing a factory or digging a mine.
In another victory for intellectual property, original works of
art such as films, music and books will be treated for the first
time as long-lived assets.  It’s a great idea, if late. The BEA has the 20th-century
economy down cold. It can tell you about personal income trends
in Anchorage,  Alaska , or America’s annual output of rubber
products and plastics. Now the agency is putting more attention
on R&D --- the lifeblood of the 21st-century economy -- by moving
it from an experimental “satellite” account into the heart of
measured GDP.  GDP is the main yardstick of macro-economics -- the sum
total of all goods and services produced in the country.
Business R&D was never counted in that total. It was considered
an expense, an “intermediate input,” that ate into profit.
Intangible investments such as R&D and the creation of artistic
originals have been like physicists’ dark matter: influential
but invisible. As Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in a 2011 speech, “We will be more likely to promote innovative
activity if we are able to measure it more effectively and
document its role in economic growth.”  One-Time Boost  The effect of the revision will be immediate. Measured GDP
will get a one-time boost of about 2.7 percent when the
government starts counting R&D and artistic creation as
investments. ( New Mexico  and  Maryland  will get the biggest
lifts.) The future growth rate will probably be fractionally
higher, too. With R&D treated as an investment, measured
economic growth from 1959 to 2007 would have been 3.39 percent
annually instead of 3.32 percent, the BEA estimates.  Intangible investment is far from a faddish new idea. In
1908 the sociologist and economist Thorstein Veblen used the
phrase to encompass everything from advertising to design. A
century before the iPad’s launch, he wrote of companies that
give their goods “a more elegant finish for the sake of a
readier sale, beyond what would conduce to their brute
serviceability.”  Schumpeter’s Theory  In the 1930s and 1940s, economist  Joseph Schumpeter  made
intangibles the centerpiece of his theory that economies grow
through innovation. Businesses, he observed, innovated to
differentiate their products so they could charge higher prices.  Economic theory was ahead of accounting practice. Stage 1
for recognition of intangibles was the reclassification in 1999
of software development as an investment. That was appropriate,
since a big software installation can last longer than the
sturdiest piece of factory equipment. The second stage is part
of a change agreed to through a United Nations working group in
2008. Australia and  Canada  have already made the switch, and
 Europe  will do so in 2014.  The U.S. generates a disproportionate share of its wealth
from the likes of patents, copyrights, trademarks, designs,
cultural creations and business processes. To see the intangible
economy in numbers, look at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s balance sheet:
Property, plant and equipment, those traditional forms of wealth
from the industrial and preindustrial eras, account for
$15 billion of its $400 billion market value --- just 4 percent
of the total. They’re only 7 percent of market value at
moviemaker  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and drugmaker  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   U.S. Leadership  Thanks in part to the power of ideas, the nine or 10 most
valuable companies in the world are headquartered in the U.S.
(It’s nine on days when PetroChina Co. edges ahead of  Wells
Fargo & Co .) Only three --- General Electric Co., Exxon Mobil
Corp., and Chevron Corp. --- are in the world’s top 10 for
tangible fixed capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  If all forms of intangible investment were officially
recorded, they would exceed investment in bricks, mortar and
machines, according to estimates by economists Carol Corrado of
the Conference Board and Charles Hulten of the  University of
Maryland . Intangibles include brand-building, worker training
and the development of advanced organizational practices like
total quality management, which meet the definition of an
investment because they create assets that will produce revenue
a year or more in the future, says Hulten. Those, however, will
continue to be treated by the government as expenses. Brent Moulton, the BEA’s associate director for national economic
accounts, says their investment nature can’t yet be measured
accurately enough to use as official data.  Measurement’s Limitations  That underscores the limits of trying to come up with a
single statistical measure of the nation’s economic activity.
Government statisticians have to make some heroic assumptions
and generalizations to incorporate intangibles like R&D and
works of art. Not knowing their true worth, the BEA assigns
value to them by estimating the cost to create them. It thus
undervalues Hollywood blockbusters and overvalues big-budget
flops, assuming that the errors will cancel out in the long run.  Then there’s the challenge of calculating depreciation.
Ideas don’t rust like machines, but they do lose value to their
creators as they are copied or superseded. The BEA assigns an
annual depreciation rate of 10 percent to pharmaceutical R&D
assets, versus 36 percent for computer systems design; 9 percent
for movies, but 27 percent for music. In a priceless footnote,
it writes: “Long-lived television programs include situation
comedies and drama programs. Other types of television programs,
including news programs, sporting events, game shows, soap
operas and reality programming, have much shorter service lives
and will not be capitalized.”  Value Judgments  So Under the Dome is an investment but America’s Got Talent
isn’t. You can see how quickly a good economic theory slides
into guesstimation and value judgments. And measuring intangible
investment is only a first step toward figuring out how much
that investment contributes to economic growth.Robert Atkinson,
president of the Information Technology & Innovation Foundation,
criticizes “intangible-capital fundamentalists” who, he says,
unreasonably dismiss the contribution to growth of investment in
tangible high-tech equipment.  No one said this would be easy. Steering a $16 trillion
economy with the aid of historical GDP data is like driving a
car while looking in the rearview mirror. But if that’s what
policy makers must do -- and it is -- they need to make sure
that the view to the rear is as clear as possible. That’s the
purpose of recognizing R&D and artistic originals as
investments, and bringing the national accounts more closely in
line with the way the economy works and businesspeople think. Is
it perfect? No. But better to be imprecisely correct than
precisely incorrect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net  