-- Iosco Guide, MetLife ‘Label’, Fondiaria-SAI: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/iosco-guide-metlife-label-fondiaria-sai-compliance.html
Benchmarks underpinning markets from
oil to currencies face tougher oversight under plans by global
regulators to prevent any repeat of Libor-style fraud.  Rates should be based as much as possible on real
transaction data, rather than estimates, and banks should tackle
conflicts of interest, the International Organization of
Securities Commissions, a Madrid-based group that harmonizes
global market rules, said in  guidelines  published yesterday.  Authorities are grappling with a growing number of rate-setting scandals. The measures are “an important step” in
restoring the credibility of tarnished benchmarks, Martin
Wheatley, chief executive officer of the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority and a co-head of the Iosco benchmark task force, said
in a statement. “These principles set out clear and robust
standards.”  Probes into potential rigging have expanded beyond
interbank lending rates to include benchmarks underpinning
 energy prices , currency trades and derivatives.  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission this week
ordered Barclays and four former traders to pay a combined
$487.9 million in fines, as part of an investigation of alleged
manipulation of energy markets.  In a separate probe, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is reading through 1 million e-mails and instant
messages from traders for evidence of manipulation of the
ISDAfix rate.  Organizations that administrate benchmarks will be required
by regulators to “publicly disclose their compliance” with the
guidelines within 12 months, Iosco said. The group will carry
out a review in 18 months to see how well the measures have been
enforced.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Cyber Attack Should Be Deemed Systemic Risk, Exchange Study Says  A “significant” number of exchanges have fought off
sabotage via the Internet in the last year and the majority of
bourses worldwide say it is a  systemic risk  to markets,
according to a  study  co-authored by  the World Federation of
Exchanges .  About 53 percent of exchanges surveyed have been hit by a
cyber-attack in the past year. American venues were most likely,
with 67 percent saying they had to fight them off, the joint
study by  the International Organization of Securities
Commissions  and the WFE found. About 89 percent say it
represents a systemic risk, the study said.  “A number of respondents could envision a large-scale,
coordinated and successful cyber-attack on financial markets
having a substantial impact on market integrity and
efficiency,” the study said. Asked to define such an attack,
“the majority of respondents proposed scenarios with more far-reaching consequences, such as halting trading,” it said.  About 59 percent of exchanges in the report said there’s a
framework for sanctions against cyber-crime in their
jurisdiction. Of these, 55 percent said that sanction regimes
are an effective deterrent.  Exchanges said “100 percent security is illusionary,” and
about a quarter said the current measures may not be sufficient
to withstand a large-scale and coordinated attack.  Nigerian Stock Exchange Plans Trading Halts to Curb Volatility  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGSEINDX)  plans to halt trading if
there’s a drop of 5 percent in a bid to avert a crash in an
index that’s rallied 31 percent this year, the second-best
performing equity market in Africa.  The exchange is proposing a rule to stop trading in all
securities for 30 minutes if there’s “extraordinary market
volatility” on the Lagos-based bourse, it said in notice on its
website. If the market falls another 5 percent, trading will be
halted for the day, it said.  Nigeria’s exchange is putting in the measures after a
market crash in 2008, spurred by a global financial crisis,
prompted foreign investors to sell out of Africa’s biggest oil
producer.  The exchange wants public comments on the plan before July
22 with the rule coming into effect after approval by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Compliance Action  Ligresti Family Members Arrested in Fondiaria-SAI Probe  Members of Italy’s Ligresti family, who once controlled
insurer  Fondiaria-SAI SpA (FSA) , were arrested yesterday on charges of
false accounting and market manipulation, police said.  Salvatore Ligresti and his two daughters were among seven
people taken into custody by Italy’s financial police, according
to an e-mailed statement from its Turin office. They are accused
of misleading at least 12,000 investors by concealing 600
million euros ($789 million) of losses at Fondiaria-SAI in its
2010 accounts.  Ligresti is under house arrest, while his daughters Giulia
Maria and Jonella are being detained at an undisclosed jail,
police said. Three former Fondiaria executives, Emanuele
Erbetta, Antonio Talarico and Fausto Marchionni also have been
charged. An arrest warrant was issued for Gioacchino Paolo
Ligresti, one of Salvatore Ligresti’s sons, who is in
 Switzerland , police said.  Gian Luigi Tizzoni, a defense attorney for the Ligrestis,
wasn’t immediately available to comment on the case.  According to the police statement, the Ligrestis
underestimated the company’s reserves for outstanding insurance
claims, allowing it to distribute 253 million euros of earnings
to the family holding company  Premafin Finanziaria SpA (PF) , instead
of losses.  MetLife Nears Systemic-Risk Label on Latest U.S. Panel Decision  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, was moved to
the last stage of a regulatory review that may impose extra
Federal Reserve oversight.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, voted to move
New York-based MetLife into a third round of evaluation that may
label the company systemically important, the insurer said July
16 in a statement. The designation indicates a firm could
endanger the financial system if it were to fail.  “Not only does exposure to MetLife not threaten the
financial system, but I cannot think of a single firm that would
be threatened by its exposure to MetLife,” MetLife Chief
Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  said in the statement. “The
life-insurance industry is a source of financial stability.”  Kandarian, 61, has said the insurer doesn’t have enough
“interconnectedness” with other companies to damage the
broader economy. The Fed can impose tighter capital rules on
companies named systemically important.  MetLife wasn’t included in the initial round of
designations because it was already overseen by the Fed,
stemming from its ownership of a bank. The company sold deposits
to end the central bank’s oversight this year.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, received the risk label and is appealing the decision
to the council. MetLife had $842 billion in assets as of March
31, while Prudential held $724 billion.  MetLife and Prudential have been pressuring the Fed to
avoid bank-like capital rules for insurers that are declared
systemically important and subjected to Fed supervision.  Prudential won the support of the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  during a vote of U.S. regulators last month, two people
familiar with the matter said.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council voted 7-2 to
designate an unidentified company as systemically important,
meaning the firm could endanger the financial system if it were
to fail, according to minutes of the June 3 meeting released
yesterday by the Treasury Department. The company was
Prudential, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information wasn’t officially released.  Bob DeFillippo , a Prudential spokesman, declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Bernanke Testifies on Fed Policy, Economy and Systemic Risk  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testified about
the U.S. economic outlook and Fed monetary policy before the
 House Financial Services Committee  in  Washington .  He also provided an update on progress relating to reducing
systemic risk among the largest national firms, in particular
discussing rules relating to capital buffers.  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  Global Banks in ‘No-Win’ Situation, Mizuho’s Antos Says  Jim Antos, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities
Asia Ltd., talked about the outlook for the global banking
industry.  He spoke with  Rishaad Salamat  on Bloomberg Television’s
“On the Move.”  For the video, click here.  Lew Warns Congress Against Changing Dodd-Frank Financial Rules  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said he is “stepping
on the accelerator” to implement the Dodd-Frank Act and warned
lawmakers against trying to change the financial rules overhaul.  The comments were part of remarks prepared for the  CNBC 
Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha Conference in  New York 
yesterday. “Major change is under way and will continue as the
powerful tools created in Dodd-Frank are implemented fully.”  Some lawmakers in Washington are trying to push through
modifications. U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts
Democrat,  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, and a bipartisan
group of lawmakers have introduced a bill aimed at re-creating
the  Glass-Steagall Act , the Depression-era measure that
separated commercial and investment banking. Another Senate
proposal would limit bank size without restoring Glass-Steagall.  In Lew’s address yesterday, he said the main elements of
Dodd-Frank “will be substantially in place” by the end of this
year.  He called the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading
“particularly important, and I will continue to push for swift
completion of a rule that keeps faith with the intent of the
statute and the president’s vision.”  Comings and Goings  Cordray Sworn In as Director of Consumer Protection Bureau  Richard Cordray  was sworn in as director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau by Vice President  Joe Biden , the
White House said.  Cordray was confirmed by the Senate July 16. The 66-34 vote
ended a battle between the Obama administration and Senate
Republicans over the structure of the agency and the use of
presidential appointment powers that created uncertainty over
the legality of agency’s rulings and enforcement actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  