-- Liquidity Myth Seen by JPMorgan as Trading Gains: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-07-18T09:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/liquidity-myth-seen-by-jpmorgan-as-trading-gains-credit-markets.html
Rising corporate-bond trading 
signals that liquidity is robust even as Wall Street’s biggest
banks cut their inventories of the securities in response to new
rules and regulations, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Average daily trading volumes in U.S. investment-grade
corporate bonds has increased 18 percent since the end of April
from the same period last year, while dealers pared holdings of
the debt by 54 percent in the five weeks ended July 3, data from
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Federal
Reserve show. The so-called bid-ask spread that dealers charge
in bond trades grew 3 basis points in the period, less than half
the increase in 2011 amid Europe’s fiscal crisis.  Almost five years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., credit markets are becoming better oiled to
withstand stress, JPMorgan analysts led by Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou wrote in a July 12 note. Rather than driving
liquidity by taking big positions, banks are simply acting as
the go-between for buyers and sellers, while the number of
market makers increases and electronic systems emerge to
facilitate trading, they said.  Market Buffers  “The only way for the market to work when dealers can’t
act as a buffer is if you’re able to match a seller from a
mutual fund with a buyer from an institutional investor, and so
far that has worked,” Bank of America Corp. credit strategist
Hans Mikkelsen said in a telephone interview. “Back in the old
days, dealers were able to act as buffers in the market: they
would accumulate bonds on their balance sheets, and that’s not
happening anymore.”  Dollar-denominated, investment-grade bonds lost 5 percent
in the two months ended June, the biggest declines since the
2008 financial crisis, as concern mounted that the Fed was
preparing to scale back stimulus measures that have bolstered
debt prices, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The recent volatility episode has not significantly
affected either trading volumes or the bid-ask spreads of the
largest U.S. high-grade corporate bonds,” the JPMorgan analysts
wrote. “Broker-dealers have become a lot more efficient and can
sustain a high volume of trading with a smaller inventory.”  Record Offerings  Investors snapping up a record pace of new corporate-bond
sales may have muted trading of existing debt earlier this year,
Alexander Sedgwick, head of research at MarketAxess Holdings
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “With low volatility,
there hasn’t been as much of an impetus up until the last couple
weeks to move any money around,” he said.  A MarketAxess index that tracks the bid-ask spreads, or the
difference between where bonds are bought and sold, for the
1,000 largest and most actively traded issues widened to 10.5
basis points on July 15 from 7.5 on April 29, according to the
data from the electronic bond-trading platform owner. Over a
five-month period ended Sept. 19, 2011, as markets were being
roiled by concern a Greece default would jeopardize Europe’s
common currency, the spread widened to 15.6 from 8.5, the data
show.  “Since the crisis, we’ve generally run portfolios with
higher levels of liquidity, knowing that the markets were going
to be more volatile and we want to be able to be nimble,” said
Ashish Shah, the head of global credit at AllianceBernstein
Holding LP, which oversees $257 billion in fixed-income assets.
“That lesson still holds. You can’t give up that liquidity.”  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
corporate-bond losses in the U.S. fell to a seven-week low after
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said central bank plans to curtail
stimulus could be delayed if the economy weakens. Honda Motor
Co. sold $1.5 billion of bonds backed by auto loans after
increasing the offering’s size by $500 million. Harbor Freight
Tools USA Inc. set the rate it will pay on a $1 billion
covenant-light term loan it’s seeking to refinance debt and
support a dividend.  Bonds of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, accounting for 4 percent of the volume of dealer
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets sold $2.5 billion of
2.9 percent, five-year notes on July 16, Bloomberg data show.
The securities rose 0.2 cent from the issue price to 100.1 cents
on the dollar to yield 2.87 percent, according to Trace.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.4 basis point to 17.45 basis
points. The gauge typically widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of government securities and narrows when they
favor assets such as company debentures.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 2.1 basis points to a
mid-price of 75.9 basis points, the lowest since May 28,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed’s $85 billion of monthly asset purchases that have
been bolstering credit markets aren’t on a “preset course,”
Bernanke said yesterday.  “We’re going to be responding to the data,” the Fed
chairman said in testimony before the House Financial Services
Committee. “If the data are stronger than we expect, we’ll move
more quickly” to reduce purchases, he said. If data “don’t
meet the kinds of expectations we have about where the economy’s
going, then we would delay that process or potentially increase
purchases for a time.”  Honda Offering  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, dropped 1.1 to 104.2 at 9:59 a.m. in
 London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia index
of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan  slid 4 to 133.  The credit-swaps indexes typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  A top-ranked $458 million portion of Honda’s offering
maturing in 2.1 years yields 27 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, Bloomberg data show.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose for an eighth day, climbing 0.07 cent to 98.18 cents on the
dollar. That’s the longest stretch of increases for the measure,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, since it rose for 17 days ended May 13.  Harbor Freight  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Harbor Freight, the tool and equipment retailer, is
proposing to pay interest at 4 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, with a 1 percent minimum on the
lending benchmark, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction who asked not to be identified because terms are
private.  In  emerging markets , relative yields narrowed 6 basis
points to 336 basis points, or 3.36 percentage points, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The gauge has fallen from a
one-year high of 395.3 on June 24.  Primary dealers cut their holdings of securities including
corporate bonds, commercial paper, and mortgage-backed debt by
76 percent to $56 billion at the end of March from a peak of
$235 billion in October 2007,  New York Fed  data show. The banks
pared positions in investment-grade corporate bonds to $6.3
billion as of July 3, from $13.5 billion on May 29, according to
data the Fed started releasing in a reformatted version in
April.  Paring Positions  The banks pared the holdings as the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act in
the U.S. seeks to limit the risks lenders take with their own
money and the 27-country Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
raises minimum capital standards. The Fed figures overstate how
much banks were keeping in inventories to facilitate trading,
according to the JPMorgan analysts, who attributed most of the
decline to proprietary trading desks scaling back or closing to
comply with the new rules.  Broker-dealers are now focused on trading on behalf of
clients, rather than taking positions wagering on the direction
of the market, JPMorgan’s Panigirtzoglou said. While the total
number of dealers has declined since the crisis, new market
participants from electronic trading platforms to non-bank
trading firms have balanced the pool, he said.  Electronic Trading  “It is not only traditional broker-dealers who provide
inventory for market making, but other non-traditional players
are now providing their own inventory,” Panigirtzoglou said in
an e-mail.  Investors are turning to electronic platforms to “access
more fragmented liquidity” and reach more trading partners,
Richard Prager, BlackRock Inc.’s head of trading and liquidity
strategies, said in a telephone interview.  BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, teamed with
MarketAxess to create a unified bond-trading platform, routing
trades on their Aladdin Trading Network through MarketAxess.
About 12 percent of high-grade corporate bonds tracked by Trace
were traded on MarketAxess in the first quarter, up from less
than 6 percent in the same period of 2009, the company  said .  “An investor’s expectation of what they can move has
changed,” Prager said. “You have to work harder now to get
trades done; and the bigger amounts, you have to be more patient
because the liquidity isn’t there.”  New Paradigm  The market rout last month was fueled largely by sales of
the easiest-to-trade securities as investors hewed to what
Prager calls the “new liquidity paradigm.”  “You buy something because you think it’s really very
liquid, and you actually end up suffering in a selloff because
investors end up selling what they can,” said Bank of America’s
Mikkelsen. “If interest rates rise too rapidly again, you don’t
want to hold the most liquid stuff because that’s what gets
liquidated.”  Bank bonds, the most liquid corporate debt, were sold first
by investors, exacerbating losses in that corner of the market,
Mikkelsen said.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold bank bonds
rather than similar-maturity government securities widened as
much as 48 basis points to 187 basis points on June 24 from a
more than five-year low on May 22, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Banking Corporate index. That compares with
a 31 basis-point increase to as high as 172 for the average
high-grade corporate bond, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Index shows.  “It was reassuring to see the amount of liquidity that was
actually available,” largely offered by institutional money
managers, said AllianceBernstein’s Shah. “You’re getting paid
to provide liquidity as an investor in the same way that dealers
used to be paid to provide liquidity, just to put up their own
capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  