-- Iran Adds Military Aid to Syria as Russia Gives Money
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-18T15:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/iran-adds-military-aid-to-syria-as-russia-gives-money.html
Iran  is increasing its support for
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in an effort to ensure its
Shiite ally stays in power, a U.S. State Department official
said today.  Iran has supplied the Syrian regime with military equipment
and is supporting Hezbollah troops who are increasingly involved
in heavy front-line fighting, said the official, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Syria  is also getting help from Russia, which continues to
fill existing arms contracts with Syria and lets it skirt
international financial sanctions by allowing the regime and
individuals to use Russian banks, the official said.  The U.S. and other backers of the Syrian rebels haven’t
reached a consensus on what to do. The Syrian political
opposition has been slow to unite, electing new leadership last
week. That has delayed efforts to hold talks between rebels and
the regime on a political transition.  The U.S. also has pushed allies to coordinate the supply of
military equipment and weapons to ensure it goes to moderate
factions. Coordination in sending military supplies to
opposition General Salim Idris, head of the Supreme Military
Command, has improved, the State Department official said.  By strengthening the Supreme Military Command, the U.S. and
allies hope to exert greater pressure on the regime and
eventually push it to the bargaining table to find a negotiated
solution, the official said.  Opposition figures have alleged to the U.S. that  Russia  is
sending arms to Assad’s regime beyond existing contracts it
committed to fill, the official said.  Russian Banks  Russian banks continue to work with the Syrian regime, and
Syrian individuals and Russian authorities have declined to
impose any restrictions on their banks doing business with
Syria, the official said.  Money from some individual supporters in Gulf nations still
flows toward the al-Nusra Front, an al-Qaeda affiliated rebel
group that has been declared a terrorist organization by the
 United States , the official said.  Iran’s policies have confirmed the U.S.’s position that
Iran shouldn’t be included in a peace conference to negotiate a
political transition between the Syrian government and rebels.  Iran, a Shiite Muslim nation, sees Assad -- a member of the
minority Alawite sect that is a Shiite offshoot -- as an ally
against the Sunni Muslim countries that surround it.  Iraq’s lack of help in inspecting Syrian-bound Iranian
planes suspected of carrying weapons and personnel continues to
be a problem, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Amman at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  