-- IRS Inspector General Disturbed by Documents He Lacked
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-18T20:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/irs-inspector-general-disturbed-by-documents-he-lacked.html
The  Internal Revenue Service ’s
inspector general told Congress he’s “disturbed” that he
didn’t receive until this month a July 2010 document that
mentioned scrutiny of “progressive” nonprofit groups.  “I am very disturbed that these documents were not
provided to our auditors at the outset, and we are currently
reviewing this issue,” J. Russell George told the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee. “I’m concerned that
there may be additional pieces of information that we don’t
have.”  George’s May 14 audit, showing the IRS singled out Tea
Party groups that sought tax-exempt status, sparked a
controversy that has cost IRS executives their jobs and led to a
criminal investigation. Democrats have criticized George for
failing to disclose that Republican-leaning groups weren’t the
only ones that received extra scrutiny.  The inquiries into the IRS have become increasingly
partisan as Republicans continue their pursuit of Washington-based IRS officials who were involved in the review process.  ‘Unanswered Question’  “The big unanswered question of all these hearings is why.
Why were these groups targeted,” said Representative Scott DesJarlais, a Tennessee Republican. “There does seem to be
somebody who doesn’t want the truth to come out.”  Democrats have argued that the initial insinuations by
Republicans of a political conspiracy have proved to be untrue.  The documents that were the focus of George’s comments
today include a presentation that lumped progressives with Tea
Party groups and meeting minutes that said progressives weren’t
Tea Party groups.  George said he doesn’t have complete findings on how
progressive groups were scrutinized.  He said in his testimony that IRS officials were the ones
who said they had focused on Tea Party groups for potential
impermissible political involvement and not progressive groups
identified in another part of a Be on the Lookout, or BOLO,
document.  “We focused our audit on the BOLO entries shown in this
document precisely because the IRS represented that these were
the criteria relevant to potential political cases,” George
said.  Pro-Democrat Groups  George said he had known since May 20 that there were BOLO
listings that had included Democratic-leaning groups. He said he
would have written the audit differently if he had known about
that beforehand.  “You know people’s heads would explode if you talked about
Tea Party BOLOs and you didn’t mention any other ones,” said
Representative Matthew Cartwright, a Pennsylvania Democrat.  George responded to criticism from Democrats that he had
blocked the release of certain information about Democratic-leaning groups on the July 2010 document. He said the IRS
changed its mind about whether that information is subject to
taxpayer-privacy rules and that the inspector general’s lawyers
are reviewing the issue.  George also said that he had been told there was a
“smoking gun” in e-mails showing the origins of the scrutiny.
That’s why investigators looked at 5,500 e-mails and found no
evidence of political motivation.  The committee also heard from Elizabeth Hofacre, who
processed applications in Cincinnati, and Carter Hull, a retired
IRS employee based in Washington.  Representative  Jim Jordan , an  Ohio Republican , focused on
the fact that Hull, a 48-year veteran of the IRS, had Tea Party
cases taken from him and given to a junior employee after a
meeting with attorneys from the IRS chief counsel’s office.  “The real harassment was never getting to an answer” as
the groups were kept waiting in their bid for tax-exempt status,
Jordan said.  Jordan said the committee plans to seek testimony from
William Wilkins, the chief counsel of the IRS. Wilkins is a
political appointee of President  Barack Obama . So far, no
evidence has emerged that Wilkins was involved in the scrutiny
of politically oriented nonprofit groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  