-- It’s Rabbi Versus Rabbi in $17 Billion Dot-Kosher Battle
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/it-s-rabbi-versus-rabbi-in-17-billion-dot-kosher-battle.html
A battle to control the word
“kosher” in Internet addresses is pitting Jewish groups
against each other to determine whether a food prepared under
ancient strictures should have a new marketplace online.  The Internet’s organizing body, called  Icann , is meeting
this week in the South African port city of Durban to begin a
major expansion of domain names. That may include a decision on
who can operate and license “dot-kosher” as a suffix for Web
addresses, the same way “dot-com” and “dot-net” are used.  Five organizations have banded together to oppose the sole
applicant for dot-kosher, Kosher Marketing Assets, saying it
seeks to profit from a sacred tradition that shouldn’t be over-commercialized. The two sides, which both are in the business of
 certifying  food as kosher, are at odds over how  Internet users 
will find such products in the future.  “We think that if the term ‘kosher,’ which has important
meaning in the Jewish religion, is commercialized, it will do a
disservice to how religion in general should be treated and will
harm the kosher public specifically,” said Harvey Blitz, the
Kashruth Commission chairman of the Union of Orthodox Jewish
Congregations of America, one of the five groups. The New York-based organization oversees OU Kosher, the world’s largest
certification agency.  Kosher Marketing Assets is a unit of OK Kosher
Certification, a  Brooklyn , New York-based competitor to OU
Kosher. Rabbi Don Yoel Levy, OK Kosher’s CEO, said he never
intended to control the potential domain name unilaterally and
said he was open to working with the five groups -- the Orthodox
Union, STAR-K Kosher Certification Inc., Chicago Rabbinical
Council Inc., the Kashruth Council of  Canada , and Kosher
Supervision Service Inc., better known as the KOF-K.  $17 Billion Market  Products that are certified kosher include  breakfast
cereals  like  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s Rice Krispies as well as traditional
Jewish food like matzo. The size of the market for food
deliberately bought because it is kosher is expected to reach
about $17 billion this year, according to Packaged Facts, a
market-research firm.  Exclusive control of the domain name could give its owner
sway over the kosher supply chain, said Larry Finkel, director
of food research at Packaged Facts.  “It’s like losing access if you’re not tying into that
domain,” Finkel said in an interview. “It’s sort of like being
excluded from Wal-Mart.”  ‘Rigorous Certification’  Icann -- the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers -- began accepting applications for generic top-level
domain names, or gTLDs, in January 2012. In November, Kosher
Marketing Assets, the OK Kosher unit, filed an application for
dot-kosher, with a mission to “promote kosher food
certification in general, and OK Certification and its clients
in particular.”  While only clients who pass “rigorous certification”
tests would be allowed to use the gTLD, OK Kosher said in its
application it expected to have more than 600 licensees by its
third year of operation. OK Kosher supervises products including
Fruity Pebbles cereal and Maxwell House coffee.  Applying for a gTLD doesn’t come cheap, at close to
$200,000 including the evaluation fee and legal services, OK
Kosher’s Levy said in a telephone interview.  No Agreement  Blitz of the Orthodox Union, which provides kosher
certification to items like Duncan Hines cake mixes and StarKist
Tuna, said his group had no advance notice of OK Kosher’s bid
and moved to block it as soon as it learned of the application.
While it’s true his organization charges a fee for
certification, “we got into this to make kosher food
available,” not as a commercial pursuit, Blitz said.  “We were concerned by the language in the application,”
which stated that a single agency would have the right to grant
use of the kosher domain name, Avrom Pollak, the president of
Star-K and also a rabbi, said in an interview.  A meeting between the two sides produced no agreement. OK’s
Levy says he invited the groups to join his organization in
overseeing the dot-kosher domain name.  “They weren’t interested,” Levy said. “They don’t have
to become our partners, but they can’t now complain we’re trying
to brazenly control dot-kosher.”  The dispute marks a departure from past cooperation.
Individual ingredients comprising a food product, may, for
example, be certified by any one of the organizations and then
combined into one final product that is certified by only one.  Lawyers Hired  The five groups have filed a formal objection with Icann
and have also appealed to the new U.S. secretary of commerce,
 Penny Pritzker . Both sides have hired Washington lawyers to
press their cases.  Icann has begun to announce the awarding of some 1,930
proposed domain names this week, primarily non-English ones.
Early gTLDs established include the word for network in Arabic,
the words “web” and “online” in Cyrillic, and the Chinese
characters for “game” or “games,” according to Cyrus Namazi,
an Icann vice president.  Potentially key to the dot-kosher dispute is the fate of an
application for the “dot-halal” domain name. Halal refers to
the Muslim set of rules on food preparation and consumption.  The  United Arab Emirates ,  India  and  Saudi Arabia  have all
registered their opposition to any one entity owning dot-halal
though Icann’s  Governmental Advisory Committee , which provides
countries with a forum to protest domain names. The five
Orthodox groups have asked Icann to use the same logic in the
dot-kosher decision, while Kosher Marketing Assets argues that
no country has complained about its bid.  Icann’s Namazi declined to comment on the status of halal
“as a matter of policy.”  Dot-Amazon Debate  Food domain names aren’t the only proposed suffixes that
have attracted the attention of national governments. Brazil and
 Peru  persuaded Icann’s Governmental Advisory Committee this week
to recommend rejecting  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s application for “dot-amazon.” Icann must still make a final ruling on that matter.  “We look forward to working with Icann and other
stakeholders to resolve these issues as the process moves
forward,” Amazon.com said in a statement.  Argentina , meanwhile, successfully opposed closely held
Patagonia Inc.’s bid for “dot-patagonia.” Patagonia withdrew
its application, spokeswoman Jess Clayton said, and the company
expects to have $130,000 of its $185,000 fee refunded.  In the kosher case, both sides say they’re still hopeful
their dispute can be resolved amicably.  “We wanted this to be low-key,” Star-K’s Pollak said.
“We are not interested in having this become a major
battlefield.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ellen Rosen in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  