-- Italy Rivalries Threaten to Undo Letta Coalition
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-07-19T13:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/italian-rivalries-threaten-to-undo-letta-s-volatile-coalition.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
won his first parliamentary showdown today by appeasing
adversaries and calling for loyalty from his long-time allies.  Letta appeared in the Senate today and successfully
defended Interior Minister Angelino Alfano against a no-confidence vote. In his speech, Letta rebuffed criticism from
his own Democratic Party, or PD, and said Alfano, who belongs to
a rival political group, deserves no blame for the mistaken
expulsion from  Italy  of a Kazakh woman and her daughter. Letta
sought to reassure the PD that he is in control.  “I wouldn’t want you to mistake for weakness what, with
maybe an antiquated flavor, is called good manners,” he said.  Letta, 46, is faced with growing uneasiness within the PD
over the makeshift coalition of rival parties he assembled three
months ago. The alliance threw the PD, the parliament’s biggest
force, into partnership with its traditional adversary, Silvio
Berlusconi, and the People of Liberty party he leads with
Alfano. PD Chief Whip Luigi Zanda said before the vote the party
would support Alfano in order to avoid a government crisis.  The no-confidence vote was defeated 226-55, with 13
abstentions. At least four PD Senators, including Laura Puppato,
who spoke in the chamber during the debate, didn’t cast a vote.  The pressure is building as Letta’s association with People
of Liberty, or PDL, leaves him exposed to a leadership challenge
from within the PD. Prior to the campaign against Alfano, Letta
was criticized for declining to confront Berlusconi over his
growing legal problems. The 76-year-old billionaire former
premier voted in the Senate in  Rome  today as his lawyers in
Naples battled an indictment request by prosecutors who have
accused Berlusconi of bribery.  Political Death  “If political death comes to the government at some point,
it’s definitely going to come from the PD,” said Francesco Galietti, founder of Rome-based Policy Sonar.  Letta won support yesterday from President Giorgio Napolitano, who urged disgruntled lawmakers to maintain backing
for the government. Political instability, the 88-year-old head
of state said, could weaken Italian sovereign debt, raising
borrowing costs. The government is struggling to carry out a
promised plan to abolish an unpopular property tax and to avoid
a value-added tax increase after pledging to bring the country’s
deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic product.  Italian 10-year yields have risen about 70 basis points
since a 2 1/2-year  low  on May 2 after Letta took charge. The
yield was down 1 basis point to  4.40 percent at 3:33 p.m. in
Rome.  Cabinet Reshuffle  Alfano, also the deputy premier, may be replaced as
interior minister in a cabinet reshuffle in the fall, Corriere
della Sera reported today, without saying where it got the
information.  Berlusconi remains one of the government’s biggest
parliamentary supporters even after he was convicted in Milan
last month of abuse of power and engaging a minor in
prostitution. Prosecutors in Naples allege he bribed a senator
to help topple ex-Prime Minister Romano Prodi in 2008 and are
seeking the indictment at a hearing today. Prodi was the last
member of the PD bloc to hold the premiership until Letta.  Berlusconi, who has also been convicted in separate tax-fraud and wiretapping cases, has denied wrongdoing, saying the
charges against him amount to political persecution. He is
appealing all convictions. Sentences in Italy can’t be enforced
until all appeals are exhausted.  Leadership Challenge  The PD as the biggest danger to Letta demonstrates how the
broad coalition has turned Italian politics upside down. Letta
spent most of his career with allies in the PD as they opposed
Berlusconi’s unprecedented run of political success in the last
20 years.  An intraparty challenge to Letta is coming from Matteo Renzi, the 38-year-old mayor of Florence who last year was
identified by pollster EMG as Italy’s most popular politician.
At a PD rally in Carpi in central Italy this week, Renzi said he
didn’t think the alliance with Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party could last much longer, Ansa reported.  “Should Renzi take the leadership within the PD, the left
may decide to capitalize on his broad consensus and push for
early elections,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $180
million at Glendevon King Asset Management in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net . 