-- Japan Should Cut Levy on Corporate Profit, Tax Panel Member Says
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-07-18T02:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/japan-should-cut-levy-on-corporate-profit-tax-panel-member-says.html
Japan  should reduce its corporate
tax rate by at least 5 percentage points to compete with Asian
neighbors in attracting companies, a member of the government’s
tax commission said.  “Japan should house regional headquarters like  Hong Kong 
or  Singapore ,” Eiji Tajika, 63, an economics professor at
Hitotsubashi University, said in an interview in  Tokyo 
yesterday. Failure to cut corporate taxes would leave Japan on
an unequal footing with overseas rivals, he said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said this month he wants to
discuss cutting the corporate tax rate, which at 35.6 percent is
one of the highest among developed nations. The issue may come
to prominence when Abe gets a mandate to push through his so-called third arrow of structural reforms after a projected
victory for his party in an upper house election on July 21.  “Abe needs to slash corporate tax rates if he wants to
send a message that he’s seriously committed to his growth
strategy,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management in Tokyo. “Simply putting corporate tax
cuts onto the political agenda will have a psychological impact
on firms and help to spur their growth expectations and
encourage investment.”  Japan’s corporate tax rate compares with 25 percent in
 China  and 17 percent in Singapore, according to the Ministry of
Finance. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
data show Japan has the  second-highest  rate of its member
nations, after the U.S.  Implement Cut  Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said in an
interview today in Singapore that while the ruling party is
trying to reduce Japan’s corporate levy, it may take about two
years to implement any cut.  National Tax Agency data show that about 25 percent of
companies filing tax returns declared a surplus in the fiscal
year ended March 2011.  Finance Minister Taro Aso said last month that corporate
tax cuts are not effective as many companies don’t pay the levy,
saying later in the month that tax relief for  capital investment 
would be more beneficial for them. Tajika disagrees with Aso on
this issue.  “Accelerated cost recovery of investments is ineffective
under the current low  interest rates ,” Tajika said, referring
to tax breaks on  capital spending . “Tax cuts shouldn’t just be
for the manufacturing industry, they should be shared by every
industry.”  The government tax commission examines the tax system from
a medium-to-long-term perspective and reports directly to the
prime minister. A separate ruling party tax panel looks more
closely at specific tax measures in terms of the government’s
growth strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  