-- Johnson Controls Rises on HomeLink Sale to Gentex: Mover
-- B y   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-18T20:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/johnson-controls-sells-homelink-line-to-gentex-for-700m.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. auto-parts maker, rose the most in more than 19 months
after announcing it will sell its HomeLink product line to
Gentex Corp. for $700 million as it continues to seek a buyer
for the rest of its automotive electronics unit.  The company’s shares climbed 8.3 percent to $40.43 at the
close in New York, the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 30, 2011.
Gentex’s shares fell 3.2 percent to $23.71.  Johnson Controls expects the deal to close late in fiscal
2013 or early fiscal 2014, the company said in its third-quarter
earnings release. The HomeLink line of installed garage-door
openers and the rest of the electronics business are worth more
apart, Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls said. The company had
been considering such a move for at least a month, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Chinese and other international buyers will probably be
interested in the remainder of the automotive electronics line,
said Christian Mayes, an analyst at St. Louis-based Edward
Jones. The company won’t likely divide the unit any further for
individual buyers, he said.  “HomeLink is kind of the crown jewel of the automotive
electronics business for them,” Mayes said. “It’s interesting
that they chose to separate that one.”  The $700 million price for HomeLink was “far in excess of
what we would have believed to be possible,” Matthew Stover, an
analyst with Guggenheim Securities in  Boston , wrote in a note
today. The sale implies a valuation of 4.6 times estimated sales
and 10.5 times estimated profit before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, wrote Stover, who has a buy
rating on Johnson Controls.  Other Bidders  Johnson Controls is in talks with “several strategic
purchasers” for the remainder of the automotive electronics
line and expects to have an announcement “on or before” its
fiscal fourth-quarter earnings call, Chief Financial Officer
Bruce McDonald told analysts and reporters today on a call. The
Gentex sale will be made in cash, he said.  Delphi Automotive Plc (DLPH)  had been among the bidders before
backing off, people familiar with the matter had said.  China ’s
SAIC Motor Corp. had also been identified as a potential buyer.
Gentex, a maker of high-tech mirrors, is based in Zeeland,
Michigan.  “HomeLink is a strategic and welcome addition to our
portfolio of automotive products,” Gentex Chief Executive
Officer Fred Bauer said in a separate statement.  Profit Rises  Johnson Controls third-quarter net income rose 32 percent
to $571 million. Excluding items such as restructuring costs and
non-recurring tax benefits, the company earned 78 cents a share,
topping 22 analysts’ average estimate of 75 cents. The company
forecast earning 93 to 95 cents a share in its fourth quarter,
more than the 92-cent average of 22 analysts’ estimates.  Shares of Johnson Controls have gained 32 percent this
year, compared with 18 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Mayes said the company’s growth this quarter was a result
of cost savings and restructuring, rather than a boost from the
rising U.S. car sales pace.  “They came out ahead of expectations,” Mayes of Edward
Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Durisin in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  