-- JPMorgan China Sees ’Strong’ M&A Business in Second Half
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-18T01:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/jpmorgan-china-sees-strong-m-a-business-in-second-half.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Chinese
investment banking unit is “cautiously optimistic” about the
second half because of a “strong” mergers and acquisitions
business, its chief executive said.  Transactions will probably take place in the natural
resources industries as companies continue hunting for assets
overseas, especially in so-called frontier markets, said Fang Fang, JPMorgan’s investment banking head for China.  “We do have some large M&A deals in the pipeline,” Fang
said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. “Hopefully they will
come to the market in the second half.”  Chinese companies struck about $28 billion of deals abroad
during the first half, little changed from the year-earlier
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes
Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.’s agreement in May to pay
about $7 billion, including debt, for pork producer Smithfield
Foods Inc. in the biggest Chinese takeover of a U.S. company.  Clients of Fang’s unit are Chinese companies seeking to
raise funds or make acquisitions overseas in markets such as
Hong Kong. Foreign banks in  China  can only underwrite stock and
bond sales through joint ventures with local brokerages.
JPMorgan owns a third of JPMorgan First Capital Securities Co.,
a venture with First Capital Securities Co.  Slowing Economy  Hong Kong may see few initial public offerings in the
second half. The city’s market will probably be dominated by
equity-linked and secondary offerings through the end of the
year, as investors shun first-time sales on concerns that
China’s  economic growth  will slow further, Fang said.  “We don’t believe there will be many large IPOs cooking”
in Hong Kong in the second half, Fang said. “The IPO market
will be dominated by a lot of smaller deals, not the gigantic”
deals valued at more than $1 billion.  Companies raised more than $14 billion through IPOs in Asia
in the second quarter, compared with about $3 billion in the
first three months of the year, the least since 2009, as
billion-dollar deals from  Sinopec Engineering Group Co. (2386)  and
China Galaxy Securities Co. in Hong Kong offset an absence of
share sales in China. There were no IPOs in the mainland, where
regulators froze deal approval in October to review listing
rules.  The fixed-income market is returning to life, Fang said,
after coming to a standstill in June as the worst cash squeeze
in at least a decade roiled markets.  ‘New Equilibrium’  “Investors and issuers are now gradually coming to a new
equilibrium -- they’re transacting again, starting last week,
after five weeks of drought,” he said. “Banks that are more
sophisticated in managing interest rates are still willing to
lend” in the syndicated market.  More Chinese companies may attempt to sell shares in the
U.S. this year, Fang said.  “With the U.S. domestic valuations getting rich and with
the cleanup of some of the bad-quality Chinese companies listed
in the U.S., investors will come back to the market,” he said.
“We will see selective deals get done in the second half and
going forward.”  LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB)  in June became the second Chinese
e-commerce company to complete a U.S. IPO in 15 months, after
 Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  raised $71.5 million in March 2012. The
number of IPOs by Chinese companies declined to three last year,
from 13 in 2011 and 38 in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The IPO market in the U.S. for China-based companies almost
shut over the past two years after short sellers including Muddy
Waters LLC made allegations of fraud and accounting
irregularities.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  