-- Kerry Tours Jordan Refugee Camp Strained by New Arrivals
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-18T15:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/kerry-tours-jordan-refugee-camp-strained-by-new-arrivals.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
toured the world’s second-largest refugee camp today, a
sprawling Jordanian city of trailers and tents for Syrians whose
flight from civil war is straining their host country.  Kerry spoke with refugees and met with the director of the
Zaatari camp. The flow of refugees, at times as many as 4,000 a
day, is draining Jordan’s water and energy resources, driving up
the cost of food and housing for its citizens, and increasing
competition for jobs.  “The stories I just heard, the people I just met,
underscore the human side of this crisis,” Kerry said as he
left the camp that’s home to 115,000 people. The  United Nations 
estimates that almost 500,000 people have crossed into  Jordan  to
escape fighting. The State Department says that number could
double by year’s end.  Kerry flew by helicopter into the camp, getting an aerial
view of the 16,500 dusty containers that serve as homes, each of
which cost $2,500. Many are dotted with satellite dishes. As
many as 15 babies are born in the camp every day in the French-run hospital.  Camp director Killian Kleinschmidt of the UN High
Commission for Refugees said many Syrians tell him that they
feel let down because the international community isn’t doing
more to help their country. Kerry heard this for himself in his
meetings with refugees in the base camp area of Zaatari, where
the UN offices are located.  In a 40-minute session with a half-dozen men and women,
visibly angry refugees repeatedly asked Kerry for more support,
including establishing buffer zones and a no-fly zone where
Syrian military jets couldn’t enter.  Changing Equation  A 43-year-old woman in a tan jacket and gray headscarf
asked Kerry what the U.S. is waiting for. As a superpower, the
U.S. could change the equation in  Syria  in 30 minutes, the woman
said. Like other refugees, she asked not to be named for
security reasons.  The refugees complained about Iran’s supply of weapons to
Syria, and asked Kerry to stop Lebanese Hezbollah fighters from
entering the country in support of President Bashar al-Assad.  When Kerry asked about the Syrian opposition, one man said
the regime had received far more support from Iran, Hezbollah
and  Russia  than the international community has provided to the
rebels. While the opposition is divided, that isn’t an excuse
for inaction, the man said.  No-Fly Zone  While other countries focus on actions by opposition
factions, they are overlooking slaughter, rape and other crimes
by Assad’s forces, the man said.  Kerry said the U.S. was concerned about Hezbollah and  Iran 
and that it was considering a buffer zone and a no-fly zone. The
Obama administration has so far resisted such deeper
involvement.  “A lot of different options are under consideration,”
Kerry said. “I wish it was very simple.” Kerry invoked the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  where thousands of young Americans
had died or lost limbs.  “As you know, we’ve been fighting two wars for 12 years,”
he said. “We are trying to help in various ways, including
helping Syrian opposition fighters have weapons. We are doing
new things. There is consideration of buffer zones and other
things, but it is not as simple as it sounds.”  Kleinschmidt told Kerry that each new refugee brings
another tale of “rape, murder” and death. Children at the camp
draw “horrible” pictures, he said.  Champs-Elysees  The camp is second in population to one in northern  Kenya ,
according to the refugee aid group CARE International. The
Zaatari camp has taxis, hospitals, 584 restaurants or food
stalls and a commercial district of 3,000 shops, many of them
along a street called the Champs-Elysees, after the Parisian
boulevard.  At the same time, violence is “enormous,” Kleinschmidt
said, with rocks thrown at aid workers, an attempted lynching
and fighting among residents, most of whom are from the Syrian
area of Dara’a.  The refugees, distrustful of authority, also have “a very
disturbed relationship” with the state that translates into
hostility for the officials running the camp, Kleinschmidt said.
Smuggling and theft are common, from siphoning off extra
electricity to one incident in which the camp’s police station
disappeared overnight -- its trailer disassembled and spirited
away under cover of darkness, Kleinschmidt said.  ‘Money Pit’  Seventy percent of the refugees living in Jordan have
bypassed camps for the cities, according to Aoife McDonnell, a
spokeswoman for UNHCR at the camp. Even so, many come back to
the Zaatari camp after leaving, Kleinschmidt said, realizing the
quality of the amenities at the camp, including schools, 35
liters of water a day, soccer fields, hospitals, electricity and
playgrounds.  Kleinschmidt said he envisions the day when the camp, which
costs $1 million a day to run, can stop being “simply a money
pit but allows people to contribute and be part of a major
initiative” to help Jordan.  Jordanian Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh, who toured the
camp with Kerry, said yesterday that while his country is
grateful for international support “we are in need for more.”  “I’m looking forward to the closure of the camp,” he said
today. Outside the trailer where he and Kerry were being
briefed, a line of newly planted olive trees wilted in the sun.  Iran is increasing support for Assad’s Syrian regime,
supplying military equipment and supporting Hezbollah troops who
are increasingly involved in heavy front-line fighting, a U.S.
State Department official said today.  Syria is also getting help from Russia, which is filling
weapons contracts and allowing the regime and individuals to
skirt sanctions by using Russian banks, said the official, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Reviving Negotiations  Kerry, on his sixth trip to the Mideast in as many months,
has put priority on reviving Israeli-Palestinian talks, even
while confronting other regional challenges involving Syria’s
civil war,  Egypt ’s political upheaval and  Iran’s nuclear
program .  Kerry came to Jordan this week to update the Arab League
Peace Initiative committee on his attempts to restart peace
talks. The Arab League’s delegation “praised the efforts made
by U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Secretary Kerry, and their
commitment to achieve peace,” the group said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Amman at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  