-- New York University Expansion Opponents Try to Block Plan
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-18T20:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/new-york-university-expansion-opponents-seek-to-block-plan-1-.html
New York  University faculty and
neighborhood organizations opposed to the school’s plan to
expand in the  Greenwich Village  neighborhood asked a judge to
block the project.  The plan threatens to overwhelm Greenwich Village, “one of
the city’s most historic, cherished and cramped neighborhoods,”
and one of New York’s “crown jewels,” Randy Mastro, an
attorney for the plaintiffs, told state Supreme Court Justice
Donna Mills at a hearing today in  Manhattan .  “It’s 2 million square feet of construction crammed into
two small square-blocks literally in the heart of the village,”
said Mastro, an attorney with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP and a
former deputy mayor under  Rudolph Giuliani .  Attorneys for the city argued that the four properties that
the plaintiffs say would be destroyed by the plan are parts of
public streets and under the jurisdiction of the city’s
Department of Transportation, not the Department of Parks and
Recreation.  “The public has long understood that these are not
parkland,” Christopher Reo, senior counsel for the
environmental law division of the city’s Law Department, told
Mills.  Faculty and neighborhood groups sued  New York City  in
September for approving the plan, seeking to stop the expansion.
Land-use violations overlooked in the plan include illegal
manipulation of restrictive deeds, destruction of parkland and
playgrounds and failure to adequately consider the environmental
impact, according to the opponents’ court filing.  New York
University  is named as a third party in the lawsuit.  Suit Dismissed  New York State Supreme Court Justice Ellen M. Coin in March
dismissed a similar suit filed by tenants of Washington Square
village, a group of high-rise buildings in Greenwich Village,
saying the plaintiffs first needed to raise the matter with the
state’s Division of Housing and Community Renewal. The tenants
have appealed.  NYU’s intended expansion, known as the Sexton Plan after
university president John Sexton, is a $6 billion project
comprising almost 2 million square feet, according to the
filing.  The expansion is opposed by dozens of university
departments and divisions. Professors in the university’s
largest school passed a vote of no-confidence in Sexton on March
16, saying he failed to consult with them on the plan.  Locals Angered  Sexton has been at the helm since 2002. While he has raised
the profile of the school, overseeing a record
$3 billion in fundraising, he has alienated faculty and angered
locals with the expansion plan. His proposal for construction in
the neighborhood, called NYU 2031, is opposed by 39 of the
university’s departments and divisions, according to NYU Faculty
Against the Sexton Plan, a teachers’ group.  More than 100 people packed the courtroom today, many who
held signs and wore stickers opposing the expansion. Audience
members included Padma Lakshmi, co-host of the television show
“Top Chef,” who said in an interview afterward that she lives
in the neighborhood and attended the hearing as a “concerned
mother.”  “We don’t have a lot of parks or places to play for kids
in the neighborhood,” she said.  Four Properties  The four properties at issue in the case were taken from
private citizens under an urban renewal plan in the 1950s, and
members of the community are “tired of private companies and
private entities taking over public space,” said Jim Walden, an
attorney for the plaintiffs.  “There has never been a more important land use dispute in
this community,” Walden said.  Alan Levine, an attorney representing NYU, said community
groups have been trying for more than 30 years to change the
legal status of the properties to get them designated as
parkland and have failed.  “The lawful body of city government hasn’t done that,”
Levine said.  The city’s Law Department said in a statement that the plan
will bring a “pedestrian-friendly mix of public open spaces and
academic, residential and retail use.”  “This lawsuit is a desperate effort to block a thorough
and publicly vetted plan that is good for NYU, the local
community, and the City’s educational and economic future,” the
law department said. “The claims are long on embellished
rhetoric and short on the facts, and we’re aggressively seeking
to have them dismissed.”  The case is Weinstein v. Harvey, 103844-2012, State
Supreme Court of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  