-- New York Cost at 20-Year Low as Cuomo Debt Declines: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/new-york-cost-at-20-year-low-as-cuomo-debt-declines-muni-credit.html
New York, the biggest U.S. municipal
borrower last year, is headed for the steepest issuance slowdown
since at least 2003 even as demand for the state’s bonds drives
the extra yield on its debt to a two-decade low.  Wall Street’s home state and its localities have sold 37
percent less securities this year than in the same period of
2012,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The drop is the steepest
among the five most populous states and deeper than the 10
percent reduction across the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  The shift is occurring as more New York towns face fiscal
stress, according to state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . Twenty-four had a history of deficits and held too little cash to pay
bills, he said in a report last month. It was DiNapoli’s first
comprehensive review of more than 1,000 municipalities after
audits showed that almost 300 had previous budget gaps and more
than 100 lacked sufficient available funds.  “If you’re struggling to balance your budget, you will
defer as long as you can any new debt issuance,” said Howard Cure, head of research at New York-based Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $4.7 billion.  Deficit Plug  The legislature in Albany approved bills this year allowing
the first local borrowing to close deficits since 2010.
Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is creating a panel that will
advise cities and towns on how to restructure as they wrestle
with budget shortfalls. New York is trying to alleviate fiscal
stress to avoid having to take over a struggling municipality’s
finances. The state imposed such a control board on Nassau
County on  Long Island  in 2011.  “The challenge facing local governments has reached a
critical point,” DiNapoli, a 59-year-old Democrat, said last
month in a statement.  This year, New York issuers have offered about $15.7
billion in long-term, fixed-rate debt, compared with $24.7
billion in the same period of 2012, Bloomberg data show. The
state’s next biggest year-over-year drop in the past decade was
20 percent in 2006.  Of the five most-populous states,  Illinois  has the second-steepest decrease, at 13 percent.  Cost Reduction  The lack of New York general obligations on the market has
helped shrink the yield spread on the state’s borrowings, said
Fred Yosca, head of fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon Capital
Markets LLC in New York.  The  additional yield  investors demand to buy 10-year bonds
from New York borrowers instead of benchmark debt has virtually
disappeared, unprecedented in Bloomberg data that began in 1993.
New York is rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s , third-highest.  “People will pay up for the state name, perceived as a
good credit these days, and they don’t get the opportunity to
buy it that much,” Yosca said.  Cuomo, 55, has issued an average of $448 million in general
obligations in his first two full fiscal years as governor,
according to data from DiNapoli’s office. The average of the two
years before Cuomo took office in January 2011 was about $814
million.  New York’s ratio of debt to personal income is projected to
fall to 4.4 percent in fiscal 2019 from 5.4 percent this year,
according to its capital spending plan.  Authority Borrowing  The drop “is the result of statutory and administrative
reforms that have fundamentally improved our debt practices,”
Morris Peters, a spokesman for Cuomo’s budget division, said via
e-mail. The state no longer borrows to cover administrative
personnel costs and short-term equipment purchases, he said.  Even as issuance of state general-obligation debt has
slowed, the amount of bonds offered by the state’s 45
authorities has risen 18.6 percent since 2008, according to a
report released this month by the Authorities Budget Office,
which has oversight. About 38.9 percent of the debt issued by
authorities in 2012 funded unrelated state activities, up from
34.9 percent in 2008, the report said.  California is on pace to reclaim the mantle of top issuer
after  New York  ended its two-decade reign last year. The most-populous state and its local governments have sold $28.2 billion
this year, 27 percent more than a year ago, after voters
approved a tax increase on the wealthiest earners.  Bridge Loan  New York may still catch up, Cure said. In the second half
of the year, it will probably need to add to the $500 million
already borrowed to construct a more than $3 billion replacement
for the Tappan Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River , he said.  A pickup in the state’s borrowing pace may not signal
fiscal strengthening at the local level.  A $96 million deficit in Rockland County, about 35 miles
(56 kilometers) north of  New York City , may now be closed after
lawmakers approved a bill allowing it to borrow to do so. That
would be the most allowed for deficit financing for any county
since 2006.  Cuomo is reviewing the bill, said Rich Azzopardi, a
spokesman.  In the biggest sale on the calendar from an issuer in the
state, New York City plans to sell $635 million of general
obligations as soon as next week.  The metropolis will issue into a municipal market that has
stabilized since a rout last month, when benchmark 10-year
yields rose the most since at least January 2009.  At 2.77 percent, the maturity’s yield is the lowest since
July 3. It compares with 2.49 percent on similar-maturity
Treasuries. The municipal yield has exceeded that on its federal
counterpart on all but one day since June 21.  The municipal market has lost 0.3 percent this month as of
July 16, more than the 0.1 percent decline for Treasuries, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  