-- Nokia Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates as Handset Demand Wanes
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-18T15:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/nokia-sales-miss-analysts-estimates-as-handset-demand-wanes.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker attempting a comeback, reported revenue that missed
analysts’ estimates as intensifying competition across the
market cut the number of handsets sold by 27 percent.  Second-quarter sales fell 24 percent to 5.7 billion euros
($7.5 billion), Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said today. Analysts
projected 6.4 billion euros, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. While sales of the Lumia smartphone line rose to
7.4 million units, demand for older and more basic phones fell.  Nokia has lost more than 5 billion euros in nine quarters
as Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s comeback bid hasn’t
reversed market-share declines. Nokia’s basic phones are losing
users to Chinese rivals and new smartphones have failed to stop
shoppers from picking up  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
devices. Sales at the Nokia Siemens Networks unit also dropped.  “The revenue shortfall in both the handset business and in
Nokia Siemens is the key takeaway,” said Hakan Wranne, an
analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in  Stockholm . “Less and less of this
company remains.”  Nokia fell 2.8 percent to 3.01 euros in Helsinki, paring
the gain to 2.9 percent this year. The  stock  lost 22 percent
last year, its fifth straight annual drop.  The second-quarter net loss narrowed to 227 million euros
from 1.4 billion euros a year earlier. Analysts projected a loss
of 258.8 million euros.  Lumia Gains  Nokia joins rivals such as BlackBerry and Samsung in
reporting results trailing estimates, signaling a slowing market
as an increasing number of users in more developed countries
have already upgraded to smartphones.  Sales volumes of both Nokia’s basic phones and smartphones
fell 27 percent. Basic-phone sales were 53.7 million, missing
the 54.4 million projected by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sales of the Lumia smartphones, which run  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows software, climbed 32 percent from the first quarter.
Nokia has introduced new versions, such as the Lumia 1020 with a
41-megapixel camera unveiled last week, to spur demand. Analysts
projected Lumia volumes of 7.8 million units.  Lumia sales are still a fraction of the more than 100
million smartphones Samsung and Apple combined sell each
quarter. Apple sold 37.4 million iPhones in the quarter through
March and is set to report its next quarterly earnings July 23.  The operating loss at Nokia’s mobile devices business,
excluding some items, was equivalent to 1.2 percent of sales.
Analysts projected a loss of 2.2 percent. This quarter, that
margin will be in a range of minus 6 to positive 2, while sales
at the unit will rise from the second quarter, Nokia predicted.  BlackBerry, Samsung  To reduce costs, Elop  has cut  more than 20,000 jobs and
closed production and research sites since taking over in 2010.
Nokia said today it is cutting a further 440 positions in its
mobile-phone business. The company may need to “revisit its
cost base,” Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said
in a note to clients after the report.  One of the first smartphone makers, Nokia dominated with a
global market share topping 50 percent before Apple’s iPhone and
Google Inc.’s Android software were introduced about six years
ago. Nokia’s market share has since collapsed to about 3
percent, according to IDC. The slump has pushed Nokia to losses
and forced it to cancel its dividend for the first time in at
least 143 years.  Similarly to Nokia,  Canada ’s  BlackBerry (BBRY)  has also struggled
to challenge Apple and Samsung. The company missed analysts’
estimates for phone shipments and profit for the latest quarter,
sending its stock down the most in 13 years.  Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, this month
posted quarterly operating income of about 9.5 trillion won
($8.3 billion), missing the 10 trillion-won average estimate.  Junk Rating  Nokia’s net cash fell to 4.1 billion euros at the end of
the quarter from 4.5 billion euros in the first quarter. Its
debt rating was cut this month one step deeper into junk by
 Standard & Poor’s , which said the handset maker’s net cash may
tumble after a deal to buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share in their six-year-old mobile-equipment venture for 1.7 billion euros.  Nokia Siemens reported an operating profit of 8 million
euros as sales fell 17 percent to 2.78 billion euros. Its
operating margin, excluding some items, expanded to 11.8 percent
from 0.8 percent a year earlier.  Nokia Siemens now aims to cut 1.5 billion euros in costs by
the end of this year compared with the end of 2011. Its previous
goal was more than 1 billion euros.  Nokia must focus on “improving the competitiveness and
innovation of our products while we manage our costs and keep
moving with urgency,” Elop told reporters on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  