-- NYC Proposes East Midtown Towers Up to to 40% Residential
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-07-18T20:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/nyc-proposes-east-midtown-towers-up-to-to-40-residential.html
New skyscrapers built in the area
near Grand Central Terminal would be allowed to be as much as 40
percent residential under a proposal by  New York ’s Department of
City Planning.  The recommendation is in response to Manhattan community
leaders who have said a greater mix of uses would make the area
more vibrant, according to a statement by the planners today.
Time Warner Center and the Bloomberg LP headquarters building
were cited as examples of office towers that successfully
integrated housing into their designs.  “It’s been a very repeated and vocal recommendation and we
would like to consider it,” said Edith Hsu-Chen, Manhattan
director of the city planning department. “We heard it from the
community boards, civic groups, the real estate board and
elected officials.”  The change was one of several proposed for the east Midtown
rezoning plan, which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  has  pushed  to get
done before his term is completed at the year’s end. The
initiative would enable developers to replace obsolete  office
buildings  with taller, up-to-date towers to help New York
compete with such financial capitals as London and  Shanghai ,
which have modernized their office stock.  The plan also allows landmarks, such as St. Patrick’s
Cathedral and St. Bartholemew’s Church, to sell their air rights
to developers across a broader swath of Midtown. Under the
proposal, developers seeking to build on sites between about
49th and 57th streets, and Third and Fifth avenues, would be
able to buy unused development rights from any properties within
that area. Currently they may only buy rights from adjacent
properties.  Improvement Fund  Under the broader zoning plan, developers would be required
to contribute to a fund that would finance improved entrances,
platforms, stairways, escalators and other enhancements to the
area’s streets and mass-transit network. The account, known as
the District Improvement Fund, would help the area accommodate
additional people working in the larger office buildings.  Residential developers would pay the fund a yet-undetermined amount for each square foot of housing they build.
Construction of offices bigger than the proposed zoning limits
would cost $250 a square foot.  The residential provision would apply to developers who
want to build beyond certain size limits. Developers who want to
make those projects more than 20 percent residential may apply
for a special permit. The most housing any project could have
would be 40 percent.  The zoning plan, including the proposed revisions, is
slated for a public hearing on Aug. 7, the department said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  