-- Snowden Standoff Threatens Obama-Putin Moscow Summit
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-07-18T19:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/obama-may-use-summit-plan-as-pressure-on-putin-in-snowden-case.html
The standoff between the U.S. and
Russia over fugitive former security contractor Edward Snowden
may threaten a September summit between Presidents  Barack Obama 
and Vladimir Putin, according to former diplomats.  “You know that the president and his advisers are asking
what kind of a trip he can have to Moscow with such a big
gorilla in the room,” said Stephen Sestanovich, who was U.S.
ambassador-at-large responsible for policy toward Russia and
former states of the Soviet Union from 1997 to 2001. “Anybody
involved in planning that trip is sweating bullets.”  The administration has repeatedly declined to affirm that
Obama will keep a commitment to meet with Putin for one-on-one
talks in Moscow before heading to a Group of 20 nations economic
summit that the Russian leader is hosting Sept. 5-6 in St.
Petersburg.  Canceling the Putin meeting, announced in June, would deal
a blow to administration efforts to bolster already strained
relations with  Russia  and would be a direct challenge to the
Russian’s prestige on the world stage.  Putin “wants to have the meeting; I don’t think there’s
any question about that,” said James Collins, who was U.S.
ambassador to Russia from 1997 to 2001.  White House press secretary Jay Carney this week has been
explicit about the U.S. insistence that Russia expel Snowden,
who is holed up in a Moscow airport and seeking asylum, and that
discussions with Putin’s government are continuing. When asked
whether the Obama-Putin summit will go on as planned, Carney
refused to directly answer.  Travel Plans  “The president intends to travel to Russia in September
for the G-20 Summit, and I don’t have any further announcements
with regard to that travel,” Carney said yesterday. Pressed on
whether that includes the Moscow stop, he said, “I just have
nothing else to say on it.”  While both governments have insisted the Snowden case
shouldn’t upend cooperation on broader issues such as
counterterrorism and nuclear proliferation, the White House has
delivered a strong message of displeasure with the situation,
said Andrew Kuchins, director of the Russia program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “They’re trying to put some squeeze” on Russia, Kuchins
said. “This may put a little bit of pressure on Putin to be a
little more forthcoming, and deliver” Snowden.  It also may give both sides some room to maneuver, he said.
Putin’s government has time to make a decision in the next month
or so for the dust to settle before any September meetings,
Kuchins said.  Putin’s Position  The Russian leader has an incentive to act to avoid having
a previously announced summit with Obama spoiled or casting a
shadow over the G-20 gathering, said Sestanovich, now a senior
fellow for Russian and Eurasian studies at the Council on
Foreign Relations in Washington.  “Putin can’t win having Snowden on his hands at the
beginning of September,” he said. “Any intelligence benefit
that they’ve gotten from Snowden’s presence, they’ve already
gotten. Any political benefit from tweaking the U.S., they’ve
already gotten. Now, it’s just a complication in power
politics.”  Collins, now the director of the Russia program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said the White House
message to Putin is “you have to find a way to deal with this
issue”  Moscow Airport  Snowden, 30, who exposed classified U.S. programs that
collect telephone and Internet data, applied for temporary
asylum this week at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport. He’s been
confined to the transit area there since arriving on a flight
from Hong Kong on June 23. The U.S. has revoked his passport.  Putin has accused the U.S. of stranding Snowden in Moscow
by putting pressure on other countries to prevent his travel
through their airspace and deny him refuge in Latin America,
where Venezuela, Nicaragua and Bolivia have indicated they’d be
willing to take him. Snowden faces espionage and other charges.  U.S. officials, from Obama on down, have called on Russia
to deliver Snowden into U.S. custody. Obama spoke with Putin by
telephone July 12. The two leaders last met June 17 at the Group
of Eight Summit in Northern Ireland, a week before Snowden
landed at Sheremetyevo Airport.  Even though the U.S. doesn’t have an extradition treaty
with Russia, “it is our view that there is substantial legal
justification for him to be returned to the United States,”
Carney said, adding, “We don’t want this matter to do harm to
our bilateral relations.”  International Relations  Putin yesterday expressed hope that the controversy will
blow over.  “International relations are considerably more important
than squabbles between intelligence services,” Putin said.  The U.S. and Russia also are at odds over recent incidents
that the administration has called attempts to silence Putin
critics. Carney today called the embezzlement conviction of
Alexey Navalny, who spearheaded protests against Putin’s rule,
“politically motivated” and part of a “disturbing trend.” He
said the Russian government should end its campaign to pressure
those who attempt to expose corruption in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 