-- Pangang and Kolon, Like Edward Snowden, Elude U.S. Charge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-18T18:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/old-mail-rule-helps-pangang-kolon-elude-u-s-charges.html
China ’s Pangang Group Co. and
 Korea ’s  Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  have eluded U.S. criminal charges
of trade-secret theft for months. Unlike fugitive security
contractor Edward Snowden, they aren’t hiding from authorities.  Pangang and Kolon can’t be forced yet to face the
accusations in court because federal rules dating to the 1940s
require prosecutors to issue a summons the old-fashioned way --
by mailing it to a U.S. address. The companies said they don’t
have offices, employees or agents in the U.S. and can’t be
served. Federal judges in  California  and  Virginia  have mostly
agreed.  Prosecutors must file papers today telling a judge in  San
Francisco  how they will proceed with Pangang while a judge in
Richmond, Virginia, is scheduled to hear arguments in Kolon’s
case.  The issue threatens to derail the case against Pangang. The
company was charged in San Francisco last year with conspiring
to steal secrets from  DuPont Co. (DD)  about titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used in paint, plastics and paper. Kolon and five of its
executives were charged in October with stealing trade secrets
from DuPont related to the manufacture of Kevlar, the anti-ballistic fiber used in police and military gear.  “This is simply a procedural glitch, but one that’s not
insignificant or easy to resolve,” Mark Wine, an intellectual
property attorney in  Irvine , California, who isn’t involved in
either case, said in a phone interview. Prosecutors may prevail,
while “it’s hard for them to get to first base on this stuff
because they’re blocked,” he said.  Mounting Evidence  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has made the
protection of U.S. intellectual property a priority due to
mounting evidence that China and other countries are behind a
campaign to hack into U.S. agencies and corporations to steal
trade secrets.  During Obama’s first term, the U.S. Justice Department has
brought at least 20 economic espionage and trade secret cases,
mostly against individuals, according to a White House report in
February. Three cases are against foreign companies, and in two
-- Pangang and Kolon -- the U.S. is battling just to get the
companies to appear in court.  Prosecutors are required to serve summonses on defendants
by delivering copies to officers or legal representatives and
mailing copies to the defendants’ last known U.S. address,
according to federal rules of criminal procedure.  Sets Policy  The  Justice Department , saying the procedures have fallen
behind the “new reality” of a global economy and electronic
communications, recommended the committee allow the serving of
summonses outside the U.S. by agreed-upon delivery methods with
foreign jurisdictions, according to an October letter from then-Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer to the committee.  The rules pose an obstacle to prosecuting foreign
companies, Georgetown University Law Center professor  Sara Sun
Beale  said in  a March memo  to members of a  Judicial Conference
of the United States  advisory committee on criminal rules. The
Judicial Conference, comprised of federal judges, sets policy
for U.S courts. Beale is a reporter to the committee, according
to a report on the committee’s April meeting.  “We have a proposal in the Criminal Rules Committee to
deal with this situation now. It is a problem,” Breuer, now a
partner at Covington & Burling, said in an e-mail in April.  A rule change could take months, or longer. A subcommittee
may be formed to study the Justice Department proposal and the
recommendation needs approval by the conference, which meets
twice a year, said Charles Hall, a spokesman for the
organization.  “Basically it’s a slow process,” he said by phone.  Jeff Randall, a lawyer for Kolon at Paul Hastings LLP, said
the Justice Department never told the judge overseeing the Kolon
case that it was seeking to change the service standards. He
said in a phone interview that the government “was perfectly
willing to ignore” the mailing requirement in order to push
these cases through the courts.  Delivered Summons  Federal prosecutors in San Francisco delivered a summons to
a  New Jersey  entity they said was owned by Pangang and mailed a
summons to an address in Petaluma, California, for a Pangang
unit that was registered as a foreign corporation in the state
from 2003 to 2008, according to court filings.  Pangang, which is based in Chengdu, in the Sichuan Province
of China, has never employed anyone in the U.S. and has never
had an office or operations here,  Robert Feldman , an attorney
for the company at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, said
in court filings. The firm represents Pangang for the limited
purpose of challenging the summonses, he said in court filings.  “I’m not here,” Feldman told U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White  in San Francisco at a hearing in April.  White has ruled that the summonses weren’t properly served
because prosecutors hadn’t shown that the entities were
controlled by or agents of Pangang.  At Standstill  “We don’t believe that there are other steps that the U.S.
can take to effect service on the Pangang defendants,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Hemann told White at a hearing in
May. “We’re at a standstill in terms of further efforts to
bring them into the case.”  White gave Hemann until today to explain how the government
intends to proceed. Hemann didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  “Judge White simply applied the rules,” Feldman said in a
phone interview. “As to the people who are considering a rule
change, they had better be careful what they ask for, because
turnaround is fair play, meaning American companies may end up
being served in circumstances we may regret.”  Three calls for comment to the general telephone line of
Pangang Group went unanswered.  Kolon, based in Gyeonggi,  South Korea , was charged with
trade secret theft and obstruction of justice, according to an
indictment that includes a forfeiture claim seeking at least
$225 million in alleged criminal proceeds from the company.  Mailed Summons  In October prosecutors mailed a summons to the company’s
last known U.S. address in New Jersey, e-mailed the summons to a
worker listed on the company’s website as a contact for the
fiber product and served summonses on the president and
treasurer of Kolon USA in New Jersey, according to a summary of
the government’s attempts compiled by U.S. District Judge Robert Payne in a court filing. Payne is presiding over the case in
Richmond.  An FBI agent went to the treasurer’s home and demanded that
his wife accept service, according to Payne.  Prosecutors also sent a copy of the summons to the
government of the Republic of Korea in accordance with a Mutual
Legal Assistance Treaty. MLATs, as they are known, are
agreements between countries allowing the exchange of
information in criminal and related matters.  A summons was delivered to Kolon two days after the company
was scheduled to appear in Virginia for arraignment on the
charges, according to court documents.  Payne ruled in February that delivering the summons to
Kolon USA wasn’t sufficient because the government hadn’t shown
that Kolon USA is an agent of Kolon Industries in Korea or was
set up as a legal shield for the company. Since the summons via
the treaty arrived too late, it didn’t count either, he said.  ‘Absurd Result’  Payne’s decision included a silver lining for prosecutors.
He said a mailed summons to a U.S. address wasn’t a requirement
and another one could be served on Kolon in Korea.  “To find that a foreign corporation could effectively
immunize itself from prosecution” by “maintaining its
principal place of business outside the country would reach an
absurd result,” Payne said.  Another summons was delivered to Kolon in Korea under the
treaty in May. The company is seeking to have the summons and
indictment thrown out, claiming MLATs can’t be used for that
purpose, U.S. lawyers hired by Kolon to challenge the summons
said in a June court filing.  Peter Carr , a Justice Department spokesman, and Zachary
Terwilliger, a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, Virginia, declined to comment.  Civil Trial  In September 2011, Kolon lost a $920 million jury verdict
to DuPont in a civil trial in Richmond over the theft of Kevlar
trade secrets.  Kolon hired  Paul Clement , the U.S. solicitor general in the
George W. Bush administration, to challenge the award. A federal
appeals panel in Richmond hasn’t ruled yet.  In 2011, DuPont sued Walter Liew, an Orinda, California,
businessman whom prosecutors accused of selling DuPont trade
secrets to Pangang so it could develop a pigment manufacturing
facility in China. The lawsuit was put on hold after the Justice
Department filed criminal charges against Liew. The department
later filed a superseding indictment to include Pangang. In May,
attorneys for DuPont said the allegations in the revised
indictment “support imposition of civil liability against
Pangang” and that it will amend its suit to add Pangang as a
defendant.  Gregg Schmidt, a DuPont spokesman, declined to comment on
the cases.  Various Steps  On June 27, prosecutors filed an indictment against  Sinovel
Wind Group Co. (601558) , a Chinese wind-turbine company, in federal court
in Madison,  Wisconsin . Sinovel and two executives are accused of
stealing  trade secrets  from its former U.S. supplier. Sinovel
has until Aug. 16 to challenge the government’s attempts to
serve the company.  On July 8, prosecutors outlined the various steps it took
to alert Sinovel to the charges, including mailing a summons to
people who the government said are registered agents in Delaware
and Texas.  The government’s criminal copyright case against Kim
Dotcom’s Megaupload Ltd., which began in January 2012, has been
frustrated by the service requirement. Lawyers for Dotcom and
the company have asked that Megaupload be dismissed from the
indictment until the government hands Megaupload its charging
documents in accordance with federal court rules. The request
has been pending since November.  The case is U.S. v. Kolon Industries, 12-cr-00137, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The
Pangang case is U.S. v. Liew, 11-cr-00573, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  