-- London Faces Second Heatwave Alert as Temperatures Soar
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-07-18T12:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/london-faces-second-heatwave-alert-as-temperatures-soar.html
London  was issued a health alert
because of heat wave conditions for a second day as Britain
basked in its hottest spell since 2006.  The U.K.  Met Office  posted the  alert  on its website,
indicating there’s a 90 percent chance of temperatures in the
capital hitting 32 degrees Celsius (89.6 degrees Fahrenheit)
today and tomorrow. Hampton Water Works in southwest London had
the U.K.’s hottest day of the year yesterday, at 32.2 degrees.  The warm spell began on July 6, and today will be the 13th
day in a row where temperatures somewhere in the U.K. exceed 28
degrees, according to the Met Office. That’s the longest stretch
since a 16-day period in 2006. The heat is driving up water
demand, threatening the country’s wheat crop and may pose a
danger to human health. The fire brigade has reported an uptick
in grass fires, including one in south London today.  “Heat waves can be dangerous especially for very young
people and the very old,” Sarah Holland, a spokeswoman for the
Met Office, said by phone.  The heat wave to date may have killed as many as 760
people, the  Times newspaper   reported  today, citing research it
commissioned from the  London School  of Hygiene and  Tropical
Medicine . A spokeswoman from the school said today by phone that
the central calculation is of 650 heat-related deaths.  London Blaze  “As temperatures rise above a certain threshold, the risk
of death increases,” Ben Armstrong, a statistician at the
school, said in an e-mailed statement. “We estimate that the
current heatwave has caused the premature deaths of 650 people.
The excess is likely to have been overwhelmingly among the
elderly, especially those over 75, some of which may have been
among people who would have died just a few weeks later if there
had been no heatwave.”  Two army reserve soldiers died while training in the heat
in  Wales  at the weekend, the Ministry of Defence said July 15.  Four hectares of Mitcham Common, equivalent to the size of
four soccer fields, were ablaze today, according to Martin
Simpson, a spokesman for the  London Fire Brigade . About 15
firefighters are tackling the blaze, which was reported at noon,
he said.  Grass fires have surged to 21 a day this July from five a
day in the first half of July 2012, according to the brigade.
Incidences since May 1 are almost double last year’s total.  Cigarette Sparks  “A small spark from a cigarette is often all it takes to
start a grass fire in these dry conditions,” Dave Brown, head
of operations at the brigade said in an e-mailed statement.
Drivers “need to take care not to throw cigarettes out of car
windows as they can easily burn grass verges.”  The brigade warned civilians not to attempt to extinguish
fires themselves. They also advised Londoners to take
preventative measures such as not leaving camp fires or
barbecues unattended and clearing away bottles and broken glass
that could otherwise magnify the sun’s rays.  Heat wave health watches are also in place in southeast
 England , southwest England and the west Midlands, according to
the Met Office website. The threshold for a heat wave varies by
region. It’s 31 degrees in the southeast and 30 degrees in the
other two areas.  “Experience tells us that exposure to excessive heat can
kill, with most cases of illness and death caused by heart and
 lung disease ,” Doctor Paul Cosford, director for health
protection at Public Health England, said yesterday in a
statement. “Because we are not used to these very hot
temperatures in England, it’s important that local plans are in
place to reduce the impact of harm from very hot weather.”  Water Demand  In southern England, Kemble Water Holdings Ltd.’s Thames
Water unit, the country’s biggest supplier, said  demand  for tap
water by its 9 million customers has risen by 15 percent across
London, enough to fill 160 Olympic-sized swimming pools a day.  Affinity Water Ltd. said peak demand has  increased  by as
much as 27 percent and asked customers to use water “wisely.”
Affinity, which serves 3.5 million people in southern England,
is owned by Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Partners and
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s M&G investment arm.  After a cold and wet spring slowed crop development earlier
this year, the summer heat and dry conditions may damage wheat
that’s not had the chance to lay roots as deep as usual,
 Charlotte  Garbutt, a senior analyst at the Agriculture &
Horticulture Development Board said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  