-- London Olympics Report Says U.K. Economy Boosted
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-19T08:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/london-olympics-report-says-u-k-economy-boosted.html
The  London  Olympics provided a 9.9
billion-pound ($15 billion) boost to business in the year since
they were held, according to estimates by officials at  U.K.
Trade & Investment .  The benefit might rise to 41 billion pounds by 2020, the
government’s trade-promotion agency said in a  report  published
today. The games have led to 1.4 million more people playing
sport each week than when London won the right in 2005 to hold
the games, according to UKTI.  “With companies across the country we are harnessing the
Olympic momentum and delivering the lasting business legacy of
the games,” Prime Minister David Cameron said in an e-mailed
statement. “This 9.9 billion-pound boost to the U.K. economy is
a reminder to the world that, if you want the best, if you want
professionalism, if you want jobs done on time and on budget
then you should think British.”  The 9.9 billion pounds is made up of 5.9 billion pounds in
extra sales as a result of Olympic-related activity, such as the
British Business Embassy in London during the games, 2.5 billion
pounds of additional investment in the U.K. from the games and
1.5 billion pounds in contracts for British companies overseas,
UKTI said.  New business includes 120 million pounds in contracts for
the 2014 soccer World Cup in  Brazil  and the Olympics in Rio de
Janeiro two years later. British companies have also won more
than 60 contracts for the Sochi Winter Olympics in  Russia  next
year, UKTI said.  ‘Genuine Benefit’  Business Secretary Vince Cable said that, while the
estimates are “not something that would pass muster in the best
academic journals,” they reflect a genuine benefit to the U.K.
economy from the Olympics. The games sped up deals involving
companies that were already “warm” toward Britain, he said.  “The Olympics were a key catalyst in making some of these
investment decisions real,” Cable told BBC Radio 4’s “Today”
show. “They progressed more rapidly, more positively than they
otherwise would have done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  