-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Fall as China Housing Tempers Fed
-- B y   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-18T08:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/hong-kong-stocks-swing-on-china-housing-bernanke-remarks.html
Most  Hong Kong stocks  fell as rising
 China  home prices dimmed prospects for easing of property curbs,
outweighing comments by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
that the U.S. is not on a preset course to taper stimulus.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , which gets all of its revenue on
the mainland, lost 3.3 percent to lead declines among
developers. Man Wah Holdings Ltd., a sofa maker that gets more
than half of its sales from the U.S., slid 7.5 percent after
Macquarie Group Ltd. downgraded its shares. About three
companies fell for every two that gained on the Hang Seng
Composite Index.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 0.1 percent to 21,345.22 at the
close in Hong Kong after rising as much as 0.3 percent. Trading
volume was 40 percent below the 30-day average. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland shares rose 0.1 percent to
9,492.07.  “The Chinese government has been targeting developers for
at least three and a half years now, so they’re not operating in
a friendly environment,” said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based
director at Ample Capital Ltd. “You can not expect any easier
environment for them in the near term.”  Shares on the  benchmark   Hang Seng Index  traded at 10.16
times estimated earnings, compared with 15.2 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 13.3 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Property stocks retreated after China’s June new home
prices rose in 69 of 70 cities the government tracked from a
year earlier. China in March stepped up a three-year campaign to
cool housing speculation, and has studied expanding property-tax
trials after implementing them in Shanghai and Chongqing.  Developers Slide  China Resources Land, which gets all of its revenue on the
mainland, lost 3.3 percent to HK$20.25.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. (668)  fell 1.4 percent to HK$21.20.  The Fed’s Bernanke told Congress yesterday that stimulus is
“by no means on a preset course” and could be reduced or
expanded depending on economic conditions.  Central-bank policy makers have been debating the timing of
cuts in $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. Bernanke has said
any reduction will be tied to improvement in the labor market or
a rise in inflation. The  U.S. economy  maintained a “modest to
moderate pace” of growth in recent weeks, the Fed said in its
Beige Book business survey.  “Bernanke’s testimony was in line with expectations and
what he has been saying over the past week or two,” said  Binay Chandgothia , a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at Principal
Global Investors, which oversees $250 billion globally. China
“seems to be accepting a lower trajectory of growth and they
don’t look like jumping in and taking short-term measures.”  Growth Risks  The International Monetary Fund yesterday said risks are
increasing that China’s economic growth will fall short of the
institution’s 7.75 percent annual forecast as it urged the
nation to follow through on reforms to sustain expansion.
Premier  Li Keqiang  said this month restructuring should proceed
as long as growth and employment stay above unspecified limits.  The Hang Seng Index rebounded 2.7 percent through yesterday
after posting its  biggest monthly decline  in a year in June, on
speculation China may act to ease a deepening slowdown. The
government this week reported 7.5 percent economic growth in the
second quarter, down from 7.7 percent in the first three months,
as factory output weakened.  Futures on the  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent today. The U.S.
equity index gained 0.3 percent yesterday in  New York  after
snapping an eight-day rally, as the Fed chief’s comments
reassured markets and Bank of America Corp. and Yahoo! Inc.
earnings beat estimates.  U.S. Housing  U.S. housing starts  fell to the lowest in almost a year,
contrasting a seven-year high in builders’ optimism, according
to a report. Li & Fung fell 0.9 percent to HK$11.00. Techtronic
Industries Co., a maker of power tools that gets 73 percent of
its sales in  North America , dropped 5 percent to HK$18.56.  China Resources Power Holdings Ltd. fell 1.8 percent to
HK$17.66, extending losses after plunging the most in four years
yesterday. The utility denied allegations by a Xinhua reporter
that it overpaid when spending 7.9 billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion)
for coal assets another party valued at half the price.  Man Wah slid 7.5% to HK$9.27, the biggest drop in three
months. The sofa maker’s equity rating was cut to underperform
from outperform at Macquarie. The shares as of today traded
without right to a dividend for the most recent period.  Hang Seng Index futures were little changed at 21,362. The
HSI Volatility Index slid 3.5 percent to 19.16, indicating
traders expect a swing of 5.5 percent on the equity benchmark in
the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  