-- Too-Big-to-Fail Insurers to Face Tougher Capital Standards
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-07-18T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/too-big-to-fail-insurers-to-face-tougher-capital-standards.html
Global insurers identified as too 
big to fail will have to hold higher reserves and draw up 
recovery and resolution plans to limit the economic fallout 
should they go bust, the industry’s watchdog said.  The International Association of Insurance Supervisors, 
which collected data from 50 insurers in 14 jurisdictions, 
including the U.S., to help the Financial Stability Board draw
up a list of systemically important firms, released its 
assessment methodology and policy measures today. The list of 
insurers will be announced by the Basel, Switzerland-based FSB 
in coming days.  The FSB, led by Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney , is
coordinating global regulators’ response to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression to prevent a repeat of the
turmoil that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “Since the financial crisis, supervisors across the sector
have worked diligently to address risks to the global financial
system from systemically important financial institutions,”
Peter Braumueller, chair of the IAIS executive committee, said
in a statement. “The measures and framework put forward by the
IAIS today complete a major piece of this reform in a manner
specifically designed for the insurance sector.”  The companies on the FSB insurer list will be included
based on criteria such as size, global activity and the amount
of non-insurance businesses they have. The designation of
systemically important means the failure of the company could
threaten the financial system.  Crisis Losses  The IAIS would impose tougher capital standards on the
systemically important insurers to increase their capacity to
absorb losses and require them to design recovery and resolution
plans to meet cases of severe financial distress. The FSB said
in June it will follow up next year with a list of too-big-to-fail reinsurers.  Insurers and reinsurers globally, led by New York-based AIG
and  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (AMBC) , posted about $231 billion in
writedowns and credit losses from the financial crisis, compared
with $1.51 trillion from banks and brokers worldwide, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Losses in AIG’s London-based
financial products unit forced the company to seek a record
bailout from the U.S. government.  The IAIS said non-traditional activities, including
alternative risk transfers such as insurance-linked securities
and financial guarantee insurance, as well as capital-markets
businesses, banking, third-party asset management and industrial
activities, are deemed the most risky and are the most important
categories for assessing the systemic importance of an insurer.
The firm’s interconnectedness was the next most significant
consideration, the watchdog said.  The IAIS has said that traditional insurance and
reinsurance are unlikely to cause or amplify systemic risk.  In November 2011, the Group of 20 nations endorsed the
FSB’s policy measures on global systemically important financial
institutions and published a list of too-big-to-fail banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  