-- Moody’s Cuts Chicago Rating Amid Crime, Pension Liability
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-07-18T04:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/moody-s-cuts-chicago-rating-amid-crime-pension-liability.html
Mounting pension liabilities have
cost  Chicago  another cut in its credit standing as Moody’s
Investors Service reduced the general-obligation debt rating for
the nation’s third-largest city by three steps to A3, citing a
$36 billion retirement-fund deficit and “unrelenting public
safety demands” on the budget.  Moody’s also placed the city’s $7.7 billion in general-obligation bonds under a negative outlook, indicating another
cut may be made. The moves follow a review that began in April,
when the New York-based rating company said it was reevaluating
the credit effects of municipal retirement obligations.  Public pensions nationwide are under significant stress
following the longest recession since the depression and the
financial crisis that  punished  asset values. The magnitude of
the estimated deficit for all plans ranges from $900 billion to
more than $4 trillion, depending on the assumptions used.  “Absent significant growth in the city’s operating
revenues, escalating pension funding requirements will
increasingly strain the city’s operating budget, as pension
outlays compete with other spending priorities, including debt
service and public safety,” Moody’s analysts said yesterday in
the report. They also cited the political obstacles to
meaningful retirement system reform at the state level.  Relief Needed  Mayor Rahm Emanuel, in a statement released by his office,
said the downgrade “confirms what I have been saying for more
than a year. Without comprehensive pension relief from
Springfield, municipalities such as Chicago will continue to
receive negative reviews from rating agencies.”  State lawmakers went through two special sessions within
the past five weeks called by Illinois Governor Pat Quinn, a
Democrat like Emanuel, without making any changes.  “I urge our leaders to come together, find common ground,
and pass pension relief that will give taxpayers, retirees,
residents and rating agencies confidence in our city’s finances
and our city’s future,” said Emanuel, 53, a former investment
banker, congressman and White House chief of staff to President
 Barack Obama , a Chicago resident.  The Emanuel administration has warned that retirement
contributions will cost about $1.2 billion within four years if
the state legislature doesn’t restructure the system, up from
$476 million last year.  Moody’s analysts Rachel Cortez and Thomas Aaron said the
city’s four pensions have reported a $19 billion collective
deficit -- about half of what they figure it to be. Chicago’s
new rating is four steps above noninvestment, or junk, grade.  Crime Costs  The costs of controlling crime in Chicago have added to the
city’s financial stress. After a surge in homicides last year,
the city of about 2.7 million residents cut its homicide rate by
29 percent in the first half of this year, in part by paying 400
officers overtime to police crime-ridden neighborhoods.  Moody’s had rated Chicago general-obligation bonds at Aa3,
or fourth highest. The company also cut its grades on the city’s
securities tied to sales-tax revenue and water and sewer debt,
to A3 from Aa3 and to A1 from Aa2, respectively, affecting
almost $3.9 billion in related debt.  Chicago faced a budget deficit of $298 million before the
approval in November of the 2013 spending plan, which would
eliminate the projected gap without raising fees or taxes.
Chicago Public Schools has said it intends to close 50 schools
as part of a plan to eliminate a $1 billion shortfall. A group
of parents challenged the move this week, seeking to delay it
for at least a year, if not permanently.  The city and  Illinois  are both coping with the lack of a
retirement-system solution. After the legislature adjourned in
Springfield, the capital, May 31 without passing a pension fix,
Fitch dropped the state to A-, its fourth-lowest investment
grade. Three days later Moody’s cut it to A3, the equivalent
rank. Standard & Poor’s put the state at the same level.  A general-obligation Chicago bond maturing in January 2022
last traded July 12 at an average yield of about 3.4 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was about 1.95 percentage
points more than top-rated municipal debt with a similar
maturity, the data show. By comparison, the securities traded at
an average of 2.38 percent on April 1, when the spread to AAAs
was 1.49 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  