-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Advances as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Drop
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-18T02:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/top-oil-market-news-wti-advances-as-u-s-crude-stockpiles-drop.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Crude Advances as U.S. Inventories Decline More Than Expected  West  Texas  Intermediate crude gained after a government
report showed U.S. inventories decreased more than expected as
refineries boosted fuel production.  U.S. Crude Output 1.2% Last Week to Highest Since December 1990  Output rose by 89,000 b/d in the seven days ended July 12,
the Energy Information Administration said. * U.S. pumped 7.49m
b/d last week NOTE: Fracking and horizontal drilling boosted
output from shale formations including the Bakken in North
Dakota and the Eagle Ford in Texas. The U.S. met 89% of its own
energy needs in March, the highest monthly rate since April
1986.  Currency to Oil Rates Targeted for Tougher Rules After Libor (3)  Benchmarks underpinning markets from oil to currencies face
tougher oversight under plans by global regulators to prevent
any repeat of Libor-style fraud.  Gasoline Declines as U.S. Inventories Climb Amid Lower Demand  Gasoline retreated from a four-month high as U.S.
inventories increased unexpectedly and demand for the motor fuel
declined.  U.S. Refinery Demand Rises With Output at Highest Since 1990 (1)  U.S. refineries used the most crude in almost eight years
last week, draining supplies for the third straight time, even
as domestic production rose to the highest level since 1990 and
imports increased.  U.S. Ethanol Stockpiles Increase Most This Year in EIA Report  Ethanol inventories in the U.S. increased the most since
November, an Energy Information Administration report showed
today.  Quebec Disaster Sparks Debate on Costly Rail Safety Measures   A runaway oil train that killed scores of people when it
slammed into a Quebec town is bringing renewed calls on both
sides of the U.S.-Canada border for tougher safety rules for
railroads.  Vitol, Eni Sell CPC Blend; HPCL Buys Qua Iboe Crude From Vitol  No bids or offers were made for North Sea Forties and
Russian Urals crudes. Vitol Group and Eni SpA sold CPC Blend at
a smaller premium than yesterday’s bid.  Ethanol Slips Against Gasoline as Stockpiles Rise Most This Year  Ethanol tumbled against gasoline after a government report
showed stockpiles of the biofuel climbed the most in eight
months and demand dropped. Renewable Identification Numbers
surged to a record.  U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 12 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly Petroleum Status Report
from the U.S. Department of Energy:  Gasoline Declines After Report Shows Inventories Rose Last Week  Gasoline slipped from a four-month high after an industry-funded report that U.S. supplies of the motor fuel increased
last week.  OPEC  Citigroup Boost for Iraqi Bond Amplified by UN Vote: Arab Credit  Citigroup Inc.’s decision to open in  Iraq  and the easing of
United Nations sanctions dating back to the Saddam Hussein era
are driving yields on the OPEC oil producer’s bonds down from a
four-year high.  Saudi Arabia Lifts May Crude Exports to 11-Month High, JODI Says  Saudi Arabia, world’s largest crude exporter, shipped 7.79
million barrels a day in May, the highest level since June last
year when it sold 7.84 million barrels, according to the Joint
Organizations Data Initiative.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  California-Blend Gasoline Supplies Dropped 7% Last Week  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, inventories fell 7%
to 5.11m bbls in week ended July 12, down from 5.5m bbls a week
earlier, state Energy Commission said on website.  Syncrude Said to Cut July, August Output by 1.1 Million Barrels  The Syncrude oil-sands project in Alberta cut its
production forecast for July and August by a total 1.1 million
barrels, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Canadian Crudes Gain as U.S. Refinery Demand Hits 8-Year High  Canadian crudes strengthened on the  spot market  as U.S.
refinery demand hit an eight-year high and supplies fell for the
third straight week.  BP Buys Jet Cargoes; ICE Gasoil at 3-Month High: Oil Products  Vitol sells four jet fuel cargoes to BP. Gasoil futures
rise to the highest level in more than 3 months on ICE.  Union Official Freites Says Cardon Lubricants Plant Restarted  PDVSA restarts operations at the Cardon refinery lubricants
plant, union official Ivan Freites says in an interview.  Statoil Buys Gasoline; ICE Gasoil Crack Widens: Oil Products  European gasoline trades near the highest in more than 3
months as Statoil buys barges. Gasoil’s crack widens to the most
in more than 4 months.  Total to Resume Feyzin Refinery’s Naphtha Cracker After Upset  Feyzin refinery in France had steam cracker disruption
yesterday, co. official says by phone, declining to be
identified, citing co. policy.  Indian Oil Shuts FCC at Gujarat Oil Refinery After July 16 Fire  Co. begins restart process at fluid catalytic cracker at
plant in western India after temporary shutdown, spokeswoman
Anjali Bhave says by phone today.  Flint Hills Starts Corpus Christi Recyle Compressor: NRC Filing  Co. flares from hydrocracker in Texas after loss of
compressor, according to a filing with the U.S. National
Response Center.  Los Angeles Gasoline Weakens as Valero Units Reach Full Rates  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles weakened against futures after
Valero Energy Corp.’s Southern California refinery returned its
fluid catalytic cracker and alkylation unit to full rates
following a shutdown last weekend.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 6.47 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Saudi Arabia to Japan Tanker Rates 40.43 Points  The cost of delivering Middle East crude to  Asia , the
world’s busiest route for supertankers, declined 2.8 percent to
40.43 Worldscale points, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in
 London .  Vitol Said to Sell Nigerian Crude to HPCL at $2.50 to $3 Premium  Vitol Group sold 2 million barrels of Nigerian crude for
September loading to Hindustan Petroleum Corp., India’s third-largest state refiner, said two traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crude grades from the  Middle East , Asia,
 Africa  and the Americas. Figures are in dollars a barrel, or
premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where plus and
minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Dollar Erases Gain as Treasuries, S&P 500 Futures Rise on Fed  The dollar erased early gains and Treasuries rose after
 Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said there is no preset
course for the central bank’s asset purchases, tempering
speculation the Fed was planning to taper its stimulus. U.S.
 stock futures  and European shares advanced.  Barclays, Traders Fined $487.9 Million by U.S. Energy Regulator  Barclays Plc and four of its former traders must pay a
combined $487.9 million in fines and penalties, the U.S. Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission said in a final order stemming from
its investigation of alleged manipulation of energy markets.  Tornadoes Inflate Nebraska Nuke Plant’s Bond Risk: Muni Credit  The risk of floods and tornadoes is preventing investors in
$1.8 billion of bonds of Nebraska’s biggest electricity provider
from participating in the best year since 2008 for municipal
debt of U.S. power companies.  Interior Chief Uses Industry Know-How to Defend Fracking Rules  U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell drew on her experience
as a former oil-industry engineer to defend proposed federal
regulation of hydraulic fracturing for oil and gas on publicly
owned land.  Chevron $1.24 Billion Deal Leads YPF Post-Repsol Shale Hunt (4)  Chevron Corp., the world’s second- biggest oil company,
signed the first agreement with Argentina’s government since it
nationalized YPF SA in 2012 to help develop shale oil and
natural gas in Vaca Muerta.  U.S. Gulf Oil Profits Lure $16 Billion More Rigs by 2015: Energy  The deep-water  Gulf of Mexico , shut down after BP Plc’s
record oil spill in 2010, has rebounded to become the fastest
growing offshore market in the world.  LNG Price-Swing Risk Seen as Threat to Futures: Energy Markets  Asia’s ambitions to start the world’s first liquefied
natural gas futures markets are threatening to backfire amid
concern that speculators will exacerbate the price swings that
contracts are meant to prevent.  Temasek Racing Exxon to Build Biggest LNG Stash:  Southeast Asia   A Temasek Holdings Pte unit is up against Exxon Mobil Corp.
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc in a contest to fill storage that will
hold three times as much liquefied natural gas as Singapore will
consume this year.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stock Futures Rise on Bernanke Testimony as Copper Climbs  Asian stock futures rallied, signaling equities in the
region will follow U.S. indexes higher after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  allayed concern the U.S. is planning to
curb stimulus. The dollar held gains against most major
currencies and copper futures rose.  Emerging-Market Currencies Climb After Bernanke; Dollar Advances  Mexico ’s peso and Brazil’s real led a rally in emerging-market assets against the dollar as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke signaled the  U.S. economy  still needs stimulus,
boosting demand for higher-yielding securities.  Fed’s Messages Raise Volatility in Threat to Profits: Currencies  The Federal Reserve’s mixed messages on monetary policy are
stoking volatility in the $4 trillion-a- day currency market,
raising the odds that companies will have a harder time setting
up exchange-rate hedges designed to protect overseas earnings.  U.S. Stocks Rise as Bernanke Says Data Will Determine Stimulus  U.S. stocks rose, after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
snapped an eight-day rally yesterday, as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank’s asset purchases
are not on a preset course.  European Stocks Gain on Bernanke Testimony as BHP Billiton Rises  European stocks rose, rebounding from their biggest drop in
more than a week, as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said that the pace of the recovery will determine when the
central bank reduces its asset purchases.  Wells Fargo Overtakes JPMorgan as Financing Expands: Commodities  Wells Fargo & Co. overtook JPMorgan Chase & Co. as the
biggest lender to commodities companies in the second quarter,
as total financing rose to the highest level since 2011 after a
record loan to Glencore Xstrata Plc.  Gold Drops Most in a Week as Dollar Rebounds on Bernanke Signals  Gold futures fell the most in more than a week after the
dollar rebounded, curbing demand for the metal as an alternative
investment.  Egypt Divisions Cemented as Mursi Opponents Target Islamists  To Mahmoud Sayed, Mohamed Mursi’s election as Egypt’s
president a year ago was an opportunity he’d wanted for years: a
chance to grow a beard as a sign of his faith. Islamists, he
figured, wouldn’t be persecuted as they had under former
president  Hosni Mubarak .  Abe Set for Japan Election Win Faces LDP Dissent as Biggest Risk  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is set to win control of
both houses of parliament, giving his Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition the strongest grip on power since 2007. Winning
the election will be the easy part.  SPORTS  Tiger Woods Signs Fourth Golf Endorsement Contract With Nike  Tiger Woods  signed a new endorsement agreement with Nike
Inc., his fourth with the world’s largest sporting-goods
company.  Queensland Wins Eighth Straight State of Origin Rugby Series  Queensland beat New South  Wales  12- 10 last night to win a
record-extending eighth straight State of Origin rugby league
series.  R&A to Examine All-Male Golf Clubs Following British Open  The Royal and Ancient Golf Club, which governs the sport
outside the U.S. and Mexico, will study the issue of all-male
clubs after questions about Muirfield hosting this year’s
British Open.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)      106.43  -0.05   0.0  Nymex     Aug.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    108.61  +0.47  +0.4    Ice    Sept.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         924.00  +4.25  +0.5    Ice    Sept.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       310.65  -0.36  -0.1  Nymex     Aug.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.62     --  -0.1  Nymex     Aug.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    109.31  +0.73  +0.7    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            307.90  +0.78  +0.3  Nymex     Aug.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.71  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,278.80  -1.0
MSCI World Index     1,503.38  +0.2
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  