-- Morgan Stanley Says Leverage Ratio Fell Short of Minimum
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-18T16:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/morgan-stanley-says-leverage-ratio-fell-short-of-minimum.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, said it fell short of a minimum  leverage
ratio  proposed by U.S. regulators last week that measures a
firm’s ability to withstand losses.  The company’s supplementary leverage ratio, a gauge of
capital to total assets, was 4.2 percent in the second quarter,
below the proposed 5 percent minimum, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said on a conference call with analysts today. The
ratio at Morgan Stanley’s deposit-taking bank subsidiary was
above the proposed 6 percent minimum, she said.  Morgan Stanley will exceed both requirements by 2015, Porat
said. The company announced plans earlier today to buy back $500
million in stock, and Porat said the firm’s plan to reach 5
percent by 2015 includes further capital returns to
shareholders.  “The large banks will all manage against the new leverage
ratio well in advance of the ultimate application, which I think
is 2018,” Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Erik Schatzker . “Our
capital plans will reflect the accretion of earnings.”  While banks would have more than four years to comply,
lenders may have to retain some capital to meet the requirements
that they otherwise could pay out through dividends or share
repurchases. Gorman has said his plan to boost return on equity
to 10 percent by next year depends on regulators allowing the
firm to return a “reasonable” amount of capital to
shareholders.  Basel Rule  The U.S. proposal surpasses the 3 percent global minimum
that the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  approved to help
prevent another financial crisis. The changes would force
lenders to fund more assets with capital that can absorb losses
instead of with borrowed money.  “This is a continuation of trying to find the right
position for this industry, which is the backbone of any
economy, to make it safe and stable and at the same time leave
it in a position where it can drive economic growth,” Gorman
said in the interview.  Gorman said regulators should be “very thoughtful” about
whether to exclude certain assets, such as Treasuries, from the
calculation. Morgan Stanley would probably be in compliance with
the rule if U.S. government securities were excluded, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by  Richard Ramsden  said in a July
10 note.  Morgan Stanley can probably boost its leverage ratio by
reducing fixed-income assets and moving derivative contracts to
central clearinghouses, Porat said.  Basel III  While Morgan Stanley trails rivals on its leverage ratio,
it surpasses some of them on risk-based  capital ratios . The
firm’s Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio was 9.9 percent in the
second quarter, the second-highest among the six largest U.S.
lenders.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. bank, said
yesterday that its supplementary leverage ratio was between 4.9
percent and 5 percent in the second-quarter. The ratios at the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender’s U.S. deposit-taking and
credit-card units exceed 6 percent, Chief Financial Officer
 Bruce Thompson  told reporters.  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank, said its ratio
averaged 4.9 percent in the second quarter and in June exceeded
the 5 percent minimum. The New York-based company hasn’t
calculated a ratio for its deposit-taking unit, CFO John Gerspach said July 15. He said the ratio was about 6 percent in
March.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest home lender, exceeds both
minimums, CEO  John Stumpf  said last week. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said it’s “very comfortable” with its ability to meet the
new U.S. minimum, without giving the current level.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank, said last week
that both its holding company, which had a 4.7 percent ratio,
and deposit-taking subsidiary fall short of the proposed
minimums. CEO  Jamie Dimon  criticized the plan for going further
than international requirements.  “If one is 3 percent and one is 6 percent, that becomes
just too big, and over time it can have huge competitive
effects,” Dimon said on a July 12 conference call. “We always
ran with higher capital and liquidity than most of our
competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  