-- Mother Nature to Sick Patients Invoked in Poloz’s Debut
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mother-nature-to-sick-patients-invoked-in-poloz-s-debut.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz laid out some new words for talking about the future of
 interest rates , lacing his comments with analogies about lost
sailors, Mother Nature and sick patients.  The new central bank chief also reworked key sections of a
quarterly policy report by dropping a line that talked about the
interest-rate path built into the bank’s base case, and
revamping the discussion of the risks to the Canadian economy.  Poloz came to the central bank last month from the federal
export-financing agency to take over from  Mark Carney , a former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker. The changes in Poloz’s first
announcement show he’s putting a new stamp on the institution,
said  Michael Gregory , senior economist at BMO Capital Markets.  Poloz is “maybe a little bit more folksy in bringing it
back to metaphors that people can understand,” Gregory said by
telephone from Toronto.  The central bank’s usual tools for gauging the economic
recovery need more judgment than usual because the last global
recession was more damaging, Poloz said at a press conference
yesterday.  “The parable I gave to the staff the other day was that at
one point, sailors were sailing the northern hemisphere using
the stars for guidance, and one night they get blown into the
southern hemisphere and the stars were all different, and so
their models didn’t work,” he said. “They all managed to adapt
and work it all out.”  Nature’s Way  The new governor has also stressed the need for Canada’s
economy to rotate to growth led by  exports  and business
investment, away from debt-fueled  consumer spending . Companies
are ready to spend more as U.S. and global demand build, Poloz
said. “To me that’s kind of a sequence, which is Mother Nature
at work.”  At a June 6 hearing before lawmakers, Poloz, 57, likened
the way he’s built his own skill set over time to weekend visits
to Home Depot. He also asked parliamentarians to  imagine  inter-planetary trade, and how earthlings could take advantage of
flows between Jupiter and Saturn.  While Poloz and Carney’s speaking styles differ, they agree
on the outline of where the economy is heading. Yesterday’s
decision retained predictions that Canada will reach full output
and inflation will hit the bank’s 2 percent target in mid-2015,
suggesting interest-rate increases are a long way off.  “The world isn’t going to turn normal after the G-20
meeting this weekend,” said Poloz, referring to July 19-20
talks in Moscow among policy makers of the Group of 20
economies. “We hope that it continues to heal and that normalcy
returns, much like a patient in hospital -- that’s not a bad
metaphor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  