-- OTP Drops Most in 15 Months on Forex Loan Plan: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-18T15:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/otp-drops-most-since-october-on-forex-loan-plan-budapest-mover.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, dropped the most in 15 months as the cabinet announced
plans to retroactively amend the terms of foreign-currency
loans, opening the doors for a hit on earnings.  The shares declined 4.7 percent to 4,620 forint by the end
of trade in Budapest, the biggest plunge on a closing basis
since April 2012 and extending their loss over two days to 8.2
percent. Turnover amounted to almost four times the three-month
daily average. The BUX stock  index  retreated 2.3 percent and the
forint weakened 0.7 percent to 294.8 per euro, the worst
performance among the 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cabinet is looking at the
possibility of retroactively modifying the conditions of
foreign-currency loans, the Justice Ministry said by e-mail
today. The legislation will probably focus on changes in
exchange rates, which resulted in borrowers’ inability to repay,
the ministry said. Banks may have to bear part or all of the
costs, newspaper Magyar Nemzet reported today.  “The market fears steps causing additional losses for the
banking system in an already not-too-favorable lending and
growth environment,” Karoly Bamli, a Budapest-based currency
trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote in an e-mail today. “The news
is having a negative impact on the forint.”  Government Intervention  OTP plunged 36 percent and the forint weakened 12 percent
in 2011, when the government forced banks to take losses by
allowing clients to repay foreign-currency loans early at below-market rates. Hungarian households had 3.73 trillion forint
($16.5 billion) in foreign currency loans as of the end of
March, according to central bank data.  In addition to introducing the temporary early-repayment
plan two years ago without consulting lenders, the government
has devised programs in coordination with banks. Under one,
which ended in September, banks converted non-performing
foreign-currency loans into forint and wrote down a quarter of
the debt in exchange for deducting some losses from a bank levy.  The government’s reliance on “ad hoc” measures and
frequent changes in the regulatory environment make planning
“impossible” for the economy, the Hungarian European Business
Council, which groups 14 local chief executives of multinational
companies, said in a statement today.  Orban’s measures also criticized as “ad hoc” by the
 International Monetary Fund  included the introduction of special
taxes on industries including banking, telecommunications and
energy. Orban has taken over $13 billion in privately managed
pension assets since taking office in 2010 to help cut public
debt.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose four basis point to 292. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year forint bonds rose six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.8 percent, adding to a
nine basis point increase yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  