-- OUE Hospitality Said to Raise $476 Million in Singapore Offering
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-07-18T00:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/oue-hospitality-said-to-raise-476-million-in-singapore-offering.html
Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) ,
which is buying California’s tallest building, raised S$600
million ($476 million) in a  Singapore  initial public offering of
its hospitality and retail assets, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  OUE Hospitality Trust sold 681.8 million units at 88
Singapore cents, the people said, asking not to be named as the
information is private. The units were offered in a range of 88
Singapore cents to 90 Singapore cents, the IPO prospectus shows.  OUE follows an IPO of retail assets owned by  Singapore
Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , which raised S$504 million after pricing at
the top of the marketed range yesterday. REITs and business
trusts were the biggest fundraisers in Singapore’s initial
public offering market in the past year, accounting for $4.16
billion of the $6.2 billion of stock priced, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  At 88 cents,  OUE Hospitality Trust (OUEHT)  is offering a yield of
7.46 percent based on fiscal 2014 projections, according to a
prospectus filed in Singapore last week. SPH’s yield is
projected at 5.79 percent for 2014, based on the 90 Singapore
cents IPO price set on Tuesday.  T.L. Woo, a spokeswoman for OUE, declined to comment.  A business hotel next to the Singapore airport and two
hospitality assets in  China , may be offered to OUE Hospitality
Trust, according to the IPO prospectus. The properties, which
have a total valuation of S$413 million as at Dec. 31, could
potentially double the number of hotel rooms owned by the trust,
according to the document.  OUE is controlled by Executive Chairman Stephen Riady, a
son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group.
Lippo’s businesses include real estate, financial services and
food across Asia. The company said earlier this year it’s buying
the U.S. Bank Tower in  Los Angeles , the tallest in the West
Coast state, for $367.5 million.  The share sale was managed by Credit Suisse Group AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Standard Chartered Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  