-- Ouya Game Device Lures Game Makers With $1 Million Fund
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-18T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ouya-game-device-lures-game-makers-with-1-million-fund.html
Ouya Inc., the startup maker of a
$99 video-game console, will spend $1 million to fund
development of games made exclusively for the device, in a push
to attract players and challenge more established platforms.  Games creators who raise money on Web-based funding service
Kickstarter.com for exclusive Ouya titles during a period of 
just over a year starting on Aug. 9 will be eligible for 
$50,000 to $250,000 in matching funds from the Los Angeles-based company, it said in a statement today.  Ouya is heading back to Kickstarter to gain developer
backing for its device, which uses  Google Inc (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. The company initially raised $8.6 million at
the site to move forward with its hardware plans, before
receiving an added $15 million in venture backing in May led by
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.  “We’ve seen dozens of great games launch on Kickstarter,
and now we are in the enviable position of being able to give
back and secure the best, exclusive games for Ouya,” founder
Julie Uhrman said in the statement.  Uhrman is betting Ouya will lure independent developers who
have been making games for tablets and smartphones that run on
Android and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS operating systems to switch back to
home consoles.  Console Wars  Executives at Sony Corp. and  Nintendo Co. (7974)  are also offering
incentives to attract smaller development houses to their
consoles. The Ouya competes with Sony’s PlayStation,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox and Nintendo’s Wii U for sales in a home console
market that has shrunk as consumers shift to digital downloads
and games on mobile devices.  U.S. retail sales of game hardware, software and
accessories fell 22 percent last year to $13.3 billion,
according to NPD Group.  The Ouya Free the Games Fund requires participants to make
their games exclusive to the cube-shaped console for a minimum
of six months. The developer that raises the most for its games
on Kickstarter by the end of the program, on Aug. 10, 2014, will
earn a $100,000 bonus, Ouya said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  