-- How Shinzo Abe Can Win Friends and Influence China
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-18T17:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/how-shinzo-abe-can-win-friends-and-influence-china.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
wants a mandate in Sunday’s parliamentary elections, and voters
look set to give him one. The question is whether he understands
what he’s getting.  Polls  show  that Japanese want Abe to fix the economy.
Optimism and stock prices shot up earlier this year after the
 Bank of Japan  began a massive quantitative-easing program and
Abe’s government announced stimulus plans to rouse Japan from
its 20-year funk. The prime minister now says he needs control
over both chambers of the Diet in order to see through critical
structural reforms -- the third “arrow’’ in his recovery plan.
Voters appear to agree.  For Abe, though, Japan’s revival isn’t merely a matter of
yen rates and export figures. He envisions a broader
renaissance, in which the island nation reasserts itself as a
natural leader of  Asia . The prime minister’s advisers don’t
hesitate to say that the boldness of Abenomics emerged out of a
sense of existential threat -- a feeling that  Japan  had begun to
settle into genteel decline and had put itself at the mercy of a
bullying, arrogant  China .  Abe has talked of revising the “pacifist” constitution in
order to transform Japan’s  Self-Defense Force s into a regular
military, free to conduct combat missions abroad. He hasn’t
ruled out the possibility that he might visit the Yasukuni Shrine,
which honors Japan’s war dead, including 14 Class A war
criminals. A wing of Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  is pushing
to rewrite Japanese history to be less critical of Japan’s
record in World War II.  All these measures are hugely controversial at home, let
alone abroad, where they enrage Japan’s neighbors. China,
Japan’s largest trading partner, is happy to wage this fight.
President  Xi Jinping  faces a tough, painful stretch of economic
restructuring at home that could throw millions of Chinese out
of work. He needs to keep an assertive military on his side, and
a restless populace distracted: Japan-bashing serves both
purposes. Heightened tensions -- particularly around disputed
islands administered by Japan but claimed by China -- may well
escalate into a military conflict that would draw in the U.S.
and derail Japan’s incipient recovery.  The Clintonian adage applies: Japan can’t challenge China
for leadership of Asia without a strong, vibrant, innovative
economy, stupid. Anything that doesn’t further that goal is, by
Abe’s own logic, a distraction.  After these elections -- for the upper house of the Diet --
LDP leaders would be wise to focus their resources on overcoming
opposition to the most difficult structural reforms. That
doesn’t mean Japan can’t take measures it deems necessary to
bolster its defenses, such as increasing its military budget, or
even making cosmetic changes such as renaming its military the
“National Defense Forces.’’ Such decisions should be based on
strategic concerns, not a desire to fire up patriotic fervor.
They should be communicated to Beijing quietly but
transparently, well in advance.  Indeed, as the U.S. has argued in its own relationship with
a rising China, peace may pose a challenge; predictability
shouldn’t. To its credit,  Tokyo  continues to promote the idea of
establishing a hotline between defense ministries and a maritime
communications link to forestall clashes between rival ships
maneuvering close to one another. After almost agreeing a couple
of years ago, China has since resisted such measures. Beijing
should understand that dragging its heels on such common-sense
matters damages its relationship with  Washington  as well as
Tokyo.  When it comes to  South Korea , the U.S. may have more of a
role to play. For Abe to visit Yasukuni, or to try and whitewash
the enslavement of Korean “comfort women’’ and forced laborers
during World War II, would undermine relations between two
critical U.S. allies. Although Washington has delivered this
message repeatedly, Japanese officials still seem to view the
warnings as pro forma. Tokyo should be under no such illusions.  The scholar  Daniel Sneider  draws a parallel to  Germany ,
where U.S. officials played a central role in talks to establish
an official fund, supported by German business, to compensate
forced laborers under the Nazis. Japan has fiercely resisted
creating such a fund and would probably not welcome U.S.
intervention. Of course, neither did Germany. Unless Japan finds
some means like this to bring closure to the issue, it will
continue to fester and unsettle the country’s most critical
relationship -- its U.S. alliance.  Admittedly, painting China as an enemy has served Abe’s
reform efforts thus far. If Japan is to move forward, though,
it’s time to recognize and respect its friends, too.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 