-- Palestinians to Discuss Kerry Proposal to Renew Peace Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-18T12:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/palestinians-to-discuss-kerry-proposal-for-renewing-peace-talks.html
Palestinian officials will meet
today in the  West Bank  city of Ramallah to decide whether to
accept U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s proposal to renew
direct peace talks with Israel after a three-year stalemate.  Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  will brief the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s decision-making executive
committee and his Fatah party’s central committee on his two
meetings with Kerry this week in Amman, Jordan, spokesman Nabil Abu Rudeina said in a statement to the official Palestinian Wafa
news agency. Details of the plan have not been disclosed.  “During the meeting, the Palestinian leadership will give
its official response to Kerry’s plan on the resumption of the
direct peace negotiations with Israel,” Abu Rudeina said in the
statement. The meeting is scheduled to start at 3 p.m. local
time.  State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said, “There
are currently no plans for an announcement on the resumption of
negotiations.”  If both Israelis and Palestinians accept Kerry’s proposal,
it would lead to the first official negotiations between the
sides since September 2010. Those talks, which lasted just three
weeks, broke down after Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to extend and expand a 10-month building
freeze on new construction in West Bank settlements.  Abbas has said building in areas Palestinians seek for a
future state must stop for talks to resume. Netanyahu has
rejected that demand and called on Palestinians to negotiate
without preconditions.  Statehood Aspirations  The Palestinians say they hope to establish a state in the
West Bank, east  Jerusalem  and  Gaza Strip , areas Israel occupied
in 1967. It withdrew soldiers and settlers from Gaza in 2005,
and the territory is now ruled by Hamas militants.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  sounded upbeat about the
prospect of getting the sides talking again. “Secretary Kerry
has succeeded in boosting the odds of renewing negotiations,”
Peres said today, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio .  Kerry said yesterday the distance between Israelis and
Palestinians has narrowed “very significantly,” and voiced
hope “the sides will soon be able to come to sit at the same
table.”  The secretary of state, on his sixth trip to the Mideast in
as many months, didn’t provide details about remaining
differences. He said, wtihout elaborating, that his proposal to
restart talks includes economic, political and security
elements.  Same Table  The top U.S. diplomat also met with representatives of the
 Arab League , which in April revived a decade-old plan to
recognize Israel in exchange for a peace agreement with
Palestinians that could be facilitated by land swaps.  That proposal “never received the full attention and focus
that it should have,” Kerry said. “I’m glad that it is today,
because it promises to open up significant potential for
normalized relations, with the potential for trade and growth in
historic and very important ways.”  Israel  “needs to look hard at this initiative,” he added.
It “promises Israel peace with 22 Arab nations and 35 Muslim
nations” that are “standing and waiting for the possibility of
making peace with Israel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  