-- Palestinians Fail to Agree on Kerry’s Peace Talks Plan
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n
-- 2013-07-19T00:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/palestinians-fail-to-reach-decision-on-kerry-plan-to-renew-talks.html
Palestinian officials failed to
reach a decision yesterday on U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry ’s plan to renew direct peace talks with Israel after a
three-year hiatus.  Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  briefed the Palestine
Liberation Organization’s decision-making executive committee
and his Fatah party’s central committee on his two discussions
with Kerry this week in Amman, Jordan. The meeting, in the West
Bank city of  Ramallah , concluded with a decision to form a
subcommittee to continue debate on the proposal, PLO official
Wasel Abu Yousef said in an e-mailed statement.  “The general official attitude is that there will be no
resumption of peace negotiations with Israel, until Israel
accepts the basic Palestinian demands of halting settlement
building, recognizing a Palestinian state along 1967 borders,
and releases Palestinian prisoners imprisoned before the signing
of the Oslo peace accords in 1993,” Abu Yousef said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has rejected
these demands, saying he will only agree to talk without
preconditions. Details of Kerry’s proposal to bridge the gap
between the sides haven’t been disclosed.  “It is appropriate and encouraging that there is such a
serious debate about these issues,” the U.S. State Department
said in a statement. “We understand that there are many
strongly held views and appreciate efforts to find a basis to
move forward.”  Settlement Construction  Kerry plans to leave for  Washington  today “after
consulting with the parties,” according to the statement.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  spoke with Netanyahu by phone
yesterday and urged the Israeli leader to keep working with
Kerry on reopening the Middle East peace talks, according to a
White House statement.  Acceptance of Kerry’s plan by both Israelis and
Palestinians would lead to the first official negotiations
between the sides since September 2010. Those talks, which
lasted just three weeks, broke down after Netanyahu declined to
extend and expand a 10-month building freeze on new construction
in West Bank settlements.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  said on Army Radio earlier
yesterday that Kerry has “succeeded in boosting the odds of
renewing negotiations.” Kerry said July 17 the distance between
Israelis and Palestinians has narrowed “very significantly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  