-- Panasonic to Pay $56.5 Million in Parts Price-Fixing Plea
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-18T19:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/panasonic-agrees-to-plead-guilty-in-price-fixing-conspiracy.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and its Sanyo
Electric Co. unit agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to fix
prices of car parts and batteries and pay $56.5 million in
criminal fines, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Panasonic, based in  Osaka ,  Japan , agreed to pay
$45.8 million for its role in the conspiracy, while Sanyo agreed
to pay $10.7 million, the Justice Department said in an e-mailed
statement today. Seoul-based  LG Chem Ltd. (051910)  also agreed to plead
guilty and pay a $1.1 million criminal fine for price fixing
involving battery cells, the department said.  “Pleading guilty and cooperating with the division’s
ongoing investigations is a necessary step in changing a
corporate culture that turned customers into price-fixing
victims,” said Scott Hammond, deputy assistant attorney general
for the Antitrust Division’s criminal enforcement program.  Panasonic agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to rig bids
and fix prices for switches for steering wheels, turn signals
and windshield wipers, among other parts sold to Toyota Motor
Corp. and Toyota Motor Engineering & Manufacturing North America
Inc., according to the statement. The price-fixing conspiracy
lasted from at least September 2003 to February 2010, the
 Justice Department  said.  Panasonic also agreed to plead guilty to conspiring from at
least July 1998 to February 2010 to fix prices of automotive
electrical ballasts sold to companies including Honda Motor Co.,
Mazda Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co., the department said.  The pleas by Sanyo and LG Chem are the first in the Justice
Department’s investigation into anticompetitive conduct in the
market for cylindrical lithium ion battery cells, which are used
in notebook computer battery packs, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  