-- Paschi Shareholders Vote to Abolish Voting Cap to Attract Buyers
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-07-18T13:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/paschi-shareholders-vote-to-abolish-voting-cap-to-attract-buyers.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA ’s investors, backed by the foundation that has controlled
the world’s oldest lender for 18 years, agreed to remove a cap
that limits private owners’ voting rights as the lender seeks
new funds.  Shareholders representing 53.7 percent of the bank’s
capital backed a measure to scrap the 4 percent voting cap at a
meeting in Siena today.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
Alessandro Profumo are seeking to revive the lender and lure
investors to a 1 billion-euro ($1.3 billion) stock sale to help
repay state aid and avert nationalization. The bank, engulfed by
probes into alleged misconduct by former managers including
false bookkeeping and regulatory obstruction, needs to return to
profit this year to avoid handing over a stake to the
government.  “If we don’t remove the 4 percent limit the bank would
disappear,” Profumo told investors before the vote. Without the
change, Paschi wouldn’t be able to raise funds to repay state
aid, he said. “Unfortunately, there are no new investors on the
horizon.”  Fondazione Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which owns about 34
percent of Paschi, was created in 1995. Non-profit banking
foundations were created about two decades ago when the
philanthropic arms of savings banks were split from their
lending operations to pave the way for the industry’s
privatization.  Today’s decision was not “avoidable,” Monte Paschi
Foundation President Gabriello Mancini said before the vote.  Monte Paschi sought 4.1 billion euros in state aid in
February, adding 2 billion euros to a previous bailout. The
lender that month restated accounts to reflect losses on
derivatives from 2008 and 2009 the former management had hidden
in transactions first revealed by  Bloomberg News  in January.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  