-- Perez Confirmed to Lead U.S. Labor Agency
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-18T18:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/perez-confirmed-to-lead-u-s-labor-agency.html
Thomas Perez  won Senate confirmation
to lead the U.S. Labor Department, where he has pledged to
enforce laws on overtime pay and help the administration raise
the federal  minimum wage .  The Senate voted 54-46 today, putting him on track to be
sworn in as the nation’s top labor-law enforcer this week to run
a department with about 17,000 employees. Perez will play a
prominent role in pushing President  Barack Obama ’s agenda on
issues including rewriting immigration law and raising the
minimum wage to $9 an hour from $7.25.  Perez, 51, was Maryland’s labor secretary from 2007 to
2009. His work as head of the  Justice Department ’s civil rights
division sparked a backlash from Republicans over the
nomination. Perez was confirmed without any Republican votes.  The child of Dominican immigrants, he is the only Hispanic
named to Obama’s second-term cabinet so far.  In a statement released by the White House, Obama said
“Tom has lived the American dream himself, and has dedicated
his career to keeping it within reach for hardworking families
across the country.”  The Senate moved to confirm Perez and other stalled Obama
nominees after legislative leaders resolved a dispute that
included a threat by Democrats to strip the minority party’s
right to stage a filibuster and block executive-branch nominees.
A bipartisan deal reached July 16 allowed votes on presidential
picks including Perez and  Richard Cordray  to lead the Consumer
Financial Protection Board.  The Senate also this week may confirm Gina McCarthy as head
of the Environmental Protection Agency, and later this month
will vote on five nominees to the  National Labor Relations
Board .  Whistle-Blower Cases  Perez said his top goal at the Labor Department would be to
focus on creating U.S. jobs, and pledged tough enforcement of
wage and hour laws. The department may deal with an issue in
which companies classify workers as contractors to avoid paying
overtime,  John Thompson , an attorney in the Atlanta office of
Fisher & Phillips, said in an interview.  “I would anticipate that he certainly will not cut back on
enforcement in that area, and might well increase the labor
department’s attention to such things,” Thompson said.  At a Senate hearing in April to outline his agenda,
Republicans criticized Perez for what they say are ideological
decisions he made as head of the civil rights division. They
questioned his decision to keep the Justice Department out of
two whistle-blower lawsuits against the city of  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota . It was part of a deal where the city dropped an
unrelated Supreme Court case that risked undermining a Justice
Department enforcement tool in housing discrimination cases.  Republican Complaints  Republicans led by Senators Lamar Alexander of Tennessee
and  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  said Perez’s deal was a “quid pro
quo” arrangement that was unfair to whistle-blowers and cost
taxpayers as much as $200 million had the two cases succeeded.
In the Republican-led House, the Government Reform and Oversight
Committee investigated the he matter.  Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa, the Democratic chairman of the
Senate’s labor and health committee, said Perez did nothing
unethical. Perez testified that he consulted with Justice
Department ethics officials and followed their advice before
continuing talks with St. Paul. Perez also said officials in the
civil division told him the whistle-blower case was weak.  “From our standpoint, Perez would be no worse than the
rest,” Fred Wszolek, a spokesman for the Workforce Fairness
Institute, a business owners group, said in an interview.
“Anyone who was going to be President Obama’s labor secretary
is going to be extraordinarily pro union, so it might as well be
him.”  Perez will replace Hilda Solis, who left in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  