-- Petronas in Talks to Sell South Africa’s Biggest Fuel Retailer
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-18T04:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/petronas-in-talks-to-sell-south-africa-s-biggest-fuel-retailer.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
state oil and gas company, said it has begun talks with
potential buyers to sell a stake in  Engen Petroleum Ltd. , South
Africa’s biggest fuel retailer.  “Petronas is currently in preliminary discussion with
interested parties and we are not able to comment further on
this matter,” Azman Ibrahim, a Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas
spokesman said in an e-mailed response to queries by Bloomberg
News today. He didn’t name potential buyers.  PetroSA, South Africa’s state-owned oil company, is
considering buying a stake, according to two people with
knowledge of an announcement made on July 15 to Engen staff by
Ahmad Nizam Salleh, the unit’s chief executive officer.
Petronas, as the Malaysian company is known, holds 80 percent of
Cape Town-based Engen and Pembani Group Ltd. owns the rest.  By taking control of Engen, PetroSA would be able to sell
directly to consumers, gaining access to customers in more than
20 African countries. It mostly sells fuel in  Africa  through
1,500 filling stations.  It would also add refining capacity. Engen has a 135,000-barrel-a-day refinery and a lubricating-oils blending plant in
the eastern South African city of Durban, according to the
company’s website. The facility, which opened in 1954, suffered
a strike over pay and a fire in 2011.  PetroSA operates a 45,000-barrel-a-day gas-to-fuel  refinery 
at Mossel Bay on South Africa’s southwest coast and plans a new
crude-oil refinery near Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape
province. The Cape Town-based company doesn’t own any retail
operations, Thabo Mabaso, a spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  Petronas bought Engen in 1998 before later selling a
minority stake to Pembani, a private-equity firm based in
Johannesburg. PetroSA is willing to look for downstream
opportunities and has been negotiating with potential partners,
the company said in a statement to Bloomberg News on July 16,
without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  