-- Peugeot Plans to Help its Workers Find New Employers
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-18T13:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/peugeot-plans-to-help-its-workers-find-new-employers.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , seeking to stem
losses in Europe, plans to help its own workers find gainful
employment elsewhere.  Europe’s second-largest carmaker intends to set up job
centers in  France  in an effort to reduce its workforce at home
17 percent by 2015, according to an internal document obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  The “external jobs service,” part of the Paris-based
company’s human resources department, plans to advertise jobs
outside Peugeot to the manufacturer’s  employees , according to a
draft agreement sent on July 16 to French union leaders as part
of negotiations to trim costs. Jean-Baptiste Thomas, a spokesman
for Peugeot, confirmed the plans by phone.  Peugeot’s French auto workers will also be offered help in
setting up their own businesses as well as the option of taking
unpaid leave for as long as two years with the guarantee of
returning to a similar job if their alternatives don’t pan out.  The measures, which are geared to limiting forced
dismissals, are part of Peugeot’s push for a so-called social
contract with French unions. The company is implementing a
restructuring plan that includes 1.5 billion euros ($1.96
billion) in cost cuts and eliminating 11,200 jobs in its home
country.  Peugeot is struggling to return to profit with industrywide
car sales in  Europe  set to shrink for the sixth consecutive
year. The French automaker’s first-half vehicle sales dropped
9.8 percent from a year earlier to 1.46 million cars. The
decline was held in check by a push to boost sales abroad.  Cash-Burn Pledge  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin has pledged to
reduce cash consumption by 50 percent this year after running
through 3 billion euros in 2012. The company’s goal is to end
the outflow of cash next year.  Peugeot is holding its eighth round of negotiations with
French unions today. Philippe Dorge, executive vice president
for human resources, will hold a press conference on the
progress tomorrow.  Talks on working conditions, which may include changes to
pay and working hours, haven’t yet started, Thomas said.
Peugeot’s management hopes to reach an agreement with unions by
the fall, Thomas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  