-- PG&E, Wildlife Society Back Foreign Offsets in California
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-18T20:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/pg-e-wildlife-group-unite-to-back-foreign-offsets-in-california.html
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Southern
 California  Edison and the Wildlife Conservation Society joined
forces today to endorse a plan that would allow California
companies to use credits from forestry projects overseas to
comply with state emissions limits.  An advisory panel issued  recommendations  today on how to
implement the plan. It would have to be approved by the state
air board before power generators, refiners and other industrial
polluters could buy and trade credits generated from the foreign
forests to cover a share of their emissions in the state.  The proposal to make it easier to comply with California’s
cap-and-trade program comes as Democrats, who control the state
Senate, push to limit the program to in-state offsets projects.
The forestry plan, known by the acronym REDD for Reducing
Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, has been
endorsed by California’s two largest power utilities,  The Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and the Climate Markets and Investment Association.  The forestry proposal would “send a positive market
signal” and advance “one of the most important global climate-change mitigation strategies of our time,” according to a
 letter  sent to state regulators today from the coalition of
businesses and environmental groups.  The Environmental Defense Fund, The Nature Conservancy and
other environmental groups issued their own statement today in
support of the panel’s recommendations.  Shrinking Pool  “Tearing down and burning tropical forests produces more
greenhouse gas emissions than all cars, trucks, buses, trains
and airplanes on the planet combined,” said Stephan
Schwartzman, the Environmental Defense Fund’s director of
tropical forest policy in  Washington . “California has the
opportunity to help turn that around, by taking a significant
step to work with these states and jump-start programs that can
keep forests standing.”  Companies can already buy and trade credits generated from
carbon-cutting projects in the U.S. to cover as much as 8
percent of their emissions under California’s cap-and-trade
program, designed to help cut greenhouse-gas pollution to 1990
levels by 2020. They must use a shrinking pool of allowances,
issued by the state through auctions and allocations, to account
for the rest of their carbon.  Shell Offsets  The international forestry projects would allow companies
to achieve emissions cuts “at the lowest possible cost,”
Michael Hertel, Southern California Edison’s director of
corporate policy in Rosemead, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento , co-authored a bill that would limit the use of
credits “to those offsets originating and achieved within the
state.” The bill passed the Senate in May with no Republican
votes. It is now pending in the Assembly’s Natural Resources
Committee.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which runs the Martinez oil refinery
in Northern California, agreed  in March  to buy 500,000 credits
from a forest management project in  Michigan .  The move “does nothing” to reduce air pollution in
California, Senator Ricardo Lara, a Democrat from  Long Beach  who
wrote the Senate bill, said in a May 25 analysis of the
legislation. “It creates no jobs, makes no in-state investment,
no results in any new environmental benefits.”  Panel Recommendations  Stanley Young , a spokesman for the state’s air resources
board in Sacramento, declined to comment on the bill. The agency
will continue to consider new protocols for possible inclusion
in the state’s carbon offsets market and expects to issue a
report in the fall about the potential for adding REDD offsets
to the program, he said.  “Our goal is to help steer California toward a clean-energy economy,” he said. “And to the extent that we can help
promote offset projects that deliver environmental benefits both
here in California and elsewhere, then that’s a net plus.”  The REDD advisory panel, which includes university
professors and climate program directors, made recommendations
today on how the state air board can ensure forestry efforts
abroad are actually cutting emissions, certify reductions at the
jurisdictional level rather than project by project and hear
grievances from local communities with concerns about REDD.  The working group, established through a memorandum of
understanding signed by the governors of California, Acre,
 Brazil , and Chiapas,  Mexico , in 2010, has spent the last three
years collecting comments from hundreds of people at public
workshops to develop the 67-page report released today, said
Anthony Brunello, the panel’s facilitator.  ‘Different Opinions’  “This was like a multi-layered onion that just keeps
getting peeled back and is a mess because you get people having
different opinions on what the solution is,” Brunello, who is
also executive director of the Sacramento-based Green Technology
Leadership Group, said by telephone yesterday. “But everybody
agrees that almost 20 percent of the world’s greenhouse-gas
emissions comes from tropical deforestation and something needs
to be done about that.”  Brunello said the working group hasn’t taken a stance on SB
605, adding that other efforts to limit California’s offsets
market have failed.  “This is one line in a bill that came from an important
author, but at the same time I think it’s very important for
people to keep in perspective what offsets were meant to do,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  