-- Portuguese Parties to Hold Fifth Day of Talks on Salvation Pact
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-18T00:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/portuguese-parties-to-hold-fifth-day-of-talks-on-salvation-pact.html
Portugal ’s two ruling coalition
parties will hold a fifth day of talks today with the main
opposition Socialist party as they seek an agreement on how to
meet the terms of the country’s bailout program.  The  Social Democratic Party  announced talks had been halted
and would resume later today in an e-mailed note received just
before 1 a.m. in Lisbon. While demanding, talks are being
carried out with a “spirit of openness,” Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s Social Democrats said in a separate statement at
about 9:30 p.m. last night announcing a one-hour break in the
negotiations.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who has the power to
dissolve parliament, called on the three parties on July 10 to
reach a “national salvation” agreement that will allow
Portugal to complete its aid program through June 2014 and set
early elections for after that date. He also urged them to
ensure  debt  will be sustainable with a new government after the
European Union-led bailout ends.  The Social Democratic delegation at the talks is led by
Jorge Moreira da Silva, while the Socialist Party’s team is led
by Alberto Martins. Pedro Mota Soares heads the delegation from
the CDS, the second coalition party. David Justino, an adviser
to the president, has also attended the meetings.  Bond Yields  The parties gave themselves one week to reach an accord
when talks began on July 14. Portugal held its first bill
auction in four weeks yesterday, with borrowing costs rising to
an average of 1.72 percent at a sale of 1.2 billion euros ($1.57
billion) of 12-month bills. That’s the highest since an Oct. 17
sale at a rate of 2.1 percent and up from 1.232 percent at the
previous auction in May.  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield rose 6 basis points to 7.21
percent yesterday, up from 6.39 percent on July 1, the day
before a rift in the coalition emerged. The yield breached a
seven-month high of more than 8 percent on July 3. The country
pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans.  The two coalition parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6 with Prime Minister Coelho offering CDS leader
and foreign minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and
control over economic policy. While ruling out early elections
right away, the president didn’t endorse the new coalition
agreement between Coelho and the CDS party, calling for a
broader pact also involving the Socialists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  