-- Portugal Seeks to Restart Sale Process for TAP Airline This Year
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-18T16:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/portugal-seeks-to-restart-sale-process-for-tap-airline-this-year.html
Portugal  reiterated a plan to try to
sell state-owned airline TAP SGPS SA again this year and is
monitoring market conditions with the aim of attracting possible
bidders.  “We continue to check market conditions in order to hold a
truly competitive process that will result in the best offer for
the airline’s development,” Sergio Monteiro, secretary of state
for public works, transport and communications, told reporters
in Lisbon today. “We would like to create the conditions to
reinitiate this process this year.”  Portugal last year suspended the sale of TAP after
rejecting the sole offer from Brazilian investor German Efromovich’s Synergy Group, which controls the Avianca airline
brands in  South America . Portugal opted for a disposal after
requesting a bailout by the  International Monetary Fund  and
European Union in 2011.  The country completed the sale of airport operator ANA-Aeroportos de Portugal SA to French builder  Vinci SA (DG)  for 3.1
billion euros ($4.1 billion) on Feb. 21 after selling stakes in
utility company EDP-Energias de Portugal SA and energy-grid
operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais.  The sale of TAP, whose chief attraction is its 74 weekly
 flights  between Lisbon and  Brazil , is a “necessity” as the
airline lacks the financial conditions to expand its business
and renovate its fleet, said Monteiro.  “No fixed timetable has been established for the
privatization of TAP,” said Monteiro. Asked if Portugal had
received any offers for TAP this year, he replied: “Since the
sale process has not formally restarted, no offers could have
been presented.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  