-- Pound Advances Versus Euro as Retail Sales Rise for 2nd Month
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-18T15:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/pound-weakens-against-dollar-before-u-k-retail-sales-report.html
The pound strengthened versus the
euro after a report showing U.K. retail sales increased for a
second month in June added to evidence the economic recovery is
gaining traction.  Sterling erased a decline against the dollar. The British
currency rallied versus all but two of its 16 major peers
yesterday after minutes of the Bank of England’s latest meeting
showed policy makers, led by new Governor Mark Carney, voted
unanimously against expanding a stimulus program that tends to
debase the currency. Two-year gilts rose for a third day,
pushing the yield to the  lowest level  since May.  “We’re optimistic on sterling, not so much against the
dollar, but we think it’s going to strengthen against the
euro,” said Nick Parsons, head of research for U.K. and Europe
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in London. “If you ask yourself
would you rather own pound or euro at these levels, given what
we know about the relative economic fundamentals, the answer is
clearly buy sterling.”  The pound appreciated 0.2 percent to 86.08 pence per euro
at 4:26 p.m. London time after weakening to 86.47 pence earlier.
It strengthened 0.6 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day gain
since June 20. The U.K. currency was little changed at $1.5206
after falling as much as 0.4 percent.  Retail sales including fuel rose 0.2 percent from May, when
they surged 2.1 percent, the Office for National Statistics said
today. That’s the first consecutive increase since July 2012.
The median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 0.3 percent gain. From a year earlier, sales increased
2.2 percent.  Gilts Rise  The two-year gilt yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 0.28 percent after reaching 0.27 percent,
the lowest since May 9. The 2.75 percent security due in January
2015 rose 0.03, or 30 pence per 1,000-pound face amount, to
103.71. The rate on the 10-year gilt fell four basis points to
2.25 percent.  While the U.K. economy showed signs of recovery, demand for
gilts will be underpinned by growth that is likely to remain
weak, said Robin Marshall, a director of fixed income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in  London .  “There is still this uncertainty as to why the U.K.
economy’s suddenly picked up in the second quarter when everyone
else’s seems to have slowed down,” Marshall said. “That puts a
question mark against the sustainability of a recovery. That’s
why gilts rallied. People have realized quite rightly that the
base rate isn’t going to move for the next two, three or five
years even.”  Gilts dropped 2.4 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds declined
0.7 percent and Treasuries fell 2.3 percent, the indexes show.  Pound Outlook  The pound has weakened 0.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 2.9 percent and
the euro gained 0.2 percent.  Gains by the pound versus the dollar may provide investors
with a selling opportunity as the Bank of England’s policy will
continue to be accommodative, Morgan Stanley strategists
including  Hans Redeker  wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. The
bank suggests investors sell the pound against the U.S. currency
should the pair reach the 100-day moving average at $1.5260.  In Carney’s first policy meeting, fellow policy makers Paul
Fisher and David Miles dropped their call for an expansion of
the asset-purchase program in favor of a strategy involving
guidance on future interest rates, the minutes showed.  “The Bank of England minutes did not signal a change in
tone, but rather a change in the choice of policy tools used to
ease monetary conditions,” the Morgan Stanley strategists
wrote. “Forward interest rate guidance is being explored and,
if adopted, could weigh on the pound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  