-- Power Jumps as Heat Drives ‘Extreme Conditions’ on Eastern Grids
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-07-18T21:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/power-rises-on-eastern-u-s-grids-as-heat-wave-boosts-demand.html
Spot wholesale electricity jumped
from  Maine  to  Virginia  on the fifth day of a heat wave as demand
in New York surged toward record highs.  Prices topped $600 across the Eastern grids on the hottest
day of the week. The temperature at  New York City ’s JFK
International Airport and  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty
International Airport soared to 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38
Celsius) and Washington climbed to 92, according to the  National
Weather Service . Heat warnings and advisories stretch from
 Massachusetts  into the mid-Atlantic states and North Dakota.  The New York Independent System Operator Inc., which
manages the state grid, said power consumption may climb to a
record 34,450 megawatts today, according to an e-mailed
statement. The three main eastern U.S. grid operators have been
relying on demand-curtailment programs, in which some users cut
back on power usage, to ease strain on their networks.  “We are in absolute extreme conditions right now,” said
Gregg Dixon, senior vice president of marketing and sales at
EnerNoc Inc. in  Boston , which provides demand-reduction services
for grid operators. “When we have high temperatures and
humidity for an extended period of time, it creates serious
operating challenges for the electric grid.”  Spot on-peak power  for New York City surged $82.19, or 36
percent, to $313.87 a megawatt-hour as of 4 p.m. from
yesterday’s full-day average, heading for the highest average
since Jan. 23. On-peak hours are Monday through Friday from 7
a.m. until 11 p.m.  Boston Prices  Boston’s on-peak prices jumped $74.31, or 73 percent, to
$175.67 a megawatt-hour, the most since Feb. 13, and PJM
Interconnection LLC’s Western hub, which includes deliveries to
Washington, climbed $54.15, or 47 percent, to $170.13, the most
since May 29, 2012.  Prices are being driven by the highest demand seen all week
with no significant event stressing the power network, said Kate Trischitta, director of trading at Consolidated Edison Inc.’s
wholesale energy trading division in Valhalla,  New York . “No
major power-plant outages are causing any major concern on the
grid.”  Demand increases when temperatures stay above 90 degrees
for multiple days in a row because facilities and homes collect
heat, requiring more power for cooling, Dixon said.  “We’ve been dispatched this week in New England, New York
and parts of PJM already and in doing so we are helping to
prevent brownouts and blackouts,” Dixon said. “On the East
Coast, it will be thousands of megawatts through the course of
this week.”  Energy Conservation  The Northeast grids asked customers to voluntary curtail
demand to help ease the strain on their networks. The New York
ISO also activated a program that would require large consumers
to curtail power use statewide during the afternoon hours, such
as from noon to 6 p.m. in New York City and other downstate
regions, according to an e-mailed statement.  PJM, which manages the largest U.S. grid, stretching from
New Jersey into  North Carolina  and  Illinois , initiated mandatory
demand cuts in parts of  Pennsylvania , including Philadelphia,
and  Ohio , Paula DuPont-Kidd, a spokeswoman for the operator,
said in an e-mail.  PJM expects  demand  to climb to 157,645 megawatts during the
hour ending at 6 p.m. today, the highest hourly average since
July 21, 2011. Demand peaked at 155,080 megawatts at 4:55 p.m.
yesterday.  Power consumption  from Maine to  Connecticut  will reach
27,720 megawatts today, up 4 percent from yesterday’s high
26,655 megawatts.  “System conditions will be tight today and tomorrow,”
Lacey Ryan, a spokeswoman with ISO New England in Holyoke,
Massachusetts, said in an e-mail. “If the forecast for today
holds true, it would come in close to the top of the all-time
peak demand days.”  One megawatt can power about 800 to 1,000 homes on these
East Coast grids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  