-- Principal Financial Hires Hays in Pension-Business Push
-- B y   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-18T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/principal-hires-axa-s-hays-in-insurer-s-pension-business-push.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  hired
Maureen Hays as managing director of consultant relationships as
the insurer seeks more business at a unit overseeing $292.4
billion for retirement plans and institutional clients.  Hays will be based in New York in the newly created
position and will work with middlemen who advise pension funds,
a spokesman for the Des Moines, Iowa-based insurer said today.
Hays joins Principal Global Investors from  Axa SA (CS) ’s investment
managers group, where she was director of consultant relations.
She previously worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Investment Management,
Principal said in a statement today.  “Maureen’s impressive background, established
relationships and years covering leading U.S. consultants make
her uniquely qualified to succeed in this role,” George Jamgochian, executive director of U.S. distribution at Principal
Global Investors, said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Larry Zimpleman is expanding asset
management in the U.S. and overseas to add fee income at
Principal, which also sells  life insurance . The company last
month hired Josh Rank and Matt Hanson from  Aviva Plc (AV) ’s North
American investment unit to help run high-yield assets at its
fixed-income division.  Hays has an MBA from the University of Connecticut,
Principal said.  Axa Investment Managers in May announced that Lawrence Remstedt was appointed director of institutional development and
relations. He was previously a portfolio manager at the Axa
Rosenberg equities business, the company said in a statement
that month.  Axa IM plans to “expand its relationships with consultants
in the U.S. under the leadership of Ceil Baron, director of
consultant relations,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement. “We wish Maureen the best.”  Principal climbed 0.9 percent to $39.83 at 4:02 p.m. in  New
York . The company has rallied 40 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at  