-- Putin Will Regret the Navalny Verdict
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-18T19:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/putin-will-regret-the-navalny-verdict.html
The  decision  of a Russian court to
imprison opposition leader Alexey Navalny is a perversion of
justice, of course. It is also much more than that: In one
stroke, the regime of President  Vladimir Putin  has legitimized
one of its most potent critics and moved the country closer to
the kind of economic malaise that could bring that very critic -
- or someone much worse -- to power.  In the myopic view of Kremlin officials and their allies at
the head of large state-controlled companies, the verdict is a
victory. A person who made it his mission to expose their
corruption, and who had been mounting a campaign for mayor of
Moscow, will now spend five years in a Russian prison. Navalny’s
sentence will stand as a warning to any who would follow his
example.  In the longer view, though, officials are giving political
legitimacy, even martyrdom, to a divisive figure. Aside from
being a fearless activist and powerful orator, Navalny also
displays xenophobic tendencies that have made many middle-class
liberals hesitant to support him. Earlier this month, he  signed
on  to a nationalist statement supporting riots in which
residents of the small town of Pugachev targeted darker-skinned
people from the southern Caucasus region. Some in the opposition
even suspected he had been planted by the Kremlin to lead them
astray.  Now Navalny has earned his credentials, at great cost to
himself and those close to him. As commentator Maxim Trudolyubov
 put it  in the newspaper Vedomosti: “Navalny has agreed to pay
with his freedom, and that means he’s for real. It’s the answer
to those who had doubts.”  No less important is the way the verdict cements  Russia ’s
reputation as a terrible place for entrepreneurs and investors.
To convict Navalny, the court had to interpret as theft a normal
business transaction, in which trading firm VLK purchased timber
from state-owned company Kirovles then sold it at a higher
price. Evidence that VLK had paid the going market rate had no
effect. The decision gives corrupt authorities throughout Russia
a new tool to extract bribes from businesses: Pay up, or we’ll
put you in jail for making money.  Russia’s economy can go a long way on high  oil prices , but
in the longer run, the dismal business climate will tend to
undermine the relative prosperity on which Putin has built his
popularity. At the extreme, economic malaise has the potential
to produce a revolt much more pervasive and virulent than last
year’s largely middle-class demonstrations in Moscow, and could
bring to power people willing to pander to the masses’ basest
tendencies.  When anti-government protests started in December 2011,
Putin still had a chance to become his country’s legitimate
leader by opting for something closer to free and fair
presidential elections. Now he has chosen his course. It’s not
likely to end well for him or his country.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 