-- Putin Foe Navalny Convicted Amid Outcry Before G-20 Meeting
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v ,   D e n i s   S h a d r i n ,   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-07-18T20:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/putin-foe-navalny-convicted-amid-outcry-before-g-20-meeting-4-.html
Alexey Navalny, who spearheaded the
biggest protests against Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s 13-year-rule, was sentenced to prison, bringing thousands into the
streets as global finance leaders gather in Moscow.  Navalny, 37, was defiant after being handed a five-year
sentence for embezzlement and led away in handcuffs by  court 
officers in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles) northeast of
Moscow. Local prosecutors said in a  statement  later they’d seek
to free him on bail pending appeal provided he stays in  Russia .
If Navalny is freed, he will run for mayor on Sept. 8, Interfax
reported, citing his campaign head Leonid Volkov.  Thousands of protesters gathered for an unsanctioned rally
in support of Navalny near the Kremlin, the nearby Group of 20
summit venue and blocking the Duma. Police arrested several
people amid minor scuffles and blocked off nearby streets as
demonstrators shouted “Freedom to political prisoners” and
“Putin -- thief.” About 500 gathered in St Petersburg and
about 40 were arrested, Interfax reported.  A lawyer and anti-corruption activist who helped mobilize
tens of thousands of anti-Putin supporters in rallies in 2011
and last year, Navalny had vowed to contest the next
presidential election in 2018 and put Putin and his billionaire
allies in jail if he won. The ruling would preclude him from
ever holding public office and risks transforming him into an
even greater political threat to the Russian leadership.  “We won’t wait till Putin will die,”  Gennady Gudkov , a
former Duma deputy and opposition leader, told reporters at the
protest. “We’ll take action. We’ll take millions to the
street.”  Walesa, Havel  “The Kremlin’s political planners are clearly fearful of a
Russian  Lech Walesa  or a Vaclav Havel appearing in the lead-up
to 2018,”  Chris Weafer , founder of consultancy Macro Advisory,
said by e-mail, comparing Navalny to the two biggest symbols of
opposition to totalitarian rule in the former Soviet bloc. “The
danger, for the Kremlin, is that a jail sentence is often the
fastest way for an opposition activist to be promoted to
national opposition leader.”  Navalny encouraged his supporters in the world’s biggest
oil producer last year to continue rallying against the
authorities while he serves his sentence.  “Don’t miss me,” Navalny said on his Twitter  account 
after the sentence was read out. “The most important thing is
not to sit idle; a toad won’t lift itself off the oil pipe.”  ‘Disturbing Trend’  The verdict was criticized by  Europe  and the U.S., with
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  saying in a statement that
the decision “has highlighted once again the concerns felt by
many about the selective application of the rule of law in
Russia.” The European Union echoed the sentiment, with  Michael Mann , spokesman for foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton ,
 saying  that the charges “have not been substantiated” during
the trial and that she was “concerned” about the ruling.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said
the conviction of Navalny on “politically motivated charges”
was part of a “disturbing trend” in Russia. He said the
Russian government should cease its campaign of pressuring those
who attempt to expose corruption.  Central bank governors and finance ministers from the
world’s 20 largest economies will start a two-day meeting in
Moscow tomorrow to discuss issues ranging from global stimulus
measures to taxation. Russia holds the group’s rotating
presidency this year and Putin is hosting a summit of G-20
leaders in September.  Stocks Plunge  Russian shares sank the most in a month after the
announcement and the ruble weakened against the dollar for the
first time in four days. The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  reversed
gains, closing down 1.1 percent at 1,416.41 in Moscow and
snapping a five-day winning streak.  A judge in Kirov ruled that Navalny, who’s campaigned to
expose fraud and waste at state companies and corruption by
officials, defrauded state-owned timber company Kirovles of 16
million rubles ($494,000). Outside the activist’s backers
chanted in support, with two detained.  “Navalny’s arguments that he’s being persecuted for
political reasons are groundless,” said the judge, Sergei
Blinov.  ‘Bad Taste’  Former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev , 82, who has
criticized the rollback of democracy under Putin, said the
verdict “left a very bad taste in the mouth.”  “Using the courts to fight political opponents is
unacceptable,” Gorbachev said in a statement on his
foundation’s  website .  Political fallout from the case risks further unsettling
Russia’s financial markets, with equities trading at the
cheapest valuations based on estimated earnings among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Russia’s benchmark gauge  trades  at 5.4 times its 12-month
estimated earnings, having lost 3.2 percent this year. That
compares with a multiple of 10 times for the MSCI Emerging
Market Index, which has dropped 9.3 percent this year.  Navalny denied any wrongdoing and has said the case was
payback for his opposition to the Russian leader. Former Finance
Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said in a Twitter posting that the aim of
the authorities was to “isolate him from public life.”  ‘Alexey Knew’  “Alexey knew very well that he would get a real prison
term, and a long one,” his wife, Yulia, told reporters outside
the courtroom. Navalny’s anti-corruption fund will continue its
work, she said.  More than 10,000 people signed up to attend today’s rally
against Navalny’s sentencing from 7 p.m., according to a
 Facebook page  set up by the organizers. Police cordoned off
Manezh Square, where protesters gathered until 11 p.m. when some
started dispersing.  Stefan Kuenzi, a German businessman from Bavaria, said he
and his wife were blocked by the protest from entering their
five-star National Hotel, which is opposite the Kremlin. “It’s
a bit like the carnival at home except the police frown and they
have crash helmets and batons,” Kuenzi said.  Putin, 60, has hardened his response against critics since
winning a new six-year presidential term last year. Some
protesters have been imprisoned while non-government
organizations that get funding from abroad are being threatened
with fines or possible closing unless they declare themselves
foreign agents. Critics fearing prosecution, economist Sergei Guriev and former chess grandmaster  Garry Kasparov , have fled
Russia this year.  Putin Backlash  Investigators allege Navalny and two others embezzled more
than 10,000 cubic meters of wood products at Kirovles between
May and September 2009. The lawyer was working at the time as an
unpaid adviser on corporate governance in Kirov to regional
Governor Nikita Belykh, who’s defended Navalny. Federal
investigators twice overruled regional prosecutors who had
dropped the case.  Navalny faces further prosecution. Russian authorities
opened a fourth criminal case against the anti-corruption
activist in April. All relate to separate cases of alleged fraud
and carry a maximum penalty of 10 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  