-- Quebec Crash Spurs CP Rail to Add Safeguards for Trains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-07-18T20:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/quebec-crash-spurs-cp-rail-to-add-safeguards-for-trains.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  said
it strengthened safety measures after an evaluation prompted by
Canada’s worst train disaster in more than a century.  “The recent situation gave us a chance to thoroughly
review our safety procedures, as we do on an ongoing basis,”  Ed Greenberg , a spokesman for Calgary-based  Canadian Pacific (CP) , said
today in e-mailed statement.  Revisions include locking unattended trains outside
terminals, strengthening brake-setting procedures and ensuring
that cars carrying regulated commodities are monitored on main-line tracks, he said. Greenberg declined to comment on the cost
of the changes because  Canadian Pacific , the nation’s second-biggest railroad, will report quarterly earnings on July 24.  Rail safety has come under scrutiny after a Montreal, Maine
& Atlantic Railway Ltd. train derailed in Lac-Megantic, Quebec,
on July 6, killing as many as 50 people and incinerating 30
buildings in the town’s center. Officials are investigating the
cause of the nation’s worst rail disaster since 1910.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the nation’s largest
railroad, has “commenced a review of all train securement
measures in the aftermath of the Lac-Megantic tragedy to further
strengthen its safety policies,” Mark Hallman, a spokesman for
the Montreal-based company, said in an e-mail.  Canadian Pacific’s safety measures were reported earlier
today by the Globe and Mail newspaper in Toronto. They come
ahead of potential rule changes by Canadian regulators, the
newspaper said.  Transport Canada is “gathering evidence to determine if
rules and regulations under the Railway Safety Act and the
Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act have been followed,” said
Maryse Durette, a spokeswoman at the federal agency. “If these
regulations were not followed, we will not hesitate to take
whatever course of action is necessary.”  Canadian Pacific rose 0.3 percent to C$133.71 at the close
in Toronto. Canadian National fell 0.1 percent to C$105.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  