-- Raiffeisen Drops as Capital Hole Back in Focus: Vienna Mover
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-18T09:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/raiffeisen-drops-as-capital-hole-back-in-focus-vienna-mover.html
Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
fell for the first time in a week after Berenberg Bank AG told
clients to sell the stock because of an “imminent” dilutive
share sale equivalent to half its market capitalization.  Raiffeisen, the Austrian bank that’s eastern  Europe ’s
second-biggest lender, declined as much as 1.7 percent, trading
down 1 percent at 21.28 euros by 11:30 a.m. in Vienna. It was
the worst performer in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index , which was little changed. The decline took the
share’s drop this year to 32 percent and its market
capitalization to 4.15 billion euros ($5.4 billion).  Raiffeisen’s Austrian competitor  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  today
completed a 661 million-euro share sale to help repay state aid
and to lift its core Tier 1 ratio according to the new Basel III
rules beyond 10 percent. That deal increases the pressure on
Raiffeisen to follow suit, Berenberg said.  “We lower our price target from 22 euros to 12 euros to
factor in an imminent equity issue at a material discount,”
London-based analysts Eleni Papoula and Iro Papadopoulou said in
the note. “The equity raise by Erste in July and regulator
pressure will force Raiffeisen also to raise 1.7 billion euros
to 2 billion euros of equity.”  Berenberg expects Raiffeisen to sell new shares at 10 euros
apiece, applying a discount to the share sale because of its
size and the fact that it expects the largest shareholder,
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG, to be unable to
participate. Retained earnings and asset sales, including of its
biggest unit in  Russia , won’t yield enough to plug the capital
hole, Berenberg said.  Bolstering capital is the biggest challenge facing
Raiffeisen’s new Chief Executive Officer Karl Sevelda. While
investors and regulators push for a share sale, he has to
overcome opposition by RZB, the bank’s parent company that is
ultimately owned by  494 local cooperatives . RZB opposed a rights
offering last year, saying the stock price was too low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  