-- Rajoy Faces Pressure to Explain Spanish Graft Claims in Court
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-07-18T08:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/rajoy-faces-pressure-to-explain-spanish-graft-claims-in-court.html
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy
faces increased pressure to respond to a corruption
investigation into his People’s Party as a judge weighs a
request to call him as a witness.  Public-workers union Clean Hands, which has filed a private
complaint against former party treasurer Luis Barcenas, will ask
Judge Pablo Ruz to call Rajoy to testify, union secretary Miguel
Bernad said in a telephone interview today.  Rajoy has denied the allegations from Barcenas that he
accepted cash payments before becoming premier. He said he won’t
yield to what he called “blackmail.” The scandal has
overwhelmed the political agenda as ministers aim to persuade
investors the recession is ebbing.  The risk premium on Spanish 10-year bonds rose the past two
days reaching 322 basis points at 9:49 a.m. today compared with
271 basis points on May 3.  Senior party officials shared at least 8.3 million euros
($10.9 million) between 1990 and 2008 from a secret slush fund
that Barcenas helped to manage, El Mundo reported yesterday,
citing documents and a pen drive the former treasurer handed
over to the national court.  Clean Hands is also asking the court to call PP Party
Secretary Dolores de Cospedal, former  Bankia SA (BKIA)  Chairman Rodrigo Rato and party officials Javier Arenas and Jaime Mayor Oreja,
Bernad said.  ‘Major Problem’  “The slush fund scandal in Spain is a major problem” for
Rajoy, Berenberg Bank’s London-based chief economist Holger Schmieding said in an e-mailed note today. “It would be virtual
suicide for the party to call new elections in a grave
adjustment recession and amid such a scandal. Most likely, Rajoy
will simply try to sit out the scandal.”  The premier will probably also bow to pressure from
opposition parties to testify to parliament about the
allegations, Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said today.  “The prime minister communicates with parliament whenever
he considers it appropriate and he will also do that on this
occasion,” Soria said in an interview on the state radio
broadcaster. “He won’t avoid taking responsibility in any way
whatsoever.”  Rajoy says that the allegations against him are ploy by
Barcenas to force the government to intervene to halt a criminal
investigation into his own finances. Swiss authorities have
frozen Barcenas’s accounts in their country with 17.5 million
euros in assets as part of the National Court’s investigation
into charges of tax evasion and bribery, a court spokeswoman
said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  