-- TransCanada Says Keystone XL Start in 2015 ‘Difficult’
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-19T21:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/transcanada-ceo-says-keystone-xl-start-in-2015-difficult-1-.html
(Corrects the number of years Keystone XL has been under
review in the sixth paragraph of a story published July 18.)  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  said the timeline for U.S. approval of the
$5.3 billion Keystone XL pipeline project will make the start of
operations in the second half of 2015 “difficult.”  The CEO said a final environmental impact statement from
the State Department may come in “weeks, not months,” after
which there will be a 90-day review of whether the project is in
the U.S. national interest. “I hope a decision can be made this
year,” Girling said today in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  If approved, Calgary-based TransCanada needs 24 months to
build the pipeline, which would connect oil production from
 Alberta  to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast. President  Barack Obama  initially rejected the project in January 2012, citing
concerns with its path through ecologically sensitive lands in
 Nebraska . The company reapplied with a new Nebraska route last
year and split the project in two, building the southern portion
that doesn’t require a permit first.  Environmentalists oppose the project because of the
potential for oil spills along its more than 2,000-mile (3,200
kilometer) route. Some opponents are also blocking it because it
will transport crude from Alberta’s oil-sands projects, which
generate more greenhouse gases than most conventional
production.  “Keystone is not the driver of whether Canadian oil sands
will be produced,” Girling said. “They will be produced
anyway.”  Sixth Year  In September, the project will enter its sixth year of
review from the initial application date, Girling said.
TransCanada applied for the permit to build Keystone XL in 2008.
The company in April bumped back its target to complete the line
to the second half of 2015, forecasting costs will rise amid
delays receiving the needed approvals for construction.  TransCanada continues to incur costs to store the equipment
it has already purchased and to maintain the pipe, in some cases
by recoating the steel, Girling said. The company won’t update
its cost estimate until after receiving U.S. approval, he said.  The U.S. State Department, which must approve Keystone XL
because it crosses an international border, has told TransCanada
it expects to need the full 90-day period for the national
interest review, during which eight agencies weigh in on whether
to approve the presidential permit. The department was 79 days
into the national-interest decision when a Congressional
deadline forced Obama to reject the first application, Girling
said.  Not ‘Rational’  “There is only one rational decision here,” Girling said.
“Denial of this pipeline is not in any way rational. At best,
it’s symbolic.”  Halting the pipeline will make no difference on greenhouse-gas emissions, he said. “It will actually just impose greater
risks on public health and safety.”  An explosion of a runaway train carrying oil in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , on July 6, which left as many as 50 dead or
unaccounted for, stirred the debate over the safety of
transporting crude by rail versus pipelines.  The better safety record of pipelines over rail was clear
before the Lac-Megantic disaster, Girling said.  “Statistically, you can look at the history. Pipelines are
the safest way to transport large volumes of hydrocarbons over
long distances,” Girling said. “That’s a fact and doesn’t
really need to be debated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in New York at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  