-- TransCanada Calls Energy East Pipeline ‘Very, Very Promising’
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-18T16:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/transcanada-calls-energy-east-pipeline-very-very-promising-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , builder of the
Keystone XL pipeline, may announce shortly that it will go ahead
with a separate link to transport oil to Canada’s Atlantic
Coast, Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said.  Advancing Energy East, a 4,400-kilometer (2,735-mile)
partial conversion of its Mainline natural gas line, looks
“very, very promising,” Girling said today in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. The company finished
receiving binding commitments from shippers on June 17 and is
working through contractual details, he said.  “Hopefully in the near term, we’ll be in a position to
announce a project going to the east coast, but it won’t be tied
to Keystone,” Girling said. “I think we’re going to need
Keystone, I think we need an Energy East.”  TransCanada’s $5.3 billion Keystone XL and Energy East are
among several proposed pipelines designed to ease congestion
from booming  oil-sands  projects and move the fuel from Alberta
to refineries. Oil-sands output is forecast to more than double
to 5.2 million barrels a day by 2030, according to the  Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers .  The Energy East proposal involves carrying as much as
850,000 barrels a day of crude from western Canada to refineries
in  Montreal ,  Quebec , and Saint John,  New Brunswick , about 400
miles northeast of Boston. The crude could then be shipped by
tanker to facilities on the U.S. Eastern Seaboard and as far
away as India, Girling said. The oil will predominantly be
upgraded bitumen from the oil sands, a light crude, and light
oil from Saskatchewan, the CEO said.  “Will we overbuild the pipeline infrastructure?
Potentially, because the economics dictate that that makes
sense, to buy the additional assurance to make sure you have
access to markets at all time,” Girling said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  