-- Treasuries May Post Losses for 3 Years, Goldman’s Beinner Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-18T18:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/treasuries-may-post-losses-for-3-years-goldman-s-beinner-says.html
Treasuries may produce negative
returns over the next two to three years as the Federal Reserve
winds down its bond-buying program and  interest rates  rise,
according to Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  “The benefits of owning long-term  government bonds  have
been eroded,” Jonathan Beinner, co-head of global fixed-income
and liquidity management at the unit of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said to reporters in New York. There’s “very little
cushion. Expected returns are likely to be less than cash, and
are likely to be negative.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated before Congress
today that the bond purchases could be reduced more quickly or
expanded as economic conditions warrant. Bond market measures
such as overnight index swaps project that the Fed’s target rate
for overnight loans may be increased by 25 basis points in the
first quarter of 2015, after being kept in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  Investors should “limit the amount of U.S. interest-rate
risk in a portfolio,” Beinner said. If the yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rises to 4 percent to 5 percent over the next two
to three years, returns will be negative, he said.  The  yield  on the 10-year note was 2.5 percent today, after
touching an almost two-year high of 2.75 percent on July 8. The
yield is forecast to end the year at 2.63 percent according to
the median forecast of 67 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Treasuries have lost 2.4 percent this year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, amid speculation that the
Fed may begin to slow asset buying under its quantitative-easing
strategy.  U.S. government debt  gained 2.2 percent last year.  Economic Forecasts  There’s the “opportunity to own other markets,” Beinner
said, adding that Goldman Sachs Asset Management is “favorably
disposed” to fixed-income securities of  emerging markets ,
including Brazil and  Mexico .  The refuge demand for Treasuries has declined, Beinner
said, adding that Goldman Sachs Asset Management has “an
optimistic outlook” on the  U.S. economy  and favors high-yield
securities and credit returns, floating-rate assets, bank loans
and leveraged-loan assets.  Gross domestic product should climb between 2.54 percent to
3 percent in 2014 with the U.S. economy on “relatively strong
footing,” Beinner said. A median forecast of 96 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey estimate GDP should rise by 2.7 percent in
2014, up from an estimate of 1.8 percent this year.  If the Fed ends QE in mid-2014, then the first rate
increase may be in “earlier 2015, rather than later,” said
Beinner, who also serves as chief investment officer at Goldman
Sachs Asset Management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  