-- Treasuries Decline as Reports Suggest Support for QE Tapering
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-07-18T21:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/treasuries-set-for-4-day-gain-after-bernanke-flags-accommodation.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
this week as better-than-forecast data on jobless claims and
regional manufacturing suggested a strengthening economy will
allow the  Federal Reserve  to slow asset purchases.  U.S. debt remained lower after the nation’s Aaa credit
rating was revised to stable from negative by Moody’s Investor’s
Service. Benchmark  10-year note yields  touched a two-week low
yesterday after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s
bond buys “are by no means on a preset course.” Speaking
today, he said it was “way too early to make any judgment”
about tapering starting in September. The Treasury sold 10-year
inflation-protected securities with a  positive yield  for the
first time in almost two years.  “We’re in a recovery phase, albeit slower than most people
thought it was going to be,” said James Caron, who manages
money in New York at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, which
oversees $62 billion in fixed-income assets. “The overarching
message is still the Fed is looking to remove some accommodation
at some point in time, and the market’s having a difficult time
rallying even on dovish comments.”  Treasury  10-year yields  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.53 percent as of 5 p.m.  New York  time
after reaching 2.46 percent yesterday, the lowest since July 3.
The 1.75 percent note due in May 2023 declined 10/32, or $3.13
per $1,000 face amount, to 93 1/4.  Ten-year  yields  fell seven of the previous eight days,
erasing their 24-basis point advance on July 5 when a report
showed U.S. employers added more jobs than forecast in June.  Credit Rating  The U.S.’s top-ranked rating was also affirmed, New York-based Moody’s said in a statement. The outlook had been negative
outlook since August 2011.  Budget deficits have been falling and are expected to
continue to decline over the next few years, Moody’s said.
Growth in the  U.S. economy , while moderate, is progressing at a
faster rate compared with several Aaa peers and has demonstrated
a degree of resilience to major reductions in the growth of
 government spending , the company said.  “Clearly the Moody’s news is a positive,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of government-debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “This shows we are still the
best house in a bad neighborhood. It doesn’t have a big impact
on Treasuries in the short term, as the credit-quality story has
fallen to the back burner. But, longer term, it’s good news.”  TIPS Auction  The Treasury auction of $15 billion in 10-year TIPS drew a
yield of 0.384 percent, the highest since July 2011 and first
above zero since November of that year. It compared with a
forecast of 0.399 percent in a survey of seven of the Fed’s 21
primary dealers required to bid on  U.S. debt  sales.  “The TIPS market got ahead of itself and is still too rich
and has overpriced demand,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at primary dealer BNP Paribas SA. “The
economy hasn’t seen inflation pressure to justify TIPS
strength.”  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.44,
versus 2.68 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders , a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 57.7 percent of the 10-year TIPS
auctioned. They purchased 56.8 percent at the May sale. The
average for the past 10 offerings is 47.1 percent.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 6.9 percent,
versus 12.4 percent at the May auction. The average at the past
10 sales is 12.4 percent.  Notes Auctions  The Treasury Department will auction $35 billion of two-year debt, $35 billion of five-year notes and $29 billion of
seven-year securities on consecutive days starting on July 23.
The government sells this combination of debt every month.  Jobless claims  dropped by 24,000 to 334,000 in the week
ended July 13, the fewest since early May, from a revised
358,000 the prior period, Labor Department figures showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected 345,000.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
increased to 19.8 in July from 12.5 the prior month. The median
forecast of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for the
Philadelphia Fed index called for a reading of 8. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area, which covers
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  ‘Data Dependent’  “We are living in a world that’s very much data dependent,
as Bernanke has been signaling,” said Gabriel Mann, a U.S.
government-bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The data points that matter
most are employment-related. Philly Fed is less important in
that schema, but still important.”  The Fed could keep buying bonds for longer if “financial
conditions -- which have tightened recently -- were judged to be
insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated
objectives,” Bernanke said yesterday in testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee.  At their most recent meeting last month, members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  decided to maintain purchases of
Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities at a rate of $85
billion a month as part of a policy known as quantitative
easing, and kept the central bank’s benchmark rate at between
zero and 0.25 percent. The FOMC next meets July 30-31.  As of yesterday, investors saw a 40 percent chance policy
makers will raise the federal funds rate to 0.5 percent or
higher by the end of 2014. That compared with 53 percent odds on
July 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in yield between 30-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a measure of trader expectations for inflation
over the life of the debt, called the  break-even rate , was 2.28
percentage points, almost the highest close since June 4. That
compares with an average of 2.42 percentage points in the past
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  