-- REC to Spin Off Solar in Deal Valued at 800 Million Kroner
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-18T08:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/rec-to-spin-off-solar-unit-in-deal-valued-at-800-million-kroner.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC) , a
Norwegian solar-power manufacturer, said it will spin off its
solar unit in a deal that values the business at 800 million
kroner ($133.3 million). The shares climbed.  REC will offer 100 percent of the stock in REC Solar to its
existing shareholders, the Sandvika, Oslo-based company said
today in a statement. The offering is fully underwritten by
REC’s largest  shareholders  and the new unit, to be called REC
Solar, will apply to trade on the Oslo Stock Exchange.  The transaction was announced as the company reported
second-quarter sales rose 21 percent from the previous period to
1.5 billion kroner because of higher demand and prices. The spin
off needs approval from REC shareholders and bondholders.  “By launching a pure play solar company and a pure play
silicon company, both companies will be in a favorable position
for attracting capital,” Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger said
in the statement.  REC jumped as much as 27 percent to 4 kroner, the highest
intraday level since Feb. 23, 2012. The stock traded 18 percent
higher as of 10:20 a.m. in the Norwegian capital.  The separation of REC’s solar and silicon units is “an
attractive move,” Pareto Securities AS said in an e-mailed
note. “This will make silicon a more attractive takeover
candidate, as a buyer would not need to later divest solar.”  Asian Expansion  While there is “always interest,” REC isn’t currently in
talks about selling its silicon unit, CEO Enger said in an
interview in Oslo. “It’s much easier to take an active part in
consolidation when you are well financed.”  Former Chairman Jens Ulltveit Moe, who controls about 44
percent of REC, and board member Oeystein Stray Spetalen, who
owns about 15 percent, have committed to guarantee the offering,
REC said. Arctic Securities ASA, based in Oslo, is managing the
offering.  The company, which has closed all its manufacturing
operations in  Norway  as demand slumped, is considering building
a polysilicon plant in  Asia , with  Malaysia ,  South Korea  and
 China  all possible locations, the CEO said. A plant in that
region would allow REC to sell into the  spot market  there more
easily, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  