-- Record Downgrades Foreshadow First Onshore Default
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T04:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/record-downgrades-foreshadow-first-onshore-default.html
China ’s rating firms cut the most
bond issuer rankings on record in June and brokerages said they
are preparing for the onshore market’s first default as the
world’s second-biggest economy slows.  A total of 38 issuers were downgraded last month, according
to Guotai Junan Securities Co., the most since the nation’s
third-biggest brokerage started compiling the data in 2005. Some
86 firms were upgraded, down from 88 a year earlier. China
Chengxin Securities Rating Co. lowered  Zhuhai Zhongfu Enterprise
Co. (000659) ’s debt rating to AA- from AA on June 28, causing the yield
on the beverage package maker’s May 2015 bonds to almost triple
to 15.01 percent.  “The government can’t save everyone,” said Xu Hanfei, a
bond analyst in  Shanghai  at Guotai Junan. “In the future,
downgrades may spread to high-grade bonds, especially those
which rely heavily on support from the central or local
governments.”  Premier  Li Keqiang  said July 16 that China shouldn’t change
policy direction because of short-term changes in economic
indicators, signaling he is ready to tolerate slower growth to
rebalance investment away from industries with excessive
capacity or which cause pollution. Economic  expansion  slumped to
7.5 percent in the second quarter, extending the longest streak
of sub-8 percent growth in at least two decades.  The yield on one-year AA-rate bonds gained 28 basis points
this week to 5.24 percent yesterday, according to data compiled
by ChinaBond. The  rate  on similar-maturity AAA debt has risen 20
basis points to 4.76 percent. The gap between them was 48, the
biggest since Feb. 3.  Debt, Bankruptcy  There have been no defaults in the publicly-traded domestic
 debt market  since the central bank started regulating it in
1997, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Haitong Securities
Co., the second-biggest listed brokerage, forecast yesterday
that the first onshore default may occur in six to 12 months as
the government seeks to build a sound credit system.  Concerns have mounted since the biggest unit of  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP)  went into bankruptcy in March after
defaulting on $541 million of offshore bonds. The next month,
 LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  failed to fully repay $23.8 million in dollar-denominated securities.  More Downgrades  “Investors should no longer blindly invest in state-owned
companies with overcapacities without good credit analysis,”
said  Jiang Chao , a bond analyst in Shanghai at Haitong
Securities. “China can’t restructure the economy without a bond
default.”  More downgrades may follow and help build China’s junk bond
market, said Jiang, adding that an AA- rating in the nation is
equivalent to non-investment grades overseas.  Most downgrades occurred in steel, chemicals and new energy
last month, according to data compiled by Guotai Junan. These
industries are facing overcapacity, falling earnings and high
liability-to-asset ratios, according to the brokerage’s report
released on July 8.  The rate on Anyang Iron & Steel Co.’s debt due February
2019 has risen 243 basis points to 9.31 percent as of 11:38 a.m.
in Shanghai since China Chengxin Securities Rating Co.  cut  the
state-owned company’s rating to AA- from AA on June 28,
according to exchange data. The yield on Huayi Electric Co.’s
bonds due November 2016 is up 152 basis points at 8.41 percent
since Pengyuan Credit Rating Co.  lowered  the power equipment
maker to AA- from AA on June 28.  Secondary Market  “It’s hard to tell whether the deterioration will spread
to other industries, and we can’t tell when the first default
will come,” said Sun Zhipeng, a bond analyst at Orient
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “But the massive downgrades will
certainly have an impact on the secondary market. Investors are
turning cautious on lower-grade bonds.”  China companies accounted for eight of the 10 financially
weakest issuers of dollar-denominated notes in Asia outside of
 Japan , according to a July 5 Standard Chartered Plc report.  Borrowers from the nation have the equivalent of $112
billion of all types of bonds maturing this month, the most
since April 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Another $110 billion of notes sold by Chinese borrowers are due
by the end of August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Guotai Junan’s Xu said investors should allocate assets to
AAA-rated bonds to protect against rising credit risk. He
forecast China’s  economic growth  may decelerate to 7 percent
next year, the slowest since 1990, from 7.5 percent in 2013. The
government in March set a 7.5 percent target for this year.  Economic Crisis  There is a “de facto phenomenon of economic crisis,” Xia
Bin, a former central bank adviser, wrote in a China Business
News commentary on July 15. A crisis will mean bankruptcy for
some companies and financial institutions, Xia said.  China’s  credit-default swaps , contracts insuring the
nation’s debt against default, jumped to a 17-month high of 147
basis points last month, before easing to 96.5 yesterday,
according to CMA data. The yuan strengthened 0.03 percent to
6.1392 per dollar as of 12:04 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  China’s economy  is in urgent need of supportive fiscal and
accommodative monetary policies, Hu Yifan, Hong Kong-based chief
economist at  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665) , wrote
in a note yesterday. “With lackluster domestic and foreign
demand, liquidity issues have arisen in SMEs amid the tightened
credit policies of banks.”  She added that co-guarantee loans are common and have
triggered chain reactions when one firm is at risk.  Cash Supply  Chinese regulators reined in  money supply  in June in an
effort to force investors to shift funds out of shadow banking,
which allows lenders to bypass controls and capital
requirements. It includes entrusted loans, trust lending, bills
and underground lending.  “The government’s crackdown on shadow banking has left
fewer financing channels available for lower-graded companies,”
said Dong Hui, a bond analyst at China Securities Co. in
Beijing. “Fewer ways to raise money they are in need of will
increase those companies’ default risk.”  Total fundraising  in the economy declined to 1.04 trillion
 yuan  in June, from 1.19 trillion yuan in May and 1.78 trillion
yuan a year earlier, central bank data showed on July 12. New
loans accounted for 83 percent of aggregate financing last
month, up from 52 percent in June last year.  “The downgrades show that the rating agencies have reached
a consensus that the economy will be on a downward trend and
companies’ financials will worsen,” said Cheng Qingsheng, a
bond analyst at Evergrowing Bank Co. in Shanghai. “The first
bond default is getting closer and closer.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  