-- Remy Sees Continued China Cognac Pressure in Second Quarter
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-18T08:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/remy-sees-continued-cognac-pressure-in-china-in-second-quarter.html
Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  said sales of its
Remy Martin cognac in  China  will continue to be hurt by
retailers reducing inventory after first-quarter revenue slid.  The distiller will “remain adversely affected” in the
quarter through Sept. 30 “due to measures focusing on
conspicuous behavior” in China, Paris-based Remy said today.  China is a key market for the company, being its biggest in
Asia, where it generates almost 40 percent of sales. Last year,
cognac represented 60 percent of Remy’s  revenue . The maker of
Mount Gay rum said in June that it would slow exports to China
to manage the amount of cognac held by retailers.  Investors may be disappointed by the company’s comments on
destocking in China, analysts at Natixis wrote today.  Remy  shares  slid as much as 2.6 percent in Paris and were
down 0.9 percent at 80.90 euros at 9:56 a.m.  Organic sales, which exclude acquisitions, disposals and
currency shifts, fell 2.3 percent in the first quarter ended
June 30, the company said today. A 13 percent decline in its
main-brand cognac sales offset 13 percent growth for other
spirits. The median estimate of nine analysts was for cognac
sales to decline 5 percent.  Cognac exporters, which include competitor  Pernod-Ricard
SA (RI) , have experienced slowing sales in China after the election
of President Xi Jinping amid a crackdown on extravagant spending
by officials on gifts and feasts.  Remy, which also makes brands including Cointreau and
Metaxa, said today it’s still confident in the medium- and long-term potential of Asian markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  