-- Tour Leader Froome Penalized as Riblon Wins Stage
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-07-18T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/riblon-wins-tour-stage-to-alpe-d-huez-froome-extends-lead.html
Chris Froome extended his overall
race lead with three days remaining in the  Tour de France 
despite getting penalized for a late snack.  France’s Christophe Riblon overtook Tejay van Garderen of
the U.S. near the end to win yesterday’s stage atop L’Alpe
d’Huez mountain. Riblon, of the AG2R-La Mondiale team, became
the first French stage winner at the centenary edition of the
race. Italy’s Moreno Moser finished third.  Froome, 28, stretched his lead over Alberto Contador by
pulling away from the two-time champion with about six miles
left in the 107-mile (172-kilometer) stage. Froome’s advantage
later was reduced to 4 minutes, 51 seconds when the Team Sky
rider was penalized 20 seconds for receiving energy gel from his
team car within the last four miles.  “I was going into a sugar low,” Froome told reporters.  Nairo Quintana of Movistar rose to third overall, 21
seconds behind Contador.  Froome has two more days in the Alps to defend the race-leading yellow jersey before the ceremonial final-day ride to
the finish line in Paris on July 21.  With thousands of fans massed on the 21 switchback turns of
L’Alpe d’Huez, Froome got away from Contador on the second of
two ascents of the mountain.  Near the end, the Briton raised his hand to appeal for help,
and told reporters afterward he was asking for a sugar boost
from the team’s car.  Team Sky  teammate Richie Porte, who rode
with him for most of the stage, passed him energy gel he had
collected from the car.  Ravine Edge  Under race rules, cyclists aren’t allowed to receive food
from their team in the last section of the race. Porte, who is
20th overall, also was penalized 20 seconds.  “I guess a rule is a rule, and if I get a 20-second
penalty I have to accept that,” Froome told a news conference.  After scaling L’Alpe d’Huez the first time and the next
crest, Col de Sarenne, riders descended gingerly down the other
side with some parts of the road on the brink of a ravine
without a safety barrier.  On a less-dangerous part, Riblon misjudged a turn, went off
the road and had to cycle through a water-filled ditch to avoid
falling off his bike.  Van Garderen of BMC Racing was slowed by a mechanical
problem on the descent. The 24-year-old American attacked at the
foot of the final climb, and looked to be heading for victory
before Riblon chased him down.  Contador attacked Froome on the descent, swerving in front
of him and, with  Team Saxo Bank  teammate Roman Kreuziger, gained
about 20 seconds on the race leader.  They lost that advantage when Contador had to stop for a
bike change because of a mechanical problem, and Froome passed
both of them on the final climb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff on L’Alpe d’Huez,  France  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  