-- Rio Holds Emergency Talks on Street Clashes Ahead of Pope Visit
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-18T14:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/rio-holds-emergency-talks-on-street-clashes-ahead-of-pope-visit.html
Rio de Janeiro ’s state government
held emergency security talks after violence erupted in one of
the city’s wealthiest neighborhoods last night, as it prepares
to host Pope Francis in his first international trip next week.  Governor Sergio Cabral gathered his security advisers and
police chiefs today to discuss the looting and vandalism in the
southern zone of  Brazil ’s second-biggest city, the state
government said in an e-mailed statement. Protesters in the
Leblon district, close to the governor’s residence, blocked
streets and burned trash, waving banners calling on Cabral to
step down. Later, vandals smashed bank and store windows, TV
images showed. The police arrested 15 people last night.  The unrest takes place as Rio readies for the arrival of
Pope Francis on July 22 to participate in World Youth Day, a
event that has prompted the state government to adopt what it
considers the most complex  security  measures in its history.
About 2 million people are expected to take part in next week’s
event, which draws Catholics from all over the world.  Rio and the security forces have a plan in place for
Francis’ visit and the government is “paying attention” to
possible protests, Jose Mariano Beltrame, Rio state’s security
secretary, told reporters today in a press conference.  “There is no problem, we are ready to greet the Pope,” he
said.  Brazilians held the country’s biggest protests in two
decades last month, with more than a million people
demonstrating on the streets to demand better public services
and to complain about the  government spending  almost 30 billion
reais ($13.5 billion) on the soccer  World Cup  next year.  Groups of protesters have been camping in front of Cabral’s
residence in Leblon since June when an increase in bus fares
sparked weeks of demonstrations throughout  Latin America ’s most
populous country. The governor blamed political adversaries for
instigating the protests at his house in an interview published
by Rio-based newspaper  O Globo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  