-- Romanian Premier Sees Upgraded IMF Accord by Fall
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-07-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/romanian-premier-sees-upgraded-imf-accord-by-fall.html
Romania will reach an “upgraded”
agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union by the fall, which will help lower financing costs and
support the currency, Prime Minister Victor Ponta said.  The country will obtain a precautionary loan of 3 billion
euros ($3.94 billion) to 5 billion euros, with fewer conditions
than in its previous two accords, Ponta said in an interview
yesterday in Bucharest. The terms will concentrate on
strengthening state-owned companies and maintaining fiscal
discipline, he said.  “It’s going to be an upgraded agreement,” Ponta said. The
amount “is not very important for us as long as we don’t see
any danger in the short and medium term, but rather in the
conditions of the agreement. We aren’t going to have a very
detailed agreement like we used to have.”  Romania is discussing the loan with IMF, the EU and the
 World Bank  through the end of this month. The country’s leaders
want a third consecutive agreement with the lenders to act as a
backstop against potential spillover into financial markets as
authorities around the world put the brakes on stimulus
measures.  The leu weakened for a fourth day yesterday, depreciating
0.1 percent to 4.4364 per euro. Yields on the country’s 2019
euro-denominated bonds fell 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 3.87 percent, the lowest since June 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yield Outlook  Borrowing costs will continue to decline after the country
obtains the third loan agreement and as the central bank will
probably cut its record-low 5 percent main interest rate
further, Ponta said.  “The biggest challenge for  Romania  right now is the
financing as the banks are more restrictive,” Ponta said  The EU’s second-poorest country completed an agreement of
as much as 5 billion euros with the lenders last month after a
three-month extension triggered by delays in overhauling the
economy and state-owned companies. Romania treated the agreement
as precautionary, meaning it didn’t draw any of the funds
available.  Negotiations on the next accord will probably be “much
easier” because the government has “proved its commitment and
courage,” Ponta said.  The agreement would be  “positive for Romania” because
“it would ensure a financial cushion in case of renewed risk
aversion” and “provides an impulse and accountability for
further structural reforms,” Dan Bucsa, an economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in  London , said in a research report yesterday.  Faster Growth  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who met Romanian
officials during a two-day visit this week, signaled that the
fund is ready to back a new agreement focusing on restructuring
state-owned companies and the health-care system.  Romania’s export-driven economy may grow more than the 1.6
percent forecast by the government after 2.4 percent growth in
the first half of the year from the same period of 2012, Ponta
said. The country wants to attract 10 billion euros in
investments, especially in the energy and the automotive
industries, as part of a plan to create more jobs, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  