-- Royal Bank, TD Surge to Record Highs as Lenders Advance
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-18T20:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/royal-bank-td-surge-to-record-highs-as-lenders-advance.html
Shares of  Royal Bank of Canada  and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  reached record highs today, lifting an
index of the country’s largest lenders.  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s largest by assets, rose 1.5 percent to
C$64.78 at 4:10 p.m. in Toronto, eclipsing the previous peak of
C$64.49 on Feb. 20, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest lender, advanced 1.5
percent to C$87.48, surpassing its previous high of C$86.40 on
March 30, 2011.  Canadian banks are rising as the nation’s housing market
defies predictions of a major slowdown. Existing home sales rose
3.3 percent in June, almost matching the previous month’s gain
that was the fastest in more than two years, according to
Canadian Real Estate Association data.  “The housing market data coming out of Canada has been
encouraging,”  Brad Smith , an analyst at Stonecap Securities
Inc., said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “People are
no longer anticipating a hard landing in Canada.”  The country’s six other large lenders also climbed, with
 National Bank of Canada (NA) ’s 2.1 percent  gain  leading the 1.4
percent rise of the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Commercial Banks Index.  The shares also may be rising on comments by U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who reiterated today that the
central bank will act if necessary to combat too-low inflation,
Smith said.  “Bernanke’s signaling that he may be getting cold feet on
tapering,” Smith said. “That gets translated back into the
stock market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  