-- Royal Bank, TD Shares Approach Record High as Lenders Advance
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-18T16:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/royal-bank-td-shares-approach-record-high-as-lenders-advance.html
Shares of  Royal Bank of Canada  and
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  are approaching record highs, lifting an
index of the country’s largest lenders.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender by assets, rose 1.3
percent to C$64.60 at 11:34 a.m. in Toronto, its highest
intraday price  since  Feb. 25. A close at that level would be a
record high after taking into account stock splits, eclipsing
the previous peak of C$64.49 on Feb. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest bank, advanced 1.5
percent to C$87.42, its highest intraday in almost two years.
The Toronto-based lender’s previous record closing price was
C$86.40 on March 30, 2011.  Canadian banks are rising as the nation’s housing market
defies predictions of a major slowdown. Canadian existing home
sales rose 3.3 percent in June, almost matching the previous
month’s gain that was the fastest in more than two years,
according to Canadian Real Estate Association data.  “The housing market data coming out of  Canada  has been
encouraging,” Brad Smith, an analyst at Stonecap Securities
Inc., said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “People are
no longer anticipating a hard landing in Canada.”  Canada’s four other large lenders also climbed, with the
eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index
gaining 1.2 percent.  The banks also may be rising on comments by U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who reiterated today that the
central bank will act if necessary to combat too-low inflation,
Smith said.  “Bernanke’s signaling that he may be getting cold feet on
tapering,” Smith said. “That gets translated back into the
stock market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  