-- South Korea Urges G-20 to Lessen Spillover From Fed Moves
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-18T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/s-korea-calls-for-g-20-to-lessen-spillover-from-fed-moves.html
Global finance chiefs must work
together to make sure the end of Federal Reserve bond buying
doesn’t weaken economic recovery in other nations, South Korean
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said.  The Group of 20 needs to coordinate how to handle scaled-back monetary stimulus from the U.S. once its recovery is
secure, Hyun, 63, said in an interview yesterday in Moscow. If 
not handled carefully, a Fed move away from quantitative 
easing threatens to slow growth in other nations, which in turn 
would damp U.S. expansion, he said.  “Although the unwinding of the QE hasn’t taken place yet,
there has to be some fine coordination in terms of its timing
and extent,” Hyun said. “The question isn’t whether the impact
is going to be big or small, but just that it does serve as a
risk factor and it’s very important for us to discuss ways to
absorb such a shock and possibly mitigate such a shock.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers gather in Moscow
today to assess how the world economy is responding to efforts
in the U.S.,  Japan  and Europe to restore growth. Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke signaled this week that the U.S. may soon be
able to curb its stimulus efforts, while European Union policy
makers remain concerned about spillover effects from Japan’s
efforts to jumpstart its economy.  The Group of 20 probably won’t call for a tapering of
stimulus in the U.S., Japan and other developed nations even
amid “excessive market volatility,” Russian Deputy Finance
Minister Sergei Storchak said in a July 16 interview.  ‘Very Favorable’  “I don’t yet see a pressing need to demand anything from
countries that are conducting quantitative easing,” Storchak
said, adding that Russia benefits from such stimulus because it
can borrow on “very favorable” terms.  Bernanke told lawmakers July 17 that asset purchases by the
U.S. central bank “are by no means on a preset course” and
could even be expanded if needed. Earlier this year, he said the
Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond purchases may be eased in 2013
if the world’s largest economy continues to improve, comments
that sent bond yields in developed and  emerging markets  soaring.  “There has been negative impact,” although not as much on
South Korea as on other countries, Hyun said. Also, any change
in Fed policy would be the result of a stronger U.S. economy
that also may boost exports elsewhere.  Japan Effect  Likewise, there could be similar benefits if Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe succeeds in his plan to reflate the economy
by boosting stimulus and weakening the yen, Hyun said. He
reiterated that Japan must be careful to design its policies in
a way that won’t trigger competitive devaluations, as the G-20
nations pledged in April.  South Korea is trying to strengthen its own economy by
boosting housing and working to stabilize its foreign-currency
market, Hyun said.  “We must never be complacent, so we will have to make sure
that any impact from the tapering of quantitative easing will be
minimized on the financial and currency market of  Korea ,” Hyun
said.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy is grappling with a weak yen
trimming exports, record household debt weighing on consumption 
and surging demand for welfare. The country is on guard against
capital outflows that may result from the U.S. and major 
countries unwinding quantitative easing, after enduring a 
foreign-currency crisis in 1997-1998 and a dollar credit crunch 
during the global financial crisis.  Extra Budget  South Korea enacted a 17.3 trillion-won ($15.4 billion)
extra budget and a 25-basis-point rate cut in May to speed up
the country’s recovery. The Bank of Korea now projects 4 percent
growth next year, the fastest pace since the global economy
rebounded from a recession in 2010.  When the ministers and central bankers meet today,  Germany 
will push the G-20 to set debt-reduction targets, a German
government officials told reporters in Berlin on July 17 on
condition of anonymity because the negotiations are private.  The finance chiefs also will discuss a new report on tax
evasion and profit shifting as part of strategies to make sure
companies aren’t dodging their obligations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Moscow at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  