-- S. Korean Cries for G-20 Focus on Yen Belied by Pick-Up: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-18T05:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/s-korean-cries-for-g-20-focus-on-yen-belied-by-pick-up-economy.html
South Korea ’s forecasts for faster
growth and evidence of strength in sales from shipbuilders to
carmakers are undercutting the nation’s warnings that
neighboring  Japan ’s weakening yen poses a threat to its economy.  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok reiterated his country’s call
this week that there should be international discussion on
Japan’s policies, ahead of his departure to attend a meeting of
Group of 20 finance chiefs in Moscow. The Bank of  Korea ’s own
forecasts indicate little sign of danger from the yen’s drop, as
it sees 4 percent growth in 2014, from 2.8 percent in 2013.  Limited side-effects on Japan’s trading partners so far
from unprecedented monetary stimulus are helping Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe to reflate the world’s third-biggest economy while
keeping international criticism in check. Even after a 29
percent rise against the yen over the past year, South Korea’s
won remains 33 percent weaker against Japan’s currency than when
the global financial crisis was taking shape in mid-2007.  South Korea’s “worst fears have failed to materialize,”
said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Hyundai Securities
Co. “The case is weakening for South Korea to complain about
Japan, especially when the world needs a Japanese recovery to
secure another growth engine amid slowing in  China  and emerging-market economies.”  Yen ‘Worries’  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) , the world’s biggest
shipbuilder, said on July 16 its orders jumped 69 percent to
$14.6 billion in the first half of 2013 from a year earlier
after falling 23 percent last year. Carmakers led by  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380)  reported a 7.4 percent rise in overseas shipments by
volume in the first six months of this year from a year earlier
after an 8 percent increase in 2012.  “Worries were big when the yen began to fall sharply but
our exporters seem to be managing pretty well,” Jo Yung Tae,
director at the  trade ministry ’s export and import division,
said in an interview on July 17. “Some industries like
machinery and steel are still vulnerable to a weak yen but
products from smart phones to TVs are now the world leaders,
equipped with technology and brand power. Moreover, our export
markets are highly diversified.”  The trade ministry is sticking with a January forecast for
a 4.1 percent increase in exports this year, given planned ship
deliveries and government support for exporters, Jo said.  Exports gained 0.6 percent in the first half of 2013 after
falling 1.3 percent in 2012, according to the customs service.
Exports to Japan fell 11.5 percent over the six months and those
to the European Union slipped 3.7 percent, while shipments to
the U.S. rose 2 percent and those to China gained 9.8 percent.  ‘Blame’ Game  Three months ago, in an interview in  Washington  ahead of a
G-20 meeting, Hyun told  Bloomberg News  that the slide in the yen
driven by so-called Abenomics presented a bigger risk to South
Korea’s economy than  North Korea .  Tensions persisted, with Koichi Hamada, an economic adviser
to Abe, saying in May that South Korean officials “shouldn’t
blame the Japanese central bank, they should demand the Korean
central bank have a proper monetary policy.”  At a briefing this week in Sejong, south of  Seoul , Hyun was
more focused on concerns related to the prospect of the U.S.
Federal Reserve unwinding stimulus measures than on Japanese
policies. He refrained from commenting specifically on the yen,
while saying that Japan should concentrate on restructuring its
economy. An excessive focus on foreign exchange rates may
escalate into a currency war, Hyun told reporters.  Nishimura’s Tour  Ahead of this week’s G-20 meeting, Japanese Deputy Economic
Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura has visited  Singapore  and  Hong
Kong , re-stating the case for Abenomics and explaining Japan’s
position that yen weakness is not a target of the government’s
policies.  In an interview with Bloomberg Television in Singapore
today, Nishimura said that his nation’s policies were well-understood by members of the G-20.  The won’s real effective exchange rate, a measure that
captures the competitiveness of the currency by taking the
weighted average of South Korea’s bilateral exchange rates and
adjusting for inflation rates, is about 8 percent below its
average over the past 10 years, according to Bank of
International Settlements data compiled by Bloomberg.  Technology, Brands  South Korean companies’ technology, product quality and
brands, particularly in the electronics sector which accounts
for 30 percent of the country’s exports, give them staying power
in overseas markets, said Ma Tieying, an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in Singapore.  “We are still comfortable about the relative performance
of Korean exports, despite a challenging global environment and
the threat of yen weakness,” said Ma.  In April,  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda won
endorsement by G-20 nations of his stepped-up stimulus push,
saying it emboldened him to press ahead with his campaign to
defeat 15 years of Japanese deflation.  While the South Korean economy as a whole is weathering the
yen’s fall, some companies are finding it tougher going.  Janus
Korea Co. , an Incheon-based handset and mobile device case
supplier for Japanese companies including  Sharp Corp. (6753) , sees the
yen’s fall as the biggest threat in its eight-year history.  “We could have achieved record-high revenue up to 14
billion won this year but the yen is nose-diving so fast that
we’re now expecting about 10 billion won at most,” Chief
Executive Officer Son Jung Mi, 53, said in an interview on June
25. “The  currency risk  is too big for a small business like us
and we can’t help but bleeding with squeezing profit.”  Son said he is relying on a government foreign-exchange
insurance program while trying to cut production costs by
tapping cheaper labor in other Asian countries and honing the
company’s technology.  Export Rivals  About 57 percent of South Korea’s exports compete with
products from Japan as of 2012, according to LG Economic
Research Institute. A 10 percent rise in the won against the yen
tends to trim South Korea’s export growth by 1.4 percentage
points, said Lee Ji Seon, a senior researcher at LG.  State-backed financial institutions have increased low-cost
funding, credit guarantees and insurance against movements in
foreign-exchange rates to exporters to help them cope with the
won’s volatility.  The Bank of Korea’s growth projections, boosted last week,
reflect expectations its quarter-point  interest rate  cut in May
and a 17.3-trillion-won ($15.4 billion) extra budget will
bolster the economy, Governor Kim Choong Soo said July 11.  In economies around the world today, the U.K. is due to
release retail-sales numbers, while data on initial jobless
claims are due in the U.S. The Conference Board may report that
a U.S. index of leading economic indicators climbed in June for
the third straight month, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  In  South Africa , the central bank will keep interest rates
unchanged, according to all 18 economists in a Bloomberg poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  