-- SAP Second-Quarter Software License Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-07-18T14:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sap-second-quarter-software-license-sales-miss-estimates-on-asia.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, reported its first software-sales
decline in more than three years and abandoned its revenue
forecasts as Asian customers withheld spending.  Software licenses, an indicator of future income, fell
about 3 percent to 982 million euros ($1.3 billion) excluding
currency swings. That compared with the 1.02 billion-euro
average estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg and
marked the first decrease since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Software sales from Asia dropped 9 percent, led by Australia and
 Japan , Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said today.  “The slowdown in  China  impacts many countries in Asia and
you see that in our numbers this quarter,” Co-Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said on a conference call.  SAP fell 0.2 percent to 57.55 euros at 3:55 p.m. in
Frankfurt, bringing its decline this year to 5.2 percent after
four consecutive years of gains. Archrival  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and
 Accenture Plc (ACN) , which offers SAP software, last month forecast
sales that trailed estimates amid a shift in corporate spending
away from longer-term contracts to Web-based applications.  The stock is valued at about 23 times earnings, compared
with Oracle’s 15 times, and 13 for Microsoft Corp. Oracle rose
0.5 percent to $32.32 in New York, while Microsoft slipped 0.2
percent to $35.67.  Snabe and co-CEO Bill McDermott have acquired makers of
enterprise software for mobile devices and are accelerating a
push in SAP’s home-grown database technology Hana to offset the
slowing pace of large installations.  ‘Not Immune’  “The macroeconomic environment is somewhat weaker, and not
even SAP is immune to that,” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart with a hold
recommendation on the shares. “The mobile, Hana and cloud
businesses are performing well, but they are still too small to
compensate for the pressure SAP faces in its core business.”  China’s economic growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter, slowing from 7.7 percent in the previous three months.
Out of SAP’s second-quarter reported revenue of 4.1 billion
euros, 15 percent came from Asia. The regional business will
probably return to growth after this year, Chief Financial
Officer Werner Brandt said.  Second-quarter operating profit adjusted for some items
rose 3.9 percent to 1.22 billion euros, trailing the 1.24
billion-euro average estimate. Even as license sales fell, the
company gained software market share from Oracle, Salesforce and
 Netsuite Inc. (N)  and won several cloud deals against  Workday Inc. (WDAY) 
in the quarter, McDermott said today.  ‘Double Digit’  “We do believe that the core business still can drive
growth opportunities,” Snabe said.  Growth in global software-license sales will probably slow
to an average 4 percent annually through 2016, after rising 4.1
percent last year, as companies try to trim costs by switching
to cloud-based applications, Bloomberg Industries said this
month, citing data from researcher IDC.  SAP, which had predicted growth for software and cloud-subscription revenue in a range of 14 percent to 20 percent this
year, now projects a less specific “double-digit” percentage
growth, CFO Brandt said.  Responding to the shift to cloud, SAP is making more of its
programs accessible online and pushing into the database market.
Second-quarter revenue from cloud subscriptions more than
doubled to 183 million euros. Sales from Hana grew 21 percent to
102 million euros and SAP has more than 1,800 customers using
the software, Snabe said.  Cloud Fight  The software maker also is using acquisitions to fight
cloud specialists such as  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , which last year
displaced SAP as the top vendor of software to manage customer
relationships, according to Gartner Inc.  SAP last month agreed to buy Zug, Switzerland-based Hybris
AG to expand in e-commerce software and benefit from increasing
consumption in markets such as China. The deal was valued at
more than $1 billion, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  Oracle, which is also trying to catch up in the cloud-computing market, on June 21 reported sales that missed
estimates for a second consecutive quarter. Accenture, which
helps clients install SAP software, fell the most in almost two
years after its June 28 earnings report showed that customers
deferred decisions on short-term consulting contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  