-- SC Lowy Boosts Staff as Hedge Funds Seek Distressed Credit
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-07-18T02:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sc-lowy-boosts-staff-as-hedge-funds-seek-distressed-credit.html
SC Lowy Financial (HK) Ltd. , the
Hong Kong-based investment bank that sells distressed and
stressed credit to  hedge funds , has increased staff by more than
30 percent this year to meet expected increase in demand.  SC Lowy employed 14 people when it was founded in October
2009 by Michel Lowy and Soo Cheon Lee, who previously ran
Deutsche Bank AG’s Asian distressed products group. Eight
additions in the last six months boosted its staff in Hong Kong,
 London  and  New York  to 32, Lowy said. The hires included a bond
trader, two research analysts and a lawyer, he said.  Small and medium-sized companies may face difficulty in
refinancing debt in the public bond market at the near-zero
 interest  of the last few years when rates start to climb and
corporate revenue fails to catch up, Lowy said. Asian banks are
still reluctant to lend to smaller companies as European lenders
pull back from the region, leaving a void that some hedge funds
are filling.  “There are a number of crises appearing,” Lowy said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “The next few years are going
to be extremely busy for us.”  SC Lowy, which has traded more than $11 billion in bonds
and loans by June, is in talks to start arranging small bond
issues for medium-sized companies, Lowy said. It is also
expanding the businesses of arranging new private loans for
companies and trading high-yield corporate bonds, he said.  Rising Defaults  The default rate in the region’s public  bond market  will
probably rise above 5 percent and may reach the 2009 level of 7
percent, said Lowy.  Standard & Poor’s  put 2012 Asia-Pacific
speculative-grade default at 1.34 percent in an annual study.  SC Lowy started to help companies seeking to reorganize
find new loan financing about a year ago, with the target loan
size of $10 million to $100 million, Lowy said.  It helped shipping company Korea Lines Corp. secure $85
million of new credit when it was on the brink of filing for
liquidation in December 2012, enabling a second reorganization
in preparation for a sale in the next few months, he added.  Companies in Asia outside of  Japan  sold $42.9 billion of
new bonds in dollar, yen and euros in the three years to
December 2012, almost triple the amount in the previous three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Such new bond
offerings hit $19.6 billion this year, 32 percent more than the
full year last year.  ‘Dangerous Situation’  “It’s the first time in the history of Asian  capital
markets  that the size of the public bond markets is bigger than
the private syndicated loan market in terms of new issuance,”
Lowy said. “It’s a very dangerous situation for borrowers who
want to refinance three to five years from now.”  Small and medium-sized companies have dominated bond
issuance in  Asia . Leverage of small companies has climbed to
five times from two times, Lowy said, citing Morgan Stanley
data.  As much as half of each recent regional bond sale was
bought by U.S. and European investors, Lowy said. Allocations to
private banks have also risen to 25 percent, from less than 15
percent two years ago, he said, citing Morgan Stanley data.  Asset managers that have raised capital for stressed and
distressed credit include PAG, a Hong Kong-based manager of $9.4
billion of assets, which received $700 million from investors
for a fund to make new loans to Asian companies this year. Alp
Ercil, former Asia head of New York-based hedge fund Perry
Capital LLC, raised $940 million for his own distressed-asset
fund last year. Patrik Edsparr, who once led Citadel LLC’s
securities unit, has also started a distressed and stressed
fund.  SC Lowy has done 10 private deals with European banks in
the past quarter as they resumed sales of existing loans, Lowy
said.  “Certainly there’s a lot more fear in the market again and
attention to problems,” Lowy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  