-- Schaeuble Opens Door to Greek Debt Relief Tied to Targets
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-18T16:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/schaeuble-opens-door-to-greek-debt-relief-tied-to-meeting-target.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  opened the possibility of further Greek debt relief as
he urged the country to stand by its commitments to scale back
its debt and overhaul the economy.  On his first visit to Greece since it spawned the financial
crisis in 2009, Schaeuble said there are no “shortcuts” to
austerity even as he lauded the Greeks’ “determination.” The
minister warned against focusing on possible debt relief for the
country, though he signaled that  Germany  would be ready to talk
if conditions were met in 2014.  “If Greece has done its implementation and achieved a
primary surplus -- then, if necessary, other measures will be
negotiated,” Schaeuble told reporters in  Athens  today. Still,
“everybody must do what they’ve promised they’ll do.”  Greece  has stumbled in fulfilling austerity targets set by
international lenders, falling short on tax-revenue collection
and state-owned asset sales as  uncertainty  over the country’s
debt sustainability has grown. Greece’s public debt is expected
to peak at 175.6 percent of gross domestic product this year and
drop below 120 percent of GDP by 2021, creditors say.  Schaeuble’s comments suggested building on previous relief
measures. European finance ministers agreed last November to cut
the rates on bailout loans and suspend interest payments for a
decade, while giving Greece more time to repay and engineering a
Greek bond buyback. He was unyielding on a writedown.  ‘Another Program’  Schaeuble said that a writedown on Greek debt held by
European bailout funds would “destroy any confidence” and
warned against stoking expectations over debt relief.  “Nobody who knows anything about the issue at hand is
talking seriously about a further cut for private investors,”
he said earlier on German Inforadio before arriving in the Greek
capital. “Rather, it’s about the fact that it’s possible that
Greece after the end of the current program next year will need
another program.”  Greek bonds rallied today, with the yield on 10-year notes
falling 15 basis points to 10.24 percent in Athens. Shares rose
for a third day, with the Athens Stock Exchange index up 1.7
percent.  Any debt writedown would follow last year’s agreement by
private investors to take a 53.5 percent loss on the face value
of their Greek bond holdings, the biggest writedown ever. That
cut the nation’s debt by about 100 billion euros.  Schaeuble arrived in the Greek capital hours after the
recession-wracked country’s lawmakers approved a new round of
public job cuts. The German minister promised 100 million euros
of loans for Greek companies.  ‘Big Steps’  With Chancellor  Angela Merkel  seeking a third term in Sept.
22 elections, further concessions from Schaeuble to Greece
weren’t on the agenda today.  “Greece has taken big steps for reforms in its economic
structures,” Schaeuble said. “These reforms are showing the
first signs” of success. Still, much work is left, he said.  Authorities banned gatherings and marches in much of
central Athens and along the route from the airport. About 4,000
police are on duty during his visit, said a police spokesman,
who asked not to be identified in line with policy. The normally
bustling Syntagma Square was empty after police cordoned off
streets and closed the metro station.  The Greek Parliament passed a bill in a midnight vote that
puts 25,000 public employees on notice for possible dismissal, a
step demanded by creditors to release the country’s next
installment of loans from a 240-billion bailout package.  ‘Unprecedented Effort’  “An unprecedented effort is now under way to reconstitute
our country’s economy and state,” Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told lawmakers during the debate. “I’m totally
confident that the road we’re following is the right one. The
effort is yielding results.”  With his coalition reduced and Greece stuck in its sixth
year of recession, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras pushed the job
cuts over protests amid record unemployment of 27 percent.  In an attempt to boost an  economy  that has shrunk by more
than a quarter since 2008, Schaeuble’s support will come in the
form of loans to small and medium-sized Greek businesses through
state-owned lender KfW Group, a German government official told
reporters yesterday.  Samaras’s government has said its aim is for creditors to
forgive some of the 318 billion euros Greece owes mostly to
euro-region taxpayers and the  International Monetary Fund .  “The 100-million package is a box of chocolates which is
nice, but it does not really help Greece to cope with its
debt,”  Peter Bofinger , a member of Merkel’s council of economic
experts, said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “A
second debt restructuring is inevitable but definitely it will
not take place before the German elections in September.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Birgit Jennen in Athens at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  