-- LSE Rises to Five-Year High as Revenue Gains; Axe Leaves
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-07-18T09:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/lse-rises-to-five-year-high-as-revenue-gains-axe-leaves.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
climbed to a five-year high in  London  trading as fiscal first-quarter revenue rose. Ian Axe will leave as chief executive
officer of the LCH.Clearnet unit.  The shares rallied as much as 5 percent to 1,554 pence, the
highest price since Feb. 21, 2008. They traded 3.6 percent
higher at 1,533 pence as of 10:16 a.m. in London.  Revenue in the three months through June 30 climbed 39
percent to 249.7 million pounds ($379 million) from same period
last year, “reflecting growth across all business divisions,”
London-based LSE said in a statement today. Sales increased 8
percent excluding currency fluctuations and the acquisition of
LCH.Clearnet, Europe’s biggest clearinghouse.  “Today’s statement will put upward pressure on consensus
forecasts,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets
in London, wrote in a report today. Revenue “exactly matched
our top-of-consensus forecast,” wrote the analyst, who has an
outperform recommendation on LSE, equivalent to a buy rating.  Axe, who became LCH.Clearnet’s CEO in 2011, will leave the
clearinghouse months after selling a majority stake to LSE. Axe
joined from Barclays Plc, where he was chief operating officer
of Barclays Capital in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa .  Seeking to revive LCH.Clearnet, Axe brokered the deal to
sell a stake to LSE, applied for a license to operate in
 Australia , bought International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC
from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and other investors and restructured
the business.  “Over the past 2 1/2 years Ian Axe has implemented a
programme of strategic initiatives that has secured the future
direction of the LCH.Clearnet business,” LSE said in the
statement. He’s leaving “in order to pursue other interests. He
will remain in his role to ensure an orderly handover process,”
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  