-- SEC Personnel Weaknesses Said by GAO to Undermine Effectiveness
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-18T21:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sec-personnel-weaknesses-said-by-gao-to-undermine-effectiveness.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission hasn’t fully implemented plans to strengthen its
workforce and remove communication barriers that contributed to
past enforcement failures, according to a government watchdog.  Personnel management failures contributed to the SEC’s
ranking of 19th among 22 agencies for employee satisfaction and
commitment, the Government Accountability Office said in a
report posted on its website today. The agency hasn’t developed
a plan to groom future leaders and employees haven’t bought into
a system designed to measure performance, the GAO said.  “GAO determined that SEC’s organizational culture is not
constructive and could hinder its ability to effectively fulfill
its mission,” the GAO reported. “Many current and former SEC
employees cited low morale, distrust of management, and the
compartmentalized, hierarchical, and risk-averse nature of the
organization.”  The GAO is required to review SEC workforce management
systems under the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. Investigators made
seven recommendations to address human-resource weaknesses,
including providing incentives to promote more better teamwork.  In a response to the report, SEC Chairman Mary Jo White
wrote that agency officials have “work to do in these areas and
are committed to ensuring that progress continues.”  In a separate report posted on its website today, the GAO
recommended that the SEC develop alternative methods to identify
“accredited investors,” those permitted to invest in private
and less-liquid securities. The congressional watchdog said the
test could include a minimum amount of liquid investments or use
of a registered  investment adviser .  The SEC currently defines accredited investors as persons
with net worth greater than $1 million, excluding a primary
residence, or annual income exceeding $200,000. Approximately
8.5 million households qualify as accredited based on the net-worth test. Some investor advocates say the current test isn’t a
good proxy for a person’s investing expertise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  