-- Sen Sees Saudi Fuel Oil Use Rise as Gas Cuts Crude Burn
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-07-18T13:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sen-sees-saudi-fuel-oil-use-rise-as-gas-cuts-crude-burn.html
Saudi Arabia is boosting imports of
fuel oil to supplement the use of natural gas to generate power
and cool homes in the summer months, freeing up more of its
crude for export, according to Energy Aspects Ltd.  “Fuel oil is on the rise, especially as prices had fallen
quite sharply earlier in the year,” Amrita Sen, chief oil
market analyst at the London-based consultant, said by e-mail
yesterday. “With new fuel-oil power plants operating, we would
continue to see fuel-oil burn rise.”  The world’s largest crude exporter imported 77,800 barrels
a day of fuel oil from January to May this year, up 39 percent
from the same period in 2012, according to official data posted
yesterday on the Joint Organisations Data Initiative’s website.  Saudi Arabia has the most surplus capacity for producing
crude in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. It pumped 9.47 million barrels a day in June, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The nation used 547,000 barrels a
day of crude in May to produce electricity, or 2.1 percent less
than a year ago, even as Saudi electricity demand grew by 8
percent a year, according to JODI statistics.  Greater domestic gas production enabled the country to
substitute gas for crude in some power stations, the
International Energy Agency said in its latest oil-market report
on July 11. Sen said increased imports of fuel oil were another
important factor in the fall in crude use.  Pilgrims Arrive  Consumption of fuel oil will grow in July and August,
during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan that began July 10, she
said. More than 2 million pilgrims entered the country in the
first week of Ramadan to visit the holy city of Mecca, according
to the government.  Saudi Arabia will start cutting these imports from next
year with the commissioning of three new refineries, starting
with the Satorp facility in Jubail, Sen said. Yasref, another
400,000-barrels-a-day plant under construction in Yanbu, is to
come online next year, followed by a refinery in Jazan with
equal capacity in 2016.  “There will be domestic fuel oil that can be fed into
these units, while crude oil can be kept for the export
market,” Sen said.  Saudi Arabia’s gas-production capacity rose by 18 percent
in July last year, when the Karan field was able to produce at
full capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  