-- Senate Said to Reach Student-Loan Deal Ending Rate Jump
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-18T17:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/senate-said-to-reach-student-loan-deal-ending-rate-jump.html
Senators announced a bipartisan deal
to charge flexible market-set interest rates for student loans,
legislation that would end an impasse over how to extend a
program that benefits 7 million low-income students.  Undergraduate students, whether they receive subsidized or
unsubsidized Stafford loans, would pay 3.86 percent in the
coming academic year, lawmakers told reporters. Future interest
rates would be tied to annual fluctuations in the yield of the
10-year Treasury note, they said at a news conference.  “This deal will benefit many students by reducing interest
rates that they pay now below current rates” and give
“protection from interest rates in the future, which may
skyrocket, by creating caps” on rates, Senate Democratic Whip
Dick Durbin told reporters.  The deal would roll back interest rates on subsidized
Stafford student loans, which had doubled to 6.8 percent from
3.4 percent on July 1. Those loans are available to
undergraduates based on financial need. The rate for
unsubsidized Stafford loans, available to any undergraduate
regardless of financial status, was already at 6.8 percent.  Earlier in the day, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said
a vote on the legislation was possible as early as today. The
Nevada Democrat said the goal is to get legislation to President
 Barack Obama ’s desk before Congress leaves Washington for its
August recess.  Timing Uncertain  Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who chairs the  Senate
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee,  said the vote
is likely to happen early next week.  The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the plan
would save the government $715 million over 10 years, according
to Republican Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee .  “Our goal is to not make any money on the backs of
students, not to cost the taxpayers anything,” said Alexander,
a former U.S. Education secretary, and the top Republican on the
education panel.  Under the plan, rates for both types of undergraduate
Stafford loans would be set at 3.86 percent for the coming year,
retroactive to July 1, Alexander said.  The group made decided that that “we would have a single
rate for all undergraduate students,” he told reporters.  Annual Change  The compromise would peg all undergraduate Stafford loans
at 2.05 percentage points more than the yield on the last
auction of  10-year Treasury notes  before June 1 of each year,
the aides said. The rates would be capped at 8.25 percent, said
Senate aides who spoke about the details on condition of
anonymity.  The agreement was reached a day after members of the
bipartisan Senate group, which also includes Republicans Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , Richard Burr of North Carolina and Democrat
Joe Manchin of West Virginia, met with Obama to discuss the
progress of their talks.  During the July 16 meeting, the president urged the
lawmakers to reach a deal, White House spokesman Jay Carney told
reporters yesterday in Washington. Obama called the meeting
because he was “very concerned” about ending the impasse,
Carney said.  Obama “certainly hopes and expects that there will be a
resolution to this very soon,” Carney said.  Today, Speaker John Boehner told reporters that the Senate
proposal seems to follow the structure of the House bill, “so
when we see the details, I am hopeful that we will be able to
put this issue behind us.”  House Legislation  The Republican-run House has passed legislation that would
peg student-loan rates to 2.5 percentage points more than the
10-year Treasury note auction yield.  Pressure from the White House to resolve the issue
threatened to politically isolate Senate Democrats, who were
opposing the idea, first advanced by Obama, of linking student
loan rates to the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, said a
Democratic leadership aide who asked not to be identified.  The support Harkin, was important because he had backing of
many other Senate Democrats. Almost 40 Democrats, including
Harkin, had unsuccessfully pushed legislation to roll back the
interest rate to 3.4 percent and extend it for another year.  Under the plan described by the aides, graduate students
borrowing Stafford loans would pay 3.6 percentage points more
than the last 10-year Treasury note auction yield, or 5.41
percent for the coming year. The yield of the last 10-yr
Treasury-note auction before June 1 of this year was 1.81
percent.  PLUS Loans  The interest rate on PLUS loans, available to parents of
undergraduates and graduate students, would be 4.6 percentage
points more than the last 10-year Treasury note auction yield,
or 6.41 percent. PLUS loans allow students to borrow the full
cost of their education rather than the limited amounts allowed
each year under the Stafford program.  Graduate Stafford loan rates would be capped at 9.5 percent
and PLUS loans at 10.5 percent, the aides said.  The deal was sealed after Harkin relented and agreed to the
plan worked out among Alexander, Manchin, Burr and Angus King, a
Maine independent who caucuses with Democrats.  “We have hammered out a great compromise here,” Harkin
said. “Students will not be paying 6.8 percent on their
loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  