-- Shanda Surges on New Mobile Game as Sohu Rises: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-18T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/shanda-surges-on-new-mobile-game-as-sohu-rises-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose in  New York  as
 Shanda Games Ltd. (GAME)  surged after the successful start of a new
mobile game. Sohu.com Inc. climbed on speculation its search
engine unit will be acquired.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 0.2 percent to a five-week
high of 89.88 yesterday. Shanda soared 17 percent, while Sohu
advanced to the highest level since October 2011.  Sina Corp. (SINA) 
rallied for a fourth day and  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) 
surged to a one-month high.  LightInTheBox (LITB)  Holding Co. retreated.  Million Arthur, the mobile game from Shanda’s South Korean
unit Actoz Soft Co. that debuted in  China  yesterday, was No.3 by
sales on Apple Inc.’s store, the Shanghai-based company said in
a statement. Sogou, the online search unit of web-portal
operator  Sohu (SOHU) , will be valued at as much as $1.2 billion in a
possible sale, according to ABR Investment Strategy LLC.  “Shanda’s stock is up strongly due to the high ranking of
this mobile game,” Nick Ning, a Shanghai-based analyst at
86Research Ltd., said by e-mail. “Investors take this high
ranking as an indicator of strong revenue and earnings growth
for the short term. They want exposure to China’s rapidly
growing mobile game market.”  The iShares China large-Cap ETF, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 0.6 percent to $33.63,
sliding for the first time this week. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index gained 0.5 percent as earnings from Morgan Stanley and
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  beat estimates and jobless claims fell
amid testimony from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  Active Users  Shanda’s American depositary receipts surged to a 14-month
high of $5.25, jumping the most since March 2011.  First-day active users for Million Arthur’s China edition
have exceeded the combined first-day numbers in Japan,  Korea  and
Taiwan, Shanda said in the statement.  It will take time to see how sustainable the game’s success
will be and to assess Shanda’s position in mobile gaming,
according to Ning at 86Research. The company is the third-largest online game company in China based on first-quarter
sales, Ning said.  Sohu climbed 2.5 percent to $68.10 in New York, the highest
close since October 2011. The shares have surged 32 percent
since the end of April.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhang said in
a May 18 interview in Beijing that the company was seeking
strategic investors for its Sogou search unit.  Acquisition Speculation  Sohu’s recent gains were stoked by speculation that  Qihoo
360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , owner of China’s second-biggest search
engine, will acquire a controlling stake in Sogou, ABR
Investment analyst Henry Guo wrote in a note yesterday.  “If a possible Qihoo/Sogou deal values Sogou at $1.2
billion or higher, a deal announcement could be a positive to
Sohu shares,” he wrote.  Qihoo’s ADRs advanced 2.9 percent to a record $57.32,
capping a 93 percent surge this year. Sina Corp., which runs a
Twitter-like service in China, jumped 8.2 percent in a fourth
day of gains to $65.10, the highest level since September. Youku
Tudou, operator of China’s biggest video websites, rallied 3.9
percent to $20.47, the strongest close in a month.  Dangdang, the nation’s biggest online book retailer,
climbed for a second day, gaining 4.7 percent to a one-month
high of $8. LightInTheBox, the online retailer that was listed
in the U.S. in June, retreated 5 percent to $16.78, after a 16
percent surge the previous day sent it to a record $17.66.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  climbed
0.1 percent to a one-week high of 9,492.07, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.1 percent to 2,023.40, the lowest in a
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  