-- Mexico Blocks Sherwin-Williams $2.3 Billion Comex Deal
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-07-18T20:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sherwin-williams-2-3-billion-comex-takeover-rejected.html
Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) ’s $2.34 billion
bid to acquire Mexican paint maker Consorcio Comex SA was
rejected by Mexico’s antitrust regulator, which said the
combined company would be able to set artificially high prices.  The Federal Competition Commission voted 3 to 2 to block
the takeover, Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams said today in a
statement. The company is pursuing “several paths” to get
approval including an “internal appeal” to the regulator,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Christopher M. Connor said
on a conference call. The shares fell the most in four years.  Sherwin-Williams, also a paint maker and the largest U.S.
retailer of the product, is trying to double sales in  Latin
America . Connor said when the deal was announced in November
that he was “confident” it would be approved because the
companies had little overlap and that Sherwin-Williams had a
“de minimis” share of the Mexican house-paint market.  Sherwin-Williams “hopes to be able to address the
commission’s concerns, but the completion of this acquisition
remains uncertain,” Ivan Marcuse, a Cleveland-based analyst at
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. who rates the shares hold, said
today in a note.  Sherwin-Williams, which also reported lower-than-expected
second-quarter earnings and revenue, fell 8.3 percent to $167.94
in  New York , the biggest decline since January 2009.  ‘Anti-Competitive Practices’  The combined company would have a market share of 48
percent to 58 percent, depending on the product, the regulator
said in a statement today. That would be as much as 10 times the
share of its closest competitor.  “It would have been able to set artificially high prices
and commit anti-competitive practices to the detriment of
consumers,” the commission said.  Sherwin-Willams said company lawyers are meeting with
competition commissioners in  Mexico  today. Connors said he spoke
with Marcos Achar Levy, the CEO of closely held Comex, who
confirmed an “equal resolve” to secure regulatory approval.  Rocio Llano, a Comex spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on today’s ruling.  An appeal must be filed within 30 days, Connor said on the
call. Once the commission’s chairman accepts the request, a
decision is due in no more than 60 working days. He declined to
comment on what market share the commission might accept.  Sherwin-Willams said today second-quarter earnings were
$2.54 a share, excluding a Brazilian import duty. That trailed
the $2.57 average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales gained 5.5 percent to $2.71 billion, missing the $2.75
billion average estimate.  The company forecast third-quarter profit will rise to a
range of $2.55 to $2.65 a share, less than the $2.74 average of
19 estimates.  The Comex purchase price includes Sherwin-Williams’
assumption of the company’s debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  