-- Silverstein Can’t Get $3.5 Billion From Airlines for 9/11
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/silverstein-denied-right-to-seek-3-5-billion-from-carriers.html
Real estate developer  Larry Silverstein  can’t seek $3.5 billion from airlines whose planes
were hijacked by terrorists and flown into the World Trade
Center’s twin towers on Sept. 11, 2001, a judge ruled.  Silverstein, who leased the skyscrapers about two months
before they were destroyed, already collected $4.1 billion from
insurers and can’t collect twice under  New York  law, U.S.
District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein ruled yesterday in a
courtroom less than a mile and a half from the  World Trade
Center site .  “If this case were to go forward, the WTC companies would
not be able to recover anything against the airlines,” said
Hellerstein. The judge rejected any suggestion that Silverstein
had sought a windfall, saying he was among the “heroes” who
sought to “create beauty out of the destruction.”  Silverstein’s World Trade Center Properties LLC in 2008
sued  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  American Airlines  and its
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , claiming their negligence led to the
destruction of the towers.  The company, which rebuilt the destroyed 7 World Trade
Center and is rebuilding three other towers on the site, argued
that the insurance accord didn’t bar it from seeking additional
damages in civil cases because the payout didn’t correspond to
specific types of economic losses, such as replacement costs for
the buildings or lost rent from tenants. Hellerstein disagreed.  Link Made  “There’s complete correspondence,” Hellerstein said. When
such a link is made between an insurance payout and a specific
type of loss, collecting on that same type of loss is barred
under New York law, he said.  Islamic extremists flew an American Airlines jet into one
of the twin towers and a United Airlines jet into the other,
causing both to collapse. Two other planes were hijacked, one
that hit the Pentagon near  Washington  and another that crashed
in a field in  Pennsylvania  after passengers fought the
terrorists. About 3,000 people died.  “We did not believe that the plaintiff could be permitted
any further compensation and we are pleased the judge ruled in
our favor,” United spokeswoman Christen David said in an e-mail.  “We are gratified by the judge’s decision,” Mike Trevino,
American Airlines spokesman, said in a statement.  Tallest Building  Silverstein’s lawyer Richard Williamson had said in closing
arguments yesterday that the airlines “dramatically
understate” the developer’s actual economic losses from the
attack, including by using an arbitrary 2007 cutoff date for
calculating lost rents.  The developer said it will use proceeds from the case to
build  Norman Foster ’s 2 World Trade Center adjacent to the
centerpiece 1 World Trade Center -- now the tallest building in
 North America  -- and continue revitalizing the area 12 years
after the attack.  “In my opinion, no one is enjoying a windfall -- everyone
is suffering from 9/11,” the judge said. Talking about a
windfall “is obnoxious in this case,” he said.  About two months before the attacks, Silverstein’s
Silverstein Properties signed four 99-year leases on the towers
and two smaller buildings in the complex.  Initial Payment  He also made a $491 million initial payment as part of the
Port Authority of New York and  New Jersey ’s privatization of the
World Trade Center site.  “We are deeply disappointed” in the decision,  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for Silverstein Properties, said in a
statement. “While we respect Judge Hellerstein, we believe his
ruling on this issue, and on prior issues, to be in error and
intend to file an immediate appeal. We will not rest until we
have exhausted every option to assure that the aviation
industry’s insurers pay their fair share toward the complete
rebuilding of the World Trade Center.”  The 2001 lease required Silverstein to insure the buildings
and rebuild if the site was destroyed. He insured them for $3.5
billion “per occurrence,” more than required, court papers
show.  Silverstein in 2007 reached the $4.1 billion settlement
with insurers after suing to collect more than $7 billion --
twice the value of the policy.  Separate Attack  The companies reached the accord after a jury accepted
Silverstein’s claim that each tower’s destruction was a separate
attack under some policies, while a jury in another case found
some insurers were bound by a policy that defined that attack as
a single event.  Out of that settlement, about $2.5 billion was paid to the
 Port Authority  under a 2006 redevelopment agreement calling for
the agency, rather than Silverstein, to rebuild 1 World Trade
Center.  The payment also covered rent on the property, which
Silverstein was required to continue paying to the Port
Authority after the site was destroyed.  In a 2008 ruling in favor of the airlines, Hellerstein
lowered the limit of possible recovery in the case to the $2.8
billion market value of the leases and not the much higher cost
of rebuilding.  The amount of potential damages was later increased to
about $3.5 billion when the judge said the value of 7 World
Trade Center, which was also destroyed and has been rebuilt,
could be added to the claim.  Lost Bid  The leaseholder for the destroyed buildings in May lost its
bid to prevent AMR from raising “act of war” as a defense to
its alleged negligence in the terrorist attacks. The airlines
promised Congress and the U.S. public they wouldn’t raise such a
defense to avoid paying claims, lawyers for the leaseholder
argued in a February court filing.  The Silverstein organization accused American of breaking
promises to not use the defense. The guarantee coincided with a
bailout of the aviation industry, the leaseholder argued.  “Regardless of the ultimate outcome of the case, we remain
100 percent committed to realizing a fully and spectacularly
rebuilt World Trade Center,” Silverstein’s Perrone said. “4
WTC is opening in the fall, and construction on the other
buildings has made significant progress. The new World Trade
Center will serve as an unmistakable symbol of New York’s
resilience and strength.”  The case is In Re September 11 Litigation, 21-mc-00101,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 