-- Singapore Office Rents Set to Surge in Late 2014: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-07-19T09:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/singapore-office-rents-set-to-surge-in-late-2014-southeast-asia.html
Singapore’s office rents are
expected to surge at the end of 2014 after extending a
“modest” rebound that started in the second quarter, according
to the biggest office trust in  Asia  outside  Japan .  The recovery will be led by companies seeking to set up
regional headquarters in Singapore as they face the lowest
supply in  office space  in two decades, Lynette Leong, chief
executive officer of the manager for CapitaCommercial Trust,
said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.  Office rents in the business district rose in the past
three months, the first gain since the fourth quarter of 2011,
according to brokerage Colliers International. Singapore’s
economy rose an annualized 15.2 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, the fastest pace in more than two years,
as services strengthened and manufacturing rebounded.  “I don’t think we’ll go back to the peak we experienced
before the crisis, not so soon, anyway,” said Leong, who
predicted a rebound in Singapore’s office rents in January.
“Given that the supply is going to be very limited in the next
three years, it will be quite sharp at the tail end. Towards the
end of 2014 will be a very strong year.”  Singapore, a country smaller than the size of  New York 
City, is drawing more companies as rents dropped in the past
year. The city’s office costs slumped 16 percent in the past
year, the most globally, according to a CBRE Group Inc.  survey 
last month, making it cheaper than Asian locations including
 Hong Kong ,  Shanghai , Tokyo and Mumbai and Sydney.  Limited Supply  Leong estimates that Singapore’s annual supply of new
office space will be lower than 1 million square feet in the
next three years, down from the average 1.3 million square feet
over the past 20 years.  “As we come to a point in time with very limited supply,
we’ll see a sharper growth in rents,” she said in a Bloomberg
Television interview with Haslinda Amin yesterday.  CapitaCommercial Trust (CCT)  fell 1.7 percent to S$1.45 at the
close in Singapore, extending the decline this year to 14
percent, compared with the 3.5 percent drop in the  measure 
tracking real estate investment trusts in the city-state. Half
of the 24 analysts tracked by Bloomberg have buy
recommendations, with four advising investors to sell.  “With key grade A buildings still under-rented, we expect
positive reversions in 2014 and 2015, especially if market rents
trend up,” Chong Kang Ho, an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities
Singapore Pte, said in a July 17 report reiterating his buy
recommendation on the stock.  Seeking Acquisitions  CapitaCommercial Trust is seeking acquisitions in Singapore
and has “a lot of financial flexibility,” Leong said. The
trust’s loans are 28.9 percent of assets, which gives it a S$1.2
billion ($948 million) “debt headroom” to fund purchases if it
increases its borrowings to 40 percent, she said, adding that
“it has to be a compelling acquisition.”  CapitaCommercial Trust is  partly owned  by  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) ,
Southeast Asia’s biggest developer. It’s the biggest office REIT
in Asia by market value  after   Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951)  and
 Japan Real Estate Investment Corp. (8952)  in Japan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  CapitaCommercial Trust has 76 percent of its borrowings on
fixed  interest rates , which helps it hedge against any increase
in borrowing costs, the trust said. It may seek to raise that,
depending on its outlook for lending rates, Leong said.  “We are very encouraged by the recovery of the office
market,” Leong said. “Right now, what we’re focused on doing
is creating organic growth from leasing out vacant space and
taking advantage of the recovery of the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Ng in  Singapore  at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  