-- Sirius Slumps to 10-Month Low After Potash Delay: London Mover
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-07-18T08:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sirius-slumps-to-10-month-low-after-potash-delay-london-mover.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX)  slid to a 10-month low in London trading after requesting that a ruling on
its application to build a $1.9 billion potash mine in the U.K.
be deferred.  Sirius plunged as much as 20 percent to 17.25 pence, the
lowest since Sept. 7. Sirius said it had asked the North York
Moors National Park Authority to delay its decision on the mine
while it responds to questions about the environmental impact of
the project.  Sirius, which is seeking to start building the U.K.’s
second operating potash mine this year in the North York Moors
National Park, requires financing and government approvals for
the project.  “The decision to seek the deferral is specifically to
allow the company time to address issues relating to European
habitat legislation and robustly deal with the questions over
the work completed by consultants on the environmental
assessments,” Sirius said in a statement today. “This deferral
is likely to extend the project timeframe.”  AMEC, consultants to the Park Authority for the project,
released a report that Sirius said July 16 contained “a number
of negative statements.” The company said it disagreed with
“large parts” of the report and was preparing a detailed
response to the concerns raised.  The project, called York Potash, hosts the world’s largest
estimated resource of polyhalite, with 2.7 billion metric tons
of the potash material. The U.K.’s only potash mine, Boulby, is
immediately north of York. Potash is a form of potassium used to
strengthen plant roots and protect against drought.  Sirius traded 3 pence lower at 18.5 pence by 8:23 a.m.
Trading volumes were already twice the three-month daily
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  