-- Slovenia Yields Drop to Six-Week Low as Fed Trumps Banking Delay
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-07-18T13:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/slovenia-yields-drop-to-six-week-low-as-fed-trumps-banking-delay.html
Slovenia’s benchmark bonds rallied,
pushing the yield to the lowest level in six weeks, as investors
looked past a delay in the government’s effort to fix the bank
industry amid improving global sentiment.  The yield on the 2022 dollar-denominated notes from the
first post-communist country to join the euro region dropped 19
basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 6.027 percent at 3:46
p.m. in Ljubljana, the least since June 4. That compares with a
yield of 5.29 percent on 2023 dollar bonds from  Croatia , which
joined the European Union at the start of the month.  Slovenia is delaying the fix of its ailing bank industry
that pushed the country to the brink of a bailout after the
rescue of Cyprus in March. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday that the U.S. central bank’s asset
purchases may be reduced more quickly or expanded as economic
conditions warrant, reassuring investors he would not cut off
the stimulus quickly if growth disappoints.  “Investors have more or less priced in a delay in the
implementation” of the bad loan program, Abbas Ameli-Renani, an
emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in  London , said in an e-mail today. “Much of the yield
tightening that we have seen in recent trading sessions has been
more in line with global market conditions.”  The value of bad-loans that will be transfered to a
government agency is being scrutinized by external reviewers
hired by the government last month.  Not Worried  Bostjan Jazbec, Slovenia’s new central bank Governor that
took over from Marko Kranjec yesterday, said in an interview on
July 15 he isn’t worried about the delay of bad-loan transfers
by a “couple of months.”  “I expect the news of further delays in the transfer of
bad assets as well as significant fiscal slippage in the first
half of the year to put pressure on Slovenian bonds, relative to
that of other sovereigns over the next few weeks,” Ameli-Renani
of RBS said.  The cost to insure Slovenia’s bonds for five years using
credit-default swaps dropped 11 basis points to 322, the lowest
since June 19. That compares with costs of 310 for Croatia, 193
for  Romania  and 92 for fellow euro-member Slovakia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  