-- Smithers Sees Stock Rally as ’Poor Analysis’ Props Policy
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-07-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/smithers-sees-stock-rally-as-poor-analysis-props-policy.html
Japanese stocks will rise on
earnings boosted by the economic policies of Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, policies that are based on flawed analysis of the
country’s problems, according to economist  Andrew Smithers .  Corporate profits  for the year to March 2014 will be
“extremely strong” given a weaker yen and increases in
 government spending , Smithers, who chairs London-based advisory
firm Smithers & Co., wrote in a report dated July 17. Abe’s
policies, which are focused on spurring inflation, are founded
on “poor economic analysis” that sees deflation as a problem
when the real issue is a glut of savings at companies, he wrote.  Japan ’s fiscal deficit and  government debt  that’s more than
twice gross domestic product mean inflation could create a bond-market crisis, Smithers wrote. Japan’s Government Pension
Investment Fund, the world’s No. 1 manager of retirement
savings, reduced its holdings of domestic bonds for that reason.
Japanese firms hold a record 115 trillion yen ($1.15 trillion)
in cash, Bloomberg data show, more than  South Korea ’s GDP.  “For the moment, we remain optimistic for the stock
market, as we assume that the looming problems are beyond
investors’ current time horizon,” wrote Smithers, who claimed
stocks were overvalued in 2000 before a near 50 percent decline
over 2 1/2 years. “Investment will probably rise this year, and
the savings of the household, government and foreign sectors are
all set to fall -- an ideal combination for profits.”  Earnings may fall sharply in the year to March 2015 if
wages increase significantly in annual salary negotiations next
spring, Smithers wrote. The weaker yen will raise prices of
imports, and it’s uncertain whether this will lead to higher
domestic prices, he wrote.  Record Stimulus  Unprecedented monetary stimulus and Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s pledge to defeat 15 years of deflation have sent the Topix
up more than 40 percent this year, making it the world’s best-performing major equity benchmark. Japan’s economy expanded at
an annualized 3.5 percent pace in the first quarter. Earnings
per share at Topix companies will  rise  57 percent in the next 12
months, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Deflation, which poses no problem, has been demonized and
the root cause of the need for large fiscal deficits, which is a
combination of excessive depreciation allowances and past over-investment, is ignored,” Smithers wrote. Japan should focus on
the need to lower depreciation allowances and the corporate  tax
rate , he wrote.  The government announced a 10 trillion-yen economic package
in January and BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his board set a
goal on April 4 of expanding the monetary base to fuel 2 percent
inflation in two years. Japan’s fiscal deficit in 2012 is
 estimated  by the OECD at 9.9 percent of GDP and will rise to
10.3 this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shortened Horizon  The time until the shortfall becomes problematic has been
reduced by the BOJ’s promise of unlimited bond buying to meet
its inflation goal, Smithers said.  The nation’s debt-carrying costs will probably reach a
record 23.8 trillion yen to 23.9 trillion yen in the fiscal year
starting April 2014, up more than 7 percent from this fiscal
year, the Ministry of Finance projected in March. This year’s
costs made up 24 percent of the budget.  The outstanding debt of the world’s third-largest economy
was 991.6 trillion yen at the end of March, a ministry report
showed in May. It’s projected to reach 245 percent of gross
domestic product this year, according to an International
Monetary Fund estimate, the highest ratio in the world.  “If excess corporate  cash flow  is not used to repay debts
or buy shares, it will usually be deposited with banks and the
funding of the fiscal deficit will depend on banks increasing
their ownership of government debt,” Smithers wrote.  Bond Holdings  Topix companies bought 1.78 trillion yen ($17.8 billion) of
their own shares in the half ended June 30, the most since 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while plans for capital
projects are rising at the fastest pace in seven years.   Lenders hold 43 percent of outstanding Japanese government 
bonds, the Ministry of Finance said in an April  circular . About 
91 percent of government debt is held domestically, according to 
the ministry.  “As banks are massive holders of  government bonds , a sharp
fall in their price presents dangers to the financial system,”
Smithers wrote. “These risks are habitually pooh–poohed by
bankers, who like to assume that they can raise the  interest
rates  on their assets faster than they need to raise those on
their liabilities. History does not, however, support the ideas
that bankers are good judges of the risks they undertake,” he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  