-- Snowden’s NSA Disclosures a Service, ACLU Director Says
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-18T20:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/snowden-s-nsa-disclosures-a-service-aclu-director-says.html
Fugitive security contractor Edward Snowden“did this country a service” by igniting a debate
about the reach of the U.S. government’s electronic surveillance
programs, the executive director of the  American Civil Liberties
Union  said today.  Anthony Romero, speaking at a national security conference
in Aspen, Colorado, said Snowden’s disclosures opened the way to
political debate and legal scrutiny that wasn’t possible before
he released highly classified information about National
Security Agency programs that gather information on phone calls
and Internet communications.  “He did this country a service by starting a debate that
was anemic, that was left to government officials when people
did not understand fully what was happening,” Romero said at
the  Aspen Security Forum . “I think, regardless of where you
come out on it, we have now a vigorous public debate. We have
six lawsuits that have been filed on the NSA program. We have
Congress holding hearings yesterday, finally saying, ‘Wait a
minute, that’s not the law I thought I signed.’”  Romero said the ACLU hasn’t decided whether it would be
willing to aid in Snowden’s legal defense if he were to return
for trial. Snowden, who fled to Hong Kong and then Moscow, faces
U.S. espionage charges.  Romero criticized White House spokesman  Jay Carney  for
saying that Snowden isn’t a human-rights activist or whistle-blower. “Well, who made him king of the human-rights
community?” Romero said.  ‘Bad Message’  Another panelist, Jeh  Charles Johnson , a former Defense
Department general counsel, said, “It is a bad message to send
to people who decide to take the law into their own hands that
they are doing a public service.”  Former Representative  Jane Harman  said Snowden shouldn’t be
viewed in the same category as national-security whistle-blowers
such as  Daniel Ellsberg , who made public the Pentagon papers
about the Vietnam War.  “This is completely different from Ellsberg,” said
Harman, a California Democrat who headed the House intelligence
committee. “This is a kid who had nothing to do with
formulating the policy, for my lights is totally self-centered
and narcissistic.”  He should come back and face a fair trial, not seek asylum
abroad, she said.  The U.S. is pressing Russia to expel the former security
contractor for  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , whose bid to
stay in Russia while seeking safe passage to Latin America has
cast a shadow on preparations by Presidents  Barack Obama  and
 Vladimir Putin  for a summit in early September.  Google, Apple  While Venezuela, Nicaragua and Bolivia have indicated
they’d be willing to take Snowden, Putin has accused the U.S. of
stranding Snowden in Moscow by putting pressure on other
countries to prevent his travel through their airspace and to
deny him refuge.  A coalition of companies, privacy advocates and trade
groups sent a letter today to Obama and congressional leaders
asking permission for Internet and telephone companies to
publish the number and types of U.S. data requests they receive.  The 63 organizations that signed included  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ; non-profit privacy advocates the
Center for Democracy and Technology and the Electronic Frontier
Foundation; and trade groups the Computer and Communications
Industry Association and the Internet Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Aspen,  Colorado  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  