-- SoftBank Rating Lowered to Junk by Moody’s After Sprint Deal
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-07-18T13:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/softbank-rating-lowered-to-junk-by-moody-s-after-sprint-deal.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , led by billionaire
Masayoshi Son, had its credit rating cut to junk by Moody’s
Investors Service after completing its $21.6 billion acquisition
of a controlling stake in  Sprint Corp. (S)   The rating was cut to Ba1, the highest noninvestment grade,
from Baa3, Moody’s said in a statement today. The ratings
service took the action about two weeks after a similar move by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Son is using the acquisition of Sprint to tap U.S. wireless
customers and help fulfill his ambition of making Tokyo-based
SoftBank the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator. The
billionaire won a bidding war for Sprint, the third-largest U.S.
carrier, when it raised its takeover price and  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  abandoned a competing proposal.  The acquisition “will significantly weaken SoftBank’s
financial flexibility,” Moody’s said in the statement. The
company also may have to extend additional finance to help
execute its  capital spending  plan for Sprint of $16 billion for
2013 and 2014, it said.  SoftBank reported  1.2 trillion yen  ($12 billion) in short-term borrowings as of March 31 and 1.7 trillion yen of long-term
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Outstanding debt
includes 130 billion yen of  1.24 percent bonds  maturing on Sept.
17.  Borrowing Costs  A lower credit rating indicates a higher risk of a default
and can raise borrowing costs.  “SoftBank’s borrowing increased and the rating company has
reflected that so it’s unlikely that it will go down further,”
said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in  Tokyo .
“SoftBank needs to increase Sprint’s subscribers. A little more
time is needed to see whether it goes well.”  Son has forecast record operating income as acquisitions
and new subscribers using Apple Inc.’s iPhone help stoke
earnings. The company bought local competitor EAccess Ltd. to
meet bandwidth demand for smartphones.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, for SoftBank’s domestic businesses
probably will exceed 1 trillion yen in the year started April,
up from 745 billion yen a year earlier, the company said April
30.  SoftBank  shares  rose 4 percent to 6,450 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo before the Moody’s statement. Sprint fell 0.8
percent to $6.20 at 9:44 a.m. in New York.  Spending Plan  Moody’s and S&P put the ratings of Japan’s third-largest
carrier on review in October, saying a cut to below investment
grade was possible. Japan  Credit Rating  Agency Ltd. cut SoftBank
to A- from A earlier this month.  SoftBank paid $16.6 billion to shareholders of Overland
Park, Kansas-based Sprint and is injecting $5 billion of new
capital into the target for a 78 percent stake.  SoftBank plans  capital spending  for Sprint of $8 billion
this year and in 2014 before dropping to $6 billion annually for
the four years after that.  Sprint separately acquired Clearwire Corp. a mobile
broadband company, to gain access to wireless airwaves. SoftBank
needs the spectrum to roll out a fourth-generation network in
the U.S. to challenge  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   SoftBank, which has about 42 million subscribers with its
units, is the fastest-growing mobile carrier in Japan. It ranks
behind  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  KDDI Corp. (9433)  in Japanese sales.  Son is the 90th-richest person in the world with a net
worth of $11.4 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . His fortune has increased by $2.4 billion this year.  SoftBank wants to replicate its domestic success with
Sprint’s 55.2 million subscribers by improving networks and
services, Son said. Annual savings at Sprint will be about $2
billion in the first four years from cost cutting, he said at
SoftBank’s June 21 annual shareholder meeting.  SoftBank, founded in 1981, has made almost 100 purchases
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
owns stakes in more than 1,000 Internet  operations , including
 Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and Ustream Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Aaron Clark at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  