-- Softbank, Bloom Energy Team Up in Japanese Fuel Cell Venture
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-07-18T08:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/softbank-bloom-energy-team-up-in-japanese-fuel-cell-venture.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , the Japanese
majority owner of  Sprint Corp. (S) , formed a joint venture with
Bloom Energy Corp. to market and distribute the California
startup’s fuel cell technology in Japan.  Softbank, Japan’s third-biggest mobile phone company, and
Sunnyvale-based Bloom will each contribute $10 million to the
Bloom Energy Japan Ltd. venture, in which they will share equal
ownership, according to a statement from the companies today on
Softbank’s website.  Bloom’s units generate electricity from gas without burning
the fuel, a more efficient process that produces fewer  carbon
emissions , according to its  website . Using fuel cell units also
reduces the risk of blackouts, such as those that occurred in
Japan after the March 2011 Fukushima accident, since they’re not
dependent on centralized  power plants .  “By providing Bloom Energy’s breakthrough technology
through this new joint venture, Softbank will further empower
the adoption of innovative, clean energy,” Softbank Chief
Executive Officer Masayoshi Son said in the statement.  The venture plans to sell energy under contracts lasting at
least 20 years, during which rates paid by customers will not
change, Mariko Osada, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Softbank,
said by phone. Under the agreements, Bloom will set up units at
customers’ locations and keep them fueled.  Market Opportunity  Softbank plans to install a 200-kilowatt fuel cell unit at
one of its buildings in Fukuoka on the southwestern island of
Kyushu, Osada said. The unit may start generating power this
year.  Bloom Chief Financial Officer Bill Kurtz declined in an e-mail to provide information about the number of units that would
be sold in  Japan  or their total generating capacity. Both
companies see Japan as a “large market opportunity,” he said.  Bloom’s customers in the U.S. include Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
AT&T Inc., Google Inc. and Coca-Cola Co., according to the joint
statement.  Softbank’s renewable energy projects include stakes in a
proposed 48-megawatt wind farm and a planned 39.5-megawatt solar
plant at sites in western Japan. The company completed its
takeover of Sprint this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  