-- Solar to Reduce Utility Profits in Five Years, Fitch Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-07-18T16:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/solar-to-reduce-utility-profits-in-five-years-fitch-says.html
Rooftop solar power and  energy-efficiency  programs will eat into utility revenue and profit
margins and discourage investment in new transmission projects
within five years, a Fitch Ratings analyst said.  Utilities in stagnant or low-growth markets in the Midwest
and Northeast face the biggest losses as more businesses and
homeowners install their own generation systems and upgrade to
more efficient appliances, said Glen Grabelsky, Fitch’s managing
director of utilities, power & gas. Retirees flocking to
southern states may offset some losses for local utilities.  Utility revenue is increasingly threatened by technology
that’s reducing demand for electricity from the grid, including
solar panels, smart meters and software that shuts down
operations when power prices spike. As some customers’ bills
fall, state regulators will let utilities shift some of their
fixed costs to other customers who don’t use solar panels,
Grabelsky said today from  New York .  “You can only burden the other customers to a certain
degree,” Grabelsky said today in an interview. “For now it’s
fairly negligible but in five years it will become noticeable.
Each year the disparity will grow.”  Regulators in 43 states require utilities to buy surplus
power produced by consumers’ solar panels. The companies are
beginning to grapple with the impact those policies will have on
revenue.  State Support  Utilities’ efforts to penalize customers that add rooftop
systems were recently defeated in Louisiana and  Idaho .  Arizona 
regulators are now considering a proposal by its largest
utility, Arizona Public Service Co., to reduce the price it must
pay to buy solar power from customers.  “As more customers install solar on their homes, it
becomes even more important that everyone who uses the grid
shares in the cost of keeping it operating reliably for the
future,” Don Brandt, chief executive officer of  Pinnacle West
Capital Corp. (PNW) , which owns Arizona Public Service, said in a July
11 statement announcing the company’s proposal.  Loss of demand from customers that go solar or reduce
consumption in other ways will shift more and more grid costs
onto customers that do nothing. Power supplied by U.S. utilities
declined 3.4 percent last year, largely from energy efficiency
and on-site solar generation, which reduces demand for
electricity from the grid, Grabelsky said.  Unless utility rate structures change, that will reduce
utilities’ abilities to invest in major new projects and upgrade
their transmission systems, Grabelsky said.  “It will have a negative impact on their ability to raise
capital,” Grabelsky said. “Regulators will ask, ‘Do you really
need all that new transmission when there’s no demand growth?’
There’s the potential for stranding assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  