-- Subbarao Reiterates RBI Intervenes to Curb Swings in the Rupee
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-18T08:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/subbarao-reiterates-rbi-intervenes-to-curb-swings-in-the-rupee.html
Reserve Bank of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao comments on the  exchange rate ,  budget deficit ,
capital inflows and inflation. Subbarao was speaking at the
European Economics and Financial Centre in  London  yesterday. A
copy of his  speech  was posted on the RBI’s website today.  On the exchange rate:  “We let our exchange rate be largely market determined,
but intervene in the market to smooth excess volatility and/or
to prevent disruptions to macroeconomic stability.  On capital flows:  “The capital flow problem has become more complex in
recent years not only because of its intensity but also because
of its increased volatility.  “The quantitative easing policies of advanced economy
central banks have left the global system awash with liquidity.
Much of it has flown into emerging-market economies, posing the
familiar problem of capital surges. But because the global
system has switched between risk-on and risk-off rather
frequently and swiftly, EMEs have also become vulnerable to
sudden stops and reversal of capital flows.  On deficit and inflation:  “By far the biggest concern stemming from the large fiscal
deficit, especially from the  Reserve Bank ’s perspective, is that
it adds to aggregate demand and thereby to inflation pressures.  “By crowding out the private sector, the fiscal deficit
could also inhibit, if not impair, monetary policy transmission
to the private sector. Credible fiscal consolidation is,
therefore, a necessary pre-condition for stabilizing inflation
and securing non-inflationary growth.  “Over the last one year, the government embraced fiscal
consolidation with commendable resolve. The fiscal deficit for
the last fiscal year at 4.9 percent of GDP, was better than
earlier projected and it clearly enhanced the credibility of the
government’s current year fiscal deficit target of 4.8 percent
of GDP.  “Economies will be best served if governments ensure that
their central banks are able to conduct monetary policy
independently and free of fiscal compulsions. This will require,
among other things, responsible and credible fiscal
consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  