-- Sugar Climbs to One-Week High on Brazil Real, Rain; Cocoa Rises
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-18T10:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/sugar-climbs-to-one-week-high-on-brazil-real-rain-cocoa-rises.html
Sugar gained to a one-week high in
 New York  as  Brazil ’s real advanced and rain in the country’s
main growing region is set to disrupt harvesting. Cocoa rose.  A cold front will bring rain to some sugar-cane producing
regions of Brazil, potentially disrupting the harvest, weather
forecaster Somar Meteorologia said on July 15. Brazil’s real
climbed the most among emerging-market currencies after the
Mexican peso yesterday as  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  damped speculation that the U.S. central bank will
curtail stimulus. A stronger real reduces incentives for millers
to sell the sweetener priced in U.S. dollars.  Rains in the center south are reducing the crop’s potential
to yield sugar, according to researcher Datagro Ltd. The region
will produce no more than 34.1 million metric tons of sugar in
the 2013-14 season that started in April, according to industry
group Unica. That’s down from a previous forecast of 35.5
million tons. Millers are using more cane to make ethanol,
Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, Unica’s technical director, said on
July 16.  “It looks like speculators are covering their shorts
before rain that may disrupt harvesting in Brazil’s center
south,” Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at Lausanne, Switzerland-based researcher Kingsman SA, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI) ’s Platts, said by e-mail today. “Unica has already cut
their forecast for sugar production.”  Raw sugar for October delivery gained 0.5 percent to 16.16
cents a pound by 6:16 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. The
price touched 16.29 cents a pound, the highest for a most-active
contract since July 11. White sugar for October delivery was up
0.6 percent at $462.50 a ton on NYSE Liffe in  London .  Federal Reserve  Bernanke said in congressional testimony that the central
bank’s asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course” as
he sought to tamp down an increase in borrowing costs that
threatens to slow the economic expansion. The real appreciated
1.2 percent to 2.2261 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday.  Arabica coffee for delivery in September was 0.7 percent
higher at $1.2885 a pound on ICE. It rose 1.6 percent yesterday
and 2.2 percent a day earlier. Robusta coffee for September
delivery rose 0.1 percent to $1,952 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  “Fears of frost damage have caused the arabica coffee
price to climb,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt, said in a report e-mailed today. “According to
the  weather forecasts , temperatures in the Brazilian coffee
plantations could drop to zero in the coming week.”  Cocoa for September delivery advanced 0.8 percent to $2,319
a ton in New York. Cocoa for September delivery gained 0.8
percent to 1,598 pounds ($2,432) a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 