-- U.K. Shale Gas Will Help Chemical Producers Compete, Ineos Says
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-07-18T09:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/u-k-shale-gas-will-help-chemical-producers-compete-ineos-says.html
The U.K.’s shale gas, an untapped
resource that has polarized politicians and environmentalists,
will help refiners and chemical makers be competitive by cutting
costs and curbing imports from rivals,  Ineos Group AG  said.  Britain’s shale will be “of massive importance as a
protection against low-cost petrochemicals from abroad,” Tom Crotty, director of the producer that has plants in Scotland and
 France , said by telephone.  Chemical makers may benefit from cheaper gas should shale
be exploited in Britain, which has seen North Sea supply wane as
fields age. The government is keen to tap reserves in northwest
 England  in a bid to replicate the surge in U.S. output that cut
energy costs and boosted the economy. Environmental groups and
residents have said the drilling may contaminate ground water.  Ineos needs gas as feedstock for chemicals production and
as a fuel to operate its sites. The company is “talking to lots
of people” about potential supplies from U.K. shale fields,
Crotty said yesterday, without elaborating.  Britain’s nascent shale industry is also attracting
interest from refiners.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , a unit of Mumbai-based
Essar Group, is in “preliminary talks” with potential shale
gas suppliers, Andrew Turpin, a London-based spokesman, said by
phone, declining to identify any. Essar uses gas to generate
steam for boilers at its Stanlow refinery in northwest England.  Estimates Raised  The government said in June that shale-gas fields in
northern England are twice as large as previously estimated, and
may hold as much as 1,300 trillion cubic feet. A recovery rate
of 10 percent -- similar to fields in the U.S -- would give the
U.K. enough gas to meet demand for about 47 years.  Explorers Cuadrilla Resources Ltd.,  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS)  and
 Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE)  have licenses in British shale areas.  Centrica
Plc (CNA) , the largest energy supplier to U.K. households, agreed in
June to buy a 25 percent stake in Cuadrilla’s permits in
northern England, becoming the biggest company to enter the
country’s shale industry.  The government plans to give tax breaks to stimulate
exploration and production from shale, which involves blasting a
mixture of water, sand and chemicals below ground to fracture
rock and release the fuel, a process made possible by advances
in drilling technology.  “We’ve got a favorable investment climate here,” said
Menno Koch, an executive at Lambert Energy Advisory Ltd. in
 London . “If it works at a technical level, we could have
commercial production in five to 10 years.”  Ineos’s Scottish chemicals plant and refinery are 25 miles
west of Edinburgh. Dart Energy operates nearby, with a license
30 miles northwest of the city covering 329 square kilometers
(127 square miles). Like Cuadrilla, it has sought a partner to
help develop its prospects.  Dart is “busy” pinning down a deal to bring in an
investor, Chief Executive Officer John McGoldrick said in an
interview on July 4. “There’s been lots of interest from big
and small companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  