-- U.K. Lawmakers Seek Economy-Boosting Procurement Revamp
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/u-k-lawmakers-seek-economy-boosting-procurement-revamp.html
The way the U.K. government buys 227
billion pounds ($345 billion) a year of goods and services is
slow, overpriced and fails to focus on results, an all-party
panel of lawmakers said.  The civil service should improve its procurement skills, if
necessary by abandoning its salary cap for senior officials, and
concentrate on buying goods and services to boost the British
economy, the House of Commons Public Administration Committee
said in a report published in London today.  “The government has failed to set out a clear strategy for
public procurement,” Bernard Jenkin, a lawmaker from Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  who chairs the
committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “In the EU we all
operate under the same rules, but the U.K. government seems to
take the longest and we fail to maximize the benefit of public
procurement for our own economy.”  The German and French governments have been more successful
than the U.K. in securing contracts for domestic companies, the
panel said. It cited the failure of Bombardier Inc., which has a
factory in Derby in the East Midlands, to win the contract for
trains on the Thameslink line through London, which went to
Siemens AG of  Germany .  Investigations announced last week into G4S Plc and Serco
Group Plc receiving payments for electronic monitoring services
that were not delivered are just the most recent example of
“the stream of procurement and contract-management failures,”
the report said.  A government decision to require anyone paid more than the
prime minister to have their salary approved by the Treasury
makes it difficult to recruit and retain the professionals
needed for procurement, the panel said. The Ministry of Defence
is looking at contracting out its purchasing in part to get
around the salary restrictions.  “No other civil service in a comparable country operates
on the basis that the prime minister’s salary should be a
maximum,” the committee said. “Such a myopic policy makes the
U.K. civil service internationally uncompetitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  