-- U.S. 30-Year Mortgage Rates Fall From a Two-Year High
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/u-s-30-year-mortgage-rates-fall-from-a-two-year-high.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  fell, reducing
borrowing costs for homebuyers after the 30-year average jumped
to a two-year high last week.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.37 percent in the week ended today from 4.51 percent, which
was the highest since July 2011, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac  said in a statement. The average 15-year rate slipped to
3.41 percent from 3.53 percent.  Rates are adjusting after spiking over expectations that
the  Federal Reserve  will scale back bond purchases as the
economy returns to health. While the 30-year average has climbed
from a near-record low of 3.35 percent in early May, the higher
rates probably won’t slow the U.S. housing rebound, according to
 Frank Nothaft , chief economist at Freddie Mac.  “We won’t know the immediate impact on the pop in mortgage
rates for another couple months,” he said in a July 16 report.
“We don’t expect them to stall the housing recovery because
demand is strong,  supply  is limited and housing affordability
remains strong in most markets for most families.”  The 30-year rate will rise gradually, ending the year at
about 4.6 percent to 4.7 percent, Nothaft said. That’s below the
average of about 5.3 percent for the past 10 years, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  In a sign that higher mortgage rates are having a limited
effect on the market, homebuilder confidence rose in July to the
highest level since January 2006, a National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo index showed two days ago.  Housing Starts  Starts of U.S. homes unexpectedly fell last month to the
lowest level in more than a year, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday. The decline reflects a slump in multifamily
projects, which are “characteristically volatile,” rather than
renewed weakness in housing,  Paul Diggle , property economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in a research note after
the data were released.  While homebuying demand remains strong, higher loan costs
may be slowing refinancing. The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s
index of  refinancing  applications dropped 4.2 percent last week
to the lowest level since July 2011. The  purchase  gauge rose 0.5
percent, the Washington-based trade group said yesterday.  Freddie Mac’s weekly data is mostly collected from Monday
to Wednesday. It largely doesn’t reflect a drop in Treasury
yields after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday signaled no
imminent exit from the central bank’s stimulus program.  “Housing activity and prices seem likely to continue to
recover, notwithstanding the recent increases in mortgage
rates,” Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee.
“But it will be important to monitor developments in this
sector carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  