-- U.S. Northeast May Be Warmer Than Normal Through October
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-07-18T17:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/u-s-northeast-may-be-warmer-than-normal-through-october.html
The U.S. Northeast, parts of the
mid-Atlantic and much of the western half of the country all
have a chance to be warmer than normal through the next three
months, according to the  Climate Prediction Center .  While the two ends of the country may have temperatures
above normal, the forecast isn’t as clear in the northern Great
Plains, Midwest and southeastern U.S., according to the center
in  College Park ,  Maryland . Those areas have an equal chance of
being warm, cool or normal.  The prediction for the Northeast is based on forecast
models and “in part due to long-term trends,” said Dan
Collins, a meteorologist at the center. A high-pressure ridge
may develop over the region and bring in higher temperatures, he
said during a conference call with reporters.  Higher temperatures in large U.S. cities can affect energy
markets as more people turn to air conditioners to keep cool.
Natural gas will be used to fuel about 32 percent of power
plants this year, according to the Energy Information
Administration.  The center is also calling for above-normal rainfall for
the Southwest and the South. Drought conditions may improve in
 Arizona ,  New Mexico , western Texas and parts of southern  Utah 
and  Colorado  through Oct. 31.  As of today, drought exists only in the western half of the
country, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor in Lincoln,
Nebraska.  “We are completely drought-free east of the Mississippi
River for the first time since May 2005,” said Jake Crouch, a
climate scientist at the  National Climatic Data Center  in
Asheville, North Carolina.  Today’s Drought Monitor update found 46 percent of the
contiguous U.S. covered by some form of drought, down from 64
percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  