-- U.S. Outlook Revised by Moody’s to Stable on Deficit Reduction
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/u-s-outlook-revised-by-moody-s-to-stable-on-deficit-cuts-1-.html
The U.S.’s Aaa credit-rating outlook
was revised to stable from negative by Moody’s Investors
Service, which said the government’s debt trajectory has
steadied with budget deficits narrowing.  Growth in the economy, “while moderate,” is proceeding
even as the U.S. has enacted tax increases and spending
reductions, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Moody’s assigned the negative outlook in August 2011,
warning that it may downgrade the U.S. for the first time on
concern fiscal discipline was eroding and the economy was
weakening.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said the federal deficit
this fiscal year will be the smallest since 2008, while the
economy is forecast to grow next year at the fastest pace since
2006. Deficits are falling after four consecutive years of more
than $1 trillion shortfalls resulting from record  spending  by
the administration of President  Barack Obama  to lift the economy
from the worst crisis since the Great Depression.  “It shows positive momentum at a time when we have to get
our fiscal house in order,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “It doesn’t have a big impact on Treasuries in
the short term as the credit-quality story has fallen to the
backburner. But longer term it’s good news.”  Treasury Department spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine declined to
comment on the revised outlook.  ‘Debt Trajectory’  Increased  tax revenue  and less spending mean America’s
budget deficit will probably drop to about 2.1 percent of gross
domestic product in 2015, from 4 percent this year and 7 percent
in 2012, according to the CBO.  Moody’s has said as recently as May that it was awaiting
lawmakers’ budget decisions as it weighed the ranking.  “Though we had been waiting for perhaps more action on the
fiscal front, even without that the debt trajectory was
supportive of a Aaa rating,”  Steven Hess , Moody’s senior vice-president and lead sovereign analyst for the U.S., said in a
telephone interview.  Consensus in  Washington  on spending levels and taxes,
especially on big-ticket items such as  Social Security , is
elusive. Obama sent a $3.8 trillion budget to Congress in April
calling for more tax revenue and slower growth in Social
Security benefits. The House passed a plan that balances the
budget by fiscal 2023 without raising taxes.  S&P Downgrade  “Without further fiscal consolidation efforts, government
deficits are anticipated to increase once again over the longer
term,” Moody’s said. “If left unaddressed, over time this
situation could put the rating again under pressure. Such a
conclusion, however, would be unlikely within the horizon
referenced by the rating outlook.”  Standard & Poor’s, which downgraded the U.S. one step to
AA+ in August 2011, changed its outlook last month to “stable”
from “negative.”  Fitch Ratings , which has a “negative”
outlook on the U.S., said in February that the debt trajectory
isn’t consistent with a AAA borrower.  The downgrade by S&P, the world’s largest credit rater, of
the U.S. contributed to a global stock-market rout and sent
 yields (USGG10YR)  on Treasury bonds to record lows rather than driving up
rates. Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped 0.74 percentage
point in the seven weeks following the downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent. The yield stood at 2.53 percent yesterday.
Moody’s is the second-biggest credit rater.  Rating Changes  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December on
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  grades.  “The rumors of fiscal demise of the U.S. were greatly
exaggerated,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $11
billion in fixed-income assets. “The U.S. fiscal position is
getting undeniably stronger. Moody’s is a little late to the
party.”  Bond markets shouldn’t be expected to react when a
country’s credit rating is changed because the yield of
sovereign debt reflects more than just the credit risk on which
rankings hinge, according to Fitch. Richard Cantor, Moody’s
chief credit officer, said last year that “we have only one
objective, which is to assign ratings that are indicative of the
relative risk of default and losses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  