-- UCB Visited by Chinese Authorities Amid Glaxo Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T08:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/ucb-visited-by-chinese-authorities-amid-glaxo-probe.html
UCB SA’s (UCB)  Chinese operations were
visited by local authorities following the government’s probe of
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over allegations of economic crimes.  All drugmakers are receiving visits, and the Brussels-based
company has “nothing to report,” France Nivelle, a UCB
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an interview. “It’s business as
usual,” Nivelle said. Reuters had reported the visit earlier.  A Shanghai travel agency was temporarily closed as Chinese
authorities examine its role as part of a probe into suspected
economic crimes at London-based Glaxo’s business there, the
Xinhua news agency reported.  Shanghai Linjiang International Travel Agency shut to
enable the investigation of its involvement in the Glaxo case,
Xinhua said, citing the Shanghai Municipal Tourism
Administration.  State broadcaster  China Central Television  aired a prime-time segment on July 16 detailing how executives at the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker used a travel agency to funnel bribes to
government officials.  The CCTV report featured Liang Hong, operations manager for
Glaxo  China , explaining how executives passed bribes to drug
regulators, pricing officials at the National Development and
Reform Commission and hospital officials. Liang is among the
four Glaxo executives in police custody, CCTV reported.  The allegations are “shameful” and would be a breach of
internal systems and values, Glaxo said in a  statement .  UCB fell 0.8 percent to 42.80 euros at 10:10 a.m. in
Brussels.  Independent Audit  Glaxo hired Ernst & Young LLP to conduct an independent
audit, the Financial Times reported. Terence Ng, a Hong Kong-based media relations manager at the auditor, declined to
comment on the report.  Glaxo faces a review from the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the matter. Susan Givens, a spokeswoman for the fraud office,
declined to comment on the report. Garry Daniels, a Singapore-based spokesman at Glaxo, declined to comment.  Glaxo’s finance chief in China, Steve Nechelput, is unable
to leave China. The travel restriction was imposed at the end of
June, Simon Steel, a Glaxo spokesman in  London , said July 17 by
phone. Nechelput hasn’t been questioned or arrested and isn’t
being detained, Steel said. The British embassy is providing the
British national with consular assistance,  John Gallagher , a
Beijing-based spokesman, said by phone.  Glaxo has had four of its senior executives detained amid
an investigation involving 3 billion  yuan  ($489 million) of
spurious travel and meeting expenses, and trade in sexual
favors, China’s Public Security Ministry said July 15.  Executive’s Departure  Mark Reilly, who has led the London-based company’s
business in China since 2009, left the country on June 27 after
his colleagues were detained, the ministry said.  Reilly returned to the U.K. on a routine, planned business
trip and has been working from Glaxo’s headquarters on the
response to the probe, a person with knowledge of the matter
said July 15. The person, who asked not to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to speak on the subject, declined to say
when or whether Reilly will return to China.  “This could be the government killing the chicken to scare
the monkeys, using the GSK case to send a signal to
pharmaceutical companies to say ‘maybe it’s time to stop this
type of practices,’” said  Yanzhong Huang , senior fellow for
global health at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York 
and author of the book, Governing Health in Contemporary China.  Industry Crackdown  Efforts to clean up the nation’s $350 billion health-care
industry have gained prominence since police said last month
they were investigating Glaxo for suspected economic crimes. On
July 17, the China Food and Drug Administration said it will
“severely crack down” on fake medications, forged documents
and bribery.  Recent investigations have so far implicated Glaxo, though
other foreign companies may also be involved, Gao Feng, head of
the economic crimes investigations unit of China’s Public
Security Ministry, told reporters at a July 15 briefing.  At least four multinational drugmakers are facing probes by
local anti-corruption units in China, according to Wendy Wysong,
the head of anti-corruption practice in the Asia-Pacific region
at law firm  Clifford Chance . No other foreign  drug company  apart
from Glaxo has been named so far by Chinese authorities in
connection with the investigation.  Other Drugmakers  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s biggest drugmaker by sales, and
Germany’s  Bayer AG (BAYN)  said they haven’t been approached in China by
the authorities in connection with any misconduct.  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,
the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, said it hasn’t been contacted
by the Ministry of Public Security.  Roche Holding AG  said it’s
not aware of any anti-corruption probes in China against the
Basel, Switzerland-based company.  Sanofi, France’s biggest drugmaker, declined to comment on
whether it’s had any contact with China’s government in relation
to bribery probes, or whether the Glaxo investigation could have
any implications for its business in China.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the biggest U.K. drugmaker after Glaxo,
said in its 2012 annual report that it is investigating
indications of inappropriate conduct in countries that include
China. The company has no update yet, Esra Erkal-Paler, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  