-- Mugabe Tells ‘Insane’ U.S. to Stay Out of Zimbabwe’s Affairs
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-07-18T16:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mugabe-tells-insane-u-s-to-stay-out-of-zimbabwe-s-affairs.html
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe 
told U.S. officials to keep their “pink noses” out of the
southern African nation’s affairs before its July 31 elections.  Mugabe, speaking today at a campaign rally in Chinhoyi, 120
kilometers (75 miles) north of the capital, Harare, said the
U.S. had nothing to teach Zimbabwe because of its “filthy
history of slavery and current history of imprisoning blacks.”  Mugabe, who has ruled Zimbabwe since its independence from
the U.K. in 1980, was responding to a  U.S. statement on July 16 
expressing concern about the lack of “transparency” in the
run-up to Zimbabwe’s ballot, he said.  The Movement for Democratic Change party, led by Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , 61, Mugabe’s main rival in the vote,
has said the elections should be postponed because the electoral
commission isn’t ready for them and codes of conduct for the
military, police and media haven’t been agreed.  The MDC, which won parliamentary elections in 2008, has
said conditions for a free and fair election don’t exist.  “America must be mad, absolutely insane to suggest that
our elections must be held after the expiry of the term of
parliament because a party is arguing for reforms of our
security forces,” Mugabe said.  Mugabe, 89, said election observers from the U.S. and the
European Union aren’t welcome to monitor the vote because they
have imposed sanctions such as travel bans on him and some of
his closest aides.  Mugabe threatened July 5 to withdraw  Zimbabwe  from the
regional Southern African Development Community if it did
anything “stupid” during or after the election.  SADC brokered the existing power-sharing agreement between
the MDC and Zanu-PF after it declared Zimbabwe’s 2008 election
was marred by violence and wasn’t free and fair.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Chinoyi, Zimbabwe at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  