-- Understanding Pesticide’s Role in India Child Deaths: Q&A
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-07-18T09:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/understanding-pesticide-s-role-in-india-child-deaths-q-a.html
Organophosphorous, a chemical
commonly used as an insecticide in India, has been blamed for
the deaths of 22 school children in Dahrmasati Gandawan village
in the northern state of Bihar.  Here are answers to some frequently asked questions about
organophosphorus pesticide poisoning. The information is drawn
from research published in the  Lancet ,  Medscape , the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency , the  New South Wales  state
government, and interviews with physicians.  Q: How common is organophosphorus pesticide poisoning?  A: Organophosphorus pesticides are responsible for about
200,000 deaths a year. Massive organophosphate intoxication from
suicidal and accidental events, such as the Jamaican ginger
palsy incident in 1930, led to the discovery of the product’s
mechanism of action.  In 1995, a religious sect used a related chemical, sarin,
to poison people on a Tokyo subway. Mass poisonings still occur
today; in 2005, 15 victims were poisoned after accidentally
ingesting ethion-contaminated food in a social ceremony in
Magrawa, India.  Q: What is the treatment?  A: Severe acute organophosphorus pesticide poisoning is a
medical emergency. Ideally, oxygen should be provided at the
first opportunity.  Medical management is difficult and more than 15 percent of
cases are usually lethal. Treatment includes resuscitation of
patients and administering oxygen, as well as fluids and
medicines that block and reverse the poison’s activity.  The core medicines are atropine, oximes, and diazepam,
though 50 years after they were first used, doctors say they
still don’t know how best they should be administered.  “Medicines need to be given at the right moment, otherwise
the medicine itself may act as a poison,” said B. Suresh
Shetty, a medico-legal consultant for the state government of
Karnataka and head of forensic medicine at the Kasturba Medical
College in Bangalore.  Very sick patients require mechanical ventilation in
intensive care beds. Hospitals in rural areas, where cases are
more common, are frequently ill-equipped or under resourced to
manage cases adequately.  “The biggest problem in rural pesticide poisonings is
getting patients to the hospital in time to give them proper
medical care,” Shetty said.  Q: How do organophosphorus pesticides cause poisoning?  A: They inhibit esterase enzymes, especially
acetylcholinesterase, which is present in the human nervous
system. Its job is to break down acetylcholine, a chemical that
carries signals between the nerves and muscle.  Organophosphorus chemicals “inhibits these specific
enzymes in the body,” said Anselm Wong, a physician and
toxicology fellow at the Austin Hospital in  Melbourne .  When acetylcholinesterase is inactivated, acetylcholine
builds up in the nerves, which become over-active. The poisoning
can occur rapidly or build up over a number of days.  The harmful effects of organophosphorus vary depending on
the fat solubility and half-life of the specific compound
ingested. Some fat soluble organophosphorus pesticides such as
fenthion distribute in large amounts to fat stores after
absorption. This seems to reduce the peak blood concentration,
resulting in a milder but more prolonged impact lasting days or
weeks.  “If the patients survive, they can have complications --
intermediate syndrome -- with paralysis in a couple of days,”
Wong said. Other longer-term effects include sensory changes in
nerves, such as the feeling of pins and needles, and
neuropsychiatric disorders, he said.  By contrast, other organophosphorus compounds, such as
dichlorvos, aren’t fat soluble and can act much faster.
Ingestion of an oxon organophosphorus that rapidly inhibits
acetylcholinesterase can mean a patient stops breathing before
getting to the hospital, increasing the risk of  brain damage 
caused by a lack of oxygen.  Q: What are the complications of organophosphorus pesticide
poisoning?  A: Patients can suddenly develop peripheral respiratory
failure while conscious after an apparent recovery -- an event
called type-2 respiratory failure or intermediate syndrome. This
syndrome is an important cause of death in patients who have
been resuscitated and stabilized after hospital admission.  Q: How is organophosphorus pesticide poisoning diagnosed?  A: Diagnosis is made on the basis of clinical suspicion.
Signs include a smell of pesticides or solvents and reduced
butyrylcholinesterase or acetylcholinesterase activity in the
blood. Patients with severe organophosphorus poisoning also
typically have pinpoint pupils, excessive sweating, reduced
consciousness, and poor respiration.  Q: What are some organophosphate-containing insecticides?  A: Malathion, parathion, diazinon, fenthion, dichlorvos,
chlorpyrifos, and ethion. These insecticides were developed
during the early 19th century, but their effects on insects,
which are similar to their effects on humans, were discovered in
1932.  Q: How widely are organophosphorus pesticides used?  A: Organophosphate insecticide use in the U.S. decreased
about 55 percent from 1997 to 2007. In all parts of  India ,
organophosphorus chemicals are readily available and commonly
used by farmers as insecticides.  There is no regulation on the availability of pesticides in
India, according to Shetty. “There are no fixed guidelines on
who can and can’t buy these compounds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  