-- Hungary Focuses on Exchange Rate in Potential Mortgage Overhaul
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-07-18T11:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/hungary-focuses-on-exchange-rate-in-potential-mortgage-overhaul.html
Hungary ’s potential new legislation
to retroactively rewrite foreign-currency loan contracts will
probably focus on the losses borrowers incurred from exchange-rate movements, the Justice Ministry said.  “The Justice Ministry is examining how the bank contracts
may be rewritten via legislation by citing a fundamental change
in the circumstances,” it said in an e-mail today. “Such a
circumstance justifying the modification of the contract is
primarily the exchange-rate differential.”  Shares in Hungary’s largest lender OTP Bank Nyrt. fell and
the forint weakened after Justice Minister Tibor Navracsics said
two days ago that the cabinet was considering such legislation.
The government’s aim is to help Hungarian home buyers who
borrowed mainly in Swiss francs for years to take advantage of
lower  interest rates  until a drop in the country’s currency sent
repayments soaring and stoked bad debt.  Clients “can’t be faulted” if they are unable to repay
their debt because of an “external” reason such as the spike
in the  exchange rate , the ministry said, adding that the cabinet
will discuss the possible solutions on July 24.  OTP fell 4.4 percent to 4,635 forint by 12:22 p.m. in
Budapest, extending its decline in the past two days to 7.9
percent, the most in nine months. The forint depreciated 0.8
percent to 294.75 per euro, its weakest since July 9.  Forint Swings  That decline pared the forint’s gain in the past three
months to 1.3 percent, still the best performance among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It plunged 15
percent, the most in the world, in the second half of 2011 when
the government announced plans to allow the temporary early
repayment of foreign-currency loans at below-market exchange
rates, forcing lenders to swallow losses.  The options the government is now considering include
cutting borrowers’ costs from forint weakening or eliminating
them altogether, the Budapest-based newspaper Magyar Nemzet
reported today, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
proposals. Banks may have to incur all or part of the costs from
the overhaul, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  