-- Banks Market Notes in Euros as Bond Risk Falls to Seven-Week Low
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-18T13:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/unicredit-markets-euro-notes-as-bond-risk-falls-to-six-week-low.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank
by market value,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) 
are among financial companies marketing euro-denominated bonds
as corporate credit risk in the region falls to the lowest in
seven weeks.  UniCredit sold 750 million euros ($984 million) of two-year
floating-rate notes, while  Bank of America  priced 1.5 billion
euros of seven-year securities and Banco do Brasil is selling
five-year notes, according to people familiar with the
offerings, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private. The cost of insuring corporate bonds in Europe
fell, with the Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-default
swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings declining
2.2 basis points to 103.1, the lowest since May 30.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will deliver his
second day of semi-annual testimony to Congress on monetary
policy today, after damping concern yesterday that the central
bank will start curbing stimulus measures. Yields on corporate
debt fell to a month-low yesterday of 2.09 percent, down from an
eight-month high of 2.38 percent on June 24, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “The fear around Fed tapering has calmed somewhat after a
sharp spike in volatility last month,” said Roger Doig, a
London-based credit analyst at  Schroders Plc (SDR) , which manages 237
billion pounds ($360 billion) of assets globally. “Now yields
have fallen and issuers are taking advantage.”  UniCredit Notes  UniCredit priced its two-year notes to yield 160 basis
points more than three-month Euribor, a person familiar with the
matter said.  “This transaction is part of the ordinary execution of the
group’s funding plan,” Andrea Morawski, a spokeswoman for
UniCredit in Milan, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Bank of America’s bonds will yield 112 basis points more
than the midswap rate, while the lender is also selling 10-year
notes in dollars, according to people familiar with the sales.
The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank is offering to buy back
as much as $5 billion of senior notes due 2014, according to a
statement today.  Jerome Dubrowski, a Charlotte-based spokesman for Bank of
America, declined to comment on the bond sale.  Banco do Brasil is selling notes due 2018 that are expected
to yield about 4 percent. It would be the Brasilia-based
lender’s first transaction in euros since 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A spokesman for Banco do Brasil, who
declined to be identified citing company policy, wasn’t
immediately able to comment on the financing.  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the lending unit of  Japan ’s
second-biggest bank by market value, hired banks for a possible
sale of 10-year senior bonds in euros.  High Yield  In the high-yield bond market today, Schaeffler Holding
GmbH & Co., a holding company for German industrial-bearing
maker Schaeffler AG, is marketing the equivalent of about 1.5
billion euros of five-year payment-in-kind toggle notes in euros
and dollars through its Schaeffler Holding Finance BV unit. The
dollar tranche is expected to yield 7 percent to 7.25 percent
while the euro portion is being marketed at 7.25 percent to 7.5
percent, the person said.  Marlin Intermediate Holdings Plc, a buyer of U.K. consumer
debt, is selling 150 million pounds of seven-year senior secured
notes yielding about 10.5 percent, according to a person
familiar with the deal. Moody’s Investors Service assigned
Marlin a provisional B2 rating, five levels below investment
grade, in a report yesterday.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with high-yield credit ratings fell 10.2 basis points
to 407.7, the lowest since May 28. A decrease signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers dropped 7.1 basis points to 151.8, the
lowest since June 7, and the subordinated index fell 10.2 basis
points to a month-low of 226.9.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  