-- UnitedHealth Profit Rises on Member Gains as Costs Slow
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-07-18T20:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/unitedhealth-2q13-earns-template.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurer, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, as a Brazilian acquisition and gains in
U.S. plans swelled enrollment by 25 percent. Shares jumped the
most in about two years.  Net income  jumped 7.4 percent to $1.44 billion, or $1.40 a
share, the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer said today in a
statement. The per-share earnings beat by 15 cents the average
of 20 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed
12 percent to $30.4 billion on customer gains from employer
plans and U.S. government Medicare and Medicaid coverage.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hemsley added almost 10
million members, raising enrollment to 45 million on the
strength of the company’s purchase of  Brazil ’s biggest insurer
as well as a new contract to cover U.S. military personnel. The
gains were enough to overcome higher medical costs and lower
profit margins for some of those businesses, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital Group analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “They are firing on all cylinders in terms of
membership,” Skolnick said in a telephone interview. “It’s a
very strong statement about their ability to read what the
market wants and to deliver it.”  UnitedHealth rose 6.5 percent to $70.55 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day gain since Aug. 9, 2011. The shares
have increased 30 percent this year.  Profit Forecast  The insurer raised the lower end of its 2013 forecast,
saying it now expected  profit  of $5.35 to $5.50 a share. Hemsley
had said in April that, while the company continues to grow,
funding reductions to Medicare may make it harder to increase
earnings next year. Medicare is the government-backed insurance
program for the elderly while Medicaid covers poor Americans.  President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law lowers
reimbursements for insurers’ private versions of Medicare,
bringing them in-line with what government pays on its own to
care for seniors.  Hemsley told analysts on a conference call today that the
“severe underfunding” of private Medicare plans will continue
to pressure profit margins next year, and the insurer will exit
some markets and cut benefits in others.  The cuts are scheduled to ease in 2016 and “the prospects
for growth after that are quite compelling,” he said.  UnitedHealth is the biggest provider of private Medicare
Advantage plans, with 3 million members. The program accounted
for about a quarter of its earnings last year.  First Report  Even with concerns about next year, Hemsley’s long-term
outlook for the program was “remarkably more bullish” than
investors had expected, Skolnick said.  UnitedHealth was the first major medical carrier to report
quarterly results this month and today’s report “sets a
positive tone for the managed-care earnings season,” said
Matthew Borsch, a Goldman Sachs Group analyst, in a note to
clients.  Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
carrier, is scheduled to announce its results on July 24.  UnitedHealth’s second-quarter net income a year earlier was
$1.34 billion, or $1.27 a share.  UnitedHealth benefited from medical claims that came in
below the company’s initial projections, continuing a trend
that’s helped insurers for the past four years. The company said
it was able to shift $310 million from its reserves to boost
earnings, $100 million more than a year earlier.  The company boosted international membership by almost 5
million people, after last year’s $4.9 billion purchase of
Brazilian insurer Amil Participacoes SA. In April, it added 3
million more members after winning a $20.5 billion contract to
cover military families.  It was also helped by its growing business beyond health
insurance. The Optum division, which provides consulting,
information-technology and drug-benefits management services,
saw revenue increase 21 percent and contributed about a quarter
of the company’s second-quarter operating earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  