-- Murdoch Says He Used ‘Wrong Adjectives’ for Hacking Probe
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/murdoch-says-he-used-wrong-adjectives-for-hacking-probe.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
told lawmakers he “used the wrong adjectives” to describe the
police investigation into phone hacking and bribery when
speaking to staff on his British newspapers in a secretly
recorded conversation.  Keith Vaz, the chairman of Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee, wrote to Murdoch July 12, asking him to say why he
thought the probe is “a disgrace” and why he appeared to say
in the recording that the company is forcing the police to get
court orders to obtain information. Vaz’s intervention came
three days after Murdoch agreed to testify again about the
scandals to a separate parliamentary panel.  “I accept that I used the wrong adjectives to voice my
frustration over the course of the police investigation,”
Murdoch wrote to Vaz in a letter published by the Home Affairs
Committee yesterday. “I have no basis to question the
competence of the police and I and our newspapers respect the
work they do every day to protect the public. But I do question
whether, over the last two years, the police have approached
these matters with an appropriate sense of proportion.”  Police have made more than 100 arrests, including former
 News Corp . journalists and staff, in probes of wrongdoing at the
company’s U.K. publications triggered by the discovery two years
ago that the now-defunct News of the World Sunday tabloid
listened to messages on the mobile phone of a murdered teenager.
News Corp. split its broadcast and newspaper units into
different companies following the scandal.  Cooperation Reduced  Vaz also asked Murdoch to account for remarks by
Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick, who
told the committee on July 9 that News UK, News Corp.’s British
unit, had “significantly reduced” its cooperation with
officers.  Murdoch, 82, told Vaz his company had supplied police with
500,000 documents after 185,000 man-hours of work at a cost of
more than 65 million pounds ($99 million). He said that more
than 98 percent of the Met’s 1,900 follow-up requests for
information had been answered. “It would not be fair even to
suggest that our company has impeded” the police, he wrote.  The News Corp. chairman described the transcript of the
March meeting, which shows him telling reporters at the Sun
newspaper that bribery had been a routine practice, as
“selective.” It was obtained by Exaro News from a journalist
who secretly recorded the conversation.  In one section of the transcript, Murdoch tells his staff,
some of whom have been arrested in the bribery probe: “Payments
for news tips from cops: that’s been going on a hundred years,
absolutely. You didn’t instigate it.” He said one of the first
things he saw when he bought the News of the World in 1969 was a
safe full of money that he was told was for bribes. Vaz didn’t
ask Murdoch to comment on those remarks.  Murdoch has agreed to appear again before Parliament’s
Culture Committee later this year and “looks forward to
clearing up any misconceptions,” New York-based News Corp. said
July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  