-- Egypt Camps Plan Dueling Rallies Amid Call for Unity
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-07-19T15:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/mursi-supporters-opponents-brace-for-dueling-rallies-in-egypt.html
Supporters of toppled Egyptian
President Mohamed Mursi held rallies in Cairo and other cities
while the opposing camp gathered to defend his ouster.  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood urged Egyptians to protest what
it sees as a military coup against an elected president.
Islamists clashed with opponents after Friday prayers today in
Cairo’s Al-Azhar mosque, resulting in some injuries, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  said.  Military jets flew over central Cairo and armored vehicles
surrounded the presidential palace, where an anti-Mursi
demonstration is planned. Tamarod, the youth group behind the
protests that preceded the army intervention, has also called
for rallies at locations including  Tahrir Square , where an air
force display is scheduled later today to commemorate the 1973
war with  Israel .  Daily protests have roiled  Egypt  after Mursi’s July 3
removal, leaving dozens dead including at least 50, mostly
Brotherhood supporters, killed outside an army installation in
Cairo last week. The military-backed interim government is
seeking to revive an economy that has stalled since longtime
leader  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown in 2011.  Egyptian politics have become “a zero-sum game -- the idea
of compromise doesn’t exist that much,” Omar Ashour, a senior
lecturer in Middle East politics at the University of Exeter,
said today by phone from  London . In the absence of any credible
guarantor for a deal between the sides, “the Brothers believe
that their lifeline is sustaining their mobilization,” he said.
“That’s the only option they have.”  ‘Played Democracy’  The Brotherhood has vowed to continue protests until Mursi
is restored to office and refused to cooperate with the interim
government, which is due to guide Egypt to presidential
elections early next year. Tens of thousands of Mursi’s
supporters have been camped out in Cairo’s Nasr City district.  “We’re not the ones who called for democracy in the first
place,” said Mohamed Ibrahim, a 46 year-old engineer and
Brotherhood member taking part in the protest. “It was the
secular bloc who did, and when we played democracy and they
lost, they came up with this whole plot to gain some political
advantage. We’re ready to give our lives to defend our president
and our principles.”  Thousands of Mursi supporters also gathered in Alexandria
and several other cities. The government hasn’t said where the
ex-president, who was detained by security forces when he was
removed from office, is being held.  All Egyptians  Adly Mansour, the former judiciary chief who was installed
as president by the army after its intervention, urged
reconciliation late yesterday and said all Egyptians would be
included in the process. In a brief televised address, he said
forces that he didn’t identify are seeking to push the country
into violence and chaos.  Mansour presided over the swearing in of a new cabinet on
July 16. Its leader, Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi, said the
government will convene next week and plans to discuss new
economic policies and security conditions, the state-run Ahram
Gate website reported yesterday.  The cabinet has yet to decide on resuming talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  on Egypt’s bid for a $4.8 billion
loan, El-Beblawi told Ahram Gate.  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020
dropped five basis points to 8.44 percent today, more than 2
percentage points below their peak on the day Mursi was ousted.
The main  stock index  was little changed yesterday and gained 1.3
percent in the week.  Jail Guarantee  The Brotherhood yesterday described Egypt’s political
turbulence as a “serious nightmare” that carries the threat of
civil war.  By sustaining protests against Mursi’s ouster, the group
“is doing its best to press for better terms of negotiations,”
Ziad Akl, a senior analyst at the Cairo-based Al Ahram Center
for Political and Strategic Studies, said by phone.  He said the Brotherhood is probably seeking guarantees that
it will be included in the political process and that its
leaders won’t be jailed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  