-- Verizon Shares Fall After Wireless Demand Boosts Expenses
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-18T20:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/verizon-profit-tops-estimates-on-gains-in-contract-subscribers.html
  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, fell as the surge in demand
for high-speed wireless Internet cut into profit margins and
boosted the need for network investments.  Verizon  dropped  1.5 percent to $49.97 at the close in New
York. The company increased its forecast for capital spending
today to as much as $16.6 billion this year from $16.2 billion.
Its wireless business had a profit margin of 49.8 percent in the
second quarter, compared with the average estimate of 50.8
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone company,
has become a victim of its own success as increasing smartphone
use strains its network, accelerating the need for more
spending. The company also introduced a plan to provide users
more frequent smartphone upgrades as rivals such as  T-Mobile US
Inc. (TMUS)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  lure customers with competing offers.  “The biggest concern I have about the sector now is all
these upgrade programs recently announced,” said  Todd Rethemeier , an analyst with Hudson Square Research Inc. “I
wonder what that will do to margins.”  Verizon Wireless, co-owned with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , is
planning to move to the next phase of long-term evolution, or
LTE, technology this year after watching AT&T Inc. close the gap
on service quality.  The higher spending marred a Verizon Communications
quarterly report that topped analyst expectations for earnings
and subscriber gains. Profit was 73 cents a share in the three
months that ended in June, leaving out a one-time gain related
to pensions. Analysts had  estimated  about 72 cents on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More Contracts  Verizon Wireless added 941,000 monthly contract users,
compared with the average estimate of 836,000, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  About 64 percent of Verizon’s wireless subscribers use
smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, paying higher bills to
supply Internet access to the devices. Even with companies like
T-Mobile US seeking to lure those customers away with lower-priced plans, Verizon kept its monthly churn, or customer
turnover, stable at 0.93 percent.  On the flip side, retaining and attracting those customers
often means giving them discounts on smartphones, which cuts
into margins. Verizon said it expects its subscriber additions
to expand in each of the next two quarters.  “The margin speaks for itself,” said Verizon Chief
Financial Officer Fran Shammo in an interview after the earnings
call. “It’s the best in the industry.”  Competition Mounting  Sales rose 4.3 percent to $29.8 billion in the quarter, in
line with analysts’ estimates. Net income jumped to $2.25
billion, or 78 cents a share, from $1.83 billion, or 64 cents, a
year earlier.  Verizon is facing more formidable competitors after smaller
rivals joined forces this year. Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984) 
bought control of  Sprint Corp. (S) , which in turn acquired Clearwire
Corp. T-Mobile US, meanwhile, merged with MetroPCS.  After building a stronger stockpile of airwaves through the
Clearwire deal to ensure it could handle greater demand for
Internet access, Sprint increased its commitment to unlimited-use plans last week, guaranteeing them to any new customer for
life.  T-Mobile added a wrinkle to its defining sales strategy,
which lets customers pay for phones in installments. The new
plan, called Jump, gives customers the option to upgrade phones
twice a year for a $10 monthly fee. Dallas-based AT&T, the
second-largest wireless carrier, followed with its own frequent
upgrade plan, called Next, earlier this week.  Installment Plan  The shifting price trends are an attempt to unseat Verizon
Wireless’s No. 1 position in the market by appealing to the most
lucrative customers locked into two-year contracts.  In a sign that Verizon may be feeling the impact of those
alternative service plans, the company unveiled an installment
pay plan called Edge, to try its hand at selling phones by
spreading payments over time.  Under the plan, the cost of a new phone is divided into 24
monthly payments. By the sixth payment, the customer has the
option to pay off 50 percent of the cost of the phone and
upgrade to a new one. The offer begins Aug. 25.  After studying the market for 15 months, the company has a
good understanding of what customers want, Verizon Chief
Financial Officer Fran Shammo said in an interview.  “We’ve taken our time. We’ve always had a strategy for an
installment sale and we will launch something that we think is
different, and that will entice people to come to Verizon
Wireless,” said Shammo.  Higher Bills  For now, Verizon is relying on a surge in smartphone users
to generate more data revenue. Verizon’s average monthly bill
for contract users was $152.50 last quarter, compared with the
$152.97 analysts had predicted on average.  AT&T is also aiming at the market for heavy Internet users,
and recently exceeded Verizon in speed tests. Both AT&T and
Verizon have targeted heavy wireless-Internet customers with new
data-share plans, introduced last year. Verizon Wireless lets
customers share a data plan between as many as 10 devices.  A 7.5 percent increase in wireless revenue, to $20 billion,
helped Verizon make up for a 2 percent decline in sales to
landline customers, to $9.73 billion. One of the relative bright
spots of that business is Verizon’s FiOS fiber-optic service,
which added 161,000 Internet customers and 140,000 TV customers.  (Verizon held a conference call today to discuss the
results. For details, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  