-- Vimeo Seeks End to Vivendi’s Video-Sharing Copyright Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-18T19:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/vimeo-seeks-end-to-vivendi-s-video-sharing-copyright-suit.html
Vimeo, the video-sharing website
owned by  Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , says federal law
protects it against a  Vivendi SA (VIV)  copyright lawsuit over music
that includes recordings by the Beatles and the Beach Boys.  U.S. District Judge Ronnie Abrams heard arguments today on
Vimeo’s motion to throw out the case. She said at the end of the
three-hour hearing in  Manhattan  that she would rule later.  Vivendi labels including Capitol Records sued Vimeo in 2009
claiming that  the website  “induces and encourages its users to
upload” copyrighted videos and songs it wasn’t authorized to
display. The songs include the Beatles’ “Let It Be,” the Beach
Boys’ “Surfin’ USA” and Radiohead’s “High and Dry.” Users
post homemade videos in which they lip-synch to the infringed
songs, the labels said in the complaint.  Vimeo, based in  New York , denied infringing copyrights and
said that it’s protected by the safe-harbor provision of the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA. The safe-harbor rule
applies if a site removes infringing material when informed
about it.  “Whenever they sent us a DMCA notice we took down the
video expeditiously,” Robert Raskopf, a lawyer for Vimeo with
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, told the judge. “This is
an ambush. No DMCA ever came. They just filed.”  Vimeo, which has more than 14 million registered users,
gets its revenue from subscription fees and advertising.  Uploaded Videos  The labels said that Vimeo can’t be protected by law
because it knew that the uploaded videos contained unlicensed
copyrighted material and that it benefited financially from
them.  “Vimeo knew it wasn’t licensed; they talked about getting
licenses but didn’t want to spend the money,” Russell Frackman,
a lawyer for the labels with Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp LLP,
said to the judge. “They get paid directly from advertising
pages that have our material.”  The labels asked the judge to deny Vimeo’s motion and grant
them partial summary judgment. If Abrams rejects the motions,
the case may go to trial by jury.  The litigation had been on hold pending a ruling in a
similar case, in which  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  sued Google Inc.’s  YouTube 
for displaying Viacom’s copyrighted television and movie content
on the web without authorization. The Second Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed a lower-court ruling in favor of  YouTube  and
sent the case back to district court.  U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton then dismissed Viacom’s
suit in April, saying YouTube was protected from liability by
the Copyright Act’s safe-harbor provision.  Vivendi Holdings  The labels in the suit are part of Paris-based Vivendi’s
 Universal Music Group , the world’s largest recorded music
company. Formerly part of EMI Music, they were acquired last
year from Citigroup Inc.  Vimeo’s parent, New York-based IAC/InterActiveCorp, also
operates websites including Match.com and Ask.com.  IAC rose 1.6 percent to $52.86 at 2:44 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Vivendi gained 0.8 percent to
15.2 euros in Paris.  The case is Capitol Records LLC v. Vimeo LLC, 1:09-cv-10101, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 