-- SoftBank’s Bid for Universal Music Said to Be Rejected
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-07-19T08:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/vivendi-said-to-have-rejected-softbank-bid-for-music-unit.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  made an $8.5 billion
bid for  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music Group that was rejected by
the French media company earlier this year, according to people
with knowledge of the proposal.  Directors at Paris-based Vivendi turned down SoftBank
shortly after the inquiry was made, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because board deliberations are private.  A
deal would have handed the world’s biggest record company to the
Tokyo-based carrier that founder and billionaire Masayoshi Son
wants to turn into the world’s largest mobile operator.  SoftBank, which had its credit rating cut to junk yesterday
after completing its $21.6 billion acquisition of a controlling
stake in  Sprint Corp. (S) , is pursuing deals outside its home market
to tap faster growth. At the same time, the music industry is
rebounding from slumping sales of physical albums as more
consumers sign up to services like Spotify and Pandora.  Japan ’s third-ranked wireless carrier may be seeking to cut
its reliance on services like Apple Inc.’s iTunes with its own
music, said Tomoaki Kawasaki, an analyst at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings
Inc. (8707)  in Tokyo. Universal’s stable of artists includes Lady Gaga,
Justin Bieber, and Kanye West.  “SoftBank is an Internet communications company, so it’s
also making money from content,” Kawasaki said. “The attempt
to buy the music business is part of that. It was unfortunate it
didn’t work out this time, but Son should have something up his
sleeve, even with the downgrade.”  Vivendi gained 1.2 percent to 15.40 euros at 10:06 a.m. in
Paris. SoftBank  fell  0.3 percent to close at 6,430 yen in Tokyo.  Vivendi Restructuring  Mitsuhiro Kurano, a Tokyo-based SoftBank spokesman,
declined to comment, as did Jean-Louis Erneux, a spokesman for
Vivendi. SoftBank’s interest in Universal Music was reported
yesterday by the Financial Times.  The offer for Universal comes as Vivendi re-evaluates its
structure amid sluggish share performance and tough competition
in the French mobile-phone services market. The company, which
also controls game-maker  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , has said it
will focus on content production, and has sought buyers for some
of its telecommunications assets.  Morocco’s Caisse de Depot et de Gestion investment fund may
join  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  in a bid for Maroc
Telecom SA, which Vivendi is trying to sell, local newspaper
L’Economiste reported today.  Music Bundles  A deal for Universal could have allowed Softbank to bundle
music with mobile subscriptions, providing a new option among
the growing range of digital music options. Sony Corp., which
owns the world’s second-largest label, last month expanded the
features of its Music Unlimited streaming application for iPhone
users, while Apple is releasing a similar service.  Softbank’s credit rating was cut yesterday by Moody’s
Investors Service to Ba1, the highest non-investment grade, from
Baa3 in the wake of the Sprint deal, which gave the Japanese
carrier control of the third-largest U.S. mobile operator. The
downgrade makes a potential acquisition more difficult, said
Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior fund manager at Asahi Life Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo .  A lower credit rating indicates a higher risk of a default
and can raise borrowing costs.  “Still, there’s a possibility remaining for SoftBank to
look for more acquisitions or growth opportunities if they get
some discretion” from lenders, Nakatani said. “SoftBank is
still on track for growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  