-- Vivus Said to Be Close to Settlement With First Manhattan
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-19T20:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/vivus-said-to-be-close-to-settling-first-manhattan-proxy-fight.html
A  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  dissident investor,
First  Manhattan  Co., will gain the majority of the drugmaker’s
board seats and its choice for chief executive officer after the
two sides agreed to end a fight for control of the company.  The agreement expands the board to 11 from nine, giving
First Manhattan six directors and Vivus four, the parties said
yesterday in a joint statement. Tony Zook, a former  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN)  executive backed by First Manhattan, will replace Chief
Executive Officer Leland Wilson and take the 11th board seat,
 Mountain View , California-based Vivus and First Manhattan said.  First Manhattan, Vivus’s largest  shareholder  with 9.9
percent of the outstanding stock, had criticized the company for
failing to find a partner to help sell the obesity drug Qsymia.
The medicine was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in July 2012 and generated $4.1 million in the
first quarter. It disappointed investors with initial sales,
missing analysts’ estimates in each of the last three quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This result reduces uncertainty on current opportunities
and provides hope for operational optimization,”  Charles Duncan , an analyst with Piper Jaffray, wrote in a note today.  Vivus fell 8.3 percent to $13.67 at 4 p.m. The shares have
 lost 47 percent  in the past year.  Meeting Adjourned  The two sides had been trying to reach a settlement for
days. First Manhattan said earlier this week it had enough votes
to win the proxy fight. Vivus’s scheduled annual meeting was
convened yesterday to adjourn the meeting to a date to be
announced, though no later than 30 days from July 15, at the
company’s headquarters, according to the statement.  “Qsymia has the potential to improve the quality of life
for millions of people,” Zook said in the statement. “I look
forward to working with the new board” to enable the medicine
to reach the people who can benefit from it most, he said.  While at London-based AstraZeneca, Zook helped market
therapies including Nexium, Crestor and Symbicort. The medicines
drew more than $13 billion in sales last year.  “Vivus needs a large pharma partner in order to maximize
Qsymia’s potential,” Simos Simeonidis, an analyst with Cowen &
Co., said July 17 in a research note. He predicted First
Manhattan would win all the board seats if the votes were
counted, calling it “one of the ugliest biotech proxy fights in
recent memory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  