-- Wall Street Pay Probably to Rise as Returns Improve, Gorman Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-18T19:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/wall-street-pay-probably-to-rise-as-returns-improve-gorman-says.html
Wall Street pay will rise as firms’
profitability increases, while large banks are unlikely to make
the “irrational” mistakes of the past, Morgan Stanley Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  said.  “Comp should be a reflection of returns for shareholders,
so there’s no absolute level” that should be targeted, Gorman,
55, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today with  Erik Schatzker . “As all of the banks are recovering, shareholders
are starting to get better returns and compensation will reflect
that and reflect market competitive pressures.”  Changes in compensation costs trailed increases in first-half revenue at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and the investment-bank
divisions of Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Pay
expenses at the five largest Wall Street banks represented 37
percent of revenue in the first six months, down from 39 percent
a year earlier.  “I think things are pretty rational right now,” Gorman
said. “It is a sober environment that we operate in. The
leadership of the banks, all of whom I know pretty well, are
very sober quality professional people. I don’t see a lot of
holes at the large institutions in terms of rational behavior.”  All five lenders increased their return on equity in the
first half. The shares of each bank are up at least 28 percent
this year.  Goldman Sachs  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s biggest brokerage, set
aside 1.4 percent less to pay people at its investment-banking
and trading division in the first half, even as adjusted revenue
climbed 6 percent. Salaries, bonuses and previous deferred
awards equaled 43 percent of adjusted revenue, down from 46
percent a year earlier. Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said
in April that the bank seeks to set aside about 40 percent of
revenue for pay at the unit.  Goldman Sachs said this week it set aside a smaller portion
for staff pay and cut 700 jobs in the first half as it seeks to
pare expenses. Compensation rose 10 percent to $8.04 billion in
the six months, while revenue increased 13 percent to $18.7
billion.  Compensation for corporate and investment bankers at
JPMorgan, the largest U.S. lender, was almost unchanged in the
first half from a year earlier. The $6.36 billion represented 33
percent of revenue at the unit, down from 34 percent in the
year-earlier period.  Gorman has been aggressive in deferring and cutting pay as
he seeks to boost shareholder returns. The bank deferred all
2012 performance bonuses for employees getting both total pay
exceeding $350,000 and incentive compensation of at least
$50,000, a person briefed on the matter said in January.  In January 2012, as the bank was cutting pay for senior
investment bankers and traders by an average of 20 percent to 30
percent, Gorman said that employees who were unhappy with their
pay were welcome to leave the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  