-- Whitey Bulger Trial Witness Found Dead, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-07-18T21:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/whitey-bulger-trial-witness-found-dead-prosecutor-says-1-.html
Stephen Rakes, who allegedly was a
victim of extortion by James “Whitey” Bulger and said in May
he looked forward to testifying against the reputed crime boss
at his murder trial, was found dead, prosecutors said.  Rakes’s body was found on a path off Mill Street in
Lincoln, about a 20-mile (32 kilometer) drive from  Boston ,
yesterday afternoon, Middlesex County District Attorney Marian
Ryan said today in a statement.  Rakes, 59, of Quincy, had been listed as a prosecution
witness in the government’s murder and racketeering case against
Bulger but hadn’t been called as the government is winding down
its case. Bulger’s trial in Boston started in early June.  “There were no obvious signs of trauma” to his body, Ryan
said in the statement. An autopsy was performed today, her
office said. The results are pending a toxicology report, which
takes several weeks to complete, and an investigation by
authorities is continuing, Ryan’s office said.  Rakes was ordered at gunpoint to sell his liquor store in
1984 to Bulger and his crime partner Stephen Flemmi, according
to prosecutors. Bulger’s gang wanted the store as a source of
legitimate income, prosecutors said.  Life Sentence  Flemmi, 79, who is serving a life sentence after admitting
to 10 murders, testified today for 10 minutes and is expected to
return to the stand tomorrow. Flemmi, wearing a khaki prison
uniform and green windbreaker, and Bulger muttered obscenities
at each other in the courtroom.  Tom Donahue, whose father, Michael Donahue, was allegedly
gunned down during the Bulger gang’s assassination of another
man in 1981, listened to the exchange of profanities and
described it in an interview as “two of the biggest rats
squealing at each other.”  Prosecutors have said Bulger was a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  informant and at least three agents were corrupted
by his alleged schemes.  Flemmi testified that he and Bulger were both FBI
informants while they ran a criminal organization from 1974 to
1994. He said he and Bulger met “hundreds of times” with FBI
agents.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Fred Wyshak asked Flemmi to
describe the nature of his relationship with Bulger.  “Strictly criminal,” Flemmi replied.  Criminal Reign  Flemmi, who was a paratrooper in  Korea  and served two
tours, described Bulger as more “overbearing, forceful” than
Flemmi was during their criminal reign.  At court on July 16, Rakes told families of Bulger victims
that prosecutors had decided not to call him as a witness, said
 Steve Davis , whose sister, Deborah Davis, was Flemmi’s ex-girlfriend and was allegedly murdered by Bulger and Flemmi in
1981 at age 26.  “He was upset,” Davis said. “I tried calming him down.
He was looking forward to testifying. He had a lot to say.”  Christina Dilorio-Sterling, a spokeswoman for  Massachusetts 
U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz, declined to comment on whether Rakes
had been removed from the witness list.  In an interview with  Bloomberg News  in May, Rakes said he
was looking forward to testifying.  “The best revenge is getting on the stand and looking him
in the eyes,” Rakes said inside the courthouse on May 22.
“It’s going to be a great day.”  Crime Gang  Rakes’s $120 million lawsuit against the FBI, which accused
the agency of ignoring the extortion and protecting Bulger, was
thrown out by a judge in 2005, because it was filed too late.  Bulger, 83, is accused of 19 murders and widespread
racketeering while he led an Irish-American organized crime gang
in South Boston from the 1970s to the early 1990s.  He was captured in  Santa Monica ,  California , in 2011 after
16 years on the run and may spend the rest of his life in prison
if found guilty.  Bulger’s defense is scheduled to begin next week.
Prosecutors today asked U.S. District Judge Denise Casper to
strike more than 20 witnesses from the defense list of 37 names.  Wyshak said in a court filing that the proposed witnesses
“do not appear to have any relevant, admissible testimony to
offer.”  Good Friends  Among those Bulger seeks to call, and who prosecutors want
removed, is attorney James Lesar of Silver Springs,  Maryland .
Wyshak said in the filing that Lesar “fancies himself an expert
on FBI corruption and who, in the past had contended that James
Earl Ray, despite pleading guilty, was the victim of a
government conspiracy and was not the assassin of  Martin Luther King Jr .”  Davis said he became good friends with Rakes during the
trial and is worried foul play might have been involved.  “The whole thing, it brings you back to the ’80s when
people were getting extorted and murdered every month,” Davis
said. “I hope it wasn’t murder.”  He said Rakes never expressed fear for his life.  “He felt secure that Bulger was locked up,” Davis said.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 