-- World Bank Plugs Poland’s Budget Deficit
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-07-19T10:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/world-bank-plugs-budget-deficit-at-rates-cheaper-than-bun.html
Poland  is turning to international
lenders to fund a growing  budget deficit  at loan rates that are
lower than those available from debt markets.  The government is seeking 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in
loans by Aug. 30 to show that “there is another option for
financing than market auctions,” Deputy Finance Minister
Wojciech Kowalczyk said last week. Poland is set to pay the
equivalent of a 0.79 percent yield for an 18-year, 1 billion-euro facility from the World Bank, the lender’s  website  shows.
That compares with 3.65 percent on Poland’s 2035 euro notes and
2.18 percent on German euro bonds maturing in 2031.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who also asked for help from
the  European Investment Bank , is facing a 2013  budget shortfall 
45 percent bigger than earlier estimated amid the slowest
economic growth since the 1990s. Poland had 52 billion zloty
($16.1 billion) in outstanding loans from the World Bank, the
EIB and the Council of Europe Development Bank as of April 30,
according to Finance Ministry data.  “Taking loans from international institutions makes sense
when markets are less favorable and investors wonder how the
government will finance the higher deficit,” Wojciech Labryga,
who helps manage the equivalent of $3 billion at PKO Bank Polski
SA’s pension fund in Warsaw, said by phone two days ago. “It
can’t fully replace typical market financing, but demonstrates
the government has different budget options.”  Cover Half  Loans from the World Bank and the EIB will help Poland
cover about half the budget shortfall of 16 billion zloty that
emerged as the economic downturn crimped revenue, Finance
Ministry Chief Economist  Ludwik Kotecki  said yesterday.  The ministry had expected to meet 91 percent of this year’s
borrowing needs by the end of July, which allowed it to suspend
bond auctions until September,  Piotr Marczak , director of the
ministry’s debt department said last month.  Poland’s biggest backstop is a $33.8 billion flexible
 credit line  from the  International Monetary Fund , which was
granted in 2009 and renewed in January 2013. The facility gives
Poland a “safety umbrella” against the euro-area crisis and
reassures foreign investors, Katarzyna Zajdel-Kurowska, a member
of the central bank’s management board, said on April 3.  World Bank  Poland will pay the World Bank 46 basis points, or 0.46
percentage point, over six-month Euribor for its second
development-policy loan, which carries a 0.25 percent up-front
fee and requires no payments for the first 5 1/2 years.  Hungary took a $1.41 billion loan from the World Bank to
support its financial industry in September 2009.  “Loans from multilaterals are relatively small compared
with the government’s financing needs,” Wojciech Szajner, head
of debt trading at Societe Generale SA in Warsaw, said by phone
yesterday. “The  Finance Ministry  is doing this to whet
investors’ appetite for its next auctions. Market conditions
remain the key, especially since they want to pre-finance as
much of next year’s needs as possible.”  While the World Bank focuses on buttressing the government
budget,  project financing  is being provided by the EIB, the
European Union’s investment arm, and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. Together, the three institutions
have funneled $2.7 billion to Polish companies and the
government this year, compared with $7.4 billion in 2012, data
on their websites show.  Grid, Trains  Energa SA, Poland’s fourth-largest utility, will be funding
grid upgrades with a $310 million, 15-year loan from the EIB.
The bank also agreed in May to lend 112 million euros to state-owned rail carrier PKP Intercity SA to buy Pendolino high-speed
trains from  Alstom SA. (ALO)   The yield on the benchmark 10-year zloty bond declined one
basis point to 3.92 percent at 12:27 p.m. in Warsaw while the
zloty strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.2433 per euro. Poland’s
 credit-default swaps , contracts insuring the nation’s debt
against default, fell two basis points to 89, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  In return for helping Poland “protect fiscal space for key
growth-enhancing investments,” the World Bank expects the
country to continue “strengthening public finances,” according
to a  description  of the 1 billion-euro loan to Poland posted on
the Washington-based lender’s website.  While Tusk increased the 2013  budget deficit  this week, the
World bank sees government “will” to lower the shortfall to
around 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2014 and therefore
“continues to lend,” Ewa Korczyc, a Warsaw-based  World Bank 
economist, said in an e-mail reply to questions today.  “We aren’t giving up lending to Poland, especially during
a downturn, and that will be reflected in the new strategy our
management board will be discussing in August,” Korczyc said by
phone on July 16. “It’s no wonder that Poland is taking
advantage of these cheap loans, but they’re no substitute for
market financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  