-- WTC Damages Ruling Nears in Silverstein Airlines Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-18T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/wtc-damages-ruling-nears-in-silverstein-airlines-case.html
Larry Silverstein’s World Trade
Center Properties LLC is set to find out today if it’s entitled
to seek $3.5 billion from airlines whose jets were seized by
terrorists and flown into the twin towers on Sept. 11, 2001.  WTC Properties argued at a trial this week in Manhattan
that the company’s $4.1 billion insurance payout over the attack
doesn’t bar it from seeking damages from  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , American Airlines and its parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   Silverstein sued the carriers in 2008, claiming their
negligence allowed the hijackings to occur. The airlines argue
that the developer’s losses have already been covered and he
can’t collect twice. U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein,
who will issue a ruling today, said Silverstein had performed a
service by starting rebuilding on the site so quickly.  “The absence of the twin towers was like missing front
teeth,” Hellerstein said at the end of closing arguments today
in a courtroom less than a mile and a half from the World Trade
Center site. The redevelopment is an example of Silverstein
“having faith in the economy of  Manhattan  and New York.”  If WTC Properties wins, another trial will be scheduled to
determine what, if anything, the airlines must pay. The
developer said it will use proceeds from the case to build
Norman Foster’s  2 World Trade Center  adjacent to the centerpiece
1 World Trade Center -- now the tallest building in North
America -- and continue revitalizing the area 12 years after the
attack.  Hijackers’ Targets  Islamic extremists flew an American Airlines jet into one
of the twin towers and a United Airlines jet into the other,
causing both to collapse. Two other planes were hijacked, one
that hit the Pentagon near  Washington  and another that crashed
in a field in  Pennsylvania  after passengers fought the
terrorists. About 3,000 people died.  Silverstein’s lawyer, Richard Williamson, said the airlines
“dramatically understate” the developer’s actual economic
losses from the attack, including by using an arbitrary 2007
cutoff date for calculating lost rents.  “The plaintiffs will not end up with a windfall” if
Silverstein wins the case, Williamson said, rejecting a claim
made by the airlines.  “In my opinion, no one is enjoying a windfall -- everyone
is suffering from 9/11,” Hellerstein said. Talking about a
windfall “is obnoxious in this case,” he said.  About two months before the attacks, Silverstein’s
Silverstein Properties signed four 99-year leases on the towers
and two smaller buildings in the complex.  Down Payment  He also made a $491 million initial payment as part of the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey’s privatization the
World Trade Center site.  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for Silverstein Properties, which
owns World Trade Center Properties, declined to comment on the
dispute before a ruling.  The 2001 lease required Silverstein to insure the buildings
and rebuild if the site was destroyed. He insured them for $3.5
billion “per occurrence,” more than required, court papers
show.  Silverstein in 2007 reached the $4.1 billion settlement
with insurers after suing to collect more than $7 billion --
twice the value of the policy.  The companies reached the accord after a jury accepted
Silverstein’s claim that each tower’s destruction was a separate
attack under some policies, while a jury in another case found
some insurers were bound by a policy that defined that attack as
a single event.  Port Authority  Out of that settlement, about $2.5 billion was paid to the
Port Authority under a 2006 redevelopment agreement calling for
the agency, rather than Silverstein, to rebuild 1 World Trade
Center.  The payment also covered rent on the property, which
Silverstein was required to continue paying to the Port
Authority after the site was destroyed.  At the heart of this week’s trial is a dispute over whether
the insurance settlement indicated the $4.1 billion payment was
for a specific type of loss, such as the value of the towers or
the lost rental income.  Silverstein argues the airlines would need to demonstrate
such a link to prove the damages sought from the carriers
overlap losses covered by insurance.  He argued that the language in the insurance accord is so
broad that the airlines can’t tie it to a specific loss. The
airlines argued that the developer sought the broad language to
hinder their case.  Recovery Limit  In a 2008 ruling in favor of the airlines, Hellerstein
lowered the limit of possible recovery in the case to the $2.8
billion market value of the leases and not the much higher cost
of rebuilding.  The amount of potential damages was later increased to
about $3.5 billion when the judge said the value of 7 World
Trade Center, which was also destroyed and has been rebuilt,
could be added to the claim.  The leaseholder for the destroyed buildings in May lost its
bid to prevent AMR from raising “act of war” as a defense to
its alleged negligence in the terrorist attacks. The airlines
promised Congress and the U.S. public they wouldn’t raise such a
defense to avoid paying claims, lawyers for the leaseholder
argued in a February court filing.  The Silverstein organization accused American of breaking
promises to not use the defense. The guarantee coincided with a
bailout of the aviation industry, the leaseholder argued.  The case is In Re September 11 Litigation, 21-MC-101, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 