-- Yen Rises Versus Peers as Asian Stocks Fall Ahead of Japan Vote
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-07-19T07:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/yen-set-for-weekly-decline-versus-peers-before-japan-election.html
The yen strengthened, paring weekly
declines against most major peers, as Asian stocks declined
before upper-house elections of  Japan ’s parliament on July 21.  The  extra yield  that investors receive from holding U.S.
Treasuries instead of Japan’s  government bonds  fell from a two-year high, reducing the appeal of the dollar.  Indonesia ’s rupiah
weakened for a record 11th day as the central bank manages a
gradual depreciation of the onshore  exchange rate  toward
offshore levels. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility
Index slid to a seven-week low.  “It’s perhaps more of end-of-the-week profit taking, given
that narrowing interest-rate differentials do not justify a
higher dollar-yen,” said Roy Teo, a currency strategist at ABN
Amro Bank NV in  Singapore . “During summer holidays, you may see
a bit more volatile moves” owing to thin liquidity, he said.  The yen appreciated 0.1 percent to 100.29 per dollar as of
8:41 a.m. in  London , trimming its weekly slide to 0.9 percent.
It was little changed at 131.68 per euro, having lost 1.6
percent since July 12. The dollar slid 0.2 percent to $1.3131
per euro, extending its weekly decline to 0.5 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell for a third day,
losing 0.5 percent.  The yen weakened as much as 0.4 percent against the
greenback earlier as government data showed that Japanese
investors bought a net 1.11 trillion yen of foreign bonds last
week. That’s the  most  since the period ended Sept. 28.  The yield spread between Treasury 10-year notes and
similar-maturity Japanese government bonds narrowed to 1.70
percentage points. It reached 1.88 percentage points on July 5,
the most since July 2011.  Japan’s Politics  The  Bank of Japan  doubled monthly purchases of JGBs to more
than 7 trillion yen in April after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
urged the central bank to take steps to overcome deflation.  Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  and its coalition partner
New Komeito are on track to win more than 65 of the 121 upper
house seats being contested, according to a poll published in
the Nikkei newspaper on July 17. A victory in the vote will give
the parties control of both chambers of parliament,
strengthening the prime minister’s ability to carry out a three-pronged plan of monetary easing, fiscal stimulus and
deregulation known as Abenomics.  “The three arrows of Abenomics have clearly gained
traction in popularity, and one of the arrows is easy monetary
conditions contributing to a weaker yen,” said Greg Gibbs, a
senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Singapore. A positive outcome for Abe will help him push
through further easing that contrasts with “a stronger  U.S.
economy  and tapering of their quantitative policy measures.”  Sales Tax  The yen erased its decline as Japanese stock futures slid
and Koichi Hamada, an adviser to Abe, said the nation’s
consumption tax must be raised “at some point.”  Hedge-fund selling of Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures
prompted a drop in the dollar against the yen, according to a
foreign-exchange trader, who asked not to be identified because
he isn’t authorized to speak publicly. The  contracts  dropped as
much as 2.6 percent.  A “strong uptick” in Japanese buying of foreign bonds
initially buoyed the dollar-yen rate, said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp.
“Then, we saw the Japanese equity market sentiment roll over,
and that took dollar-yen down with it.”  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, retreated 0.2 percent to
1,032.66, having lost 0.5 percent this week.  ‘Too Early’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate
Banking Committee yesterday it was “way too early to make any
judgment” as to whether tapering will start in September. He
delivered his semi-annual report on monetary policy to the panel
after telling the House Financial Services Committee the prior
day he’ll take a wait-and-see stance on stimulus.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month as part of its third round of
quantitative-easing stimulus to cap borrowing costs, a program
that tends to debase the currency. Bernanke said last month the
purchases may slow this year and stop in the middle of next year
if economic growth meets policy makers’ projections.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, a
measure of currency fluctuations, declined to 9.85, the lowest
since May 29. It touched a one-year intraday high of 11.96
percent on June 24.  The rupiah dropped 0.2 percent to 10,080 per dollar, after
touching 10,126, the weakest since September 2009, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect pressure on the spot rate to continue,” said
Thio Chin Loo, senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore. “ Bank Indonesia  is releasing its hold because
draining the reserves is uncomfortable for them, so this allows
pent-up dollar demand to go through.”  Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said last week
that the monetary authority has supplied dollars to the market
in the past two to three months while allowing the rupiah to
slowly retreat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  