-- Myriad, Google, Sturgis, HMV, EFF: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-18T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-18/myriad-google-sturgis-hmv-eff-intellectual-property.html
In the wake of  Myriad Genetics
Inc. (MYGN) ’s infringement suit against a competitor that said it would
offer breast and ovarian cancer tests, the head of the U.S.
Senate’s Committee on the Judiciary has called for mandatory
licensing of the Utah-based company’s tests.  In a July 12  letter  to Dr. Francis S. Collins, head of the
U.S. National Institutes of Health, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a
Vermont Democrat, asked that the government require Myriad to
license the patent under “reasonable terms” or license the
patent itself.  The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled in June that parts
of Myriad’s patents on genes linked to breast and ovarian cancer
improperly covered natural phenomena. Other parts, the court
said, involve enough human intervention to be eligible for legal
protection.  Leahy said in his letter that Myriad does all its testing
for the genes in-house “and charges between $3,000 and
$4,000.” He said that because the research that gave rise to
the patented test was based partially on federally funded
research, federal law has encouraged commercialization.  He said he fears that the health needs of the public aren’t
presently being satisfied by Myriad, and called for what are
known as “march-in rights” to mandatory licensing.  Salt Lake City-based Myriad said in a July 15 statement
that the company was setting up a program to provide financial
assistance to uninsured patients. Beginning July 22, the company
will offer financial assistance to reduce qualified underinsured
patients’ out-of-pocket costs to no more than $275, the company
said.  Lilly’s Loss of Patent Protection Means Pay Cut for Most Workers  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the maker of an experimental Alzheimer’s
drug in late-stage testing, says the loss of patent protection
on some of its key products required the company to freeze pay
this year for most workers, including executives.  Ed Sangebiel, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based
company, said that the pay freezes will save Lilly $400 million
through 2016.  In December the company loses patent protection for
Cymbalta, an antidepressant that is the company’s biggest seller
at $5 billion per year. Its antipsychotic drug Zyprexa lost
patent protection in 2013, ending its peak sales in 2009 of
$5.03 billion. Evista, Lilly’s drug used to treat both
osteoporosis and breast cancer, goes off patent next year. It
generated upwards of $1 billion in 2012.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Urged to Improve EU Antitrust Probe Accord Proposals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  must present the European Union with “better”
proposals if it wants to settle the almost three-year-old EU
antitrust probe into the way it operates its search service, the
bloc’s competition chief said.  Google’s offer in April, which included “clearly”
distinguishing its own search services from those of rivals for
five years, won’t be sufficient to allay the EU’s concerns, EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said at a press
conference in Brussels yesterday. He said he wrote to Google
Chairman  Eric Schmidt  asking to improve their offer.  Google, the owner of the world’s largest search engine, in
April offered to label its branded search services and show
links “to three rival specialized search services close to its
own” as part of a series of commitments to end the probe.
Competitors and users had two months, until June 27, to send
comments on the proposed remedies, which the EU will consider
before reaching a decision.  Google’s remedies seek to address concerns that the company
promotes its own specialist search services, such as Google News
and Google Finance, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and has agreements with websites and software
developers that stifle competition in the advertising industry.  The EU probe also includes any search services Google may
develop in the future.  “Our proposal to the European Commission clearly addresses
their four areas of concern,” Al Verney, a Brussels-based
spokesman for the  Mountain View , California-based company, said
by telephone yesterday. “We continue to work with the
commission to settle this case.”  While Almunia has sought a deal to end the Google matter,
Google rivals have stepped up pressure to block any settlement.
The commission has received “very negative” feedback from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and other companies, Cecilio Madero, the EU’s
deputy director-general for antitrust, said in June.  “Google’s proposed commitments across the board retard
rather than promote competition; they do more harm than good,”
 Thomas Vinje , a Brussels-based lawyer for FairSearch  Europe ,
said in a statement today. Google’s proposed changes “attract
the vast majority of searchers to the company’s own products,
and discourage them from visiting rivals, according to a study
commissioned by the group.  Thailand Going After Pirated Soccer Team Jerseys, Souvenirs  Thailand  is cracking down on the sale of counterfeit soccer
jerseys and gear in markets and outside stadiums where games are
played, Thailand’s National Multimedia news website  reported .  Large numbers of  counterfeit goods  marked with the
trademarks of the  Manchester United Football Club  had been
found, and people from 40 different businesses have been
arrested for piracy, according to the National.  Deputy Commerce Minister Nuttawut Saikuar said his ministry
is asking for cooperation from retailers in efforts to put an
end to the sale of pirated souvenirs and other products, the
National reported.  Future matches in Thailand involving teams from Chelsea,
Liverpool and Barcelona will receive particular scrutiny,
according to the National.  Sturgis Seeks Residents’ Support of Trademark Litigation  The city of Sturgis,  South Dakota , home to the annual
Sturgis Motorcycle Rally that draws hundreds of thousands of
bikers every year, is asking residents to support  Sturgis
Motorcycle Rally Inc. , holders of the rights to the rally’s
trademarks, the Rapid City Journal  reported .  Trademark holders filed a trademark infringement suit
against Rushmore Photo & gifts and  Wal-Mart Stores  in 2011,
claiming the two retailers sold unauthorized merchandise, the
newspaper reported.  City Manager Daniel Ainslie said July 15 that even though
SMRI’s possession and defense of the trademarks is contentious,
their licensing generated almost $270,000 in 2013, which was
used to fund the town’s library, volunteer fire department,
police department, community center and parks, according to the
Journal.  Residents have been urged to attend the July 22 City
Council meeting to discuss any concerns they may have over the
city’s choice to support the trademark holders in the
infringement suit, the newspaper reported.  Ex-HMV Employee Flips Logo in Effort to Avoid Infringement  In the wake of HMV Group Plc’s decision to close a store in
Londonderry in  Northern Ireland , an ex-employee who is opening
his own independent music store has turned his former employer’s
sign upside down, in an effort to sidestep possible trademark
issues, the Complete Music Update website  reported .  London-based Hilco U.K. Ltd., which is reopening some of
the HMV stores, had sent the company’s former employee a letter
threatening infringement action after he initially decided to
call his new shop HVM and use a color scheme and logo similar to
those used by the chain, according to Complete Music Update.  Tony Gregan, the ex-employee, simply flipped the sign
upside down so that it now spells “WAH,” according to the
website.  He told Complete Music Update that this way he hopes
Hilco’s lawyers won’t feel he’s trying to infringe or trade on
his former employer’s reputation, Complete Music Update
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Trade Group Agrees Not to Sue Over Posting of Industry Standards  An air-conditioning industry trade group has agreed back
down in a copyright suit over a set of standards relating to the
industry.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based
digital rights organization, filed a suit in federal court in
 San Francisco  in February, seeking a court declaration that a
public interest group was free to post the standards online.  According to the complaint, the Sheet Metal and Air
Conditioning Contractors’ National Association Inc. had sent
Public Resource of Sebastopol,  California , a takedown notice
under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, demanding the
standards be removed from the website.  EFF had argued in its pleadings that the posting was lawful
and consistent with U.S. copyright law. The rights group said in
a  statement  that “as part of its work, Public Resource acquires
and makes available public safety documents such as fire safety
codes, food safety standards, and other regulations that have
been incorporated into U.S. and international laws.”  In a July 8 court filing, the parties agreed that the trade
group would neither sue Public Resource for the publication of
four different sets of standards, not claim copyright interest
in them. In return Public Resource agreed not to sue the trade
group for a period of two years, unless it is sued by the Sheet
Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors’ National Association.  Additionally, the trade group agreed to pay $1 to Public
Resources and both parties said they would pay their own legal
fees and litigation costs.  The case is Public Resource.org v. Sheet Metal and Air
Conditioning Contractors’ National Association Inc., 3:13-cv-00815-SC, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 