-- T-Mobile USA Names New Board to Ready for MetroPCS Merger
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-20T20:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/t-mobile-usa-names-new-board-in-preparation-for-metropcs-merger.html
T-Mobile USA Inc., the  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  division that agreed to a merger with  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS)  in October, named a new board for the
combined company, with Timotheus Hoettges serving as chairman.  The board will have 11 members, including T-Mobile USA
Chief Executive Officer John Legere, who’ll also run the new
company, and two directors of MetroPCS, according to a statement
yesterday.  Hoettges, who will lead the board, is chief financial
officer for Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom and set to take over as
CEO after this year. Rene Obermann, the German phone company’s
current CEO who plans to join Dutch cable provider  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  in
2014, will also serve on the board.  The proposal to merge  T-Mobile USA  and MetroPCS won
approval from the Federal Communications Commission and Justice
Department last week, moving it a step closer to fruition. The
deal would combine the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S. wireless
carriers, creating a stronger competitor to Verizon Wireless and
 AT&T Inc. (T)   Two of MetroPCS’s largest shareholders, Paulson & Co. and
P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, have said they’re opposing the
transaction. A shareholder meeting to vote on the deal will be
held April 12.  Deutsche Telekom added less than 1 percent to 8.54 euros at
the close in Frankfurt. Shares of Richardson, Texas-based
MetroPCS rose 1.1 percent to $10.57 at the close in New York.
The stock has climbed 6.3 percent this year.  The joint carrier would have an enterprise value of about
$30.3 billion, based on MetroPCS’s stock price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  