-- Ma’aden, Mosaic, Sabic Plan $7 Billion Phosphate Venture
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-03-19T15:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ma-aden-mosaic-sabic-plan-7-billion-phosphate-venture.html
Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN) ,  Mosaic
Co. (MOS)  and  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  agreed to form a $7 billion
joint venture to mine phosphate rock and process it into
fertilizer.  Saudi Arabian Mining, also known as Ma’aden, will hold a 60
percent stake in the venture, Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic
said today in a statement. Mosaic, the world’s largest producer
of phosphate fertilizers, will have a 25 percent interest and
Sabic 15 percent.  The Wa’ad Al Shammal Phosphate Project will be built at
Wa’ad Al Shammal Minerals Industrial City in northern  Saudi
Arabia , Mosaic said. Processing facilities at Ras Al Khair
Minerals Industrial City on the east coast will be expanded. The
two locations will be linked by an existing railway, Ma’aden
said in a statement. The project will have a capacity of about
3.5 million tons a year and start in late 2016.  Global demand for phosphorous, a nutrient essential for
photosynthesis in plants, is growing by about 1.5 million tons a
year, Mosaic Chief Financial Officer Larry Stranghoener said
today in a phone interview. The company says the world will
require increasing quantities of fertilizers to meet the needs
of a population that’s growing and eating more protein.  “We remain firm believers in the food story,” Chief
Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said in the same interview.
“We are going to have a world-scale plant with secure supplies
of raw materials as close as you can be to the growing Asian
markets.”  Florida Mines  Mosaic currently mines in  Florida , where Prokopanko says
it’s operating at maximum capacity. The company will invest
about $1 billion in the Saudi project, funded over four years
starting this year, and market about 25 percent of the output.  Mosaic shipped 11.8 million tons of phosphates in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In January it forecast
phosphate sales in the fiscal quarter ended Feb. 28 would be 2.5
million to 2.8 million tons at an average selling price for
diammonium phosphate at $485 to $515 a ton. Mosaic is scheduled
to report its earnings on March 28.  Diammonium phosphate, the tradeable form of phosphate, was
at $530 a ton today in the U.S. Midwest, according to  data  from
Green Markets, a fertilizer-industry information service. The
price has climbed 5 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  