-- ABN Amro Boosts Equity Holdings to 2009 Level
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-19T08:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/abn-amro-boosts-equity-holdings-to-2009-level.html
ABN Amro Bank NV’s wealth-
management unit raised its allocation in equities to the highest
level since 2009, encouraged by fund flows into the asset class
and the market’s resilience to bad news.  The private bank, which oversees about 163 billion euros
($211 billion), increased the share of money in stocks to 44
percent from 40 percent, according to an investment outlook for
the second quarter published today. It trimmed holdings in bonds
to 44 percent from 45 percent and hedge funds to 5 percent from
8 percent. Real estate remained at 5 percent, commodities at 2
percent and cash at zero.  “We have continued to buy equities,” Didier Duret, chief
investment officer at ABN Amro Private Banking, said in a
telephone interview from Amsterdam. “Flows are coming back and
there is some form of resilience to bad news which we saw in
 Italy  and may also observe with Cyprus.”  Investors poured $101.6 billion into developed-market
equity mutual funds around the world through March 14, according
to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR
Global. That pushed the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  within 1
percent of a record last week and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index to
the highest level since June 2008.  Equities have rallied even as last month’s inconclusive
Italian election left the nation without a government and euro-
area leaders last week forced Cyprus to adopt an unprecedented
levy on bank deposits to cut the cost of its bailout package.
The Cypriot parliament will meet at 6 p.m. local time today to
debate how to raise 5.8 billion euros from account holders.  ‘Historical High’  “We have a buy-on-the-dip mentality,” said Duret. “We
think equities can go higher and can break decisively the
historical high on the S&P 500 as well. If the macro data
continues to be supportive, it is an opportunity.”  The private bank remained overweight on emerging equity
markets in Asia and  Brazil , meaning it holds more of the stocks
than are represented in global benchmarks. It reduced its
postion to neutral on European shares three weeks ago is and
underweight on the U.S. and  Japan .  ABN Amro Private Banking started buying European equities
after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi announced an
unlimited asset-purchase program on Sept. 6 last year, the
wealth manager said in September. ABN Amro increased the stocks
portion of its portfolio to 40 percent from 36 percent last
year, Duret said in December, forecasting that company earnings
would grow 8 percent to 10 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  