-- ACO Investment Plans $700 Million in Myanmar Private-Equity Bets
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-03-19T00:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/aco-investment-plans-700-million-in-myanmar-private-equity-bets.html
Myanmar, the Southeast Asian nation
that exited 50 years of military rule in 2011, offers investors
the best growth opportunity in the region, said Hari Achuthan,
whose firm is betting $700 million on the country.  ACO Investment Group , co-founded by Achuthan and former
United Airlines president Ronojoy Dutta, this year aims to
invest $200 million in Yangon International Airport and plans to
make a $500 million bid for two telecommunications licenses as
part of a new global infrastructure fund, Achuthan said.  “What we’re looking for is a frontier market that has a
tremendous amount of growth ahead of it,” the former Credit
Suisse Group AG banker said in a phone interview on March 15.
“In the Asian markets, if you’re looking for growth, we would
rather look at Myanmar versus the saturated markets of Thailand
or  Indonesia .”  President Thein Sein is clearing the way for overseas
investment in the country to help speed modernization of its
financial system and infrastructure ahead of elections in 2015.
The U.S. dropped economic sanctions against Myanmar, stemming
from corruption and human trafficking, in July after Sein began
a democratic process that elected opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi  to parliament after 15 years of house arrest.  The country of 64 million people plans to award the two
licenses by June, the Myanmar Posts and Telecommunications
Ministry said in a statement dated Feb. 15 on its  website .  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , Southeast Asia’s biggest
phone company,  Malaysia ’s  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  and Norway’s  Telenor
ASA (TEL)  are among 91 potential bidders for the licenses, the
ministry said.  The investment in Yangon Airport may take the form of joint
ventures or project financing and includes debt, Achuthan said.  Foreign Investment  After five decades of isolation, Sein in November signed a
foreign investment bill to woo overseas corporations into
spending more in the former army-run nation. Companies scouting
opportunities in Myanmar or striking development agreements
include Best Western International Inc., the world’s second-
largest closely held hotel chain; Coca-Cola Co., Unilever NV and
Visa Inc.  While investing in Myanmar involves political and
regulatory risk, the potential return is also much higher,
according to Achuthan.  “You’re early to the game and you’ve caught the cycle at
the right time,” he said. “Growth is just about to start and
the laws are just opening up and not crystallized yet.”  ACO Investment, based in  New York , reached an agreement
last month with Myanmar’s Mandalay regional government to
develop solar energy farms capable of generating 1,000 megawatts
of power. The firm will invest $1.5 billion to $2 billion in the
project over two years, Achuthan said.  Beyond Myanmar, the private-equity firm is exploring a $500
million solar farm investment and a $250 million wind farm
project in  Vietnam . He declined to elaborate on the developments
or comment on the ultimate size of his global fund. His company
is also studying bids for airports in Chicago and  Turkey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  