-- Adobe Profit Tops Estimates as Web-Software Sales Jump
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-19T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/adobe-forecast-tops-estimates-as-web-software-sales-jump.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  reported fiscal
first-quarter sales and profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates
as more customers flocked to online versions of the company’s
graphic-design software.  Sales for the period that ended March 1 were $1.01 billion,
San Jose, California-based Adobe said in a statement today. That
topped the average $985.8 million  projection , according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some
items was 35 cents a share, beating a prediction for 31 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Shantanu Narayen is pushing to sell
more products over the Web and on mobile devices such as tablets
to cut Adobe’s reliance on software that’s installed and stored
on computers. Adobe added 153,000 subscribers to its Creative
Cloud tools -- including Photoshop, Dreamweaver and Illustrator
-- during the first quarter.  “They’re making this migration even faster than
expected,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities LLC. He rates the shares sector perform, the
equivalent of hold. “They’re adjusting their revenues to a
subscriptions basis and they still well exceeded expectations.”  Shares of Adobe jumped as much as 7.2 percent in extended
 trading  after declining less than 1 percent to $40.75 at the
close in New York. The stock has gained 8.1 percent so far this
year.  CTO Departure  Kevin Lynch, Adobe’s chief technology officer, resigned
this week to take a job at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Adobe said. The CTO
position won’t be filled, and Bryan Lamkin will assume
responsibilities for cross-company research and technology
initiatives, Adobe said.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  First-quarter  net income  fell 65 percent to $65.1 million,
or 13 cents a share, from $185.2 million, or 37 cents, a year
earlier.  For the current quarter, which ends in May, Adobe  forecast 
revenue of $975 million to $1.03 billion, compared with
analysts’ average estimate for $1.02 billion. Profit, excluding
stock-based compensation, restructuring, amortization and other
items, will be 29 cents to 35 cents a share in the current
period, Adobe said. Analysts are projecting 34 cents a share.  Creative Cloud  Narayen has also been moving Adobe further into software
for online marketing. A revised version of Adobe’s Marketing
Cloud software, to go on sale in the coming months, will include
touch-screen capabilities for use on tablets and digital
“cards” that can embed charts or snippets of advertising
campaigns for sharing between co-workers. There are now more
than 500,000 Creative Cloud subscribers, Adobe said.  “The majority of the subscriber base will come from
existing customers,” Adobe Chief Financial Officer Mark Garrett
said on a conference call.  Adobe is driving sales of Creative Cloud and will
eventually tailor pricing to keep customer subscriptions,
according to Peter Goldmacher, an analyst at Cowen & Co.  “The speed of the transition is the paramount thing on
investors’ minds,” said Steven Ashley, an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. Ashley, who is based in  Milwaukee , has a  neutral 
rating for Adobe shares. “We all know this is the transition
year.”  Sales for the current fiscal year will be about $4.1
billion, Adobe said, reiterating its previous outlook. The
company raised its forecast for full-year profit, excluding
items, to $1.45 a share from $1.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  