-- Lagarde Says Basel III Delays Worry IMF as Standards Threatened
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-19T11:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/lagarde-says-basel-iii-delays-worry-imf-as-standards-threatened.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said that delays in
implementing Basel III capital rules in some countries risk
diluting standards and hurting economies.  “We are, however, worried about uneven implementation of
these rules, particularly the delay of Basel III in major
jurisdictions,” Lagarde said in a speech in  Frankfurt  today.
“Different rates of implementation could contribute to dilution
of overall minimum standards. These delays affect longer term
business decisions, straining credit markets and spilling over
to the real economy.”  Global regulators have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. The measures, known as Basel III, will
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to at
least 7 percent of their assets, weighted for risk.  “The IMF is also worried about national differences in the
calculation of the riskiness of assets -- the very basis for
determining the capital needs of all banks, and the success of
the new rules,” Lagarde said. “In an interconnected world, the
lowest common denominator is connected to all.”  Lagarde noted some “historic achievements” on global
regulation and said that agreements in  Europe  have eroded risks
to financial stability. Progress is still uneven, which risks
undoing that work, she said.  Pushback  “The pace of implementation has been adjusted
intentionally to support banks on the mend, but delays also
reflect difficulties in agreeing on the way forward, and
pushback from industry averse to changing outmoded and dangerous
business models,” she said.  The international bank rules have been beset by delays as
regulators ponder how best to implement the measures. The
European Union, like the U.S., missed the start-of-the-year
deadline to begin applying parts of the Basel III package. EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  is weighing a
Jan. 1, 2014, date for the gradual phase-in of the rules.  Lagarde also addressed the issue of too-big-to fail banks,
saying that they enjoy an “unacceptable” implicit subsidy of
about 0.8 percentage points in lower borrowing costs. The
variation in national solutions to this is also a challenge to
global regulation, she said.  Moral Hazard  “Pressure to address the moral hazard from this problem
and facilitate resolution has fostered the development of
regional initiatives to legislate banking activities or ring-
fence operations, such as the Liikanen, Vickers and Volcker
proposals, and the soon-to-be legislated German and French
reforms,” she said. “While well-intentioned, these separate
plans could undermine common goals of harmonizing global
standards if they are not well coordinated.”  Lagarde said that European policy makers need to “plow
ahead” with banking union and ensure that the measures they
take comply with global rules such as Basel III. They must also
ensure the supervisory arm of the  European Central Bank  gets
enough resources and authority, with a “coherent, credible
backstop,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  