-- Air France Pilots Union to Scrutinize Attendants’ Accord
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-19T12:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/air-france-pilots-union-to-scrutinize-attendants-accord.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, may have to delay an efficiency program as
labor leaders for pilots at the main French unit seek to ensure
their concessions match terms reached with flight attendants.  The SNPL union, which represents about 70 percent of the
Air France brand’s pilots, is checking whether provisions of a
cost-cutting accord approved this month by cabin crew members
fulfill the Paris-based company’s announced target of a 20
percent increase of productivity for all employees, Louis
Jobard, the spokesman for the labor group, said by phone.  Pilots, who signed an agreement with Air France last July,
have suspended implementation of any cost-cutting measure not
already in place because SNPL members think flight attendants
secured better conditions in their new contract, French
newspaper La Tribune reported earlier today, citing
representatives of the labor group it didn’t name.  “It’s a little excessive to say that we don’t want to
collaborate in the implementation” of the company’s so-called
Transform 2015, Jobard said. “We want to make all the efforts
necessary to turn this company back to profitability.”  Cedric Leurquin, a spokesman for Air France, declined to
comment by phone.  Air France, which had a 300 million-euro ($389 million)
group operating loss last year, is scrapping 5,000  jobs  at the
French unit and 1,300 more at the smaller Dutch brand KLM to
align costs with those of its main competitors. The company
reached a deal with ground staff in addition to the pilots in
July, while cabin-crews unions refused to sign it, with those
talks extending until February.  “Do we need this argument?” the UNAC union, the largest
of three representing Air France cabin crews, said today on an
online statement. “We have no intention of getting involved in
a new fight with the pilots union.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  