-- Mako Seeks to Block Stanmore Surgical Guidance System Imports
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-19T21:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/mako-seeks-to-block-stanmore-surgical-guidance-system-imports.html
Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO)  said it filed a
U.S. trade action seeking to block imports of competing
orthopedic-surgery guidance systems made by Stanmore Implants
Worldwide Ltd.  Mako filed complaints today with the U.S. International
Trade Commission in  Washington  and in federal courts in Boston
and  California . The company claims Stanmore is infringing three
patents related to computerized surgical devices and software.  In January, London-based Stanmore received U.S. Food and
Drug Administration approval to market its Sculptor Robotic
Guidance Arm, used for knee surgery. It competes with Mako’s RIO
Robotic Arm Interactive Orthopedic system, which accounted for
$41.2 million in sales last year, or 40 percent of the  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based company’s revenue, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mako has invested tens of millions of dollars developing
a significant portfolio of technologies,” Chief Executive
Officer Maurice R. Ferré said in a statement. “We are intent on
protecting our leadership position in the field of robotically
assisted orthopedic surgery.”  In the ITC case, Mako is seeking to block imports of the
Stanmore devices. The civil suits seek cash compensation and an
order blocking sales.  The Boston case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore Implants
Worldwide, 13cv10635, U.S. District Court for the District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  The California case is Mako Surgical Corp. v. Stanmore
Implants Worldwide, 13cv1221, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  