-- Man. City Told Cavani Will Cost $90.5 Million: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-19T08:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/man-city-told-cavani-will-cost-90-5-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Cavani Cost  Manchester City  has been told it will cost 60 million
pounds ($90.5 million) to sign Napoli striker Edinson Cavani in
the offseason, the  Sun reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini  views the Uruguayan as his top
transfer target with  Atletico Madrid ’s Radamel Falcao another
option, the newspaper said.  “We included a very high buy-out clause in his contract as
we want him to stay,” the Sun cited Napoli President Aurelio De Laurentiis as saying of Cavani. “But if some nutter is willing
to pay 60 million pounds, which would mean a net fee of 54
million pounds for Napoli, we are ready to listen to the
offer.”  Begovic Bids  Stoke’s Asmir Begovic is a target for  Manchester United ,
Arsenal and Chelsea and his sale may break the U.K. transfer
record for a goalkeeper, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Potters are ready to demand 15 million pounds for the
Bosnia international and are confident of pushing the price
closer to 20 million pounds in the event of an auction, the
newspaper said. United paid Atletico Madrid a record 18.3
million pounds for Spanish goalkeeper David De Gea in May 2011,
the Telegraph added.  Pulis’s Position  Tony Pulis  will consider his position as Stoke manager at
the end of the season because he’s said to have become
disillusioned with the team’s lack of progress this campaign,
the  Daily Mail reported .  Pulis is concerned at the amount of money being dedicated
to the club’s youth academy instead of his own transfer budget,
the newspaper said. The biggest fee the club have paid out in
the last two trade periods is the 4 million pounds it spent on
both midfielder  Charlie Adam  and goalkeeper Jack Butland, the
Mail added.  Arsenal Targets Cech  Chelsea’s Petr Cech is on Arsenal’s six-man shortlist to
replace goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny next season, the  Daily Mail
reported .  The 30-year-old Cech, who may be replaced as Chelsea’s No.
1 by Thibaut Courtois, has been watched extensively by Gunners
scouts and joins Begovic,  Pepe Reina ,  Victor Valdes , Rene Adler
and Michel Vorm on the club’s list of potential goalies, the
newspaper added.  Allen Out  Liverpool midfielder  Joe Allen  will miss the remainder of
the season after the club brought forward his shoulder surgery,
the  Daily Mirror reported . The Welshman will have the operation
in the next 48 hours to improve his chances of being ready for
pre-season training in July, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  