-- Angola’s Banco BIC Targets Africa Growth, Tapping Oil Wealth
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-20T09:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/angola-s-banco-bic-targets-african-expansion-tapping-oil-wealth.html
Banco BIC SA, Angola’s biggest
private bank by branches, plans to open offices in  Namibia  and
 South Africa  as it considers further regional expansion.  Banco BIC has applied to Namibia’s central bank to open
branches in its southern neighbor and plans a representative
office in Johannesburg, said Chief Executive Officer Fernando Teles. The bank is also studying Botswana, Republic of Congo,
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, Zambia and Gabon, he said.  “These countries have good relations with Angola, they’re
nearby and some of their markets are starting to flourish,”
Teles said in a March 18 interview in Luanda, Angola’s capital.
The Namibia application is “looking good,” he said.  Banco BIC, which bought  Banco Portugues de Negocios SA  from
 Portugal  last year for 40 million euros ($52 million), expects
the 15-nation South African Development Community to make it
easier for cross-border acquisitions, Teles said. The lender --
whose biggest shareholders include Teles, Portuguese billionaire
Americo Amorim and Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of Angola’s
President -- also wants to exploit its home nation’s position as
Africa’s second-biggest oil producer.  The bank has opened an office in Luanda targeting  oil
companies  and service providers after Angola passed a new law
that requires foreign oil companies to start using kwanzas, the
local currency, to pay taxes from May. Local suppliers must
comply in July and other foreign companies from October.  Oil Windfall  The law could increase liquidity by bringing about $50
billion a year of oil money into the economy, Teles said.  “We think the law is very good because it will help
finance the economy much more and the banks and everyone will
benefit from this,” he said. “This is why we’ve set up an
office because we know these companies are very demanding, and
we have people who speak English, French and Portuguese and they
have specialized knowledge of the oil market.”  Oil producers such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  BP
Plc (BP/)  and  Total SA (FP)  operate in Angola, which pumps about 1.8
million barrels of oil a day, surpassed only by  Nigeria  in
Africa.  While Angola expects its economy to grow by 7.1 percent
this year, the country can’t depend on oil forever and needs
more investment in agriculture and industry, Teles said.  BIC, which plans to expand its Angolan branches to 213 by
the end of this year from 188 today, may list as much as 25
percent of the company in Luanda when a stock exchange starts
operating, Teles said.  Brazil Network  Teles owns 20 percent of Banco BIC with Amorim and dos Santos each holding 25 percent.  The company may consider acquisitions in  Angola , which has
23 banks, Teles said, adding that Banco BIC may continue with
its annual target of opening 25 to 30 branches for “many
years.”  Banco BIC, which is waiting for Portugal’s government to
approve its April bid for BPN’s operation in Brazil, also wants
to open corporate offices in the South American country.  “Our goal would be to open right now as quick as possible
six corporate departments in six major cities in Brazil,” Teles
said. “Brazil is a market that’s working a lot with Angola and
for us it would be very interesting to start operating as soon
as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  