-- Hapag-Lloyd Says Full-Year Net Loss Widens as Fuel Prices Soar
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-19T12:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/hapag-lloyd-says-full-year-net-loss-widens-as-fuel-prices-soar.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG,  Europe ’s fourth-
largest container line, said its net loss widened last year
after rising fuel prices outweighed higher freight rates.  The loss rose to 128 million euros ($166 million) from 29
million euros a year earlier, Hamburg-based Hapag-Lloyd said in
a statement today. Profit before interest and tax declined to 26
million euros from 101 million euros in the previous period.  The world’s biggest container carriers, including  Denmark ’s
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s  Maersk Line ,  France ’s CMA CGM SA and
Hapag-Lloyd, had to contend with soaring fuel prices last year
at the same time as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
overcapacity put pressure on freight rates. In the first half of
2012, prices for bunker fuel used to propel  container ships 
soared to a record above $720 a ton.  “The newly rising energy costs, of which bunker is the
largest component, burdened the liner shipping sector also in
2012 again,” Hapag-Lloyd said in the statement. “The marked
downturn in the global economy also resulted in unexpectedly low
cargo volumes and an absence of the peak season in the second
half of the year.”  With bunker prices at an average of $660 a ton last year,
Hapag-Lloyd had to spend 9 percent more capital on fuel than in
2011, while its overall transport expenses jumped by more than
900 million euros. The average freight rate advanced 3.2 percent
last year to $1,581 per standard container, Hapag-Lloyd said.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Behrendt said the goal for
this year is to achieve a “solid improvement in earnings” with
the help of rate increases and further cost reductions that will
enable the company to resume a dividend payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  