-- Apple Hires Adobe Technology Chief Kevin Lynch as Vice President
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/apple-hires-adobe-executive-kevin-lynch-as-vice-president.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  hired  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) 
Chief Technology Officer Kevin Lynch, adding a software
executive who helped build some of the earliest Macintosh
applications and later sparred publicly with the iPhone maker.  Lynch, who has worked at Adobe since 2005, will become
Apple’s vice president for technology, reporting to Senior Vice
President Bob Mansfield, the Cupertino, California-based company
said yesterday.  During Lynch’s tenure, Apple and the software maker clashed
over the use of Adobe’s Flash video program on Apple’s devices.
Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  said Flash was ill-suited for mobile
computing and banned its use on the iPhone or iPad. Lynch said
the move would cost Apple customers.  The conflict has since abated as Adobe and other technology
companies embrace the emerging Web standard HTML5 as an
alternative for running video on handheld devices.  Lynch had led Adobe’s push to focus more on subscription-
based services and wireless devices, introducing Creative Cloud
software, which lets designers use mobile applications for
creating printed pages and websites from an iPad or other
tablets. Adobe currently has more than 500,000 Creative Cloud
subscribers, the company said yesterday.  Adobe doesn’t plan to hire a new chief technology officer.  Lynch may help Apple build out more so-called cloud
services that let customers access stored content from different
devices, an area where Google Inc. has made strides, said
Jeffrey Hammond, an analyst at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   Google Rivalry  “It could be a signal Apple is interested in more than
just the device -- Adobe has done a good job transitioning its
products to the cloud and putting in place the elements of a
subscription model,” Hammond said in an e-mail.  Lynch, who will leave Adobe on March 22, joined the company
when it acquired Macromedia, where Apple marketing executive
 Phil Schiller  also once worked. Before that, Lynch was an early
developer of software for Apple’s Macintosh personal computer,
including the program FrameMaker for designing and editing large
documents. Frame Technology was also  acquired  by Adobe.  Lynch also worked at General Magic, a company founded by
early Apple engineers that focused on handheld computing
projects long before the iPhone was introduced.  Apple shares fell less than 1 percent to $454.49 at the
close in  New York  yesterday, while Adobe declined less than 1
percent to $40.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  