-- Apple May Face Sanctions Over Documents in Privacy Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/apple-may-face-sanctions-over-documents-in-privacy-suit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may face court-ordered
penalties over its information-sharing practices in a privacy
lawsuit after the iPhone maker was previously scolded for
“unacceptable” conduct.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal, at a hearing
yesterday in  San Jose ,  California , invited plaintiffs’ lawyers
in the case to pursue sanctions against Apple after saying that
the company’s document production “has more than doubled since
the court got involved” in policing information-sharing
obligations.  Grewal yesterday questioned Apple about e-mails or
documents from employees that the company turned up only after
the court ordered a review of its document-production process.
Grewal told Apple lawyer Ashlie Beringer that it “doesn’t sound
like you did a lick of work” to double-check whether workers
properly determined which documents shouldn’t be turned over.  “We’ve gone through close to a dozen people that should’ve
come up and didn’t come up” in original requests for
information, Grewal said. “In light of that process, how am I
to have any confidence that the procedure now is any better”
than it was initially, Grewal asked.  The documents at issue “absolutely should’ve been
collected and they were not,” Beringer said. “I was not asking
the right questions” to cull the required evidence, she
explained. “Absolutely that was a failure of management on my
part, one that won’t happen again.”  ‘Herculean Efforts’  Beringer said Apple has made “Herculean efforts over the
last two weeks” to rectify the problem, and that after another
filing late last night, the company’s document production is
complete. Beringer declined to comment after the hearing.  Apple is accused in the lawsuit of improperly collecting
data on the locations of customers through iPhones, even after
the device’s geo-location feature was turned off, and sharing
personal information with third parties.  Grewal told Cupertino, California-based Apple on March 6 to
submit a detailed account of how it collects and evaluates the
documents it’s required to give the plaintiffs. The company was
required to identify search terms it used, the dates of
searches, individuals subject to the searches, and how many
documents it turned up. Apple has produced more than 2,000
additional documents.  On March 7, Apple lost its bid to dismiss the case after
U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh, who is handling the case with
Grewal, said in a ruling that she was “disturbed” to learn
that in its court filings seeking the dismissal, Apple relied on
documents that it was required, and failed, to disclose to
lawyers for the customers.  ‘Unacceptable’ Conduct  Calling the company’s conduct “unacceptable,” Koh said
“the court cannot rely on Apple’s representations about its
compliance with its discovery obligations.”  Separate from the document requests, plaintiffs are also
seeking permission to proceed with the lawsuit on a group basis.
Apple argued class-action status should be denied because
plaintiffs haven’t shown that any users had personal information
collected without their consent, and as a result, can’t show
they suffered any harm.  The case is In re Apple Inc. iPhone/iPad Application
Consumer Privacy Litigation, 11-md-02250, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  