-- Army Carbine Program May Waste $1.8 Billion, Report Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-03-19T15:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/army-carbine-program-may-waste-1-8-billion-report-finds.html
The Army risks wasting as much as
$1.8 billion developing a replacement for the M4 carbine that it
may not need, according to the Pentagon’s inspector general.  The carbine replacement program is one the Army and
Pentagon “may want to re-evaluate,” as the service is
“seeking to acquire more rifles during a time when their total
force structure will be reduced,”  Lynne Halbrooks, principal
deputy inspector general, said in a  statement  provided today to
a House committee. The Pentagon plans to reduce Army ground
forces to 490,000 by 2017 from about 560,000 in 2011.  Halbrooks’s office is auditing the program and “we expect
to report concerns that” the Army “may not have an established
need for this weapon nor developed performance requirements for
the $1.8 billion acquisition,” she said. A draft of the audit
is due to Army and Pentagon officials in about two months, she
said.  Colt Defense LLC, based in  West Hartford ,  Connecticut , is
the primary supplier of the U.S. Army’s M4 rifle and would face
competition under the replacement program.  The carbine replacement is among programs Halbrooks
highlighted as having questionable value in the statement to the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  The panel is reviewing opportunities to reduce waste and
improve efficiency at the Pentagon as most of as its 800,000-
person civilian workforce faces one unpaid furlough day per
week, from late April through Sept. 30. The department is in
line for $500 billion in  spending  cuts over a decade on top of
$487 billion that was already planned.  Financial Management  The inspector general’s efforts are focused on deficiencies
in financial management, acquisition processes, contract
management, readiness, information technology security and
equipping and training  Iraq  and Afghan security forces,
according to a staff memo prepared for lawmakers.  Halbrooks said the Pentagon and the Army need to re-
evaluate the carbine replacement program because they’re seeking
to develop the new rifle at the same time as the service is
modifying the current M4 weapon.  “It’s unclear what additional capability this new rifle
will have over the modified M4,” according to the report. “Key
performance parameters such as accuracy, reliability and
lethality have not been established.”  Army’s Response  The Army is in the second phase of the rifle competition to
determine “if there’s a carbine that can provide significant
value over the M4,” Matthew Bourke, a spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The greatest care and consideration is being
placed in this process as we determine the next individual
weapon system for the soldier.”  The Army carbine program is an example of decisions the
Pentagon and military services face in culling savings from the
projected $27 billion expected to be spent in fiscal 2012 on
major acquisition programs.  “Challenges include obtaining adequate competition in
contracts, defining contract requirements, obtaining fair and
reasonable prices, oversight of contractor performance and
maintaining contract documentation for payments,” Halbrooks
said in the statement.  “As budgets continue to come under increasing scrutiny,
the department must continue to evaluate the merits, additional
capabilities and cost” of major acquisition programs, she
wrote.  Boeing, United Technologies  Halbrooks’s statement summarized areas of potential savings
in financial and contract management completed by her agency
such as the finding in 2011 of spare parts overpricing by  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky Aircraft unit to
support the helicopter maintenance at the Army’s Corpus Christi
depot in  Texas .  Those overcharges, which were previously disclosed, are
cases in which the Army “did not effectively use” existing
inventory before buying overpriced parts from the contractors,
Halbrooks wrote.  Boeing refunded $76,849 after the inspector general
determined it sold the Army a dime-sized, plastic ramp gate
roller assembly used on the CH-47 helicopter for $1,678.61
apiece when the Pentagon Defense Logistic Agency had them in
stock for $7.71 each.  The Army issued new guidance as a result of the report
requiring the use of exiting inventory before buying the same
parts from companies, Halbrooks wrote.  Halbrooks today disclosed findings of an unreleased
September 2012 audit that identified more than $2.5 billion in
potential savings in a  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  “joint land attack cruise
missile defense” program that lofts sensors on board aerostats
to detect incoming missiles.  The Army-managed program remains in development testing.
The program manager “agreed with our report and recommendations
stating ‘the impact of the current fiscally constrained
environment compels redirection of funding to other systems,’”
according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  