-- Harvest Natural Drops After ‘Going Concern’ Warning
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-03-19T14:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/harvest-natural-auditors-to-give-going-concern-warning.html
Harvest Natural Resources Inc. (HNR) , the
Houston-based energy company with production in  Venezuela , fell
the most ever after reporting a 2012 loss and disclosing a
“going concern qualification” by auditors because of its
liquidity.  Harvest  declined  33 percent to $3.69 at 10:16 a.m. in New
York. Earlier the shares fell 47 percent, the biggest intraday
drop since the company began trading publicly in 1989, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has fallen 60 percent this
year.  The oil and natural gas company has identified “material
weakness” in accounting that will require revision and possible
restatement of results for 2010, 2011, and 2012, Harvest said
today in a filing. Harvest, which also has operations in Oman,
Gabon,  Indonesia  and  China , will delay filing its 2012 annual
report.  Harvest announced Feb. 20 the termination of the planned
$725 million sale of its stake in Venezuelan oil explorer
Petrodelta SA to Indonesia’s state-owned PT Pertamina after
Indonesia’s government rejected the deal. Harvest has a 32
percent equity stake in Petrodelta and  Petroleos de Venezuela SA 
owns 60 percent.  “All of this is a surprise,” Jason Wangler, a Houston-
based analyst for Wunderlich Securities Inc., said today in a
telephone interview. “Since the time the Venezuelan deal fell
through, they’ve not said much anything about anything. I’m not
saying the market is overreacting, because we don’t know that.”  Wangler doesn’t own Harvest stock and said his hold rating
has been under review since the Venezuelan deal failed.  Harvest Chief Financial Officer Stephen Haynes wouldn’t
comment on the filing when reached by telephone today.  Annual Loss  For 2012, Harvest had a loss of $9.6 million, or 26 cents a
share, compared with net income of $51.8 million, or $1.32, a
year earlier. Harvest was expected to report profit of $22
million, the average of two analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Harvest found an error in cash flow items and determined
that certain assets have been impaired, it said in today’s
filing. The management also concluded there were errors in
certain leases and internal costs.  The company said its auditors’ opinion of 2012 results will
include a going concern qualification. The company had $20.4
million in cash and near-cash items as of the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  