-- Las Vegas Sands Challenges Middleman’s License Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-20T00:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/las-vegas-sands-challenges-middleman-s-claims-over-macau-license.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  is facing its
second trial in a case brought by a  Hong Kong  businessman who
says the casino operator run by billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  owes
him for obtaining a license to operate in Macau.  A trial is scheduled for next week in state court in  Nevada 
over claims by Richard Suen that he helped  Las Vegas  Sands win a
license to run a casino in the Macau territory in 2002 and that
the company reneged on an agreement to pay him a “success
fee.” A Nevada appeals court in 2010 reversed a $43.8 million
jury award two years earlier in favor of Suen and sent the case
back for a new trial.  Clark County District Court Judge Rob Bare, at a hearing
today in Las Vegas, denied Las Vegas Sands’ request to throw out
Suen’s claims ahead of the new trial, saying it’s possible for a
jury to find that the meetings Suen helped set up with Chinese
officials in Beijing were necessary for the company to obtain
the Macau concession.  “A jury could say why were various members of Sands and
Mr. Adelson involving themselves in those meetings,” Bare said.  Adelson was present at the hearing on pretrial motions and
left after the judge decided to let the  jury trial  proceed. The
judge also ruled against a Las Vegas Sands request to limit the
damages Suen could seek under his deal with the company.  ‘Snake Oil’  “Our position from the beginning was that Suen brought
nothing to the table but snake oil,” Stephen Peek, a lawyer for
Las Vegas Sands, said at the hearing. Jury selection is to start
March 27 with opening statements the following week. Adelson
will take the stand April 4, according to court minutes.  Las Vegas Sands has faced other claims by middlemen or
former partners who claim they helped it win the concession in
Macau, where the company, through  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , operates
four casino resorts in the former Portuguese colony and the
world’s biggest gambling destination.  Las Vegas Sands in 2009 agreed to pay $42.5 million to
three men who said they partnered Las Vegas Sands with a Hong
Kong-based group with which the casino operator originally
gained a license. The company also faces a lawsuit seeking as
much as $376 million in Macau by Asian American Entertainment
Corp., a Taiwanese-backed venture with which Las Vegas Sands was
pursuing a license before it teamed up with the Hong Kong group.  Internal Investigation  On March 1, Las Vegas Sands said an internal investigation
found it probably violated certain provisions of the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits illegal payments
to foreign government officials. The Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Justice Department  opened probes after a
lawsuit by the former chief executive officer of Sands  China .  The former executive,  Steven Jacobs , alleged Adelson wanted
him to use “improper leverage” on Macau officials. The company
has said it didn’t violate the anti-bribery provisions of the
FCPA and that the probable violations relate to the law’s books
and records and internal control provisions.  Las Vegas Sands has downplayed Suen’s involvement in
obtaining the gaming license, including his work with friends to
arrange a meeting between Adelson and Chinese officials in
Beijing.  Suen’s Guanxi  Suen has claimed that it was through “guanxi,” a Chinese
term for personal or human relationships, that he and his
friends helped paved the way with Chinese government and
Communist Party officials for the Macau license approval.  The company countered that Suen never provided evidence
that linked the Beijing meetings with Macau officials selecting
Las Vegas Sands to operate a casino.  Suen said that in 2000, when he learned the Chinese
government would be issuing new gaming licenses for Macau, he
sought a meeting with the Sands  chief executive officer  through
his brother Lenny Adelson, with whom he had been friends and
business partners since 1994, to discuss the “Macau
opportunity.”  Suen and his business associates arranged a meeting in
Beijing in 2001 between Adelson and Chinese Vice Premier Qian Qichen, at which the Vice Premier told Adelson he welcomed Las
Vegas Sands’ investment in Macau, Suen said in court filings.  Beijing Mayor  On the same trip, Suen and his associates had arranged for
Adelson to meet with Beijing Mayor Liu Qi. Adelson, who had
called U.S. Representative Tom DeLay before the meeting at
Suen’s suggestion, assured the mayor he didn’t have to worry
about the U.S. House of Representatives voting on a resolution
that might hurt Beijing’s bid to host the 2008 Olympics,
according to Suen’s court filing.  Adelson’s success in landing the Macau gaming license is
due in part to his apparent assistance in sidetracking the House
resolution, which was aimed at discouraging the U.S. Olympic
Committee from supporting China’s bid on human rights grounds,
Suen said in a Sept. 18, 2009, filing.  Las Vegas Sands said in court filings that Adelson made the
call to “his friend” DeLay, a Texas Republican who was then
Majority Whip, to inquire about the resolution. DeLay found out
that because of scheduling issues, the resolution wouldn’t come
up for a vote until after the  International Olympic Committee ’s
vote on Beijing’s bid, according to the filings.  Suen said that following the July 2001 “incredible”
meetings in Beijing, Las Vegas Sands offered him and his group a
deal, which evidence from the first trial showed was worth as
much as $96.2 million if Las Vegas Sands received a Macau gaming
license.  Olympic Bid  The Nevada appeals court, in reversing the jury verdict,
found that the trial judge was wrong to allow evidence from a
deposition by former Las Vegas Sands President William Weidner
that linked Adelson’s purported part in the Olympic bid with Las
Vegas Sands winning a gaming license.  In the deposition played before the jury during the 2008
trial, Weidner recalled how a Las Vegas Sands executive vice
president ran into  Stanley Ho , a Macau gambling mogul, at a
players’ party in Hong Kong before the Macau casino concessions
had been granted.  “By the way that Olympic thing, I think you guys won the
find, that Olympic thing. That’s what I hear from my guys in
Beijing,” Ho told the Las Vegas Sands executive, according to
Weidner’s deposition testimony cited in the appeals court
ruling.  Hearsay Layers  The appeals court said the statement contained layers of
hearsay, out-of-court statements that can’t be used as evidence,
without which the jury might have concluded that there was no
connection between the Beijing meetings and the award of the
Macau license.  The appeals court also said the trial judge had been wrong
not to instruct the jury that it could assume government is
operating according to the law, not breaking it.  Las Vegas Sands has argued that under Macau’s status as a
special administrative region of China, similar to Hong Kong,
the government in Beijing can’t interfere in Macau’s affairs
except on issues of foreign affairs and national defense. As
such, Beijing officials have no influence on who gets a gaming
license in Macau.  Without clear evidence to the contrary, the trial judge
should have presumed that the Chinese and Macau governments
followed the law that forbids Chinese interference in Macau’s
internal affairs, Las Vegas Sands argued on appeal.  Family Backing  Las Vegas Sands said it obtained the Macau license after it
took the suggestion of the local government and joined the bid
by  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , backed by two “prominent
and wealthy Hong Kong families” who had the wherewithal to
invest in Macau and lacked casino expertise.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , Stanley Ho and the Galaxy/Las Vegas
Sands group were awarded the three concessions issued by the
Macau government in 2002.  Galaxy dropped out of the venture because it was reluctant
to comply with Las Vegas Sands disclosure requirements under
Nevada law, leaving Las Vegas Sands to fund its Macau
development itself, the company said. The Macau government and
Galaxy agreed to give Las Vegas Sands a subconcession rather
than soliciting new bidders, the company said.  Suen alleged that Macau Chief Executive Edmund Ho, because
of the goodwill Suen had generated, gave the Las Vegas Sands bid
preferential treatment, “to the detriment of other well-
qualified candidates because he knew Las Vegas Sands had been
favorably received by the highest authorities in Beijing.”  The case is Suen v. Las Vegas Sands Corp., 04A493744,
Nevada District Court,  Clark County  (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 