-- Asian Stocks Rebound as Yen Weakens; South Korea’s Won Climbs
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-19T05:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/asian-stocks-rebound-as-yen-weakens-south-korea-s-won-climbs.html
Asian  stocks  rebounded from the
biggest drop in eight months and metals recovered as concern
receded on Europe’s debt crisis. The yen resumed its slide,
while  South Korea ’s won snapped an eight-day losing streak.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.5 percent as of 2:31
p.m. in  Tokyo . Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added
0.1 percent. Copper, aluminum and zinc gained at least 0.2
percent after dropping by more than 1 percent yesterday. The yen
weakened 0.4 percent to 95.56 per dollar, halting a three-day
advance. The won strengthened 0.4 percent.  Stocks are rebounding, after more than $500 billion of
market value was erased yesterday, on optimism a plan to tax
Cyprus’s bank accounts to fund a bailout won’t be replicated
elsewhere.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa steps down
today, making way for Haruhiko Kuroda, who has pledged to do
whatever it takes to end deflation. The U.S. Federal Reserve
starts a two-day policy meeting today.  “Investors are not overly concerned about the potential
for political contagion,” said Ric Spooner, chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Investors and bank
depositors appear to accept assurances that this is a one-off
measure that would not be imposed on citizens of larger debtor
nations elsewhere in  Europe .”  Former European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo
Bini Smaghi said the type of bailout proposed for Cyprus, which
will be voted on by the island’s lawmakers today, only makes
sense there because bank balance sheets are so large compared to
gross domestic product. “There’s no reason for doing that in
other countries,” he said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Susan Li .  Nikkei Rally  About two shares rose for each that fell on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index, which yesterday tumbled 1.9 percent from a 20-
month high. The gauge traded at 14.6 times average estimated
earnings yesterday compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and a multiple of 12.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 2 percent, after
dropping 2.7 percent yesterday. The gauge is trading within 1
percent of a four-year high reached last week. South Korea’s
Kospi Index climbed 0.6 percent, while  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index added 0.3 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  rallied 1 percent after
Japan’s largest publicly traded lender yesterday fell by the
most in eight months. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
clothier that counts Europe as its No. 1 market, gained 2.6
percent.  Copper, Gold  Copper, aluminum and zinc rebounded from the lowest levels
in about four months. Copper for delivery in three months gained
0.2 percent to $7,593 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.
Aluminum climbed 0.5 percent to $1,945 a ton, and zinc rose 0.6
percent to $1,930 per ton.  Gold held at $1,605.95 an ounce, its highest level in more
than two weeks, before the  Federal Reserve  starts its policy
meeting amid bets board members will decide to keep buying bonds
to support growth. The metal has fallen 4.2 percent this year as
some Fed officials called for stimulus to be reined in.  The won snapped its longest run of losses in almost five
years as investors judged recent declines excessive. The
dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against South Korea’s
currency closed above 70 in the last two days, a threshold that
signals the greenback may weaken.  The yen declined versus all its 16 major peers before a
change of leadership at the BOJ takes effect tomorrow. It is
this year’s worst performer in a basket of currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices and has slumped 17
percent versus the greenback in the past six months.  Outgoing BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said receding  risk
aversion  is making the yen weaker. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Barclays Plc predict the bank will add stimulus as soon
as the next policy meeting on April 3-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  