-- Asia Stocks Pare Gains on Report Cyprus Won’t Pass Levy
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-03-19T10:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/asian-stocks-rebound-from-biggest-slump-since-july.html
Asian  stocks  pared gains after a
report suggested Cyprus’ parliament won’t approve a tax on  bank
deposits  needed to secure a euro-zone bailout.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based clothier that
counts Europe as its No. 1 market, gained 2.2 percent, paring
gains of as much as 5.7 percent.  Alacer Gold Corp. (AQG)  advanced 2.3
percent in Sydney as gold traded near its highest in three
weeks. Mainland utilities gained after profit from China
Resources Power Holdings Co. beat estimates, raising
expectations the group may outperform.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.4 percent to 134.59 as
of 7:37 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring an advance of as much as 0.8
percent. The measure declined 1.9 percent yesterday as an
unprecedented plan to tax bank deposits in Cyprus spurred $500
billion in global equity losses. Reuters reported today that the
nation’s parliament won’t approve the banking levy, a condition
for an international bailout.  “People don’t really know what the impact of the Cypriot
situation will be,” said  Andrew Sullivan , director of sales
trading at Kim Eng Securities  Hong Kong  Ltd, a brokerage unit of
Malayan Banking Bhd. “It’s a small country with little economic
clout but that doesn’t mean it couldn’t upset the apple cart as
Europe remains fragile.”  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 2 percent as
exporters and shippers rose after the yen weakened.  Canon Inc. (7751) ,
the world’s biggest camera maker, gained 3.1 percent to 3,490
yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd., Japan’s third-biggest shipping
line by market value, rose 3.2 percent to 224 yen.  RBA Minutes  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slid 0.6 percent. There are
signs the economy is responding to the lowest  interest rates  in
half a century, according to minutes from a  Reserve Bank  of
Australia meeting from earlier this month.  South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.5 percent ,and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index fell 0.2 percent, reversing gains of as much as 0.6
percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index increased 0.8 percent.  Volumes were below the 30-day intraday average in Hong
Kong, Japan,  Taiwan  and South Korea.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied 3.7 percent this year
through yesterday as improving economic data from the U.S. and
speculation that Japan will deploy more stimulus countered
concern over China’s efforts to rein in property prices. Every
benchmark index across the Asia-Pacific region fell yesterday.  Asia Earnings  Earnings-per-share on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  will grow
10 percent in the next 12 months and expand a further 15 percent
in the following year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The gauge traded at 14.9 times average  estimated earnings 
compared with 14 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a
multiple of 12.8 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While the market may well be subjected to bouts of
concern again, we see the year being a positive one for
equities,” said Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist at
the wealth management unit of Barclays Plc in Singapore, which
oversees $248 billion. “The degree in which the market has been
performing year-to-date is especially encouraging, given the
world was served with quite a number of event risks.”  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  dropped less than 0.1 percent.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 0.4 percent yesterday,
after reaching a record last week, following declines in
European and Asian equity markets.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to
begin a two-day meeting today. The committee in December agreed
to link its zero-interest-rate policy to thresholds for
unemployment and inflation so investors and households know what
conditions will prompt the central bank to consider raising
borrowing costs.  Gold traded near its highest in three weeks. Alacer
advanced 2.3 percent to A$3.64 and Newcrest added 1.5 percent to
A$22.50 in Sydney. Regis Resources gained 0.5 percent to A$4.40.  China Resources Power rose 8.1 percent to HK$22.65,
extending yesterday’s 3.7 percent gain. The utility reported
yesterday a 68 percent increase in full-year net income to
HK$7.48 billion ($964 million). That compares with the HK$6.8
billion average estimate by 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Utilities advanced on optimism other electricity suppliers
will also surpass analyst estimates, Shi Yan, an analyst at UOB-
Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Shanghai, said by phone. Huaneng Power
International Inc., a mainland electricity producer that is due
to report results after the close, rose 5.3 percent to HK$8.09.
 ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. (2688) , a natural-gas distributor, rose 5.2
percent to HK$43.40.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  