-- Senate Leaders Drop Assault-Weapon From Gun-Safety Bill
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-20T16:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/assault-weapon-ban-won-t-be-in-gun-measure-durbin-says.html
Three months after the shootings of
20 children and six adults at a  Connecticut  elementary school
outraged the nation, Senate Democratic leaders are dropping an
assault-weapons ban from gun legislation.  While public opinion polls show most Americans support such
a ban, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday the
proposal has fewer than 40 votes in the 100-member chamber. Its
sponsor, California Democrat  Dianne Feinstein , will be given a
chance to offer the measure as an amendment to gun legislation
that Democrats will introduce, second-ranking Democrat  Dick Durbin  told reporters.  The assault-weapon ban is “the toughest one and the
hottest politically” of the gun-safety measures passed by the
Senate Judiciary Committee, Durbin said today at a breakfast
sponsored by the Wall Street Journal. He said Reid’s decision to
exclude it from gun-safety legislation “is reflecting the
reality” that “you need 60 votes to open the debate.”  Allowing Feinstein to introduce the proposal as an
amendment “is the best way we can do to make sure it comes to
the floor,” Durbin said.  Advocates for stricter gun laws had counted on public anger
over the Dec. 14 shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, to end a
two-decade drought in major U.S. gun legislation. A 1994 ban on
assault weapons expired in 2004. An ABC News/Washington Post
poll conducted March 7-10 found 57 percent supporting such a ban
and 41 percent opposing it.  Obama Proposal  President  Barack Obama  urged Congress last month to enact
measures including restoring the ban on the sale of military-
style assault weapons. “Weapons of war have no place on our
streets or in our schools or threatening our law enforcement
officers,” he said in a speech in  Minneapolis .  Still, backers of gun restrictions have said it will be
difficult to pass any measure limiting weapon ownership in the
House or Senate.  The  National Rifle Association , a Fairfax, Virginia-based
gun-ownership-rights advocacy group that claims 4 million
members, opposes curbs on owning firearms. Many Republicans say
they prefer to improve enforcement of existing laws, and that
criminals will be able to obtain guns regardless of any ban.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he’s trying to craft
legislation that would ensure votes on banning assault weapons
and high-capacity ammunition magazines, expanding background
checks for gun purchases, bolstering federal aid for school
safety and toughening penalties for illegal firearms
trafficking.  Congress Recess  “But I cannot do that until I get a bill on the floor,”
Reid told reporters in  Washington . He said he wants to have
legislation ready next month after the Senate returns from a 2
1/2-week recess set to begin March 23.  Feinstein’s proposed assault-weapon ban, “using the most
optimistic numbers, has less than 40 votes,” Reid said.
“That’s not 60.”  Durbin said it’s his understanding that Reid will offer
legislation containing three main elements: expanding background
checks for gun buyers, boosting school safety and imposing
tougher penalties for gun trafficking.  Legislation to toughen penalties for “straw purchases” of
guns is the most likely bill to pass the Senate, Durbin, a co-
sponsor said today.  ‘It’s Significant’  “It’s significant” because beat cops in  Chicago ’s most
violent neighborhoods say the prospect of a 15-year sentence for
illegal gun trafficking “scares the hell out of” people who
would buy guns for friends, Durbin said.  At least six senators in the 55-member Senate Democratic
caucus have expressed skepticism or outright opposition to an
assault-weapon ban. That includes senators representing pro-gun
states such as  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester of  Montana ,  Mark Begich 
of  Alaska  and Heidi Heitkamp of  North Dakota .  Their opposition would doom chances for the measure to gain
a 51-vote majority, much less attain the 60-vote supermajority
needed for major legislation to advance in the Senate.  The Senate Judiciary Committee on March 14 approved a
measure to ban assault weapons and place limits on high-capacity
ammunition magazines. The vote was 10-8, with only Democrats in
support.  Feinstein’s proposal to limit the size of high-capacity
ammunition magazines has a better chance of passing the Senate,
“maybe over 50” percent, than the assault-weapons ban, Durbin
said.  ‘A Bazooka’  Feinstein said March 14 that the ban would exempt current
and retired law-enforcement officials, and it wouldn’t require
anyone to surrender a weapon they legally own. It would exempt
more than 2,000 firearms by make and model, she said.  “Isn’t that enough for the people of the  United States ? Do
they need a bazooka?” Feinstein said March 14.  The gun lobby opposes any restrictions on ownership of
firearms and ammunition, and wants to thwart an expansion of
background checks.  The NRA spent $16.6 million on  television advertising  in
the 2012 election cycle, including $12 million against Obama,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  