-- Tate’s Beard to Head Royal Opera House, Replacing Hall
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-03-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/tate-s-beard-to-head-royal-opera-house-replacing-hall.html
Alex Beard , deputy director of Tate
and a man with a strong business background, will head the Royal
Opera House in  London , replacing Tony Hall. He takes over one of
the world’s top opera and ballet companies.  Beard, 49, spent 19 years at Tate, the U.K. network of
galleries. Joining as finance director in 1994, he helped turn
an ex-power station into Tate Modern. The music enthusiast has
served since 2008 on the board of Glyndebourne Productions Ltd.  The search for a new chief executive became necessary after
Hall’s November appointment as director-general of the British
Broadcasting Corp., where he previously headed BBC News.  Beard “brings a wealth of managerial experience from his
very successful partnership with Nick Serota at Tate, as well as
the insights and perspectives that this role has given him,”
Royal Opera House Chairman Simon Robey said in the release.
Serota is the director of Tate.  Beard said he was “absolutely delighted” to get the job.
“To have the opportunity to build on Tony Hall’s achievements
and strengthen the Royal Opera House’s reputation as one of the
world’s leading artistic and creative forces is hugely
exciting,” he said in the release.  Serota said Beard had made a “massive contribution” to
Tate’s development, and commended his “quick intelligence and
sense of enterprise.”  The new opera boss was made a Commander of the Order of the
British Empire (a U.K. honor just below a knighthood) last year
for services to the arts.  Low Profile  At Tate, he has run the business and income side, and kept
a fairly low public profile.  Beard previously worked for seven years at the Arts Council
-- the organization that distributes U.K. government cultural
grants -- where he assessed grant recipients from a business
standpoint. He also worked at  KPMG  in London in the mid-1980s.  His predecessor Hall, now 62, spent 12 years at  Covent
Garden . He brought stability to a house that, only 15 years ago,
was on the brink of insolvency. Hall battled to tone down its
elitist image, boosted the supply of affordable tickets, reached
out to uninitiated audiences and delegated effectively.  In the decade to September 2011 (the most recently reported
period), revenue rose 113 percent and reliance on government
subsidy dropped 35 percent. The government today gives the opera
house about 26 million pounds ($39.3 million) a year, roughly a
quarter of the house’s total revenue. The house ranks among the
world’s top companies for its artistic standards.  Opera Workshops  Hall -- who became a life peer in the House of Lords in
2010 -- also had the opera house build production workshops in
Thurrock, southeast  England , where he encouraged artistic
projects involving the local community.  “You’ve got to have absolutely world-class singers, be
elitist in that sense, but not elitist about the people who come
and see what you do,” Hall told  Bloomberg News  in a 2006
interview.  In 2009, on top of his Royal Opera House job, Hall was put
in charge of the Cultural Olympiad, the arts festival organized
around the 2012 London  Olympic Games .  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on U.K. food,  Ryan
Sutton  on U.S. food,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art exhibitions,  Mark
Beech  on music and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 