-- Aussie Near 5-Week High as RBA’s Lowe Defends Level; Kiwi Drops
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-19T05:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/aussie-trades-near-5-week-high-after-lowe-defends-higher-level.html
Australia ’s dollar traded 0.3
percent from a five-week high after central bank Deputy Governor
Philip Lowe defended a higher exchange rate and savings level,
saying they helped stabilize the economy.  The so-called Aussie rose against the yen after minutes of
the Reserve Bank of Australia’s March 5 meeting said there are
signs the economy is responding to low interest rates. New
Zealand’s currency slid against most major peers after Finance
Minister Bill English said the currency is overvalued and he
expects interest rates to stay lower for longer.  “The deputy governor is sounding the victory bell on
inflation in the mining boom,” said Andrew Salter, a currency
strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Sydney. “We managed to come through the boom without an
excessively high level of inflation. It’s hard to see a long-
term short position in the Australian dollar bearing any
fruit,” he said referring to bets that an asset will decline.  The Australian currency fetched $1.0386 as of 4:50 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0402 yesterday. It touched $1.0415 on March 15,
the highest since Feb. 5. The Aussie added 0.3 percent to 99.28
yen. New Zealand’s kiwi weakened 0.2 percent to 82.55 U.S.
cents. It gained 0.3 percent to 78.91 yen.  The RBA’s Lowe said a stronger currency and higher savings
rate have helped contain inflation and allowed lower interest
rates even as the mining industry boomed.  “These factors have helped Australia to digest a huge
investment boom without generating substantial imbalances in the
economy,” he said today in Sydney.  RBA Policy  “The market will certainly interpret the comments in a
positive light,” said ANZ’s Salter. “They will encourage the
market to continue pricing in a normalization of policy in
Australia.” ANZ expects the RBA to hold benchmark borrowing
costs unchanged in April.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 18 percent chance the RBA will cut the benchmark rate at
the next meeting on April 2.  “Interest-sensitive parts of the economy continued to show
signs of responding to these low rates,” according to minutes
of the central bank’s meeting this month when it kept its key
rate on hold at 3 percent. “It was appropriate to hold rates
steady, and to assess further developments.”  ‘Wait and See’  “The message from the minutes today chimes with a speech
earlier today by RBA Deputy Governor Lowe,” Alvin Pontoh, an
Asia-Pacific strategist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore ,
wrote in a note to clients. “We continue to get a sense that
the RBA remains in wait-and-see mode.”  Australian bonds retreated as the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) 
of shares advanced 0.5 percent.  Three-year bond  yield rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.02 percent from
yesterday, when it dropped 17 basis points. The 10-year rate
climbed eight basis points to 3.55 percent.  Australia’s bond market is benefiting from strong
international demand for assets in the nation’s currency, RBA
Assistant Governor Guy Debelle said today.  The Aussie has gained 2.3 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Its New
Zealand counterpart has risen 3.2 percent in the same period.  Demand for the kiwi was hurt after Finance Minister English
said the currency was overvalued.  “There may be a correction in valuation with the exchange
rate when the U.S. economy is clearly picking up, and there are
signs of that now,” English said in an interview in Hong Kong.
The strength in the currency is “driven to a large extent by
quantitative easing.”  English’s words “at the edge add to some of the bearish
tone we’ve seen around the New Zealand dollar,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  “I still think the currency is going to be pretty well
supported on dips.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  