-- Austria to Hold Its Biggest Ever Spectrum Auction This Fall
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-19T10:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/austria-to-hold-its-biggest-ever-spectrum-auction-in-september.html
Austria’s telecommunications
regulator will hold the biggest sale of radio frequencies in the
nation’s history this year in an auction that mobile operators
say is too complex.  The auction of 28 frequency blocks of 800 MHz, 900 MHz and
1,800 MHz spectrum will take place in September, the regulator,
TKK, said yesterday. Minimum bids will be 526 million euros
($680 million) in total, it said.  “The maximization of revenue is not a goal of the
frequency auction,” Vienna-based TKK said a  document  posted on
its website.  Operators need the spectrum to expand wireless broadband
networks to bring faster Internet to devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone 5 and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S4 in the
Alpine nation of 8.2 million. The auction, initially scheduled
to take place last year, was delayed due to the takeover of
Orange Austria by  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , which was completed
early this year.  It will be designed as a “combinatory clock auction,”
which has been used in similar sales in the Netherlands,
Switzerland, Denmark, Ireland and Great Britain, TKK said. The
auction design has drawn criticism from operators, who say it
can lead to irrationally high prices. T-Mobile Austria,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Austrian unit, has hired a game theoretician to
help with the auction, spokesman Helmut Spudich said in an
interview.  Consumer Prices  Auction proceeds that are too high can have negative
consequences on consumer prices or the development of
infrastructure, Jan Trionow, chief executive officer of
Hutchison’s Austrian unit, said in a telephone interview.
“Whatever mobile operators spend on the auction, they have to
earn back.”  Hutchison plans to spend “three-digit-million” euros on
the development of its network, not counting the amount it
spends on spectrum, Trionow said.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ’s stock  fell  as much as 5.1 percent in
Vienna and was down 4.5 percent at 5.51 euros at 10:46 a.m.
after Deutsche Bank cut its recommendation to hold from buy.
Investors may focus attention on a potential new entrant with
regulators willing to favor it, analysts wrote in a note to
clients.  The Austrian regulator said it had reserved two frequency
blocks for a new entrant to promote competition. After
Hutchison’s takeover of Orange Austria, the number of mobile
operators fell to three.  Dutch Proceeds  In December, four carriers paid the Dutch government a
total of 3.8 billion euros -- more than expected -- sinking
Royal KPN NV and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s stocks and prompting KPN
to cancel its dividend.  The Czech Telecommunications Office canceled an auction of
radio frequencies on March 8 after bids from the four operators
taking part rose above $1 billion. Such high prices would
translate into excessive charges for fast Internet, the agency’s
chairman, Pavel Dvorak, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  