-- Australian Stocks Decline Third Day Amid Cyprus Bailout Concern
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-19T23:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/australian-stocks-decline-third-day-amid-cyprus-bailout-concern.html
Australian  stocks  declined for a
third day as Cyprus rejected a bank-deposit levy needed to
secure European bailout funds, sparking a standoff that risks
reigniting the region’s debt crisis. U.S. equity futures fell.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
declined 2.7 percent in Sydney, as metals prices retreated for a
third day.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  dropped 2.7 percent as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts said slower growth in steel demand will
weigh on iron-ore prices.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-
largest department store chain, rose 3.9 percent as profit
topped estimates.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 0.7 percent to
4,950.80 as of 10:19 a.m. in Sydney. The gauge has fallen for
six of the past seven trading days after reaching the highest
level in almost five years on March 11. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index rose 0.3 percent. Japanese equity markets are closed today
for a holiday.  “Confidence is shot,” said Chris Bertelsen, chief
investment officer at Global Financial Private Capital, a
Sarasota-based private wealth firm with about $1.7 billion in
assets under management. “It’s a major shot across the bow in
terms of the faith investors have in European policy makers.
It’s going to continue to affect global markets going forward
and is a good reason for the market, that had been pretty giddy,
to have a bit of a correction.”  Annual Gain  Australia’s benchmark climbed 7.3 percent this year through
yesterday as improving economic data from the U.S. and
speculation that central banks from Japan to Europe and the U.S.
will continue to deploy stimulus countered concern over China’s
efforts to rein in property prices.  That pushed valuations on Australia’s benchmark to 15.2
times average estimated earnings yesterday compared with 14 for
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and a multiple of 12.7 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3
percent. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.2 percent yesterday, sending the
gauge to its longest slump of the year, as Cyprus lawmakers
rejected an unprecedented levy on  bank deposits , dealing a blow
to European plans to force savers to shoulder part of the
country’s bailout.  Hammered out by euro-area finance chiefs at the weekend,
the deal had sought to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) by
drawing funds from Cyprus bank accounts in return for 10 billion
euros in international aid. While the Mediterranean island
nation accounts for less than half a percent of the euro
economy, the fight over the bank tax risks triggering new
turmoil in the financial crisis that began in 2009 in Greece.  Fed Meets  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will conclude a two-day
meeting today. The policy makers agreed in December to link
record-low  interest rates  to thresholds for unemployment and
inflation so that investors and households know what conditions
will prompt the  Federal Reserve  to consider raising rates.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 0.8 percent in New York
yesterday to a four-month low. China Mobile Ltd. led a retreat
among phone operators. Solar-panel maker Suntech Power Holdings
Co. extended declines to a second day after defaulting on a bond
payment.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will rebound this week to
resume a rally from a December low that will leave it 48 percent
higher within the next six months, according Tom DeMark, the
founder of Market Studies LLC.  The Shanghai Composite, which closed at 2,257.43 yesterday,
will resume the rally once it falls below 2,232 today or
tomorrow, DeMark said. The  Paradise Valley , Arizona-based
creator of indicators to show turning points in securities said
Feb. 6 that the measure would decline about 8 percent to within
a range of 2,230 to 2,250 before rebounding. The index was down
8 percent from when he made the call to the March 18 close of
2,240.02.  The  London Metal Exchange Index (LMEX)  of industrials metals fell
0.4 percent, a third day of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  