-- Austria’s Meinl Gets $116 Million Bail Refund After Four Years
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-19T15:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/austria-s-meinl-gets-116-million-bail-refund-after-four-years.html
Julius Meinl V, the scion of a
coffee-roasting Vienna family and chairman of Meinl Bank AG,
will get 90 percent of a 100 million-euro ($129 million) bail
returned four years after his arrest on fraud allegations.  An appeals court in Vienna ruled that the bail was
excessive and that 10 million euros was sufficient to ensure
Meinl doesn’t flee, said court spokesman Reinhard Hinger.  “The European Court of Human Rights has in a different
case ruled that a 3 million-euro bail was ‘very high’ and
pushing the limits,” Hinger said in a phone interview. “An
amount that exceeds this by such a factor is too high at any
rate.”  Meinl, whose bank focuses on wealth management and
investment banking, was arrested in April 2009 over allegations
of fraud and misuse of funds related to share purchases in Meinl
Bank affiliate  Meinl European Land. (ATRS)  Meinl, who rejects the
allegations, was released after two days when he posted bail.  Prosecutors are still investigating Meinl, who hasn’t been
charged with a crime, spokeswoman Nina Bussek said. In  Austria ,
suspects who haven’t been indicted can be forced to post bail if
a court finds a strong suspicion of guilt and there is a
possibility of flight risk.  Meinl Bank Chief Executive Officer Peter Weinzierl said in
an e-mailed statement that the court was correct in ruling that
the “bail was absurdly high.”  Meinl’s original bail exceeded the $100 million bond put up
in 2009 by  Raj Rajaratnam , the hedge-fund tycoon and Galleon
Group LLC co-founder, who was found guilty in one of the largest
U.S. illegal stock-tipping cases. It dwarfs the $10 million
provided by  Bernard Madoff  in 2008 and the $6 million surety by
former IMF head  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  in 2010.  The Meinl family name is one of the most recognized in
Austria, marketing coffee, tea and jelly. Julius Meinl I ran the
Austro-Hungarian monarchy’s biggest chain of grocery stores,
with more than 1,200 shops and 63 factories in 1901.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  