-- Australian Ministers Say They Back Gillard Leadership
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-19T05:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/australian-ministers-say-they-back-gillard-leadership-1-.html
Two ministers in Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government rejected reports they’ve
lost confidence in her leadership, as opinion polls show her
Labor party is on course to lose the September election.  “Those stories aren’t true,” Foreign Minister Bob Carr
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television in an interview
broadcast from  Washington  today. “I’m loyal to Julia Gillard.”
Minister for Mental Health and Ageing Mark Butler said in a
Twitter posting he remains a “proud member” of her team, after
the Sydney Morning Herald said the lawmaker was reconsidering
his support for the prime minister.  With parliament in its last sitting week before the May 14
 federal budget , media speculation is mounting that Labor members
will return the leadership to  Kevin Rudd , who was ousted by
Gillard in a June 2010 party coup. The minority government has
trailed in opinion polls for almost two years, with surveys this
month showing Gillard lags opposition leader  Tony Abbott  on the
question of preferred prime minister.  Support for Gillard has waned after a series of policy back
flips -- including on a tax on  carbon emissions  -- and scandals
involving senior party members. A weakening manufacturing sector
in some key Labor seats on the fringes of major cities has also
seen her support dissipate.  Female Leader  Alongside perceived policy missteps, Gillard has come under
scrutiny as  Australia ’s first female prime minister. In a
September 2011 interview with  Bloomberg News , she described the
Australian culture as “blokey” and last year in parliament
accused Abbott of “repulsive double standards when it comes to
misogyny and sexism.”  During parliamentary question time today, Abbott asked
whether Gillard would view it as a reflection of a lack of
confidence in her government if lawmakers fail to pass
legislation on the  media industry  this week. Gillard responded
by saying Labor will win the Sept. 14 election.  “It will be a contest, counter intuitive to those
believing in gender stereotypes, but a contest between a strong
feisty woman and a policy weak man, and I’ll win it,” Gillard
said.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 48 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition
falling 3 points to 52 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper on March 12. The poll also
showed Labor would win the election if Rudd replaced Gillard as
Labor leader.  Rudd’s Popularity  A separate poll published yesterday in Fairfax newspapers
showed Rudd is twice as popular with voters as Gillard. Asked
who of the two was the preferred Labor leader, 62 percent of
respondents said Rudd and 31 percent chose Gillard, according to
the Nielsen survey.  Among reasons cited by Gillard and her supporters for
Rudd’s ouster in 2010 were his erratic decision-making, lack of
communication and his desire to concentrate power away from his
own ministers. Rudd said early last year that he’d learned the
lessons from his time as prime minister and would try to
delegate and consult more widely.  Gillard  told Fairfax newspapers  in an interview published
yesterday that she wouldn’t yield to leadership speculation:
“If I haven’t flinched yet, why would I flinch now?” she was
cited as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  