-- Authenticity Key to Wooing Younger Wine Consumers, Price Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-19T17:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/authenticity-key-to-wooing-younger-wine-consumers-price-says.html
California ’s $20 billion wine
industry needs to work harder to entice young consumers who
resist conventional marketing, said William Price, a co-founder
of buyout firm TPG Capital and chairman of Vincraft Group.  Younger wine buyers, those born in the 1980s and 1990s and
known as Generation Y, or millennials, are the fastest-growing
segment of the U.S. wine market and are notoriously averse to
obvious marketing tactics, said Price, who spoke on a wine-
business panel at Bloomberg’s San Francisco bureau yesterday.  “The key thing to the younger drinkers is being authentic
-- they have super-sensitive noses about what’s not authentic
about your brand,” Price said. “Just trying to be sure what
you stand for is true in every aspect in your business, all the
way from where you contact people to how you make your wine, how
you grow your grapes.”  The Bloomberg panel featured Price; Michael Honig,
president of  Honig Vineyard & Winery , who serves on the board of
directors of Napa Valley Vintners, a trade association; and Rob McMillan, executive vice president and founder of Silicon Valley
Bank’s wine division. They talked about wine sales in the
aftermath of the financial crisis, winery buyouts and the
emergence of Asia, including  China , as increasingly important
markets for the U.S. wine industry.  California Sales  California wine sales have been growing since the recession
ended in 2009, hitting a record in 2011, with about $20 billion
in U.S. sales, according to the latest completed  figures  from
the Wine Institute, a San Francisco-based trade group. After a
decade of increasing sales, the estimated retail value of
California wine declined during the recession in 2008, falling
to $17.9 billion the next year.  With the economy recovering,  McMillan  expects the fine-wine
business to continue seeing steady growth, although at a lower
rate than in previous years. He estimates that sales will
increase 4 percent to 8 percent this year.  “The business is trending up really nicely now,” McMillan
said. “We’re starting to see improved pricing and improved
profitability for the business. It got pretty ugly there for a
while.”  Price, whose wine investment firm,  Vincraft Group , owns a
majority stake in cult Pinot Noir producer Kosta Browne and Gary
Farrell winery, also founded Three Sticks winery in 2002 and
owns the Durell, Gap’s Crown, Wilson, Dupont and One Sky
vineyards.  Millenial Generation  Honig agreed with Price about the challenges of marketing
to the millennial generation.  “They’ve been lied to so often and so many times about
these fanciful brands,” Honig said. “It’s like the Wizard of
Oz, what’s behind the curtain? Well, there’s nothing behind the
curtain.”  As part of his role on the Napa Valley Vintners board,
Honig helped seek recognition from Chinese authorities for the
California winegrowing region’s “geographic indication” status,
giving Napa wineries the opportunity to improve brand protection
and marketing.  Some care is warranted when approaching the Chinese market
for California’s fine wines, Honig said.  “We’re being very cautious right now,” Honig said.
“We’re looking at other markets that are very developed --
South Korea,  Vietnam ,  Malaysia ,  Japan  -- as we grow into China,
knowing there’s a lot of hope in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  