-- Azeris Plan to Curb OSCE Remit After Years of Criticism
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-03-19T14:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/azeris-plan-to-curb-osce-remit-after-years-of-criticism.html
Azerbaijan  proposed downgrading the
local mandate of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in  Europe , which monitors elections and human rights in the
Caspian nation, before a planned presidential ballot in October.  Azeri Foreign Minister Elmar Mammadyarov wrote to Leonid Kozhara, his counterpart from Ukraine, which holds the OSCE’s
rotating chairmanship, saying the remit of the organization’s
office in the capital, Baku, should be limited to “project
coordinator,” according to a letter seen by  Bloomberg News .  “We remain fully committed to the OSCE and its
principles,” Mammadyarov wrote. “At the same time, we believe
cooperation mechanisms established between the OSCE and
Azerbaijan need to be adapted to current realities.”  The OSCE has said Azeri elections have failed to meet
democratic standards since it opened its office in 2000 and has
urged the government to seek a peaceful solution to a conflict
with neighboring  Armenia  over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh
region. Downgrading the OSCE’s local status would mean the
office could only implement projects approved by Azerbaijan’s
Foreign Ministry, according to the letter.  No one at the OSCE’s local office answered calls or e-mails
seeking comment. Lamberto Zannier, the organization’s secretary
general, met Mammadyarov and President  Ilham Aliyev  in Baku last
week, saying he was “confident the OSCE would continue its
cooperation,” according to a statement on the OSCE’s  website .  The organization’s Baku office continues “to play an
important role in helping Azerbaijan to develop its democratic
institutions,” the U.S. mission to the OSCE said in a
statement. “We believe it is in the best interest of the
government of Azerbaijan to continue in good faith and respect
the terms of the agreed mandate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  