-- BAE to Consult Investors on Chairman Search After EADS Fallout
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-19T14:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bae-to-consult-investors-on-chairman-search-after-eads-fallout.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , which last year
drew investor ire for seeking a merger with the parent of Airbus
SAS, said it will consult major shareholders as it seeks a new
chairman to replace Dick Olver, who helped develop the plan.  BAE aims to announce a successor to Olver, who is due to
retire in May 2014, sometime this year, Nick Rose, the company’s
senior independent director and the man leading the search, said
in its annual report published today.  Olver met with opposition from BAE investors including
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , the No. 1 shareholder, over the talks with
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., which eventually
failed amid government opposition. Olver, who joined the board
of  Europe ’s largest armsmaker in 2004, defended the merger plan
in the report, saying it would have created a global leader in
technology across both commercial aerospace and defense.  “Prior to the discussions with EADS last year, we knew we
had a robust standalone strategy and business plan, but if a
board is to provide strategic leadership it also needs to look
at wider opportunities to deliver  shareholder value ,” he said.
“The merger discussions were at no time seen as a replacement
for the group’s established strategy.”  The BAE board met six times to review progress during the
EADS talks, which ran from June to October, the report reveals.  After the plan failed, Olver and Chief Executive Officer
Ian King said they’d revert to the original blueprint of seeking
long-term export markets, growing in cyber-security and boosting
revenue from services, and one key objective this year is to
develop “a comprehensive narrative” of this strategy, BAE said.  King’s total pay was cut 8.6 percent last year to 2.2
million pounds ($3.3 million) on a lower bonus, while Olver’s
compensation increased by 5.8 percent to 745,000 pounds, the
report shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  