-- Barclays CEO Jenkins Sees More Job Losses in Next Two Years
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-03-19T17:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/barclays-ceo-jenkins-sees-more-job-reductions-in-next-two-years.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
largest bank by assets, plans additional job cuts in the next
two years, Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said.  The largest part of reductions will come from people
leaving the company or retiring and not being replaced, Jenkins,
51, said in a speech at the Morgan Stanley European Financials
Conference in London today.  Jenkins has told investors the company may cut almost a
third of its workforce over the next decade as automation and
online banking lower the need for staff, two people familiar
with the conversations said earlier this month. The lender plans
to eliminate 3,700 jobs this year to reduce  annual costs  by 1.7
billion pounds ($2.6 billion), it said Feb. 12, when posting a
net loss of 1.04 billion pounds for 2012, its first in two
decades.  “I expect there will be substantial reductions in staff
numbers over time alongside automation, but we are not targeting
a specific headcount number,” he said in the speech published
on the London-based lender’s website.  Global financial firms have announced job cuts of around
158,308 since the start of last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, as they grapple with a weakened euro-area economy
and increased pressure from regulators to raise more capital and
trim compensation. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank,
said on Feb. 26 it will eliminate as many as 19,000 jobs in
mortgage and community banking through 2014 to cut costs.  U.S. Rules  Jenkins said he saw a “long period of subdued growth” for
the global economy.  The bank  has had a “good start” to 2013,
he said.  The bank is making plans in the event that U.S. regulators
force the firm to create an intermediate holding company for its
operations in the country, Jenkins said. Under the plans, banks
with more than $50 billion of global assets and more than $10
billion in the U.S. will have to house their U.S. units,
including securities trading, in regulated holding companies.  “We recognize what the U.S. authorities are seeking to
achieve and have an open and constructive dialog with them,” he
said. “From what we see so far, we think this too will be
manageable.”  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Edward Evans  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  