-- Bernanke Tightens Hold on Fed Message Against Hawks
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-19T17:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bernanke-tightens-hold-on-fed-message-against-hawks.html
Ben S. Bernanke  is tightening his
control of Federal Reserve communications to ensure investors
hear his pro-stimulus message over the cacophony of more hawkish
views from regional bank presidents.  The Fed chairman, starting tomorrow, will cut the time
between the release of post-meeting statements by the  Federal
Open Market Committee  and his news briefings, giving investors
less opportunity to misperceive the Fed’s intent. In recent
presentations, he has pledged to sustain easing, defending $85
billion in monthly bond purchases during congressional testimony
last month and warning that “premature removal of
accommodation” may weaken the expansion.  “Bernanke rightly views it as imperative to get out in
front of any movement to quickly pull away from stimulus, and to
signal that to markets,” said Jonathan Wright, an economics
professor at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore who worked at
the Fed’s division of monetary affairs from 2004 until 2008.
Bernanke “felt he needed to take the wheel” of communications
to dispel any misperception that the Fed will end bond purchases
too soon.  Bernanke’s push to continue record stimulus faltered with
the Jan. 3 release of minutes from the FOMC’s December meeting,
which said several officials favored slowing or stopping  bond
buying  well before the end of 2013. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose that day about 0.07 percentage point to 1.91
percent, the highest since May.  Promoting Purchases  In his congressional testimony Feb. 26 and 27 and a March 1
speech at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco , Bernanke
promoted the Fed’s bond purchases, saying stimulus shouldn’t be
slowed by financial-stability concerns. Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  echoed those views March 4.  The Fed chairman wants to avert an unintended rise in
Treasury yields that would undermine his unprecedented efforts
to reduce long-term  interest rates  and speed growth, including
the rebound in vehicle sales and housing, said Nathan Sheets,
the Fed’s top international economist from 2007 until 2011.  “If long rates rise because of a misunderstanding of the
Fed policy path, that is something that is worrisome and that is
something they want to clarify,” said Sheets, now global head
of international economics at Citigroup Inc. in  New York .
“Lower rates are absolutely supporting the recovery and
stimulating the housing market, autos and durable goods.”  Third Round  Several FOMC participants have strayed from Bernanke’s line
during the past year.  Richard Fisher , president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Dallas , said he saw no need for more stimulus on
Aug. 8, about a month before the central bank started a third
round of quantitative easing.  “We keep applying what I call monetary Ritalin to the
system,” he said in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “We all know there’s a risk of
over-prescribing.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said on Aug. 30
that the potential disadvantages of additional securities
purchases outweighed the benefits.  “Increasing accommodation creates risks, and we need to
balance those,” he said in an interview with CNBC at the Fed
symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Plosser, Fisher and Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
are the most “hawkish” FOMC participants, calling for a
comparatively aggressive approach to fighting inflation, and
aren’t “signals” for future committee action, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York.  Steer Policy  “The committee is increasingly a democracy, and if you
have one-fourth of the votes, you’re not going to steer
policy,” said Feroli, a former Fed researcher.  The 12 district bank presidents have five votes on the  12-
member FOMC , with the New York Fed president holding a permanent
position and the others annually rotating onto the panel. Lacker
voted in 2012 and repeatedly dissented; neither he, Plosser nor
Fisher vote this year.  Bernanke, in speeches and testimonies last year, pushed
down  yields  on 10-year Treasuries by 0.06 percentage point on a
cumulative basis, more than any of the other 18 FOMC
participants, as he promoted accommodation more forcefully than
investors anticipated, according to Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  The research company gauged the impact from speeches and
radio or TV interviews, starting from 15 minutes before the
event until two hours afterward. It separately measured the
effect from Bernanke’s press conferences and semi-annual
testimonies to Congress.  Falling Short  The Fed chairman’s speeches last year, while temporarily
reducing bond yields, weren’t enough to counteract speeches by
his policy-making colleagues, who boosted 10-year yields by 0.11
percentage point when their enthusiasm for stimulus fell short
of investor expectations, according to the St. Louis-based
company.  “Last year’s speeches tended to be interpreted as more
hawkish than expected,” Macroeconomic Advisers said in a March
8 report.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  in 14 speeches last
year buoyed yields by 0.07 percentage point, the most of any
FOMC participant, the research firm said. Bullard was the first
Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of asset
purchases, which ran from November 2010 until June 2011.  Falling Unemployment  Bullard, who votes this year, has said the central bank
should reduce the pace of bond buying if unemployment declines
or economic growth accelerates, a view shared by Fisher and
Plosser. The jobless rate fell to  7.7 percent  in February from
7.9 percent the previous month, and gross domestic product grew
0.1 percent in the fourth quarter after a 3.1 percent rise in
the third.  Investors may give too much weight to the presidents’
doubts about bond buying while underestimating Bernanke’s clout
on the FOMC, said Antulio Bomfim, a senior managing director at
Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed economist.  The seven Fed governors tend to endorse the committee’s
statement as a block, Bomfim said. A Fed governor hasn’t
dissented since 2005, when Mark Olson dissented from a decision
to increase the benchmark interest rate after  Hurricane Katrina 
struck the Gulf Coast.  Also, New York Fed President William C. Dudley would need
to cross a “very high bar” to cast a dissenting vote because
of his position as FOMC vice chairman, Bomfim said.  Still, Bernanke needs to ensure other policy makers don’t
drown out his message, said Timothy Duy, a professor at the
University of Oregon.  ‘More Effective’  “At this point in the policy cycle, their most effective
tool is their communication,” said Duy, an economist at the
U.S. Treasury Department’s international-affairs division in
1998-1999. “That means they’ve got to be a lot more effective”
at demonstrating their commitment to “ongoing additional
easing.”  The Fed has increasingly relied on communications to guide
policy after pushing down the target for the  federal funds rate 
to near zero in December 2008 and deploying unprecedented
stimulus tools, including the bond purchases.  Bernanke created a communications committee led by Yellen
to shed light on decision-making and minimize public confusion
over the Fed’s goals. Central bank officials say greater
transparency makes their actions more potent, citing how public
expectations about future policy influence the economy.  The Fed in January 2012 took one of its biggest steps ever
toward greater openness by publishing a mission statement, an
inflation target and anonymous forecasts by each FOMC
participant for the rate on overnight loans between banks.  Narrowing Gap  Bernanke plans to address the media tomorrow in  Washington 
at 2:30 p.m., 30 minutes after release of the FOMC statement,
the Fed said last week in a statement. Since his first media
briefing in April 2011, the gap between the statement and his
comments had been 1 hour, 45 minutes.  The Fed also will release the fed-funds  forecasts , along
with other projections, at the same time as the statement.
Previously there was a 90-minute delay.  “I don’t remember if there have been major
misunderstandings of the statement -- I don’t think so -- but in
the process of exiting from QE, such misunderstandings are
possible,” Sheets said. “This reduces such risks. It strikes
me as a sensible move.”  Since the Fed announced a third round of bond purchases on
Sept. 13, the 10-year Treasury yield has risen to  1.89 percent 
at 1:40 p.m. from 1.72 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. It hit an 11-month high on March 8 after the
Labor Department said employers added 236,000 workers in
February, more than economists projected, and the jobless rate
fell.  Bolstering Prices  Fed purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities
are holding rates about 0.2 percentage point lower than they’d
otherwise be, Sheets said. Reduced borrowing costs are stoking
housing construction and bolstering  home prices , providing “a
very important recovery impulse for the economy.”  Bernanke has made it clear he’s committed to pressing on
with record stimulus as he nears the end of his second term next
January, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America
at BNP Paribas in New York and a former Fed economist.  “We’ll have made more progress on the employment front,
but we’re still going to be a ways away from the Fed’s goals,”
she said. At the end of 2013 “it’s still going to be very much
a work in progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  