-- Banks Cut Basel III Shortfall by $215 Billion in Mid-2012
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-19T12:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/big-banks-had-269-2-billion-basel-iii-shortfall-in-mid-2012.html
The largest global banks increased
their core reserves by about 166 billion euros ($215 billion)
during the first half of last year, regulators said.  The world’s 101 biggest banks would have needed an extra
208.2 billion euros to meet so-called Basel III capital rules 
had the standards been enforced in June 2012, the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision said today in a statement, 
compared with a 374 billion-euro deficit at the end of 2011.  Lenders made headway toward meeting their Basel
obligations, while the U.S. and European Union struggled to meet
a January deadline to start implementing the Basel III accord.
The measures -- scheduled to be fully in force by 2019 -- will
more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold to at
least 7 percent of their assets, weighted for risk.  The pace of implementation of Basel III “has been adjusted
intentionally to support banks on the mend,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a
speech in  Frankfurt  today, “but delays also reflect
difficulties in agreeing on the way forward, and pushback from
industry, averse to changing outmoded and dangerous business
models.”  Global rulemakers have clashed with lenders over the
severity of the capital and liquidity rules, which were set out
in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking regulation in the wake
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Leverage Ratio  The biggest banks also had an average leverage ratio of 3.8
percent versus a target of 3 percent ratio for banks’ equity to
debt. The measure is designed to be a backstop to capital
requirements, helping to contain excessive indebtedness.  The biggest lenders in  Europe  would have needed a combined
112.4 billion euros to reach the core tier one capital target of
7 percent, the  European Banking Authority  said in a separate
statement. Around 93 percent of the EU banks are above the Basel
III minimum of a 4.5 percent core tier one capital ratio,
according to the report.  “The committee appreciates the significant efforts
contributed by both banks and national supervisors to this
ongoing data collection exercise,” the Basel group said.  Both the EU and the U.S. missed a January 2013 deadline to
begin phasing in the standards, and have said they will seek to
apply them from next year.  The lenders also would need a combined 2.4 trillion euros
to meet a liquidity rule set by the Basel committee, which would
force banks to back long-term lending with funds that are
unlikely to dry up in a crisis.  Banks can address shortfalls in meeting  capital
requirements  by either boosting their reserves or by reducing
their assets weighed for risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  