-- Biogen’s MS Pill Gains 8 More Years of Patent Protection
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-19T20:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/biogen-idec-gets-new-u-s-patent-for-multiple-sclerosis-drug.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the fourth-
largest U.S. biotechnology company by market value, won a U.S.
patent that may guard its experimental multiple sclerosis pill
from generic competition for eight more years than anticipated.  The patent expiring in 2028 was issued on an application
filed in February 2012 by Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen,
according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s website. The
 Food and Drug Administration  is expected to decide whether to
approve the medicine, Tecfidera, by the end of the month.  The drug had been protected by three patents that expire
from October 2019 to May 2020, according to  Eric Schmidt , a New
York-based analyst with Cowen & Co. who estimates Tecfidera
could generate $3.2 billion in annual sales in 2017. The drug
was tested in doses given twice a day and three times a day, and
the patent today covers administration twice daily.  “They have a novel discovery here in that they were first
to observe that the lower dose of the drug, maybe somewhat
surprisingly, was as active as the high dose,” Schmidt said
today in a telephone interview. “The burden of proof will be on
anyone else to show this patent isn’t valid.”  The patent office said in December that claims related to
the application had been allowed, so today’s issuance was
expected, Schmidt said. He has an outperform rating on the
comapny’s shares.  Biogen  rose  less than 1 percent to $175.61 at the close in
New York. The shares gained 46 percent in the past 12 months.  2.1 Million Patients  Biogen already sells the MS treatments Avonex, given by
injection, and Tysabri, administered intravenously. Tecfidera,
formerly known as BG-12, would be Biogen’s first pill for MS, a
disease that affects more than 2.1 million people globally,
according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  “The patent is important because it removes some of the
uncertainty about the current patent estate which goes out to
2019/2020 in the U.S.,”  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets , said by telephone. “That’s a relatively short
timeframe for big blockbuster drugs.”  Yee said the added protection may be worth as much as $10 a
share to $15 a share or more based on a discounted cash flow
analysis. He said a maker of generic drugs may still try to
challenge the patents.  “The patent for this dosing regimen is recognition of the
remarkable innovation Tecfidera represents for the MS
community,” Biogen Chief Executive Officer George Scangos said
in a statement. “The tremendous research investment required to
study and validate the patented dosing regimen is an example of
innovation that leads to meaningful benefits to patients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Wasserman at 
 ewasserman2@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  