-- Boeing Supplier Spirit Hires F-35 Chief Amid Parts Push
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-19T22:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/boeing-supplier-spirit-hires-f-35-chief-amid-parts-push.html
Spirit AeroSystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) ,
which builds sections of every  Boeing Co. (BA)  airplane, named the
former head of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 program as its new
chief executive officer.  Larry Lawson, 55, takes over April 6 at Wichita, Kansas-
based Spirit as he shifts to supplying components for commercial
airliners from a career working on military aircraft. He retired
yesterday from Lockheed Martin.  He joins Spirit about five months after the company
recorded $590 million in charges and said it couldn’t meet its
forecast as it struggled to simultaneously develop parts for
jets, including Boeing’s troubled 787 Dreamliner. He oversaw
production of the F-35, the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program and a plane plagued by seven years of delays.  A lack of airliner experience may make for a
“challenging” leadership transition for Spirit, which has
faced problems as new-plane programs overlapped, said Doug Harned, an analyst with Sanford C Bernstein in  New York .  Lawson succeeds Jeff Turner, who announced his retirement
in November, shortly after the company announced the charges and
the inability to meet its financial forecast. Turner, 61, was
Spirit’s CEO since 2005 and will remain on its board.  Spirit, which was spun off by Boeing in 2005, is juggling
new products as it has expanded its customer base to include
Airbus SAS and business-jet builders. Planemakers are
increasingly turning to suppliers such as Spirit to share the
risk of developing new models.  ‘Well-Versed’  Spirit’s leadership team is “very well-versed in
commercial aircraft, which would strongly support Lawson’s
impeccable experience in execution-driven program management,”
said  Ken Evans , a spokesman for Spirit. “So we believe he’ll be
a very good fit. We expect it will also help to have Jeff Turner
remain on the board and help with the transition.”  Lawson’s appointment may boost investor confidence in
Spirit’s prospects, given his experience with mass production of
parts for aircraft frames, said  Howard Rubel , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “He has fostered good relations with large sophisticated
customers, understands the needs of a unionized workforce, and
has run highly profitable programs,” Rubel wrote in an investor
note today.  Lockheed Martin’s F-35 program, under Lawson, was
criticized by the U.S. Air Force last month for trying to
“squeeze every nickel” out of the Defense Department. Boeing,
meanwhile, has said repeatedly that it’s working with suppliers
to reduce costs as it boosts production more than 60 percent in
the four years through 2014.  Spirit declined 0.5 percent to $18.89 at the close in New
York. The shares have dropped 25 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  