-- Bolshoi Head Dismisses Ex-Ballerina’s Pimping Claims
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-20T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bolshoi-head-dismisses-ex-ballerina-s-pimping-claims.html
The Bolshoi ballet’s general
director, Anatoly Iksanov, dismissed as “nonsense and dirt”
claims by ex-ballerina Anastasia Volochkova that dancers were
pimped out to wealthy patrons as infighting escalated.  Volochkova appeared on a  show  on state TV aired at the
weekend alongside Iksanov’s rival, the ballet’s principal
dancer,  Nikolai Tsiskaridze . She said the practice was now “a
lot worse” than when she was fired from the theater 10 years
ago. The two were questioned by presenters Tina Kandelaki and
Margarita Simonian.  Iksanov also hit out at Tsiskaridze, who on the same show
said he was ready to take the general director’s job. Speaking
during a press conference held yesterday at the Bolshoi building
in Moscow, Iksanov called on Tsiskaridze to resign from the
ballet, because he can’t fire him  A battle for control of  Russia ’s most famous theater, which
was founded in 1776 by Catherine the Great, has become public
since an acid attack in January on the theater’s artistic
director, with Georgian-born Tsiskaridze and Iksanov trading
accusations.  Volochkova, who has previously said that dancers were
pimped out as escorts at oligarch parties and was fired in 2003
for being overweight, repeated those claims.  “Girls are invited each in turn by the administrator, who
explains that they are going to a party, with dinner and a
follow-up, in bed and going all the way,” the ex-ballerina said
on NTV’s March 17 program. Asked whom the dancers had to sleep
with, she replied: “With certain oligarchs, some of them are
members of the board of trustees (of the Bolshoi) or just the
person organizing the party.”  Assault Intention  Leading dancer Pavel Dmitrichenko was detained earlier this
month after confessing to organizing the Jan. 17 attack that
damaged the face and eyes of the theater’s artistic director
Sergei Filin. He denied any intention to use acid in the
assault. Two other men admitted to being the driver and the
assailant and all three remain in custody.  Investigators last month cited rivalries at the Bolshoi as
probable motives for the crime, particularly between supporters
of Filin and of Tsiskaridze, the principal dancer.  More than 300 members of the Bolshoi ballet have come out
in defense of Dmitrichenko. In an open letter to President
 Vladimir Putin  and the media last week, they said the idea that
the soloist was behind the crime was “absurd.”  Iksanov last week said he didn’t believe that Dmitrichenko
was the mastermind of the acid attack and that another person
ordered the assault.  Tsiskaridze has repeatedly denied involvement in the
attack, most recently on the NTV show on March 17. He has
accused Filin of seeking to turn one of his pupils against him
in December by offering her a part in  Swan Lake  if she stopped
taking lessons with him, a proposal he says that she refused.  Filin, who is in  Germany  for further treatment, said last
week he suspects a “very narrow circle of people” of being
behind the attack, including Dmitrichenko.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on U.K. food,  Ryan
Sutton  on U.S. food,  Lance Esplund  on U.S. art exhibitions,  Mark
Beech  on music and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 