-- France Telecom $11.6B Aid to Get Review, Bouygues Wins
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-19T11:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bouygues-wins-eu-court-appeal-over-france-telecom-aid-approval.html
The European Union’s highest court
overturned a decision that backed a proposed 9 billion-euro
($11.6 billion) government loan to  France Telecom  SA, handing a
victory to competitor  Bouygues SA. (EN)   Today’s ruling that the government aid must be reexamined
by the lower EU court also responds to a challenge by the
European Commission, the EU’s executive authority, which said in
2004 that the French loan was unlawful. Bouygues, the owner of
 France ’s third-largest mobile-phone company, and the Brussels-
based commission sought to annul the lower court’s ruling that
France’s support when France Telecom was near bankruptcy didn’t
qualify as state aid.  “Although the loan was not implemented by France Telecom,
it conferred an advantage granted through state resources that
could potentially have burdened the state budget,” the  EU Court
of Justice  in Luxembourg said in a statement today. The decision
sends the case back to the  EU General Court  for review.  France Telecom is the country’s  largest  phone company. The
former state monopoly is fighting increased competition from
Bouygues and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR. The fight has intensified in
France as  Iliad SA (ILD)  has become France’s fourth mobile-phone
operation, persuading customers to switch with steep price cuts.  “This ruling annuls a decision by the EU General Court,
but doesn’t question the commission’s decision not to impose any
recovery of any aid,” France Telecom said in an e-mailed
statement. The company “remains confident on the substance of
the case.”  The press office of Bouygues Telecom didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The EU General Court, the bloc’s second-highest, ruled in
2010 that, while statements by the French government in 2002
that it would support France Telecom “conferred a financial
advantage,” the comments didn’t commit any state resources.  The cases are:  C-399/10 P , Bouygues and Bouygues Telecom v.
Commission; C-401/10 P, Commission v. France and Others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  