-- Bovespa Index Drops to as Iron-Ore Price View Saps Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-19T21:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bovespa-index-rises-as-b2w-gains-on-brazil-rate-outlook.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index fell to a two-
week low as mining company  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, plunged after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its price
forecast for the steel-making material.  Steelmaker Cia.  Siderurgica Nacional (CSNA3)  SA, which gets about
22 percent of sales from its mining unit, was the worst
performer on the equity gauge. Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s mining
company  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  fell after posting a wider-
than-estimated fourth-quarter loss.  The Bovespa dropped 1.1 percent to 56,361.24 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo. Forty-eight  stocks  fell on the measure
while 18 advanced. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials slid 1.1 percent as commodities sank even as the
European Central Bank said it will provide liquidity to Cyprus
after the country’s parliament rejected a proposed levy on bank
deposits, dealing a blow to European plans to force savers to
shoulder part of the nation’s bailout.  “I don’t see a positive scenario for Vale, which is
probably going to be a drag on the Bovespa for a while,”
Fernando Goes, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Clear
Corretora, said in a phone interview. “The events in Cyprus
were a negative surprise. Even considering that its economy is
very small when compared to the rest of  Europe , we don’t know
what will happen if they don’t get the bailout.”  Vale tumbled 3.9 percent to 32.39 reais, the lowest on a
closing basis since Sept. 4. Iron ore, the main material used to
make steel, will probably average $139 a metric ton this year,
compared with a previous estimate of $144, Goldman Sachs
analysts Christian Lelong and  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a research
report today.  MMX Earnings  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA sank 6.4 percent to 9.28
reais, the lowest since July 26. Newspaper Valor Economico said
the company confirmed a $3.8 billion bid for ThyssenKrupp AG’s
assets, citing sources it didn’t name. CSN’s press office in Rio
de Janeiro declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News
today.  MMX fell 0.9 percent to 3.16 reais. The producer posted an
adjusted  net loss  of 348.7 million reais in the three months
ended in December, compared with an average estimate for a loss
of 48.7 million reais, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Thirty-two of 46 companies that have already reported fourth-
quarter  earnings  missed forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  MPX Energia SA, Batista’s power-generating unit, fell 4
percent to 10.32 reais. The billionaire is close to selling a
stake in the company as he faces demands from creditors to boost
collateral, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Interest-Rate Outlook  Some  consumer stocks , including cosmetics maker  Natura
Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , advanced as traders pared bets for higher
borrowing costs in  Brazil . Swap rates on the contract due in
January 2015 fell 0.04 percentage point to 8.53 percent amid
speculation that policy makers may delay interest-rate increases
in an attempt to shield the Brazilian economy from a worsening
in Europe’s debt crisis.  “Concern that a worsening external outlook would hurt
Brazil’s economic growth was the main reason the central bank
used to start cutting rates in 2011 in the first place, so all
these problems in Europe may affect its decisions again,”
Flavio Serrano, a senior economist at Banco Espirito in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Natura climbed 2.4 percent to 49.39 reais.  The Bovespa has retreated 11 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has slid 6.6 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.7 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.07 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.63 billion reais this year
through March 15, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  