-- Bowie Breaks Records, Gets Nails Polished in V&A Exhibit
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-03-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bowie-breaks-records-gets-nails-polished-in-v-a-exhibit.html
David Bowie looks straight into 
your eyes. He points right at you.  “I had to phone someone,” he sings. “So I picked on
you.”  He’s modeling the best of Ziggy Stardust fashion. The
skintight Burretti suit in Day-Glo colors is almost as eye-
poppingly bright now as when he wore it to sing “Starman” on
the “Top of the Pops” television show in 1972. Bowie shocked
viewers by putting his arm around guitarist  Mick Ronson .  The lifelike video display is one of the best items in a 
new  exhibition  in  London . The  Victoria & Albert Museum  show will 
be as close as most fans will get to Bowie in his surprise
comeback announced on his 66th birthday. (For an Internet 
slideshow of more works in the show, click  here .)  There’s no word on a tour, interviews or concerts, just the
new album “The Next Day,” Bowie’s first in a decade. It’s now
sitting at the top of the charts as well as in the gift shop at
the V&A, which is pretty pleased with the potential profit.  The museum has sold more than 42,000 advance tickets, a
record and more than twice the pre-sales for any other show, it 
said in an e-mailed release. The timing couldn’t be better and 
it opens to the public on March 23.  As the final set-up was being done yesterday, a girl was
lovingly preening the feathered ruffs on Bowie’s clown costume
from the “Ashes to Ashes” video, one of 60 outfits on show.  In a first for the V&A, visitors wear interactive
headphones. Turn a corner and “Life on Mars” blasts out. Turn
again, and hear young Bowie talk about the swinging sixties, mod
and mime.  Silver Nails  A breathless documentary tells how he was earning half a
million pounds a year -- a huge amount in the 1970s -- and could
afford a manicurist for his silver nail varnish.  The words “David Bowie is” are repeated throughout, 
starting with “David Bowie is all around us.”  This is alongside one of his most famous outfits, a striped
bodysuit designed by  Kansai Yamamoto  for the 1973 Aladdin Sane
tour. With its absurdly wide flares and red stack heels, one
wonders how the star crossed the stage without falling over.  Unusual objects from the singer’s archive include the
handwritten lyrics to “Five Years” with crossings-out. Then
the cut-up words inspired by William Burroughs which Bowie
endlessly threw about, discarding some phrases and building
others. There’s also a mock studio where visitors can hear
offcuts as never before, with coughs, wrong notes and fragments
being formed into songs.  This isn’t the V&A’s first rock  show , though it’s easily
the best presented. In building a convincing case for Bowie’s
influence, it’s mining a rich source.  You come out with the songs reverberating: “Fame, what’s
my name?” After an hour or so seeing Bowie’s name everywhere,
there’s no doubt on that.  “David Bowie Is,” sponsored by Gucci and Sennheiser, runs
from March 23 through Aug. 11 at the V&A, Cromwell Road, London
SW7 2RL. Information: on +44-20-7907 or
 http://www.vam.ac.uk/content/exhibitions/david-bowie-is/   Bowie’s album is on Columbia/ Iso Records, priced about $10
or $12 for a deluxe edition. Download prices vary across
services. For a slideshow of images from the V&A show:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/slideshow/2013-03-18/david-bowie.html   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Lance Esplund  on art,  James
Russell  on architecture and  Scott Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 