-- Oil Falls After Cyprus Rejects Bank Deposit Tax
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-03-19T20:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/brent-oil-falls-before-cyprus-vote-premium-to-wti-falls.html
West Texas Intermediate oil fell
after the Cypriot parliament defeated a measure imposing taxes
on  bank deposits , bolstering concern that Europe’s debt crisis
will deepen. WTI’s discount to  Brent crude  traded in London
narrowed to less than $15 a barrel.  Futures dropped 1.7 percent, trimming the spread with Brent
oil, after Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades failed to gain
approval of the proposal to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) from bank depositors to unlock emergency loans.
European officials had demanded passage of the plan in return
for the funds to prevent a financial collapse. The euro fell to
a three-month low versus the dollar.  “The problems in Cyprus have sent the dollar higher and
put downward pressure on commodities,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “The Cypriot vote today underscores just how
precarious the euro-zone situation is. Developments in Europe
are the major downside risk for oil this year.”  WTI for April delivery, which expires tomorrow, slid $1.58
to settle at $92.16 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was the biggest drop since Feb. 21. The more-active
May contract fell $1.59, or 1.7 percent, to $92.52. The volume
of all futures traded was 27 percent above the 100-day average
at 4:34 p.m.  API Report  Oil was unchanged after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported U.S. inventories dropped 413,000 barrels last week to
376.7 million. April futures were at $92.16 in electronic
trading at 4:34 p.m.  Brent oil for May settlement declined $2.06, or 1.9
percent, to end the session at $107.45 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange, the lowest level since Dec.
10. Volume was 18 percent above the 100-day average.  The premium of the May Brent contract to WTI oil for the
same month slipped to $14.93, the least since July 24.  “Brent remains under pressure because of what’s going on
in Cyprus, and the spread with WTI continues to come in as a
result,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Aid for Cyprus hinges on adoption of the deposit tax,
Michael Meister, the deputy parliamentary chairman of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic Union , said d in
an e-mailed statement after the vote.  No ‘Plan B’  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said earlier today
that there’s no “Plan B” for the island country. Among the
potential measures is cutting off funds to the nation’s banks
through the European Central Bank’s Emergency Liquidity
Assistance program.  WTI rebounded to $92.32 a barrel in electronic trading
after the settlement as the ECB reaffirmed “its commitment to
provide liquidity.”  The statement was issued following the
Cypriot vote.  “The situation in Cyprus has serious implications for the
market,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research with IAF
Advisors in Houston. “Even if the plans are watered down, there
will be a major impact on  market psychology . The fact that
people in power were thinking of seizing people’s assets is
worrying to investors.”  Euro Drops  The euro fell against the dollar, reducing the appeal of
crude as an investment, amid speculation that the  European debt
crisis  will worsen. The common currency dropped as much as 0.9
percent to $1.2844, the lowest level since November.  “There’s a strong correlation between currencies and
oil,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “The euro is getting clobbered and
this is absolutely bearish for oil.”  U.S.  crude inventories  probably rose for a ninth week as
output surged to the highest level in more than two decades, a
Bloomberg survey showed before an Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow. Supplies climbed by 2 million
barrels in the seven days ended March 15 from  384 million  in the
prior week, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates.  “We’re sitting on 384 million barrels of oil in the U.S.
today, which is a record for this time of year,” Schork said,
“Supply is plentiful and demand just isn’t that strong. There
are plenty of economic risks that could reduce demand.”  U.S. Output  Production rose to 7.16 million barrels a day the week
ended March 8, the highest level since July 1992, a March 13
report from the EIA showed. The EIA is the statistical arm of
the U.S. Energy Department.  Crude at about $100 a barrel is “reasonable” and won’t
choke global economic growth, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali Al- Naimi said yesterday.  “ Saudi Arabia  does not set the price” of oil, Al-Naimi
said in a speech in  Hong Kong . “The market sets the price.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI crude options
expiring in May was at 19.4 percent at 4:40 p.m. in New York, up
from 17.3 percent yesterday. The figures are down from 24.7
percent on Feb. 21.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 609,389
contracts as of 4:36 p.m. It totaled 489,414 contracts
yesterday, 9.4 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.68 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  