-- Brent Premium to WTI Shrinks to $15 for First Time in Two Months
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-19T12:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/brent-premium-to-wti-shrinks-to-15-for-first-time-in-two-months.html
Brent’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate shrank to less than $15 a barrel for the first time
in two months amid a recovery in North Sea crude production and
concern that Europe’s debt crisis may worsen.  The European benchmark’s spread over WTI contracted to as
little as $14.67 a barrel, the least since Jan. 18. Brent prices
slipped today as Cyprus prepared to vote on a bank levy after
two days of delays. Exports of the 12 main North Sea crude
grades will rise by 6 percent in April to 2.02 million barrels a
day, the highest level since June, according to loading programs
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “We attribute the narrowing to factors weighing on Brent
rather than factors favoring WTI,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  Brent futures have lost about 2 percent this year, trading
at just above $109 a barrel in London today, while WTI has
gained about the same amount on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , to about $94. Brent was weakened by the return of
North Sea oil fields from maintenance, while WTI advanced as new
pipeline capacity helped relieve a supply glut.  Hedge funds  and other money managers reduced  bullish bets 
on Brent to the lowest in almost three months last week, data
from the ICE Futures Europe exchange showed yesterday.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered long positions by 119,432 lots in
the week ended March 12, the London-based exchange said in its
weekly Commitment of Traders report. That’s down 11,796
contracts, or 9 percent, from 131,228 the previous week and is
the lowest since Dec. 18.  WTI climbed this year as expanded pipeline capacity ease a
surplus of crude building up at the U.S. storage center in
Cushing, Oklahoma.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB)  switched the direction of the Seaway line last year to move
barrels from the Midwest and Canada to Houston.  -- Editors: Raj Rajendran, Rob Verdonck  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  