-- Bumi Delays Earnings Release to Review Berau Coal Operations
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-03-20T17:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/bumi-delays-full-year-earnings-for-a-month-on-berau-coal-review.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the coal company that has
been at the center of a dispute between co-founders Nathaniel Rothschild and Indonesia’s Bakrie family, delayed releasing
earnings as it reviews the balance sheet of its largest unit.  Bumi will announce results on April 24, a month later than
scheduled, as new management at its PT Berau Coal Energy unit is
“undertaking a thorough review of all balance sheet items,”
the London-traded company said yesterday in a statement.  Bumi, which plunged 69 percent last year in London, is
working to dispose of its stake in PT Bumi Resources and
separate from the Bakries after last month defeating an attempt
by Rothschild to take control of the Bumi Plc board. That will
leave Bumi Plc with an 85 percent holding in Berau Coal,
Indonesia’s fifth-largest producer of the fuel.  “In light of this work by the incoming Berau management,
additional time is needed to finalize the year-end accounts of
Berau,” Bumi Plc said in the statement. Bumi’s results had been
scheduled for March 26.  Bumi Plc dropped 1.4 percent to close at 303.7 pence by the
close in London, the lowest since Jan. 9. It slumped 7.6 percent
yesterday, the biggest decline in three weeks. Berau Coal was
unchanged at 240 rupiah in Jakarta.  The postponement of Bumi Plc’s earnings announcement “is a
worrying and unsurprising announcement,” Rothschild said
yesterday in a separate statement.  ‘Not Acceptable’  “The ‘new’ management team at Berau is, in fact, well
established,” with Chief Financial Officer Scott Merrillees in
place since May 2012, he said. “It is not acceptable,
therefore, simply to cite management changes as a cause for the
delay.”  A spokesman for Bumi Plc in London declined to comment
further.  Former Bumi director Rosan Roeslani resigned as president
director of Berau Coal on March 8 and was replaced by Eko Santoso Budianto. Bumi Plc Chairman Samin Tan also quit Berau
Coal this month.  Kenneth Allan and Eva Tarigan, who both resigned this month
from PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI) , were appointed as commissioners at Berau
Coal.  The management changes at Berau “represent a critical step
in the company’s strategy of further strengthening internal
financial controls and corporate governance standards throughout
the group’s Indonesian operations,” Bumi Plc said yesterday.  Allan and Tarigan were also both directors at Tan’s  PT
Borneo (BORN)  Lumbung Energi & Metal, which last year bought a 23.8
percent stake in Bumi Plc from the Bakries for $1 billion.  Independent Probe  In September, Bumi Plc commissioned an independent probe by
London-based law firm Macfarlanes LLP following information from
a “whistle-blower” describing potential financial and other
irregularities.  The probe was to focus on “extensive” development funds
at Bumi Resources and an asset in Berau Coal, which were marked
down to zero in the accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31, 2011.  The company said Jan. 22 the findings of the probe can’t be
released because of legal risk. While the investigation found
evidence to support a number of allegations, the claims couldn’t
be substantiated because of the unwillingness of some parties to
be interviewed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  