-- HTC Loses German Patent Suit Over Nokia Battery-Life Patent
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-03-19T11:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/htc-loses-german-patent-lawsuit-over-nokia-battery-life-patent.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  lost a German lawsuit
after a court said it violated  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  patents for technology
that helps save battery life on mobile phones.  The Mannheim court today ruled that it infringed the
German part of Nokia’s  European patent , HTC said in an e-mailed
statement. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC said the patent is invalid
and it will appeal the decision.  Nokia last year sued HTC, BlackBerry and ViewSonic Corp. in
the U.S., U.K. and Germany over 45 patents. The Espoo, Finland-
based mobile-phone maker, struggling to reverse a sales slide,
settled with BlackBerry in December. A month earlier, HTC
reached a global patent settlement with Apple Inc.  “This decision cannot be described as a ‘win’ for Nokia
because it only applies to handsets that are no longer imported
into  Germany , and newer HTC handsets do not use the accused
technology,” HTC said. “As Nokia clearly went to great lengths
to assert its strongest patents first, we are confident that its
non-essential patent portfolio poses little threat to HTC.”  Nokia is “pleased with this decision, which confirms the
quality of Nokia’s patent portfolio,” Mark Durrant, a spokesman
for the company, said in an e-mailed statement. “HTC must now
respect our intellectual property and compete using its own
innovations.”  HTC said the power-saving technology in the disputed patent
is “trivial” and “contributes only a negligible reduction in
power consumption.” The company “has removed any allegedly
corresponding functionality from all of its current German
handsets as a precaution against any attempt by Nokia to extend
the scope of the judgment unfairly.”  HTC said it will continue to pursue separate lawsuits to
invalidate the Nokia patents pending in German and U.K. patent
courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  