-- Cairn Enters Senegal to Expand African Exploration Campaign
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-03-19T17:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cairn-enters-senegal-to-expand-african-exploration-campaign.html
Cairn Energy Plc (CNE) , a U.K. oil
explorer, bought rights to search for crude in the waters off
 Senegal , expanding its operations in Africa.  Cairn bought a 65 percent working interest in three
offshore blocks from  FAR Ltd. (FAR)  and will become the operator, the
company said today in a statement. Cairn will drill at least one
well in the next 18 months in the area that has prospects of
more than 1.5 billion barrels of oil.  The deal gives Cairn more frontier exploration after
selling off most of its Indian unit in 2011 and then spending $1
billion on a campaign in Greenland that failed to make a
discovery. The company has also expanded in the  North Sea , where
it’s taking part in four wells this year.  “Cairn’s exploration strategy is becoming clearer and is
focused on the Atlantic Margin,” said Laura Loppacher, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in London. “We continue to like
Cairn for its strong portfolio of development assets, growing
suite of exploration acreage, strong balance sheet and
attractive valuation.”  Cairn dropped 3.7 percent to 278.4 pence in London trading,
paring its gain this year to 5.1 percent.  The company will drill two to four wells in Morocco this
year, in addition to its plans for Senegal. It is targeting
resources in excess of 3.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent
with its west  Africa  campaign.  Greenland Decision  It will also make a decision this year about whether to
drill more wells in Greenland after analyzing data from an
earlier campaign. The company estimates there are about 6
billion barrels yet to find in Greenland.  Profit dropped to $72.6 million last year from $4.1 billion
in 2011 after Cairn sold off most of the Indian business,
returned cash to shareholders, and wrote off costs from
unsuccessful exploration.  The company had net cash of about $1.6 billion at the end
of last year. It still holds 10 percent of  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) ,
valued at about $1.1 billion on Dec. 31.  “We’re very happy with the balance we’ve created in the
portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomson said. “We’re
well positioned to continue our strategy in 2013 and beyond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  