-- California Cap-and-Trade Funds Proposed for Green Bank
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-03-19T02:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/california-cap-and-trade-funds-proposed-for-green-bank.html
California  should start a state-run
 bank  to finance economic development that’s less polluting and
more environmentally friendly, financed by auctions of
greenhouse-gas carbon credits, Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom
said.  The Green Infrastructure Bank, which would make low-
interest loans to local governments or private business for
projects that would help reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, would
have the authority to sell tax-exempt and taxable municipal
revenue bonds, according to legislation sponsored by Newsom, a
Democrat and former San Francisco mayor.  California’s first-in-the-nation law sets a maximum for
 carbon emissions  from power generators, oil refineries and
others, to lower  greenhouse gases . Under the legislation’s cap-
and-trade program, industries that can’t make the required
reductions can buy allowances allocated and auctioned by the
state and a limited number of offset credits generated from
projects that reduce emissions.  “The intent of the legislation is to centralize greenhouse
gas-reducing financing to a central bank which can leverage
private capital to mitigate risk and exponentially increase
infrastructure financing,” Newsom, 46, said in a statement
yesterday.  The state Air Resources Board sold 23.1 million allowances
at $10.09 each during its first auction Nov. 14 and another 12.9
million at $13.62 during its second in February.  Companies have also bought 10 million “advance”
allowances that they can use to cover their emissions in future
years of the program.  Money from the auctions is supposed to be spent only on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Newsom’s bill would include
the Green Infrastructure Bank under that requirement.  California Governor  Jerry Brown , a 74-year-old Democrat,
counted $200 million from the sale of the credits in the current
year’s budget and another $413 million for the fiscal year that
begins July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  