-- Canada Probes Easy Farm Loans Challenging Soundest Banks
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/canada-probes-easy-farm-loans-challenging-soundest-banks.html
Evan Erlandson liked the flexible
mortgage terms offered by  Canada ’s government-owned agricultural
lender to start a farm, so he bypassed traditional financial
firms such as  Royal Bank (RY)  of Canada.  Erlandson, 31, borrowed C$100,000 ($97,800) from Farm
Credit Canada five years ago to buy 160 acres of land and start
a poultry and livestock farm. He received the cash in
installments over three years, paying only the interest on each
portion and receiving a longer pay-back term than the banks
offered.  “FCC’s terms of credit are much more farmer-friendly” and
the organization offers to lend more than banks do, Erlandson
said in a telephone interview from his office in Carman,
Manitoba, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) southwest of Winnipeg.
“There’s a good chance that your average young farmer is over-
leveraged.”  FCC has become the nation’s biggest farm lender after its
loan portfolio  grew  more than 400 percent since 1997, with the
increased lending coinciding with a 75 percent rise in farmland
values over the decade through 2011. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government has asked the Office of the Superintendent
of Financial Institutions, the country’s bank watchdog, to check
whether FCC is taking on too much risk.  Agricultural land prices have soared in Canada and the
U.S., supported by increased global demand for commodities from
wheat to beef. “The price of land has gone up so high, it’s
creating a bubble,” said Merrell Dickie, a farmland realtor for
Century 21 Gateway Real Estate Ltd. in Olds,  Alberta . “For
every seller of land, there are 25 land buyers.”  Debt Warnings  The increased lending has come amid warnings by Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  that households should ensure they can
still repay debts once borrowing costs rise. Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said in December consumer debt represents
the biggest domestic risk to the economy and Canada’s banks.  Some products offered by FCC, such as loans that don’t need
down payments or repayment of principal, are similar to subprime
 mortgage loans , the C.D. Howe Institute, an independent Toronto-
based research organization, said in a Feb. 6  report . Subprime
mortgage lending fueled a U.S.  housing  bubble whose collapse
triggered the 2008 financial crisis.  Farmers may default or struggle to pay back loans if land
values fall or prices of major crops like wheat continue to
drop. Such a scenario would squeeze producers from the world’s
second-biggest exporter of wheat and may expose the government
and taxpayers to losses.  Impaired loans accounted for 1.23 percent of FCC’s
portfolio at the end of March, according to its annual report.
That compares with 0.35 percent for domestic loans at Royal Bank
of Canada, the country’s biggest bank by assets, at the end of
January.  OSFI Review  “We are pleased to see that OSFI will be reviewing FCC
from a risk perspective,” Marion Wrobel, vice president of
policy and operations at the Canadian Bankers Association, said
in an e-mail. “Banks are federally regulated and supervised by
OSFI and are prudent lenders who give loans to those who pay
them back.”  Canada’s  banking  system was ranked the world’s soundest for
a fifth consecutive year in September by the Geneva-based  World
Economic Forum .  FCC’s chief operating officer, Rémi Lemoine, disputes that
the agency offers easier loan terms than private banks and
credit unions.  “Some of the  banks  would like to create a perception that
FCC is kind of loose,” Lemoine said by phone March 14. “If you
walked into the back offices here, you would see pretty much the
same thing you’d see in any financial lending institution.”  Risk Management  The agency runs stress tests on the business plans of its
borrowers and has risk-management systems that are similar to
those used by banks, he said, tailoring loans to the needs of
the agriculture industry.  Outstanding farm debt  rose  almost 200 percent between 1993
and 2011 to C$69.7 billion, according to  Statistics Canada . FCC
holds about 29 percent of the market, while chartered banks hold
36 percent and  credit unions  16 percent.  The average cost of running a farm rose 77 percent in the
decade to 2011, Statistics Canada data show, rising to C$292,000
per year from C$164,331.  “It’s very tough to get started in agriculture with the
high prices of land and equipment,” said Nevin Bachmeier, a 32-
year-old farmer in Kleefeld, Manitoba who produces soybeans,
corn and wheat on a 4,000-acre farm. “You have to give up
control of your farm sometimes or allow investors in.”  Bachmeier took out his first mortgage with FCC when he had
only two years of experience farming. Banks wanted a longer
business history and more collateral, he said.  Expanded Authority  FCC, based in Regina, Saskatchewan, was founded in 1959.
The agency’s lending authority was expanded in 1993 and again in
2001, according to its annual report. The most recent changes
allowed it to lend to businesses that aren’t owned by farmers
and offer venture-capital financing.  Since 2008, FCC has financed itself by borrowing directly
from the government.  There needs to be a “public discussion” about FCC’s role
in the industry, said  David Phillips , president of the Credit
Union Central of Canada, which represents credit unions.  “It’s a state-owned enterprise. You should develop your
strategies and conduct yourself in partnership with private
sector financial institutions, and not in direct competition,”
he said in a phone interview.  The government’s request to look at FCC’s lending practices
comes a year after Flaherty asked the banking regulator to
examine Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., a government agency
that provides  mortgage insurance .  Canada’s agriculture minister offered firm support for FCC.
It is “constantly under pressure from the chartered banks and
credit unions to do less, not more,” Gerry Ritz said March 6 on
a conference call with reporters. Still, the government wants to
assure the public FCC doesn’t “have money at risk,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  