-- Canadian Dollar Falls 2nd Day on Signs Economic Growth Slowing
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-19T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/canadian-dollar-falls-second-day-on-cyprus-debt-plan-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened a second
day against its U.S. peer after Canadian factory sales fell in
January, an unexpected drop that underscores the two nations’
diverging economic prospects.  The Canadian currency declined as new U.S. home
construction rose and building permits climbed to the highest
level in almost five years. The so-called loonie dropped against
the majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts as Cyprus’s
parliament voted to reject a levy on  bank deposits  demanded by
euro-zone officials in exchange for a bailout, threatening to
worsen  Europe ’s debt crisis. The U.S. Federal Reserve began a
two-day policy meeting in  Washington .  “The Canadian economy has gone through its recovery and is
now at the point where it had sort of run out of steam, and the
 U.S. economy  had gone through its adjustment and is starting to
emerge,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit
of HSBC Holdings Plc. “The markets are paying more attention to
that now.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent to
C$1.0268 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
97.39 U.S. cents.  Watt says the Canadian dollar could weaken past C$1.0363,
last reached June 28.  Factory Sales  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.82 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
added 37 cents to C$107.87.  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) of 1 percent notes maturing in May 2015 tomorrow.  Canadian factory sales dropped last month for the fourth
time in five months, led by declines in automobile and aircraft.
Sales fell 0.2 percent to C$48 billion ($46.9 billion),
 Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. None of the 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a decline, and their median
estimate was for a 0.6 percent gain.  Wholesale sales  increased 0.3 percent, less than the 0.4
percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 18
economists.  ‘Negative Number’  “A little bit of a negative number for Canada, and again
we are trying to build on that good employment number by having
some other positive economic data come out,” Don Mikolich,
executive director of foreign exchange sales at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by phone from Toronto, referring
to February job gains. “Without that positive reinforcement
over this week and next week, I think Canada will test the upper
ends of the boundaries.”  Mikolich said the Canadian dollar could weaken to C$1.03
per  U.S. dollar  in the next two weeks.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.9 percent last week for its
first five-day advance versus the greenback since early February
after employment gains in both Canada and the U.S. exceeded
forecasts, with  unemployment rates  at four-year lows.  New U.S. home construction rose to 917,000 in February from
910,000 the month before and building permits climbed 4.6
percent to 946,000 the highest level in almost five years, , the
Commerce Department reported, adding to signs the housing market
is helping boost the U.S. economy.  ‘Dovish Tone’  The U.S. housing market has been boosted by record monetary
stimulus from the Fed, keeping  mortgage rates  low, a policy the
central bank is expected to continue when it ends its meeting
tomorrow.  Fed officials have said they will keep their benchmark
lending rate near zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent. They also said during a January meeting they would keep
buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds and $45 billion
in Treasuries.  “The real key will be, how dovish does Bernanke sound, and
does he tone down his dovish tone at all?” said  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  by phone from
Toronto. “If he doesn’t, I suspect it will be a stronger
Canadian dollar. And, if he does tone back his dovish tone, then
it’s a stronger U.S. dollar.”  Traders were the least bearish on the loonie in five weeks
yesterday as the three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to
1 percent, the least since Feb. 8. It was at 1.05 percent today.  The loonie has lost 0.5 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has gained 3.4
percent and the Japanese yen has fallen 6.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  