-- Canada Budget to Help Factories, Flaherty Says in Letter
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-03-19T18:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/canada-budget-to-help-factories-flaherty-says-in-letter.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said his budget this week will focus on “jobs and the
economy,” including measures to support manufacturers.  In a letter to Conservative Party lawmakers released today
in Ottawa, Flaherty said the fiscal plan will also include new
infrastructure investments and measures to tackle job vacancies
in some industries. The budget, to be presented March 21, comes
as  Canada  faces “significant threats” from abroad, including a
slow expansion in the U.S. and recession in Europe,  Flaherty has said his eighth fiscal plan will seek to
eliminate the  country’s deficit  before the next election
scheduled in 2015, without undermining the country’s already
weakening recovery. Canada’s economy is growing at the slowest
pace since the 2009 recession, in part due to government
spending restraint.  “The  manufacturing sector  has started to rebound following
the global recession due, in part, to measures taken by our
Government,” Flaherty said in the letter dated March 18.
“There is more we can and will do to support this important
sector.”  Statistics Canada  reported today that factory shipments
fell in January, the fourth decline in five months and a drop
that none of the 20 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg forecast.  While Flaherty has said he plans to eliminate the deficit
primarily by controlling spending, there was no mention of
budget cuts in the letter.  ‘Arbitrary’ Deadline  Peggy Nash, the spokeswoman for the main opposition  New
Democratic Party  on budget issues, said the 2015 date for
balancing the budget is “arbitrary” and the government doesn’t
need to eliminate deficits that quickly.  “Waiting another year or two is not a big deal,” Nash
said in a telephone interview. “Our debt-to-GDP ratio is a lot
better than other countries.”  Canada faces “significant threats from abroad,” Flaherty
said. The budget will seek to “create jobs, growth and long-
term prosperity for hardworking Canadian families.”  Flaherty has warned that slower-than-expected growth is
acting as a drag on revenue, making it more difficult to balance
the budget. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month
forecast growth of 1.6 percent this year, compared with a 2
percent projection in Flaherty’s last fiscal update in November.  Narrower Balance  A one-year 1 percentage-point reduction in growth narrows
the budget balance by C$3.9 billion ($3.8 billion) in the first
year and C$12.8 billion over three years, according to a formula
provided by the finance department in its last update.  Flaherty projected in  the update  that Canada would post a
C$26.0 billion deficit in the year ending March 31, narrowing to
a C$16.5 billion gap the following year.  Canada is the only Group of Seven country with a stable top
debt rating from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings.  Flaherty’s letter highlights the manufacturing industry’s
“value-added” jobs and the need to do more to support the
“important sector” of the economy. The government will also
“do more” on infrastructure and investment, and take steps to
address labor shortages of certain skilled professions,
according to the letter.  In a Feb. 15 letter to Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , the
Canadian Manufacturing Coalition, an advocacy group, asked the
government to extend a measure that allows manufacturers to
accelerate write-offs from investments by five years. The
measure was first introduced in 2007.  The group also advocated for the creation of a government
fund to subsidize factories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  