-- Chesapeake, BNY Mellon Seek Bond-Call Resolutin by May 10
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-19T21:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/chesapeake-bny-mellon-seek-bond-call-resolutin-by-may-10.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp.  asked a federal judge to hold a trial to
resolve by May 10 the gas producer’s claim that it met a
deadline to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds early at par.  The companies proposed a timetable for an expedited trial
in a joint letter to U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in
 Manhattan  dated yesterday and posted today on the docket.  “The court should set a trial date that will permit a
resolution of this dispute by May 10, in the event that trial is
necessary” according to the letter. A hearing on the matter is
scheduled for this afternoon.  Engelmayer said last week that he would rush the case so it
will be completed within 60 days of Chesapeake’s March 15 notice
to investors that it was calling the 6.775 percent notes six
years before they mature. The judge had said the dispute must be
resolved before the call is executed.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , on March 8 sued  BNY
Mellon , the indenture trustee for the notes, seeking a court
order that the second-biggest natural gas producer in the U.S.
had until the March 15 deadline to issue the notice without
paying $400 million in extra “make whole” interest.  The bank argued that the extra payment was required because
the call wasn’t completed by that date.  Investors holding $250 million in the notes due March 2019
won court approval last week to intervene in the case and were
also involved in agreeing to the schedule.  Previous Ruling  The day before Chesapeake made the early call, Engelmayer
denied an injunction sought by the company that would have
prevented Bank of  New York  Mellon and the investor group from
treating the call as a “make-whole” early redemption if the
judge later ruled the call was made too late to be at par.  Chesapeake issued the notice anyway, because Engelmayer
ruled that even though he was denying the injunction for legal
reasons, the bank trustee and investors were “overwhelmingly”
likely to lose if they took the make-whole demand to trial. The
trial should focus on the deadline instead, the judge said.  BNY Mellon (BK) , the world’s largest custody bank, triggered the
lawsuit after it initially agreed with Chesapeake on the
deadline in February and then changed its position when
noteholder River Birch Capital LLC objected.  Engelmayer, in his ruling last week, said the contract was
ambiguous and he would need to see evidence about how it was
drafted before deciding at a trial which side is correct.  Noteholders’ Argument  The early redemption might still be scrapped within two
months if Chesapeake was wrong about the deadline. Engelmayer
said the noteholders appear to have a better argument based on
the early evidence he has seen.  The group of investors involved in the case also includes
Archer Capital Management LP, Ares Management LLC, Aurelius
Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Cetus Capital LLC,
Latigo Partners LLP, Monarch Alternative Capital LP, Schoenfeld
Asset Management LP and Taconic Capital Advisors LP.  The case is Chesapeake Energy Corp. v. Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in federal court in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  