-- China Cotton-Yarn Output Falling on East Asia, ICAC Adviser Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-19T12:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/china-cotton-yarn-output-falling-on-east-asia-icac-adviser-says.html
Cotton-yarn production is migrating
to East Asia from China, which has become less competitive,
according to Armelle Gruere, a consultant to the Washington-
based International Cotton Advisory Committee.  While China is still the main cotton consumer, using about
40 percent of world production, its consumption of the fiber
peaked “several years ago,” Gruere said in an interview on the
sidelines of a commodity-industry meeting in Geneva.  “They’re buying a lot more yarn, cotton consumption in
China is declining,” Gruere said. “They’ve become less
competitive in yarn production, some capacity is migrating.”  China rebuilt its cotton stocks over the past two years and
holds about half of the world’s stockpiles, according to Gruere.
She said the country considers its national cotton reserves an
official secret.  The lack of transparency on China’s stocks creates “a lot
of uncertainty” in the cotton market, Gruere said.  Many countries don’t provide estimates for their cotton
stocks, and less than 5 percent of the data used by the ICAC to
draw up inventory estimates are from official data, Gruere said
in a presentation at the meeting organized by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development.  Countries which have stock estimates available include the
U.S., Egypt and Brazil, according to Gruere, a statistician who
previously worked for the ICAC.  “Many governments are not interested in developing a
cotton balance sheet,” Gruere said. “Not all governments agree
that transparency is beneficial to their interest.”  The  ICAC , established in September 1939, provides
statistics on production, consumption, trade and stocks and
represents industry, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  