-- China’s Tallest Tower Builder Assures Quality Amid Sand Scandal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T05:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/china-s-tallest-tower-builder-assures-quality-amid-sand-scandal.html
China State Construction
Engineering Corp. (601668) , which is building the country’s tallest tower,
said materials used in all its projects meet quality standard as
the southern city of Shenzhen conducted inspections on builders.  Samples from buildings, including the 660-meter Ping An
Finance Center due to be completed in 2015, were tested,
according to Shenzhen’s Housing and Construction Bureau. The
industrywide inspection in the city last week followed a China
Central Television newscast on March 14 that investigated the
use of substandard concrete by some developers in Shenzhen that
used low-quality sea sand instead of river sand.  “I’m not quite familiar with the incident of the Ping An
Finance Center, but we put quality and safety as priority in all
our projects in 40 cities, including Shenzhen,” Kong Qingping,
vice president of the company, said at a press conference in
Hong Kong yesterday after the earnings of  China  Overseas Land &
Investment Co. of which he is chairman. “I’m glad to say, so
far, we haven’t found such incidents.”  The Shenzhen government found 31 companies violated
industry rules and ordered eight of them to suspend business for
one year in the city for using substandard sea sand to make
concrete, according to a  notice  posted on the bureau’s website
on March 16.  “Sea sand contains salt and chloride, which will corrode
steel used in concrete,” Han Jixian, Beijing-based secretary
general of China Aggregates Association, which represents the
nation’s sand production and excavation companies, said in a
phone interview today. “This is the major problem of using sea
sand as raw material for concrete.”  Cheaper Option  Even as China bans such practices in concrete production,
ocean sand is still being used because of price differences and
supply shortage of river sand, Han said. Prices of sea sand are
about half those of sand from rivers or lakes, he said.  China State Construction Engineering is the contracted
builder of Ping An Finance Center, while the real estate arm of
 Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) , China’s second-biggest insurer,
develops the center.  Ping An banned the builder from using sea sand in the
construction of the center when they signed the contract, it
said in an-emailed statement today. The company will order the
builder to double check the source of the concrete and it will
cooperate with the Shenzhen government’s investigation, it said.  The tower will be China’s tallest building when it is
completed, according to the skyscraper center database of the
Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat. China’s tallest
building currently is the 492-meter Shanghai World Financial
Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  