-- China’s E-Bike Market Seen by CHR’s Roberts Starting to Plateau
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-19T12:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/china-s-e-bike-market-seen-by-chr-s-roberts-starting-to-plateau.html
The market for electric bicycles in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer and producer of lead, is
nearing a peak, according CHR Metals Ltd., a lead and zinc
consulting company in Godalming,  England .  Two- and three-wheeler e-bikes account for more than half
of all lead consumption in China and about 20 percent of global
demand, Huw Roberts, a founder of CHR Metals, said at a Metal
Bulletin conference in Istanbul today. The nation used 4.63
million metric tons of refined lead last year, or 44 percent of
global demand, Standard Bank Plc says. Batteries are the biggest
use for the metal.  “In China, the major market is being in the two-wheeler
and three-wheeler sectors and I believe we’re beginning to see
some plateauing in those markets,” Roberts said. “Recycling
becomes a more important factor for lead production in China and
it means it doesn’t need as much incremental mine production.”  Refined lead output in China from recycled material
exceeded 2.5 million tons last year, more than double the total
five years earlier, according to CHR Metals. People in China
rode more than 180 million e-bikes by the end of last year, up
36 percent since 2010, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd. Average
lead content in a two-wheel e-bike has dropped from about 13
kilograms (29 pounds) in 2010 to 11 kilograms last year,
according to the Edinburgh-based researcher.  ‘More Optimistic’  “I’m probably more optimistic than I’d been 12 months
ago,” Roberts said. “We are now looking for some growth during
the course of 2013, with the growth rate probably slightly
slower in China and slightly faster outside China.”  Lead for May delivery on the Shanghai Futures Exchange fell
8.5 percent in the past year as stockpiles in warehouses
monitored by the bourse climbed almost fourfold. Inventories
monitored by the London Metal Exchange dropped 26 percent in the
past year to the lowest since Oct. 10.  There is some evidence that lead inventories in Malaysia
and  Singapore  are being moved to the U.S., Roberts said. The
U.S. is the second-biggest lead user, according to the
International Lead and Zinc Study Group in Lisbon. About 85
percent of all lead goes into lead-acid batteries, according to
CHR. Most of lead demand is for replacement goods rather than
new equipment, Roberts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  