-- China Buying New Zealand Pine Means Boon for Log Movers: Freight
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-20T09:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/china-buying-new-zealand-pine-means-boon-for-log-movers-freight.html
The combination of Chinese demand
for homes, New Zealand’s pine forests and a Russian tax have
been a boon amid an industry slump for  Pacific Basin (2343)  Shipping
Ltd., Hong Kong’s largest dry-bulk carrier. Its biggest local
rival has noticed.  New Zealand sold 8.6 million cubic meters of logs to China
last year, more than tripling its market share to 23 percent in
four years, according to the China Timber & Wood Products
Distribution Association. In response, Pacific Basin has
increased the number of ships that are log-fitted by 56 percent
in the past five years.  Cosco Shipping Co. (600428) , part of China’s biggest maritime
company, plans to start services to New Zealand from China to
join the trade. Hauling timber is attractive because the
commodity-shipping industry is off to its worst start on record.
The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY)  averaged 774 since the start of the year,
the lowest since at least 1985, according to the Baltic Exchange
in  London .  “This trade-flow shift from Russia to New Zealand is
helping shipping companies when the whole commodity-shipping
sector is in doldrums,” said Amos Zhang, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. with a buy rating on
Cosco. “The new demand is positive for shipping companies.”  Pacific Basin, which last month reported its first  annual
loss  since listing in 2004, owns 56 vessels that are equipped
with log-fitted facilities, up from 36 five years ago, the
company said in an e-mail. Timber and other forest products
accounted for 15 percent of the carrier’s cargo loads last year,
the biggest after grains.  ‘Important Cargo’  “Logs are very important cargo for us,” Mats Henrik Berglund, Pacific Basin’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “We’ve seen good demand, continuing demand” for
logs from New Zealand and  Australia  into China, he said.  Cosco Shipping, part of the state-owned China Ocean
Shipping (Group) Co., plans services on the New Zealand-China
route “in the near term” to capture a share of the timber
trade, said Dong Yuhang, head of the company’s timber-carrying
operations.  The carrier’s 13 ships are currently hauling hardwood, used
to make furniture, from  Africa  to China. Supplies from New
Zealand plantations are more sustainable than those from
Africa’s natural forests, Dong said.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (STX)  also
operates vessels in the China-New Zealand route to haul logs.  Pacific Basin fell 0.7 percent to HK$4.59 in Hong Kong
trading today, trimming the gains this year to 5.5 percent.
Cosco Shipping rose 2.8 percent, the most since Jan. 24, to 4.08
 yuan  in Shanghai trading. Pacific Basin declined to comment on
the competition.  Kaingaroa  Operators are currently fetching more fees for transporting
logs compared with iron ore and coal, Cosco Shipping’s Dong said
without specifying the rates.  Cosco’s logs-carrying operations posted a profit of 84.5
million yuan ($14 million) in 2011, according to a stock
exchange filing.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the container and
dry-bulk shipping unit of Cosco Group. had a 10.5 billion yuan
loss in the period, the company said in its annual report.  Russian logs, transported by rail, fell to about 30 percent
from 63 percent in 2008 after the country imposed a log export
tax as high as 25 percent, according to the China Timber
Association.  Russia  later lowered taxes for some products and
introduced a quota system, according to the association.  The Kaingaroa forest, first planted in the early 1900s, is
now growing its third crop of trees over 189,000 hectares. It’s
located near tourist attractions Mount Ruapehu and Lake Taupo in
a geothermal region of New Zealand’s North Island.  Meat, Dairy  Kaingaroa forms just over 10 percent of plantation forests
in New Zealand, which grows and harvests trees for commercial
sale. The nation’s log exports almost doubled in four years to
12.8 million cubic meters in 2011, according to the New Zealand
Forest Owners Association. China bought NZ$1.4 billion ($1.15
billion) of logs that year.  “We’ve got a happy coincidence,” David Rhodes, Chief
Executive of the  Forest Owners Association , said in an interview
in Wellington. “We’ve got  China  looking to gobble up as much
resource as they can and New Zealand is in a happy position of
producing an increasing amount in the near term.”  New Zealand is in the midst of its most widespread drought
in at least 30 years, which may cost the nation NZ$2 billion
($1.7 billion) as dry conditions across the North Island
threaten economic growth, the government estimates.  Forestry is now New Zealand’s third largest exporter,
behind meat and dairy. About 90 percent of the nation’s
plantation forests are of Radiata Pine, the native Californian
tree that grows as high as 60 meters.  China Demand  Kaingaroa has a processing plant in the middle of the
forest, which converts whole-tree stems into logs. The forest is
served by the North Island’s Tauranga and Napier ports.  Global demand for logs moved by ships will expand at 7
percent annually from 2011 to 2017, faster than global trade,
Cosco Shipping said in a December statement, citing estimates
from Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  China’s economic growth has spurred a housing boom. Total
floor space of new constructed houses surged 73 percent to 1.77
billion square meters in 2012 from 2008. On March 1, the
government came out with measures to cool the housing market.  “China’s market is so huge that imports are needed for
about half of wood consumption,” said Xie Manhua, a researcher
at the timber association. “Therefore, no matter how bleak the
housing market could be, the total volume of wood needed would
still be big.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  