-- China Foreign Investment Rebounds as Confidence Returns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T03:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/china-s-foreign-investment-gains-for-first-time-in-nine-months.html
China ’s foreign direct investment
rose for the first time in nine months in February, a sign
confidence in the world’s second-biggest economy is improving
amid optimism growth will keep rebounding.  Inbound investment gained 6.3 percent from a year earlier
to $8.21 billion, the  Ministry of Commerce  said in a statement
today in Beijing. Non-financial outbound investment in the first
two months of the year surged 147 percent to $18.4 billion,
exceeding inbound spending of $17.5 billion.  Newly appointed Premier  Li Keqiang ’s pledge to spread the
wealth from the nation’s economic expansion and increase the
number of middle-income citizens may support government efforts
to rely more on domestic demand for expansion. Li vowed to open
the economy to more market forces and strip power from the
government to achieve 7.5 percent annual growth through 2020.  “China’s attractiveness remain for foreign investors, from
its relatively-developed infrastructure to stable macroeconomic
growth,” said Sun Junwei, a Beijing-based economist with HSBC
Holdings Plc. “As the global economy recovers, China may
continue to see a steady inflow of investments this year,
helping the overall China recovery story.”  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.1 percent as
of 11:04 a.m. local time. China’s money-market rate dropped to
the lowest level in more than a week on speculation increased
investment from abroad will boost cash in the financial system.  Global Economy  Data today on  investor sentiment in Germany , industrial
production in  Italy  and U.S. housing starts will be among the
latest readings on the strength of the global economy as
European officials seek to contain a financial  crisis in Cyprus .  In China, the government said March 5 that non-financial
FDI may rise about 1.2 percent this year to $113 billion,
according to the annual report of the National Development and
Reform Commission to the legislature. Inbound FDI fell 3.7
percent to $111.7 billion in 2012, the first full-year decline
since 2009.  Outbound investment will increase 15 percent to $88.7
billion in 2013, the NDRC said in its report.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.9 percent in the
final three months of last year, the first acceleration in two
years after a 7.4 percent gain in the previous quarter. For the
full year, expansion was 7.8 percent, the lowest in 13 years.
Maintaining sustainable economic growth is one of the
government’s major tasks, Li said on March 17.  Growth Forecast  Growth may rebound to 8.3 percent this year, Song Guoqing,
an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said today at
the Credit Suisse Asian Investment conference in  Hong Kong .  Today’s data showed Chinese investment in the U.S. up 145.7
percent in the first two months of 2013; up 281.8 percent in
 Australia ; and up 81.9 percent in the European Union. Spending
coming from the EU rose 34 percent in the first two months,
while U.S. investment was down 5.4 percent.  Chinese billionaires including  Zong Qinghou , chairman of
beverage maker Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., and Pony Ma, chairman
of Tencent Holdings Ltd., said this month that they’re looking
for acquisition and investment opportunities overseas as more of
the nation’s companies seek assets to bolster earnings.  Outbound Cash  “China’s outbound investment is set to grow at a higher
speed than investment flowing into China as the country’s
development has reached a stage of investing abroad
aggressively,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, who formerly worked at the
 International Monetary Fund .  Inbound spending for the full year will still be higher
than outbound investment, Zhang said. “Foreign investment’s
role of bringing in know-how and technology should not be over-
looked,” he said. At the same time, China’s global
competitiveness as a manufacturing destination is weakening at a
“faster-than-expected pace” as salaries rise rapidly, Zhang
said.  Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s largest automaker, plans to
increase production capacity 60 percent by 2018 in China, Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said March 14.  Chinese investment in  Japan  fell 31 percent in the first
two months of the year, the Commerce Ministry said, as a
territorial dispute over islands in the  East China Sea  spills
over to economic ties.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  