-- Choate’s Kids Wear Sweaters, Go Green, Eat Happy Chickens
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/choate-s-kids-wear-sweaters-go-green-eat-happy-chickens.html
Students at  Choate Rosemary Hall 
preparatory school consider the value of food scraps and the
environmental impact of hair dryers.  These are among the curricular wrinkles encountered by
young scholars living and studying in a zero-energy building,
the new  Kohler Environmental Center .  Made of dark wood and stone, the building was designed by
 Robert A.M. Stern Architects  and stands in a meadow on 266
bucolic acres east of the school’s main campus in Wallingford,
 Connecticut .  In the high-ceilinged common room, dominated by a stone-faced fireplace, the gray day’s light showered from high
clerestories and tall windows -- keeping electric illumination
off. In warm weather, the high/low window configuration aids
natural ventilation.  Next to a big common table is a bright, open kitchen where
chef Janusz Mysiorski prepares humanely raised chickens and
season-sensitive salads. The students weigh and compost food
scraps.  The center reflects a growing realization that  energy
efficiency  offers a much cheaper and simpler way of coping with
 climate change  than tainted nuclear and costly renewables.  New buildings that draw zero net energy from the electrical
grid show how far the approach has come. In his  State of the
Union  address, President  Barack Obama , who has stressed
renewables and increased oil and gas production, at last
endorsed efficiency.  Lifestyle Changes  Choate students have been recruited in part to test
assumptions about what lifestyle changes people are willing to
make to save energy.  The Kohler Environmental Center was built and endowed with
a $20 million gift from Herbert V. Kohler Jr., the chairman and
chief executive officer of Kohler Co., which makes plumbing
fixtures. A Choate alumnus, the executive has also served as
chairman of the school’s board of trustees.  Students use an online dashboard to monitor the power
generated daily by a 294-kilowatt solar array. They can compare
the power demand of two labs, classrooms, a greenhouse and
dormitory rooms.  The extent of the photovoltaic array was determined only
after more than a dozen energy-saving tactics were designed,
allowing for a smaller and less costly solar facility.  The building is heated and cooled by four methods, for
example. The design eliminates more than half the energy demand
of a conventional structure.  Maple Trees  I toured the project with Stern partner Graham S. Wyatt. In
a hallway that wraps a U-shaped courtyard, the concrete floor
retains warmth when heated by the sun. The handsome wood
paneling was recycled from sugar-maple trees and retained marks
where taps had once been placed.  The students were tapped in determining whether to invest
in one or two clothes dryers. Would they use drying racks to
eliminate the second dryer? Would they give up hair dryers?
Would they wear sweaters in winter to permit an energy-saving
thermostat setting of 67 degrees?  “We don’t tell students that certain behaviors are
unacceptable,” said Joseph Scanio, one of the center’s two
live-in teachers. “We discuss things. We make it easy to be
intentional about the choices you make.”  Energy Waste  The questions the Choate students consider may sound
trivial and paternalistic, but they are crucial to the
environmental debate. Some experts estimate that energy waste is
as much as 40 percent of consumption.  Turning out the lights as you leave a room begins to take
on game-changing dimensions.  Students at the costly private school are hardly a cross-section of the U.S., but their generation’s awareness of energy
choices and environmental consequences could profoundly affect
the country’s energy needs.  “No one is living a life of deprivation here,” Scanio
said. “The investment in the building design minimizes
sacrifice.”  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 