-- Cigarette Warning-Label Ruling Won’t Be Appealled by U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-19T21:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cigarette-warning-label-ruling-won-t-be-appealled-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. Justice Department won’t
ask the Supreme Court to overturn a lower court ruling that
struck down rules requiring graphic health warnings on cigarette
packaging.  Attorney General Eric Holder, in a letter to Congress dated
March 15, said the Food and Drug Administration will create new
regulations that address the First Amendment concerns raised by
the appeals court, which in a 2-1 decision found the
requirements violated the free speech rights of tobacco
companies.  “If a court of appeals were to set aside new regulations
issued by FDA at a later date, there will be an opportunity to
seek full Supreme Court review at that time,” Holder said.  The FDA was sued in 2011 by R.J. Reynolds, a unit of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , Lorillard Tobacco Co., Commonwealth
Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and  Santa Fe  Natural Tobacco Co.
The companies claimed the mandates for cigarette packages,
cartons and ads, passed as part of the Family Smoking Prevention
and Control Act, violated the First Amendment because the
government was using “threats and fear” to motivate people to
stop using a lawful product.  Tracheotomy Hole  The government argued that the nine images selected by the
agency to be placed on packages and advertisements are true
depictions required by Congress to show the negative health
consequences of smoking. One image was a man with cigarette
smoke coming out of a tracheotomy hole in his throat. Another
was a cadaver with chest staples on an autopsy table.  The graphics were supposed to cover the top half of the
front and back of cigarette packages and 20 percent of print
advertisements.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington ruled on Aug. 24
that the visual images, along with the phone number 1-800-QUIT-
NOW, are “unabashed attempts to evoke emotion” and “browbeat
consumers” to stop buying the companies’ products.  The department’s request that the full appeals court
reconsider the ruling was rejected in December.  Bryan Hatchell, a spokesman for Reynolds, and Robert Bannon, a spokesman for Lorillard, didn’t reply to telephone
calls and e-mails seeking comment on Holder’s letter.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-5332, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  