-- Cinven, Warburg Pincus Sell 20% Ziggo Stake for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-19T10:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cinven-warburg-pincus-to-sell-20-ziggo-stake-for-1-3-billion.html
Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) ’s main shareholders,
including Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., are selling a 20
percent stake in the Dutch cable-television operator.  The shareholders are selling about 40 million shares,
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Ziggo said in a statement. Warburg
and Cinven are selling them at 25.05 euros per share, terms of
the offer show, valuing the sale at 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion).  Shares of Ziggo fell as much as 4.4 percent in Amsterdam
today, the biggest intraday decline since February.  Issuers in  Europe  have raised $19.3 billion selling
additional stakes in companies this year, 30 percent more than
they did in the same period in 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. After the sale, Cinven, Warburg Pincus and co-
investors will own a 17.1 percent stake in Ziggo, which listed
in March last year.  Ziggo, with a market value of about 5 billion euros, didn’t
take part in an auction for wireless spectrum for high-speed
mobile-phone services in December. Royal  KPN NV (KPN) , Vodafone,
 Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  AG’s T-Mobile unit and Tele 2 AB paid 3.8
billion euros in total.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  will
step down from his current post at the end of the year to
replace Ziggo CEO Bernard Dijkhuizen, who is retiring, the Dutch
company said March 7.  The sale by Ziggo’s main shareholders indicates a buyout
bid for the  company  is unlikely in the short term, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch analysts said in a note to clients
yesterday.  “Private equity is likely to have spoken to potential
interested parties before selling on market in the hope of
realizing a strategic premium,” analysts Daniel Kerven and
Bianca Dallal said.  Barclays Plc managed the share sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News.  Ziggo shares were down 4.04 percent at 24.81 euros at 11:05
a.m. in Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net 
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  