-- Citigroup to Pay $730 Million in Bond-Lawsuit Settlement
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-19T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/citigroup-to-pay-730-million-in-bond-lawsuit-settlement.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, agreed to pay $730 million to settle claims
it misled debt investors about its condition during the
financial crisis.  The deal would resolve a lawsuit by investors who bought
Citigroup bonds and preferred stock from May 2006 through
November 2008, the New York-based lender said yesterday in a
statement. The accord requires court approval and would be
covered by existing litigation reserves, the bank said.  Citigroup is among the Wall Street firms still dealing with
the fallout from the crisis, when the bank almost collapsed amid
losses tied to subprime mortgages and took a $45 billion
bailout. The company has repaid the rescue. Last year, the firm
agreed to pay $590 million to settle a lawsuit brought by stock
investors who said they’d been misled.  “At the time they were selling these securities, in
reality Citigroup was effectively insolvent,” Steven Singer, a
partner at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP who
represented the debt investors, said in a phone interview.
“They were presenting the company to be in substantially
stronger financial position than it in reality was.”  Citigroup said in the statement that it still denies the
allegations and agreed to the settlement to avoid the cost and
uncertainty of litigation. Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for the
bank, declined to comment further in a phone interview.  Corporate Bonds  The lawsuit was filed in federal court in Manhattan in
2008, with investors claiming Citigroup misled purchasers of 48
issues of its corporate bonds. Plaintiffs in the case include
the Louisiana Sheriffs’ Pension and Relief Fund, Minneapolis
Firefighters’ Relief Association and the City of Philadelphia
Board of Pensions and Retirement.  Citigroup’s bonds dropped as losses piled up during the
collapse of the U.S. mortgage market. Its $4 billion of 10-year
notes, issued in November 2007, slid as low as 79.7 cents on the
dollar in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
firm lost more than $29 billion in 2008 and 2009.  In 2010, U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein denied part of a
motion by Citigroup to dismiss the case. Stein threw out claims
that involved alleged lack of disclosure about auction-rate
securities and part of the plaintiffs’ case related to
structured investment vehicles.  The 10-year notes climbed above face value to 118.6 cents
yesterday, the data show. Citigroup’s stock has gained about 17
percent this year and was little changed in after-hours trading
yesterday, following the settlement’s announcement.  The plaintiffs said in a memorandum of law to the court
that they “have concluded that the terms and conditions” of
the accord “are fair and reasonable and in their best
interest.”  The case is In Re Citigroup Bond Litigation, 08-cv-09522,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  