-- Class-Action Suits Curbed as Court Backs Travelers Unit
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-19T15:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/class-action-suits-curbed-as-court-backs-travelers-unit.html
The U.S. Supreme Court put new
constraints on class-action lawsuits, siding with a  Travelers
Cos. (TRV)  unit and undercutting what companies say is a favorite
tactic used by trial lawyers to steer cases to friendly courts.  Under the disputed approach, lawyers agree not to seek more
than $5 million -- the threshold that sends class-action suits
to federal court under a 2005 U.S. law.  The high court today unanimously said that type of
“stipulation” isn’t grounds for forcing a case into state
court, where plaintiffs often fare better. Writing for the
court, Justice  Stephen Breyer  said those stipulations have
limited impact because they aren’t binding on other potential
plaintiffs.  Allowing the tactic would “exalt form over substance,”
Breyer wrote. “It would also have the effect of allowing the
subdivision of a $100 million action into 21 just-below-$5-
million state-court actions simply by including nonbinding
stipulations.”  The ruling focused on the 2005 Class Action Fairness Act,
which put curbs on group litigation, largely by funneling more
cases into federal court.  Travelers’s Standard Fire Insurance unit is accused of
failing to fully reimburse losses by refusing to pay for the
cost of hiring general contractors. The lawyers suing the
company said they would cap the damages they seek, including
attorneys’ fees, at the $5 million threshold.  2010 Hailstorm  The lead plaintiff in the case is Greg Knowles, whose home
was damaged in a 2010 hailstorm.  The high court case came from Miller County, in  Arkansas ’s
southwestern corner. The county is a “magnet jurisdiction,”
where  trial lawyers  have “dragooned scores of out-of-state
corporations into settling cases for vast sums bearing no
meaningful relationship to their merits,” according to a court
filing by five insurance companies and the Manufactured Housing
Institute, an industry trade group based in Arlington, Virginia.  A group representing Arkansas plaintiffs’ lawyers called
that characterization a “myth.” Since 2000, only 28 class-
action cases have been filed in Miller County, the Arkansas
Trial Lawyers Association said.  The case is Standard Fire v. Knowles, 11-1450.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  