-- Clean Energy Is Comparable to Fossil Energy Reserves, BNEF Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-19T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/clean-energy-is-comparable-to-fossil-energy-reserves-bnef-says.html
The “energy reserves” contained
in wind and bioenergy projects in the U.S. and  Brazil  are
“significant” compared to oil and gas in the countries,
according to a study commissioned by  BP Plc (BP/)  that estimates the
barrels of oil equivalent for the renewable resources.  The study, based on Bloomberg New Energy Finance analysis,
found that wind and bioenergy projects in Brazil have more than
two-fifths of the energy content of the country’s proven oil and
gas reserves, the London-based group said in an e-mailed
statement. Similar projects in the U.S. have about one-seventh
the energy content of the country’s fossil fuel reserves.  The analysis provides a new methodology for comparing
competing clean energy technologies and also evaluating them
against fossil-based energy sources. The coal, oil and gas
industries assess resources and reserves in terms of volume, and
quantities are based on estimates about the chances of
successful extraction, while renewable energy projects are
evaluated in terms of annual production capacity, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said in the statement.  “There has not been a consistent approach for describing
the technical and economic maturity of renewable energy projects
and the level of certainty about their energy output,”
according to the statement. “This work should give investors a
new way of assessing the value of the sector.”  Significant Parallels  While renewable energy resources are “infinitely
replenished,” making them fundamentally different from finite
fossil fuel resources, it’s possible to quantify a project’s
cumulative energy output, according to the study. “This output
is not infinite, but bounded by technological and economic
constraints in a way that has significant parallels with fossil
energy projects.”  BP is a member of the Renewable Reserves Working Group,
which seeks “to quantify renewable energy, using principles of
reserves assessment,” according to a presentation by Damien Gerard, BP Alternative Energy’s head of strategy, at a meeting
last year in  London . Other attendees  included   Total SA (FP) , Statoil
SA, Citigroup Inc., Dupont Co. and Dong Energy A/S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  