-- Cleary Gottlieb, Loeb & Loeb, Cozen: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-19T11:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cleary-gottlieb-loeb-loeb-cozen-business-of-law.html
Robert W. Cook, former director of
the division of trading and markets of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, will return to  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  as a partner. He will be based in the firm’s
Washington office and will focus on securities, derivatives, and
market regulation, the firm said.  “Robert rejoins our partners Alan Beller,  David Becker ,
and Giovanni Prezioso and senior counsel Edward Greene, all
former senior SEC officials,” Cleary Gottlieb managing partner
Mark Leddy said in a statement. “His broad experience and deep
expertise as one of the leading practitioners on broker-dealer
and market regulation in the United States will be of enormous
benefit to our clients.”  Cook, 47, was the director of his division from January
2010 to January of this year, supervising 250 professionals. He
was responsible for regulatory policy and oversight of
securities exchanges and markets, broker-dealers, security-based
swap dealers, clearing agencies, and credit rating companies,
the firm said.  Under his direction, the division reviewed and acted on
over 2,000 rule filings and new product listings and implemented
more than 30 major rulemakings and studies generated by the
Dodd-Frank and JOBS Acts, the firm said. Cook also oversaw
market structure initiatives, including the adoption of enhanced
risk controls for traders with access to the securities markets,
large trader registration and reporting rules, according to the
firm.  “Market participants and intermediaries face a range of
significant new and enhanced regulatory mandates,” Cook said in
a statement. “With its deep financial regulatory expertise and
international perspective,  Cleary Gottlieb  provides an excellent
platform for helping clients understand and comply with this
complex regulatory environment.”  Cleary Gottlieb has more than 1,200 lawyers in 16 offices
around the world.  Debevoise Trusts and Estates Team Joins Loeb & Loeb  Loeb & Loeb LLP announced that Jonathan J. Rikoon and
Cristine M. Sapers will join the firm’s trusts and estates
department as partners in the New York office next month, along
with five other lawyers. Rikoon and Sapers were previously at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in New York, where Rikoon has been the
trusts and estates group chairman. Debevoise said in a February
e-mail that the firm was discontinuing its trusts and estates
practice.  Rikoon has experience in planning, administration and
litigation in trusts and estates matters. He has handled estate
and tax planning for wealthy individuals and families,
preparation of wills and trusts, and the administration of
trusts and estates. Sapers focuses her practice on estate and
tax planning for high net worth individuals, preparation of
wills and trusts and administration of large trusts and estates,
the firm said.  “Jonathan and Cristine’s decision to join Loeb & Loeb
validates our ongoing strategic commitment to further strengthen
our pre-eminent private client platform and reflects our strong
reputation as a leader in this complex area of law,” Loeb &
Loeb chairman Michael D. Beck said in a statement.  The new hires bring Loeb & Loeb’s trusts and estates
department attorney count to more than 40 attorneys. Loeb & Loeb
has more than 300 attorneys in six offices in the U.S. and
Beijing.  Former U.S. Ambassador to Romania Rejoins Mayer Brown  Former U.S. Ambassador to Romania Mark Gitenstein has
rejoined  Mayer Brown  LLP in Washington as special counsel in the
government and global trade practice.  Gitenstein, formerly a partner at Mayer Brown, was
appointed Ambassador in 2009 by President  Barack Obama  and
completed his term at the end of 2012.  “We are delighted to welcome Mark back to the firm,”
Mayer Brown Chairman Paul Theiss said in a statement. “His long
and distinguished career in both public service and private
practice has been characterized by skill, dedication and
integrity. Those attributes, along with the insights he gained
and the relationships he established during his ambassadorial
tenure in Romania, will make him a great asset to our clients
seeking to establish or expand their business relationships in
that part of the world.”  As U.S. Ambassador to Romania, Gitenstein promoted deeper
development of Romania’s equity markets, as well as a fair and
transparent business environment, the firm said. He also
encouraged greater private sector involvement in state-owned
enterprises, including the introduction of a corporate
governance code for SOEs, according to the firm.  Gitenstein spent two decades at Mayer Brown, primarily
focused on government relations matters. He advised corporations
and associations on legislative strategies, monitored and
drafted legislation on behalf of corporate clients and advised
clients in the context of antitrust, white-collar crime and
civil liability controversies, the firm said.  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  News  Obama Chooses Perez as Labor Chief Seeking Cabinet Diversity  President Barack Obama named assistant U.S. attorney
general  Thomas Perez  as his choice to become labor secretary in
his second term.  Perez would replace Hilda Solis, ensuring that the Labor
Department is led again by a Hispanic, helping the president
maintain diversity in his cabinet. Solis resigned in January.  “Like so many Americans, Tom knows what it’s like to climb
the ladder of opportunity,” Obama said yesterday in announcing
his intention to nominate Perez, the son of immigrants from the
Dominican Republic. Perez will work to promote economic growth
and will “make sure that growth is broad-based,” he said.  If confirmed by the Senate, Perez would probably play a
prominent part in pushing Obama’s agenda on issues including
immigration overhaul and raising the nation’s minimum wage to $9
per hour from $7.25 per hour.  Perez, 51, has led the  Justice Department ’s civil rights
unit since 2009. He has pursued discriminatory job postings at a
Florida health-care company, charges of sex discrimination in
hiring by Corpus Christie, Texas, and lawsuits against Georgia
for failing to ensure overseas  voting rights .  Last May, Perez accused Arizona’s Maricopa County and its
sheriff of discriminating against Latinos in a lawsuit. Sheriff
Joseph Arpaio said the Obama administration was targeting him in
an election-year maneuver.  Before taking his Justice Department post, Perez was
secretary of the Maryland Department of Labor, Licensing and
Regulation, which oversees workplace safety laws, wage-and-hour
regulations and the state’s consumer-protection laws.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Cozen Hires Six Edwards Wildman Partners for Florida Office  Six attorneys from Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP joined Cozen
O’Connor as partners and will be part of a team working out of a
new West Palm Beach office.  The six, who practice in trusts and estates/private client
services, real estate, insurance coverage, reinsurance,
insurance corporate and regulatory and litigation are D. Scott
Elliott, Michael Botos, Harvey Feintuch, A. Kenneth Levine,
Simeon Brier and John David Dickenson.  Elliott, Botos, Levine and Dickenson will be based in the
new office. Brier will work from the Miami and West Palm Beach
offices. Feintuch will split his time between the West Palm
Beach and New York offices, the firm said in a statement.  “Expanding our presence and capabilities in the vibrant
South Florida market is a priority for the firm, and we are
pleased to have found such exceptional attorneys to add to our
team,” Cozen O’Connor Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Heller
said in a statement.  Elliott represents high-net worth individuals and families,
and corporate fiduciaries in trust and estate law. Botos focuses
on the development of commercial and residential projects,
transactional real estate, retail and office leasing and
aggregate and sand mining leases and sales.  Feintuch focuses on insurance coverage litigation and
reinsurance. Levine helps clients navigate state and federal law
regulating the licensure and transaction of insurance,
reinsurance and service contracts/warranties, the firm said.  Brier handles commercial litigation and employment law.
Dickenson practices in the area of insurance and reinsurance,
representing domestic and international insurers and reinsurers
in complex coverage, claims handling and bad faith litigation
and also provides coverage and excess exposure opinions, the
firm said.  “We are grateful to these attorneys and wish them well in
their new endeavors,” Heather Fontaine Merton, a spokeswoman
for Edwards Wildman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
committed to the Palm Beach County and South Florida markets,
where we have been part of the legal and business community for
32 years. As we continue to expand in the U.S., U.K. and Asia,
we are also relocating our Fort Lauderdale office to Miami.”  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 22 offices in the U.S.,
Toronto and London.  Clifford Chance Named Adviser on 2022 FIFA World Cup Stadium  Clifford Chance  LLP was appointed by the Supreme Committee
for Qatar 2022 to advise on the 2022 FIFA  World Cup  projects,
including the development of the main “Iconic Stadium,” the
firm said.  It is “a privilege to be working on a high profile project
such as the Iconic Stadium which will set the benchmark for
stadium development,” Richard Parris, Clifford Chance Doha
office managing partner, said in a statement.  The firm has worked on infrastructure and development
projects for the London Olympics and Poland’s Euro 2012 program,
as well as advising on other stadium projects such as Wembley
National Stadium and  Stamford  Bridge in the U.K. and Spartak
Stadium in Moscow, the firm said.  “The 2022 FIFA World Cup is a prestigious and high profile
event. It is essential that we work with suppliers who are best
in class and can deliver a quality service,” general counsel
for the Supreme Committee, Andrew Longmate, said in a statement.
“We are delighted that Clifford Chance has won the first of a
number of major legal advisory mandates that will be tendered
over the coming months.”  Clifford Chance has advised in Qatar on projects including
The Pearl in Qatar, Doha Festival City and Ras Laffan II. The
firm has also advised QNB on the acquisition of Société
Générale’s stake in National Société Générale Bank Egypt, the
largest cross-border financial services mergers and acquisitions
deal in the MENA region in 2012, the firm said.  Clifford Chance has 3,400 legal advisers at 35 offices in
25 countries. The firm operates a co-operation agreement with
Al-Jadaan & Partners Law Firm in Saudi Arabia.  Citi Private Bank Survey Finds Firm Manager’s Confidence Rises  Managing law firm partners’ confidence increased during the
fourth quarter of last year, according to a report by Citi
Private Bank.  The survey, based on feedback from 76 law firms, found that
managing partner confidence “sits comfortably above the neutral
level.”  Managing partners’ expectations were raised by renewed
confidence in the economy and business conditions though the
managing partners expressed concern about pressure from
discounting and expense growth.  The confidence is driving an uptick in demand and is
reflected in 34 percent of those surveyed saying business is
“somewhat better.”  Litigation  BP Loses Motion to Dismiss Gross Negligence in Spill Trial  BP Plc (BP/)  lost a motion to dismiss the issue of a potential
finding of gross negligence, which could trigger fines of as
much as $17.6 billion, in the trial over its role in the 2010
 Gulf of Mexico   oil spill .  BP lawyer Andrew Langan, a partner at  Kirkland & Ellis
LLP, asked for a partial ruling yesterday as the lawyers for the
plaintiffs suing the company rested their case.  “We don’t think there has been a finding of gross
negligence” against BP, Langan told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans , who is conducting the nonjury trial.  “Frankly, I’m not going to grant that motion,” Barbier
said. “I don’t see any point in arguing it.”  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
killed 11 workers and spilled more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico. The accident sparked hundreds of
lawsuits against London-based BP, owner of the well, Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean (RIG)  and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cement services.  The nonjury trial over liability for the disaster began
Feb. 25 before Barbier, who will determine responsibility for
the disaster and whether one or more of the companies acted with
willful or wanton misconduct or reckless indifference -- the
legal requirement for establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private party
plaintiffs last year.  For Transocean and Halliburton, findings of gross
negligence would mean the companies could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs.  Lawyers for Halliburton and two other defendants,  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , and M-I Swaco, a unit of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
told Barbier yesterday they would file motions to erase the
gross negligence claim.  Houston-based Cameron, maker of the blowout preventer on
the project, agreed to pay BP $250 million in December 2011 in
exchange for the oil company’s indemnifying it from damage
claims. The settlement didn’t cover fines or penalties or
punitive damages.  M-I Swaco, which provided drilling fluid, settled with BP
last year without disclosing the terms. Swaco’s lawyers filed a
motion yesterday asking Barbier to find that that there is no
evidence that the company engaged in willful or wanton
misconduct, the requirement for gross negligence. M-I Swaco also
asked the judge to find that no acts or omissions by the company
caused the disaster, according to court papers.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 