-- Commodity Trade Financing Seen by HSBC’s Lambert as Sufficient
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-19T15:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/commodity-trade-financing-seen-by-hsbc-s-lambert-as-sufficient.html
Commodity trade continues to
attract sufficient financing amid instability in the  Middle East 
and reduced lending by some European banks, said Jean-Francois Lambert, HSBC Bank Plc’s global head of commodity and structured
trade finance.  “The world is in a complicated situation, but what needs
to be financed, is financed,” Lambert said in an interview in
Geneva yesterday. “There is sufficient liquidity in the market
to finance commodities.”  Lambert said the market for commodity-trade finance has
become “more normal,” and he wasn’t aware of any major
defaults. Banks in countries that use the euro reduced their
activity “a little” and haven’t pulled out of commodity
finance, according to Lambert.  “The banks of the  euro zone  during the crisis had less
access to dollars,” Lambert said. “There was a squeeze.
They’re still there. They haven’t withdrawn.”  Lambert said HSBC continues to do business in  Egypt , where
a drop in the country’s currency has made imports more
expensive. Wheat purchases by Egypt, the world’s largest buyer
of the grain, have slowed, and the country had enough wheat for
109 days of consumption, the government reported March 13, down
from 123 days reported on Feb. 27.  In Egypt, “wheat is still arriving and it’s still being
paid,” Lambert said. “The strategic imports continue to be
purchased and are honored.”  The country’s main sources of foreign currency have been
tourism, the  Suez Canal , strategic exports and the U.S.,
according to the HSBC executive, who was a moderator at a
commodity-industry conference organized by the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development.  “There is less tourism, there is less Suez, fewer
strategic exports, what remains is the U.S.,” he said. “It’s a
country essential to global stability. We have a long-standing
presence there and that’s why we remain active there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  