-- Copper May Fall on European Concerns Before Cyprus Vote
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-03-19T13:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/copper-declines-to-four-month-low-on-cyprus-inventory-concerns.html
Copper futures may extend a drop to
to the lowest in almost seven months as Cyprus prepares to vote
on a bank levy amid signs that metal demand remains slack.  Cypriot lawmakers are scheduled to vote today on how to
spread the burden of raising 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
from bank depositors to unlock emergency loans. Yesterday,
futures dropped the most in four months on  Europe ’s debt woes.
Japan’s copper wire and cable shipments fell in February, while
a measure of global inventory of the metal rose to the highest
since 2003.  “The European concerns are causing buyers to step aside,”
 David Meger , the director of metal trading at Vision Financial
Markets in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “Japan
shipments fell and we’re seeing higher inventories, so that’s
giving pause to those expecting higher demand.”  On the Comex in  New York , copper futures for delivery in
May fell less than 0.1 percent to $3.427 a pound at 9:56 a.m.
Earlier, the metal touched $3.4025, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Aug. 21.  Copper pared losses after a government report showed new
U.S. home construction rose in February and building permits
climbed to the highest in almost five years. The Copper
Development Association says construction generates about 40
percent of demand for the metal.  Stockpiles monitored by exchanges in  London , the U.S. and
 Shanghai  have surged 44 percent this year to 847,559 metric
tons, the highest since November 2003.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell less than 0.1 percent to $7,574 a ton ($3.44 a
pound). Earlier, the price declined as much as 0.7 percent and
rose as much as 0.4 percent.  Lead, zinc, nickel, aluminum and tin gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  