-- Cyprus Blackmail Risks EU Slow Death, Orphanides Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-03-19T12:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cyprus-blackmail-risks-eu-slow-death-orphanides-says.html
Euro-area finance ministers’
decision to tax bank deposits in Cyprus as part of a bailout
signals the “slow death” of European political integration and
will hurt the economy, according to former Cypriot central bank
governor Athanasios Orphanides.  “What we have seen in the last few days is a very serious
blunder by European governments that essentially are
blackmailing the government of Cyprus to confiscate the money
that belongs rightfully to depositors,” Orphanides said today
in an interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“Not everybody is equal under the law the way European
governments are behaving these days. It’s not clear how this can
affect in a positive manner the European project going
forward.”  The decision to tax deposits as part of a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) bailout, aimed mainly at rescuing Cyprus’ banks,
sparked outrage in the island nation and concern among investors
about setting a precedent by breaking the taboo against raiding
bank accounts. With Cypriot lawmakers voting today, finance
ministers have since backtracked on the levy’s structure, which
initially called for a 6.75 percent tax on deposits under
100,000 euros and 9.9 percent over that amount.  Blackmail, Confiscation  “What we are witnessing is the slow death of the European
project,” Orphanides said. “The way the strongest governments
of  Europe  have blackmailed the Cypriot government to confiscate
deposits, it’s essentially sending the message that nobody with
deposits in a small country like Luxembourg should feel safe.
Nobody with deposits in a weak country like  Spain  should feel
safe. You realize this only makes the economic climate in Europe
worse instead of contributing to a solution.”  Orphanides, a former European Central Bank policy maker,
also said the Cypriot deposit levy undermines moves to set up a
regional banking union.  “The governments who pushed for this measure are sending a
message that they want no part of a banking union,” he said.
“I would much rather go back and ask the other European
governments that contributed to this blackmail to rethink, ‘Is
it really a positive for the future of Europe to be working in
this way?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  