-- Cyprus Bank Tax Threatens European Deposit Guarantees Plan
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-03-19T10:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cyprus-bank-levy-threatens-european-plan-for-deposit-guarantees.html
Europe ’s drive to rescue Cyprus
risks undermining a region-wide deposit guarantee plan, a key
tenet in the battle to contain the debt crisis, and casts doubt
on the ability of the weakest lenders to retain deposits.  Finance ministers reached an agreement on March 16 to force
depositors at Cypriot banks, including those with less than
100,000 euros ($129,500), to share in the cost of the latest
euro-area bailout. If approved by the country’s Parliament, that
could undermine policy makers’ plans to harmonize national
deposit insurance programs as they try to restore confidence in
Europe’s financial system.  While Cyprus makes up less than 0.5 percent of the 17-
nation euro economy, the move to tax bank accounts raises the
specter of a slow withdrawal of deposits from banks in other
European countries perceived as being at risk, money managers
and analysts said.  “This will be the death knell for an EU Common Deposit
Guarantee scheme,” Roberto Henriques, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  London , wrote in a report to clients. “With this
action, one of the stabilizing instruments will have been
completely undermined in the current process and, in the future,
we may see a very strong reaction in deposit flows in the event
that a banking sector may experience stress.”  June Timetable  European leaders are working toward a June timetable to set
minimum standards for individual deposit guarantee plans at the
27  member states , a key part of the proposals for a banking
union that places regulatory authority in the hands of the
 European Central Bank .  “It is very clear in the commission text that savers who
are covered by deposit guarantee schemes, because they have
deposited less that 100,000 euros, should be excluded from the
scope of any bail-in,” said Vicky Ford, a U.K. Conservative
member of the European Parliament who is working on the law.  Cyprus’s depositors aren’t covered by deposit guarantee
rules because the state is insolvent, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today on Deutschland Radio.  “The media falsely created the impression that deposits
are not safe in other countries,” Schaeuble said. “They are
safe, though only on the proviso that the states are solvent.”  Schaeuble said  Germany  put pressure on Cyprus to impose the
tax in exchange for a 10 billion euro loan. “Naturally, the
Cypriot president tried to find a way around it, but there was
none and so we said if this program is to be realized then this
financial contribution is necessary,” he said.  Parliament Vote  Cyprus’s Parliament is scheduled to vote today on the
agreement, which includes a one-time tax on depositors of 5.8
billion euros. Under the March 16 deal account holders with
deposits below the insured amount of 100,000 euros will be taxed
at 6.75 percent, while those with more face a 9.9 percent levy.
Those rates will probably be amended to ensure a higher burden
falls on those with deposits of more than 100,000 euros,
European finance chiefs said in a statement last night.  The deal “created a perception around potential action in
Spain and  Italy  and placed banks in the periphery in a
vulnerable position,” said Elena Ambrosiadou, who relocated her
$1.4 billion hedge fund Ikos Asset Management Ltd. to Cyprus
from London in 2005. “The overall result was an indication of
serious weakness within Europe. I do not think this is the
impression they wanted to give, but this is what people
understood.”  Yields Rise  Borrowing costs in other debt-strapped nations rose.
Italian 10-year bond yields climbed 2 basis points today to 4.66
percent at 9.45 a.m. in London after a 4 basis point jump
yesterday. The rate on similar-maturity Spanish yields increased
2 basis points to 4.98 percent, a 6 basis point rise this week.
The yield on German two-year notes yesterday dropped below zero
for the first time since Jan. 2.  The bank tax in Cyprus was an alternative to imposing
losses on senior bondholders, a step that was opposed by the
Cypriot government, the European Commission and the ECB,
Schaeuble said on ARD television Sunday night. Forcing
bondholders to take losses would make it impossible for some
euro-region lenders to issue bonds in the future, analysts said.  “This has broken the seal on guaranteed deposits,” said
 Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London.
“It won’t make it easier to reach an agreement on a guarantee
scheme. In the meantime, if we get to another bailout stage the
reaction of depositors could be more volatile. This precedent
doesn’t help.”  ‘Taboo’ Broken  If approved, the Cypriot tax would mark the first time that
consumer bank customers have been forced to take losses since
the euro-area crisis began, raising the possibility depositors
will move their savings out of lenders in peripheral Europe.  “A taboo has been broken,” UBS AG analysts Thomas Wacker
and Mads Pedersen wrote in a note to clients. “We are convinced
that a number of further banks in the  euro zone  will face asset
quality and capital issues in the next 12 months. These cases
will likely be intensified by depositors being more inclined to
withdraw deposits fast, and thereby increasing the likelihood
for a bank requiring external support.”  Policy makers working on the bank resolution regime must
decide whether depositors should rank higher or equal to
bondholders in future  bank failures . In Cyprus, senior
bondholders will see no decline in the value of their holdings.  ‘Depositor Preference’  That “runs completely counter” to the purpose of EU
legislation on deposit guarantees, according to Elisa Ferreira,
the member of the European Parliament leading work on the bank
recovery and resolution directive for the Socialist group.  “We are calling for a depositor preference so that
depositors would be the first to be repaid in an insolvency and
would be bailed-in after senior creditors in a resolution,” she
said. “What has been done goes completely against the spirit of
the commission’s proposal on bank resolution.”  European policy makers said Cyprus is an exceptional case
because of the high proportion of non-resident deposits and the
size of the banking industry relative to gross domestic product.
Cypriot banks had 68.4 billion euros in deposits from clients
other than banks at the end of January. Of that, 21 billion
euros, or 31 percent, were from clients outside the euro area,
63 percent were from domestic depositors, and 7 percent were
from other nations within the euro region, according to data
from the Central Bank of Cyprus.  Italian Tax  Deposits represented 172 percent of Cyprus’s GDP at the end
of 2012, compared with 69 percent in Germany and 58 percent in
Italy, where a tax on individuals’ wealth has been touted by
lawmakers as a mechanism to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio.  Italy used a special tax on deposits during the 1992
exchange rate crisis. When speculation circulated in 2011 that
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government would
introduce similar measures, many feared they would spark a bank
run, causing the government to deny it was considering any such
policy, Erik Jones, head of Europe for  Oxford Analytica , an
Oxford, U.K.-based consulting group, said in a note to clients.  “The Cyprus Parliament must oppose any measures to put
this so-called tax on depositors under 100,000 euros,” said
 Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European Parliament’s Economic
and Monetary Affairs Committee. “If they don’t, it calls into
question everything the EU has been trying to do to protect
ordinary depositors and taxpayers from bank failures for the
past five years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  