-- Cyprus Boosts Moscow as City Sees Investor Cash Returning
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-03-20T12:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/cyprus-boosts-moscow-as-city-eyes-cash-russia-overnight.html
Moscow is counting on changing
perceptions of Cyprus as a haven for Russian companies and
investors to help fulfill its goal of becoming a global
financial center, according to a minister in the city’s
government.  “It’s totally changed the perception of Cyprus and it’s a
good thing for  Russia ,” Sergey Cheremin, head of Moscow’s
department for economic and international relations, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  yesterday.
“It shows those Russians who keep their accounts in Cyprus that
it’s not a heaven, it’s a hell. It will encourage a lot of
Russian companies to concentrate their resources in Moscow.”  Cyprus’ discarded plan to rescue its economy through a tax
on  savings accounts  sent  Russian stocks  to a three-month low
this week as Moody’s Investors Service said it may affect $60
billion of loans and deposits from Russia, which has a double-
tax avoidance treaty with the island nation.  Russia has been modernizing the Moscow Exchange, its main
stock and fixed-income bourse, and hired Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. last month to burnish the image of the nation, which ranked
112th on the  World Bank ’s  Doing Business  survey in October.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  made turning Moscow into an
international financial center a key goal when he was president
in 2008. The city is holding its first international non-deal
roadshow this month to lure foreign direct investment to a city
that needs to spend $10 billion a year upgrading its transport
infrastructure, Cheremin said.  Foreign Roadshow  The roadshow, targeted at foreign companies and investors
that can help Russia’s biggest city solve its traffic problems
and bolster sectors including health care and education, has
already stopped in  London , Frankfurt and  Boston , and will be
held in New York today.  The Cypriot parliament rejected the bank deposit levy in a
vote yesterday after the proposal roiled global markets. Stock
of VTB Group, a Russian state-backed lender with a unit in
Cyprus, sank to the lowest level since November yesterday. VTB
rallied 1.6 percent by 3:48 p.m. in Moscow today, after sliding
over the past six days.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden called for the 17
euro area finance ministers to reconvene as soon as possible to
forge a new bailout. Cypriot Finance Minister Michael Sarris met
with Russian officials in Moscow today. Russia granted Cyprus a
2.5 billion-euro ($3.2 billion) loan in 2011.  ‘Big Chunk’  The tax plan was aimed at securing European aid after
Cypriot banks lost 4.5 billion euros on Greek sovereign debt.
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  called it “unfair,
unprofessional and dangerous.” Cyprus is the biggest direct
investor into Russia and the chief recipient of Russian
investment abroad because of the treaty and low tax rates,
according to central bank data.  “Naturally a big chunk of this money pot would move back
from Cyprus to Moscow,”  Luis Saenz , head of equity sales at BCS
Financial Group in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “Russia
bled billions of dollars every year in lost income tax and
value-added tax from money being funneled through Cyprus.”  Russia, which defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt in
1998, “never dared” to impose anything like a savings tax,
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said to reporters in
Kazan yesterday.  “It’s bad that someone’s going to lose something, but from
the point of view of what Russia stands to gain, Russia is more
likely to gain than lose” from the Cyprus situation, he said.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund of Russian shares, slipped 1.6 percent to
$27.51 in New York yesterday, the lowest close since Nov. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  