-- Czech Central Banker Hampl Sees No Deflation Danger Now
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-19T09:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/czech-central-banker-hampl-sees-no-deflation-danger-now.html
Czech central bank Vice-Governor
Mojmir Hampl doesn’t see a risk of “devastating” deflation
that would justify koruna sales.  Hampl spoke about economic outlook and monetary-policy
measures in an interview in  Prague  yesterday.  ECONOMIC TRENDS:  “I really can’t say that I’m seeing some clear, visible
signs of economic recovery, especially in domestic demand.  ‘‘The structure of our GDP, inflation and developments in
key interest rates abroad, all of these factors are heading in a
slightly anti-inflationary direction.  ‘‘Our assumption is that we are now bouncing at the bottom
of the cycle, though this bouncing may be at slightly deeper
levels than we had expected.  ‘‘It’s hard to see clear signs of recovery. That doesn’t
mean that the picture I’m seeing is dramatically different from
what our forecast is showing, it’s just a little more
pessimistic.  ‘‘The dilemma that I see now is whether this is really the
bottom, or whether the economy will drop a little further and
only then bounce back.  ‘‘It’s evident that pro-inflationary pressures are not
visible in the current inflation data. Domestic demand remains
subdued and it’s having a disinflationary effect. This is
visible in the structure of GDP and is also visible in the
structure of inflation.  ‘‘Our forecast appears to be quite realistically describing
the situation, but the question is whether the data are now
confirming this picture, or whether they are shifting in a
slightly more pessimistic direction. It seems to me the data are
slightly, and I would emphasize the word slightly, more
pessimistic.’’  INTERVENTION TRIGGER:  ‘‘We are in a unique situation because any further
monetary-policy action would mean employing a tool that’s
different from what we have used until now.  ‘‘It’s still a valid premise that if it’s necessary, the
 exchange rate  would be the next tool for the central bank to use
to ease monetary conditions.  ‘‘The question is what would be the trigger for using this
tool. Interventions have both advantages and disadvantages and
it’s very important to assess the potential costs and benefits
of such strategy.  ‘‘For me personally, a trigger for conducting interventions
would be the moment when I see a highly probable risk of a long-
lasting, devastating deflationary spiral.  ‘‘From the current perspective, I personally don’t see such
a strong risk yet. It can’t be ruled out that this risk will
appear in the future, but I don’t see it materializing for now.  ‘‘The exchange rate is a tool which, unlike  interest rates ,
isn’t solely in the central bank’s hands because it’s also
influenced by the market forces. If monetary conditions ease
because of factors that that are outside the monetary authority,
and the central bank considers such easing as corresponding to
what is needed to meet its goal, then, obviously, no action is
needed.’’  CURRENCY WARS:  ‘‘If interventions are used as a direct tool to influence
inflation, the aim would be to stabilize inflation near the
target, to stabilize inflation expectations, and it wouldn’t be
to make inflation jump somewhere high above the target. The aim
couldn’t be to destabilize inflation expectations of households,
businesses or of the financial markets.  ‘‘If we decided to use interventions, then it would be only
for meeting our goal of  price stability , it wouldn’t be aimed at
making life easier for exporters or to boost export
competitiveness.  ‘‘If we look at the structure of GDP, then exports are the
part that is still performing, the competitiveness isn’t the
problem. The fundamental problem is the domestic demand.  ‘‘If the problem is domestic demand, then the concept of
currency wars simply doesn’t rhyme with it. We aren’t talking
about boosting the share of exports of our GDP to 90 percent, to
100 percent or to 110 percent.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  