-- DeMark Sees Shanghai Composite Resuming Rally After Drop
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-19T17:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/demark-sees-shanghai-composite-resuming-rally-after-drop.html
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will
rally shortly after reaching a 2013 low this week, according to
Tom DeMark, the founder of Market Studies LLC who correctly
predicted a retreat in the Chinese stock gauge last month.  The  measure  of domestic Chinese equities will rebound once
it falls below 2,232 on March 20 or 21, DeMark said by e-mail
today. That would be the lowest level since Dec. 27 for the
Shanghai Composite, which declined to as low as 2,232.13 today.
The index gained 20 percent over December and January.  DeMark, the  Paradise Valley , Arizona-based creator of
indicators to show turning points in securities, said Feb. 6
that the Shanghai stock index would fall about 8 percent to
within a range of 2,230 to 2,250 before rebounding. The gauge
was down 8 percent from when he made the call to yesterday’s
close at 2,240.02, as slowing manufacturing expansion to
quickening inflation cloud the outlook for  China’s economy .  We “are identifying a low-risk entry zone just beneath
today’s low of the Shanghai Composite which should be a bottom
prior to the resumption of the advance,” DeMark said by e-mail.
“The Feb. 6 top was predicted and at that time the projection
downside was for a correction that would terminate as low as
2,230.”  DeMark said Dec. 4 that the Shanghai Composite will climb
as much as 48 percent within nine months. The 48 percent rally
will be achieved before September, he said by e-mail today. The
gauge has rallied 14 percent from the Dec. 4 close.  Housing Concerns  China ’s central government tightened housing market rules
March 1 to curb rising prices, spurring concern new leaders
installed last week will order further restrictions. The world’s
second-largest economy emerged from a seven-quarter slowdown in
the last three months of 2012, as gross domestic product rose
7.9 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of shares traded in
 Hong Kong  has lost 6.1 percent this year and fell for a third
day today, reaching 10,740.05, the lowest level since Dec. 4.  DeMark, who has spent more than 40 years developing market
indicators, provided consulting to hedge funds including  George
Soros ’s Soros Fund Management LLC and Leon Cooperman’s Omega
Advisors Inc.  He is chief executive officer of Market Studies, which
makes money by charging traders for access to its indicators.
The company also sells subscriptions to the indicators on the
Bloomberg Professional service for $500 a month. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of  Bloomberg News , takes a percentage. DeMark has a
similar arrangement with Thomson Reuters Corp. DeMark won’t say
how many subscribers he has.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  