-- Denmark Cuts Economic Outlook as Vestager Defends Stimulus Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/denmark-cuts-economic-outlook-as-vestager-defends-stimulus-plan.html
Denmark  cut its  growth  forecast for
this year after fourth-quarter figures revealed a deepening
economic slump that the government says calls for more stimulus.  Gross domestic product will expand by 0.5 percent to 1
percent this year, the  Economy Ministry  said yesterday. That
compares with a December forecast of 1.2 percent growth. The
economy contracted 0.6 percent last year, its deepest decline
since the height of the financial crisis in 2009, the statistics
office said Feb. 28.  “These numbers confirm why we think it’s necessary to
launch another growth plan,” Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager said in a phone interview from Copenhagen late
yesterday. “We have to do something to trigger an effect from
the traditional stimulus we already put in place.”  Five years into the global financial crisis, the Social
Democrat-led government has turned to corporate tax cuts to
support the economy. The move, which was announced last month, 
follows income tax breaks and government payouts of more than 
27 billion kroner ($4.7 billion) that had failed to spur
consumer demand.  “There’s more growth potential to come from pension scheme
payouts and tax breaks,” Vestager said. “We couldn’t just sit
around and wait for it to arrive.”  Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said this month she
aims to cut business costs and align corporate tax rate with
levels in Germany and  Sweden  to aid competitiveness.
Unemployment in Denmark has more than tripled since 2008, with
one third of industrial jobs disappearing amid faltering demand
in  Europe .  Horrible Year  The Danish economy contracted 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months as consumers spent less
and business investment stalled. The decline was three times as
deep as estimated in a Bloomberg survey of economists, prompting
Jacob Graven, chief economist at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , to call 2012 the
nation’s “annus horribilis.”  “Given the low figures from the last quarter, it will be
very difficult to reach growth of above 1 percent,” Tore Stramer, a senior analyst at Nykredit A/S, said by phone. GDP
probably won’t expand by more than 0.4 percent and the risk of a
recession remains as Europe’s debt crisis persists, he said.  Denmark is struggling to emerge from a burst property
bubble in 2008 that triggered a local banking crisis and wiped
out more than a dozen lenders. Property values have slumped more
than 20 percent since their 2007 peak, sending prices back to
2005 levels,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  estimates.  According to Vestager, the recovery will pick up after 2013
as “positive signs are beginning to show in some of the
components of GDP,” she said. “We still see the same growth
path with rates increasing from 2013 going forward.”  The government’s latest estimate for 2013 growth is “very
uncertain” and will depend on revised fourth-quarter data from
the statistics office, due to be released on April 4, the
ministry said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  