-- Derivative Laws May Push Pensions to Take More Risk, NAPF Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-03-19T13:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/derivative-laws-may-push-pensions-to-take-more-risk-napf-says.html
International rules designed to
make derivative transactions safer by increasing collateral
requirements may lead pension plans to take unnecessary risks,
according to the U.K.’s  National Association of Pension Funds .  Higher costs associated with derivative trades through
increasing margin requirements could make pension funds abandon
hedging strategies, making their assets more susceptible to
moves in inflation and interest rates, the London-based NAPF
said in a  policy paper  dated March 15.  “Pension schemes use derivatives largely to hedge
liabilities and, thereby, reduce risk,” according to the paper.
“Extra costs or processes that provide a disincentive for
pension schemes to use derivatives could, in fact, increase the
degree of risk in the markets.”  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for derivatives
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
U.S. government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two
of the largest traders in credit-default swaps. The plans
include pushing more transactions through clearing houses and
raising collateral requirements to cut complexity and risk.  Derivatives are “used extensively” among pension funds to
mitigate risk, and trades have a “long-term tenure” that don’t
seek to profit, said the NAPF, which represents U.K. pension
plans with 1 trillion euros ($1.29 trillion) of assets. About 57
percent of the NAPF’s 1,200 members use derivatives, mainly to
hedge against interest rates and inflation, it said.  The new rules,  proposed  by the Bank of International
Settlements and the International Organization of Securities
Commissions, would “significantly increase” the cost of
hedging and, therefore, discourage it, said the NAPF, which was
responding to the proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  