-- Dexia Ruling Curbs Likelihood of EU Reprieve on Belgian Deficit
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-03-19T15:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/dexia-ruling-curbs-likelihood-of-eu-reprieve-on-belgian-deficit.html
Belgium’s budget deficit surpassed
the European Union’s limit last year after a ruling on the
accounting treatment of the latest  Dexia SA (DEXB)  bailout, reducing
the nation’s chances of winning more time to bring down its net
borrowing.  The government’s 2.92 billion-euro ($3.78 billion) purchase
of preferred stock in Dexia on Dec. 31 should be accounted for
as a capital transfer and hence be included in the 2012 budget,
Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg, said today.
That would inflate last year’s deficit by 0.8 percentage points
to about 3.8 percent of gross domestic product, exceeding the 3
percent limit, based on EU forecasts.  While  Greece ,  Portugal  and  Spain  were granted extra
deficit-cutting time last year and EU leaders endorsed so-called
structural budgetary assessments at a meeting last week, Belgium
shouldn’t count on estimates that it has made sufficient
reductions in its structural deficit -- a figure that factors
out one-offs and the effect on the economic cycle -- to escape a
European order to cut more, according to budget forecasts.  “The accounting correction of the 2012 deficit won’t have
any impact on the 2013 budget and won’t necessitate additional
cuts,” Belgian Finance Minister Koen Geens said in a statement
today. “The recapitalization of Dexia was of an extraordinary
nature and needed to safeguard the financial stability of the
country and the euro region.”  Structural Deficit  Belgium ’s benchmark 2.25 percent bond due in June 2023
briefly erased gains after the ruling by Eurostat and the extra
yield investors demand to buy Belgian 10-year bonds instead of
German debt of similar maturity, the so-called spread, widened 3
basis points to 0.83 percentage points as of 3:43 p.m. in
Brussels.  The nation’s structural deficit cuts have lagged behind its
own commitments under the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure in
recent years. Belgium’s structural deficit will narrow to 2.2
percent this year from 2.7 percent in 2012, according to
European Commission forecasts. That compares with Belgium’s own
2013 target of a 1.2 percent shortfall.  Even if the Belgian government manages to avoid resorting
to any one-off revenue measures in bringing down its  budget
deficit  to 2.15 percent of GDP this year, it would still fall
short of its structural target by about 0.3 percentage points,
according to an internal government report that was published on
March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  