-- Dougan Calls Bankers Out-Earning Investors Unsustainable
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-19T17:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/dougan-calls-bankers-out-earning-investors-unsustainable.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer Brady W. Dougan said pay for bankers is still
outpacing shareholder returns, a dynamic that will change once
the bank completes an overhaul of its business model.  “In the past few years, certainly, the shareholders have
taken a bigger reduction in their returns than labor has within
the business model,” Dougan, 53, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  to be broadcast today.
“That’s not sustainable. That’s not right.”  Credit Suisse, which has dropped 72 percent since Dougan
took over in May 2007, has sought ways to realign shareholders
and bankers’ interests. In 2008, the company paid a portion of
senior employees’ bonuses in bonds linked to a pool of toxic
assets, helping the firm to dispose of risky holdings and free
up capital. The bonds returned 75 percent between the end of
2008 and November 2011, people with knowledge of the results
have said. The firm revived the practice for 2011 pay.  The lender,  Switzerland ’s second-biggest, has reaffirmed a
commitment to  investment banking  after larger rival UBS AG said
it would cut 10,000 jobs and shrink debt trading. Credit Suisse
has combined its wealth-management, corporate and institutional
clients and asset-management units in one division to pare
expenses and improve cooperation within the company.  Competitive Pay  “That’s one of the things that the whole transformation of
our business model is getting at,” Dougan said. ‘We want to get
back to a point where we can pay people competitively but also
reward our shareholders proportionally to that, so it’s actually
a reasonable split of the economic benefits that the firm
produces.”  Global regulators are forcing banks to hold more capital in
an effort to prevent future government bailouts. Rules outlined
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will change the
amounts of capital banks must hold against different assets,
weighted by  risk . That’s forcing firms to re-evaluate how they
can generate acceptable returns on equity, which are measures of
profitability.  Credit Suisse’s restructuring is about 80 percent complete
and will allow the lender to generate ROE that’s among the
highest in the industry, Dougan said. Return on common equity
was 4.28 percent last year, compared with minus 5.06 percent for
UBS, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. both posted returns on
common equity of about 10.7 percent, the data show.  ‘Absolute Revenues’  “The world of the future is about returns,” said Dougan,
a U.S. national. “It’s not about just absolute revenues across
all the businesses. It’s about return on  capital .”  Dougan said he expects ROE to reach 15 percent over time.
Investors may not be convinced yet.  Credit Suisse’s ROE was 10 percent last year excluding 2.27
billion francs in accounting charges related to its own debt,
820 million francs in costs tied to the reorganization, certain
litigation provisions and writedowns as well as 853 million
francs of gains from the sale of its stake in Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc, real estate and other units.  Credit Suisse shares have dropped 3.5 percent in the past
12 months in Zurich trading and 10 percent on June 14, when the
 Swiss National Bank  said the company needed to accelerate
efforts to raise capital.  That has led to calls for Dougan’s job. Chairman Urs Rohner, who with Dougan has a combined 30 years of experience at
Credit Suisse, has so far resisted that notion, saying he stands
by his CEO.  Libor Scandal  “There’s absolutely no indication whatsoever why there
should be discussion about the current composition of
management, in particular about the CEO,” Rohner, 53, said in a
separate interview with Bloomberg’s Schatzker. “We are on a
very good track in terms of executing on the strategy that we
have jointly agreed and decided upon. And from that perspective,
I see absolutely no reason why we should change anything.”  Credit Suisse said last month it will seek an additional
400 million francs ($422 million) in cost savings by the end of
2015, on top of 4 billion francs in planned reductions announced
since 2011.  In addition to new capital rules, lenders struggling to
polish reputations already tarnished by the financial crisis
have been beset by scandals, including efforts to rig the London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, the benchmark for about $300
trillion of securities worldwide.  Barclays Plc, UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have
paid a combined $2.5 billion in fines since June, stemming from
a rate-rigging investigation involving about 20 lenders. HSBC
Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value, paid a
record $1.92 billion to settle U.S. money-laundering probes.  Derivatives Bet  The Libor scandal “really calls into question the
integrity of the products that the industry offers,” Dougan
said. “We can’t have that. That’s a very fundamental thing.”  The scandals, coupled with a wayward derivatives bet that
caused more than $6.2 billion in losses for New York-based
JPMorgan, have spurred renewed calls to break up the largest
lenders. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
said the government should break up the biggest U.S. banks
rather than allow them to hold an edge over smaller firms.  The industry must work harder to make its voice heard,
Dougan said.  “One of the most important things that, as an industry, we
need to do is to take the whole too-big-to-fail debate off the
table -- to make sure the industry can always survive without
having government or taxpayer intervention,” Dougan said.
“That’s probably top of the list in terms of things that we
need to get done as an industry and with our regulators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  