-- DZ Bank Scores Record Sales as Structured Note Market Shrinks
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-19T12:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/dz-bank-scores-record-sales-as-structured-note-market-shrinks.html
DZ Bank  AG, the largest issuer of
structured notes in 2012, is enjoying the best start to a year
for sales of the securities, even as the market slumps to a
nine-year low.  The Frankfurt-based lender sold $5.2 billion of structured
notes so far this year, up from $3.9 billion over the same
period last year and the most on record according to data
compiled by Bloomberg dating back to 1999.  DZ Bank is one of two clearing organizations for Germany’s
cooperative lenders, allowing it to sell structured notes
directly to more than 900 institutions. That’s helping it
maintain sales as the market shrinks. Demand for the securities,
which package debt with derivatives, is waning as regulators in
the U.S. and Europe warn about their complexity and lack of
transparency, and as record-low  interest rates  limit returns.  Still, the risks associated with structured notes promise
higher yields than basic bonds, and that’s driving strong demand
for the securities, said Rainer Overbeck, head of structured
credit trading at DZ Bank in Frankfurt.  The lender’s 50 million euros ($64 million) of structured
notes tied to  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s debt sold on March 7 yield 4.44
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The same amount of
fixed-rate, three-year bonds it sold the same day pay 0.67
percent.  Three quarters of DZ Bank’s issuance this year, or $3.9
billion, was made up of notes tied to the debt of companies,
such as French insurer  Axa SA (CS)  and German utility  RWE AG. (RWE)   Banks sold $19 billion of structured notes this year, 13
percent less than the $21.8 billion issued in 2012 and the least
since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Structured notes offer bigger payouts than senior bank
bonds because buyers bear the risk of the bank selling the
securities and the underlying assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  