-- The Military’s Sex Scandal
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-03-19T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/the-military-s-sex-scandal.html
The best nominated film not to win
an Oscar this year is “ The Invisible War ,” a riveting account of
sexual assault in the military focusing on the elite Marine
barracks in  Washington , just blocks from the White House and a
bridge away from the Pentagon.  With harrowing interviews of those preyed upon, the
documentary shows what little recourse victims have, how
reprisals are more likely than justice, and how perpetrators are
as likely to get promoted as to get charged. Two of those
interviewed filed lawsuits against the military over an
atmosphere that tolerates rapists while quieting the survivors.  The sequel to the documentary played out last week in
Congress as the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee
on Personnel tried to make the invisible visible. In its  first
hearings  since an inquiry into the Air Force Academy scandal in
2003, the committee had  a fresh case  to consider.  Lieutenant Colonel James Wilkerson, a former fighter pilot
at Aviano Air Base in  Italy   was accused of  sexual assault after
a late-night party at his house in March 2012. At trial,
Wilkerson, who didn’t take the stand, was convicted, sentenced
to a year in prison and dismissed from the  Air Force . Then last
month his commanding officer, Lieutenant General Craig Franklin,
overturned the conviction, clearing Wilkerson’s record and
returning him to duty.  Poignant Moment  The subcommittee heard from four former service members who
found themselves endangered not by the enemy but from their own.
Former Army Sergeant Rebekah Havrilla testified that she was
raped by a fellow service member in  Afghanistan  and told by an
Army chaplain that it was God’s way of getting her to go back to
church. She didn’t press charges until she found out that her
assailant had posted pictures of her on a pornographic website.
Then the married officer said the sex was consensual, and
officials in his chain of command decided not to charge him with
the assault (or adultery).  One of the more poignant moments was the testimony of  Brian
Lewis , a burly former Navy petty officer, who wanted to expose
the problem in the shadows: men attacking men. He told about
being raped by a superior while serving in  Guam . He was the
first man ever to testify before Congress on the subject,
despite estimates that more than half the violence is committed
by men on men.  When the subject is violence in the military, those in
charge are always horrified and determined to do something:
Tailhook in 1991, the Aberdeen Proving Ground in 1996, the Air
Force Academy in 2003. Now, with more women in the military and
in Congress, things are looking up. Is there anything more sad
or horrible than young recruits going off to basic training and
being attacked by their drill instructors? That was happening
with frequency at Lackland Air Force Base in  San Antonio , but as
of January, some 59 recruits are seeing justice done as 32 drill
instructors have been prosecuted or are under investigation.  Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of  New York , chairman of the
subcommittee, pinpointed the problem: Commanders can’t be left
to police their own ranks. Just as the Roman Catholic bishops
did with priests who abused children, officers are more likely
to shield the perpetrator they know than the victim they don’t.
Former Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  realized that in April
2012 when he saw “The Invisible War”: Two days later,  he ordered 
that all sexual assault cases be handled by senior officers with
the rank of colonel or higher.  Policy Review  Justice may not come, in fact, until these cases are
removed from the military system entirely and handled by
civilians.  In the Wilkerson case, the victim got further than those
who testified last week. She got before a panel of officers, who
weighed the evidence and the credibility of witnesses and found
the defendant guilty. It didn’t matter. With his signature,
Franklin overturned the verdict.  Similar cases abound. One military expert testified that
such absolute power in the hands of officers is necessary to
maintain military order and discipline. But is an atmosphere in
which more than 3,000 assaults are reported yearly (although the
Pentagon  estimates that  19,000 occur) orderly and disciplined?  The Wilkerson case is worth a movie all its own. If you
doubt the system is cockeyed, consider this: Even Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel can’t overrule Franklin. As one of his
first official acts, Hagel ordered a review of that policy.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 