-- The NRA’s List of Banned Lists
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-19T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/the-nra-s-list-of-banned-lists.html
The  National Rifle Association 
appears to suffer from pinaciphobia: the fear of lists.  It doesn’t matter whether such lists are compiled by a
local, state, national or international body; whether they are
public, private, corporate or academic; whether they are of
actual human beings (such as suspected terrorists) or inanimate
objects (such as guns). The NRA opposes them. How long before it
comes for your grocery list?  We jest. But that is exactly the kind of logic employed by
the NRA, which uses its influence to stoke fear and paranoia
among gun owners about the U.S. government’s interest in
information. Of course, government lists, from McCarthy’s to
Nixon’s, don’t exactly have a sterling reputation. The kinds of
lists the NRA fears, however, are exactly those Americans should
welcome, and most need.  Just last week, the NRA  opposed  a House bill to fund state
programs that would have identified and disarmed gun owners who
have been deemed mentally ill or have committed a serious crime.
In 2009, it  opposed  a bill empowering the U.S. attorney general
to block weapons sales to anyone whose name appears on the
government’s terrorist watch list. It even  opposes a treaty ,
being negotiated at the  United Nations  this week, to track
international arms sales. This is all in addition to the NRA’s
insistence that background check data be destroyed -- and its
fierce opposition to  any kind of data  that can illuminate gun
violence or what can be done to mitigate it.  The NRA’s fear is ahistorical as well as irrational.
American history is filled with gun regulations, including
government surveys of gun ownership. During the Revolutionary
era,  writes  UCLA constitutional law professor  Adam Winkler , the
founders not only required able men to arm themselves for
military service, but also inspected their guns and listed the
firearms on public rolls.  New Hampshire  and  Rhode Island 
conducted door-to-door surveys of gun ownership.  Later, as the nation expanded westward, frontier towns
required newcomers to  turn in their guns  to the sheriff in
exchange for a token, the way a “restaurant today handles
overcoats in winter,” Winkler writes. In other words, the
authorities not only knew who had a gun -- they safeguarded it.  Nothing of the sort is possible, much less being
contemplated, today. The most ardent proponents of  gun control 
are currently struggling to pass, over NRA objections,
legislation requiring background checks to prohibit criminals
and the mentally ill from purchasing firearms. The specter of
“ jack-booted government thugs ” entering the nation’s 100 million
households to confiscate private guns is a feat of NRA
marketing; the industry’s sales and the gun lobby’s power both
correlate closely with fear.  The question is not whether Americans should be allowed to
have guns, or whether guns will maintain their place in American
culture. The question is whether having the developed world’s
most unfettered access to guns is worth the price -- 30,000
people dead -- the U.S. pays in gun violence each year.  The NRA offers only one answer: to make more guns more
accessible to more people in more places. That’s no doubt a good
policy if your mission is to maximize profits for the gun
industry. For the rest of us, however, including lawmakers on
 Capitol Hill , treating the NRA as a good-faith participant in
the nation’s gun debate may be an indulgence we can no longer
afford.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 