-- Tea Party-Backed Super-PAC is Latest Challenge to Rove
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-03-19T18:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/tea-party-backed-super-pac-is-latest-challenge-to-rove.html
Tea Party leaders have established
a super-political action committee that will counter political
strategist Karl Rove’s effort to get Republicans to nominate
candidates he views as electable.  The Real Conservatives National Committee has been set up
to fund voter-identification efforts and grassroots organizing
designed to support candidates favored by the anti-tax Tea Party
leaders in party primaries. The efforts will include targeting
incumbent Republicans Tea Party activists want to defeat.  Rove, who served as former President George W. Bush’s chief
political adviser, created the Conservative Victory Project
earlier this year with the avowed goal of helping “elect the
most conservative candidates in Republican primaries who can win
in general elections.”  The move sparked an immediate backlash from critics
claiming that Rove was attempting to play kingmaker.  The new super-PAC “is pretty much the antithesis of what
he’s doing in every way possible,” said Lorie Medina, the
organization’s chairwoman and the founder of a Tea Party group
in Frisco,  Texas .  Rove is “the perfect boogeyman for me. All I have to do is
say, ‘Let’s stop Karl Rove,’ and everybody knows exactly what I
mean,” Medina said.  A spokesman for Rove’s super-PAC, Jonathan Collegio, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Surveying Activists  As one of its initial endeavors, the Real Conservatives
group plans on June 15 to have activists in some communities
survey potential Republican voters to gauge support for
challenging the party’s incumbents in Congress.  The super-PAC will aid efforts to field candidates to run
against potentially vulnerable incumbents, Medina said. The
group’s website estimates that two to four Republican U.S.
senators and 10 to 20 of the party’s members in the House of
Representatives may face primary opponents in 2014.  “If there is a consensus, we come together and support the
challenger,” Medina said. “We provide the resources to the
local activists. I’m not deciding who’s conservative or not
conservative. Karl Rove is coming in from on high out of
 Washington  and saying, ‘This is who I pick.”’  Rove’s push to influence party primaries came after
Republicans lost several Senate races in 2010 and 2012 they were
favored to win, with the losses following the nominations of Tea
Party-backed candidates. These included Todd Akin in  Missouri ,
who in his Senate campaign last year said “legitimate rape”
rarely results in pregnancy.  The American Crossroads super-PAC and its related
Crossroads GPS nonprofit organization, groups that Rove helped
set up, spent more than $175 million in the 2012 campaign --
more than any other outside group -- in failed efforts to defeat
President  Barack Obama  and win Republican Senate control.  As part of the negative reaction to Rove’s Conservative
Victory Project, some Tea Party leaders and Republican activists
wrote to American Crossroads donors earlier this month to urge
them not to support the strategist’s new group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 