-- EDF Wins U.K. Planning Approval for Hinkley Point Nuclear Plant
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-03-19T14:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/edf-wins-u-k-planning-approval-for-hinkley-point-nuclear-plant.html
Electricite de France SA , the
biggest nuclear power generator, won approval from the U.K.
government to build the country’s first new atomic reactors in
25 years at Hinkley Point in southwest  England .  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  announced the decision today in
Parliament. His go-ahead opens the way for EDF to build two
 Areva SA (AREVA)  reactors totaling 3,260 megawatts of capacity, enough
to supply 5 million homes for 60 years. EDF hasn’t decided
whether to proceed with the project and is in talks with the
government over what price it will receive for the power.  “Affordable new nuclear will play a critical role in a
secure, diverse electricity supply for Britain and make a
significant contribution to a transition to the low-carbon
economy needed to tackle  climate change ,” Davey said.  Reviving the nuclear industry is central to U.K. plans for
110 billion pounds ($166 billion) of investment in low-carbon
electricity. With all except one of Britain’s plants due to shut
by 2023, failure to build the planned 16 gigawatts of new
capacity by 2025 will jeopardize legally binding carbon emission
targets, Parliament’s Energy and Climate Change Committee said
March 4.  Caroline Flint , the lawmaker with the opposition  Labour
Party  who speaks on energy, said her party supports the
decision. Vincent de Rivaz, chief executive at EDF’s U.K. unit
called today’s decision a “huge achievement” for the utility.  EDF Reaction  “To make this opportunity a reality, we need to reach
agreement swiftly on the contract for difference for Hinkley
Point C,” de Rivaz said in an e-mailed statement. “It must
offer a fair and balanced deal for consumers and investors.”  The government is negotiating with Paris-based EDF over the
guaranteed “strike price” per megawatt-hour of power from
Hinkley that the utility will get. They’re also in talks over
plans to decommission the plant at the end of its lifetime.  “Discussions on both these subjects are ongoing and
intense, but I expect them to be concluded shortly,” Davey
said. He said he’s seeking “value for money.”  The government is seeking to change the power market to
ensure investors get a stable return regardless of prevailing
prices. It’s planning contracts for difference, which guarantee
the price of power from specific projects.  EDF is seeking a strike price of 95 pounds to 99.50 pounds
a megawatt-hour for the Hinkley plant, a person familiar with
the negotiations said in February. The rate is about twice the
wholesale market rate for electricity.  ‘Step Forward’  “Planning approval will be a great step forward for EDF
but the key issue for the project moving forward is agreement on
a contract for differences and the strike price,” said Fiona Reilly, Norton Rose LLP nuclear services chief, before today’s
announcement. “That would be a truly positive step and a signal
to other developers and the market that nuclear new build in the
U.K. is going to happen.”  Energy regulator Ofgem has warned of higher consumer bills
as aging oil and coal-fired plants close. Environmental groups
such as Greenpeace say an agreement between EDF and the U.K.
will raise electricity prices for consumers.  “It will lock a generation of consumers into higher energy
bills, via a strike price that’s expected to be double the
current price of electricity, and it will distort  energy policy 
by displacing newer, cleaner, cheaper technologies,” Greenpeace
Executive Director John Sauven said in a statement.  French Example  Construction of other reactors in  Europe  in recent years
has cost more and taken longer than initial plans. In  France ,
EDF has seen costs for its new Flamanville plant more than
double to 8.5 billion euros ($11 billion). That project, under
construction since 2007 and due for completion in 2016, is using
the same Areva reactor as proposed in the U.K. It was originally
intended for completion last year.  The Flamanville plant will earn 72 euros a megawatt-hour,
and that should be the baseline for the U.K.’s discussions with
EDF, according to Barry Gardiner, a Labour member of Parliament
who spoke during a debate with Davey today. Gardiner formerly
was a competitiveness minister under the previous Labour
government.  EDF’s Hinkley Point cost estimates given to the U.K.
government already include lessons learned from construction at
Flamanville, according to EDF.  In  Finland , Teollisuuden Voima Oyj is targeting 2016 to
complete its Olkiluoto-3 reactor, about seven years behind its
original schedule. The company is also using the Areva model.  Areva’s reactor design was approved for use in the U.K. by
the Office for Nuclear Regulation and the Environment Agency in
December. Hinkley Point already houses two smaller reactors that
EDF says are due to be decommissioned around 2023.  Construction at the last new nuclear station, Sizewell B in
Suffolk, started in 1988 and generation began in 1995. While
Britain has no specific target for new nuclear, industry has set
out plans to build 16 gigawatts of new reactors by 2025.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  