-- Medicare Cost Slowdown Could Close U.S. Budget Gap
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-03-19T22:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/medicare-cost-slowdown-could-close-u-s-budget-gap.html
New evidence that the slowdown in
health care costs over the past five years is happening not only
because of a weak economy comes from the  Economic Report of the
President , released last week by the President’s  Council of
Economic Advisers . If the slowdown were to continue in the
future, the report shows, Medicare spending would basically
remain flat as a share of the economy.  Nevertheless, new data suggest Medicare spending growth may
be picking up a bit. So it’s important to take more aggressive
action to improve value in health care.  The Economic Report of the President examines changes in
health-care spending and unemployment rates across states, and
concludes on that basis that the recession accounts for only 18
percent of the slowdown in spending growth since 2007. (A
similar analysis for Medicare alone, which is mentioned only in
a footnote in the report, shows an even smaller contribution
from the recession, which is not surprising since Medicare
beneficiaries tend to be better protected against economic
fluctuations than the population as a whole.)  The report then goes on to examine some of the structural
shifts that could explain why health costs are decelerating,
including the movement away from fee-for-service payments and
toward greater care coordination.  Fewer Readmissions  As one example of progress, the report highlights a
noticeable decline over the past few years in the hospital
readmission rate (that is, the share of discharged patients who
are readmitted within 30 days). This decline, the report argues,
is probably due, at least partly, to the  Partnership for
Patients  program, a public-private effort involving 3,700 U.S.
hospitals to improve the quality of care provided to patients,
including after they have been discharged. Declines in
readmission rates have been larger at hospitals that are part of
this partnership than at other hospitals.  What are the consequences if the slower growth continues?
Official projections, which do not fully incorporate the recent
slowdown, suggest that spending on Medicare will rise from 3.7
percent of gross domestic product in 2011 to 6.7 percent in
2085. In contrast, the Economic Report of the President shows in
an illustrative calculation that it will rise only to 3.8
percent of GDP by 2085 -- not much higher than it is today -- if
the per-beneficiary growth rate we have seen in the past five
years keeps going.  If this happens, in other words, a major part of our long-
term budget problem would disappear. And the nation’s long-term
fiscal gap would narrow by almost a third, according to a  recent
study  by the economists William Gale of the  Brookings
Institution  and  Alan Auerbach  of the  University of California  at
Berkeley.  So is it possible to keep the trend going? On this, we have
somewhat conflicting news. A  recent report  from the Altarum
Institute found that slow growth is continuing at the national
level, with total health-care spending rising slightly more than
4 percent in nominal terms from January 2012 to January 2013. On
the other hand, incoming Medicare data suggest spending is
speeding up a bit.  The Medicare data this year are complicated because the
2012 figures were artificially depressed by the calendar (the
start of the 2012 fiscal year, on Oct. 1, 2011, fell on a
weekend, so some payments were shifted back to fiscal year
2011.) Adjusting for these timing details, spending per
beneficiary fell slightly in 2012. In the first five months of
fiscal year 2013, by contrast, the  adjusted spending  per
beneficiary figures show an increase of more than 2.5 percent.
That is still very low by historical standards, but noticeably
higher than in 2012. At this point, it is unclear what is
driving the acceleration.  Since continuation of the recent slowdown would almost
eliminate the projected increase in Medicare spending as a share
of the economy, it’s crucial that we monitor closely the pickup
in spending growth. And as I have  emphasized previously , there
is plenty more we can do to improve value and constrain cost
growth in health care.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc., and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  