-- Tefaf in Talks With Sotheby’s for Art Event in China
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-03-19T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/tefaf-in-talks-with-sotheby-s-for-art-event-in-china.html
Sotheby’s is in talks with Tefaf,
the world’s biggest art and antiques fair, on holding an event
in  China .  “Tefaf Beijing 2014” is planned as a collaboration between
the Maastricht, Netherlands-based event and Sotheby’s recently
forged joint venture with China’s state-owned Beijing GeHua
Cultural Development Group, the European Fine  Art Fair  said
today in an e-mailed release.  Sales of art and antiques in China raised 10.6 billion
euros ($13.7 billion) last year, making it the world’s second-
biggest market, according to a report published last week by the
European Fine Art Foundation. The country’s regulatory framework
has previously hindered foreign dealers and auctioneers from
holding events in China, leaving Hong Kong as the center for
western-organized auctions and fairs.  “We feel now is the time to further develop our presence in
China, one of the most important art markets,” Ben Janssens,
chairman of the Netherlands-based fair’s Executive Committee,
said in the release. “Tefaf is committed to contributing to the
further growth of the market for European art in China.”  The 10-day annual event in a conference center on the
outskirts of Maastricht is organized by dealers. This year’s
26th edition, which runs through March 23, features 265
exhibitors showing museum-quality pieces ranging from antiquity
to the 21st century, valued at 4 billion euros.  In recent years, some dealers have said the fair’s location
in a medieval town is inconvenient for international collectors
who don’t have access to private planes.  Joint Venture  Sotheby’s (BID) , the publicly traded, New York-based auction
house, said in September last year that it had signed an equity
joint venture agreement with the GeHua Group, a state-owned
media conglomerate that played a prominent role in the 2008
Beijing Olympics opening ceremony.  The collaboration will allow it to “take advantage of a
planned free port project that GeHua is developing within the
Tianzhu Free Trade Zone in Beijing, which will serve as a tax-
advantaged storage location and provide a platform for various
activities,” Sotheby’s said in an e-mailed statement.  A venture between a dealer-organized fair and an
international auction house is unusual, emphasizing the
importance of China for the West’s art and antiques trade.  Muse highlights include:  Mark Beech  on music,  Lance Esplund 
on art and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Maastricht, the Netherlands, at
 sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 