-- Egypt Pound-Forward Drop Shows Doubt Over IMF Loan-Talk Success
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-03-19T13:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/egypt-pound-forward-drop-shows-doubt-over-imf-loan-talk-success.html
Egyptian pound forwards weakened to
a record as the resumption of International Monetary Fund talks
failed to restore confidence in the government’s ability to end
the economic crisis. The country’s dollar bond spread climbed.  Twelve-month non-deliverable pound forwards weakened 3.1
percent to 8.45 per dollar at 3:26 p.m. in Cairo, the lowest
level since Bloomberg started tracking the contracts in 2007.
Three-month forwards lost 2.9 percent, reflecting expectations
for the currency to lose 8.3 percent over the life of the
contracts. The pound has lost 8.8 percent since the central bank
started selling dollars at auction in December to ration the use
of foreign currency.  Parliamentary elections that were due to take place next
month have been halted by court order, hurting the government’s
ability to show it has broad consensus for the loan as required
by the Washington-based lender. The IMF said this week it’s
committed to reaching an agreement for a $4.8 billion loan “in
the coming weeks.”  “We’ve been hearing the same thing on the IMF for the last
couple of years in terms of the need for cross party support,
which can only happen after elections” Anthony Simond,  emerging
markets  investment analyst at London-based  Aberdeen Asset
Management (ADN) , said by phone. “At this point, investors are likely
to take any IMF news with a pinch of salt until a deal is
signed.”  Political Unrest  Political unrest has forced the government to scale back
plans to raise taxes and reduce subsidies, resulting in a
revision of its budget-deficit target to 9.5 percent of economic
output in the 2013/2014 fiscal year compared with the 8.5
percent goal it set in November. Economic growth fell to the
 lowest level in two decades  amid protests and deteriorating
security.  The premium  investors demand to hold Egypt’s dollar-
denominated debt over  U.S. Treasuries  climbed 13 basis points,
or 0.13 of a percentage point, yesterday to 591, the highest
level since June 25. That brings the increase this quarter to
138 basis points, the most since the three-month period that
ended December 2011. The  Middle East average  has declined two
basis points this quarter to 424.  “There’s no framework in place that the market can look at
to see where  Egypt  is going to be in the next three to six
months so Egyptian assets are likely to trade at a considerable
discount to their regional peers until then,” Simond said.
Egypt’s troubles “reflect a dysfunctioning political
environment and the market doesn’t see an end to this any time
soon.”  The $13.5 billion of  international reserves  held by the
central bank aren’t enough to cover three months of imports,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pound was unchanged at 6.7894 a dollar. The yield on
the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75 percent dollar
bonds due in April 2020 retreated two basis points to 7.33
percent. That pared its increase this quarter to 130 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  