-- Egypt’s Bakery Owners Besiege Supply Ministry Over Soaring Costs
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   E l - S a y e d
-- 2013-03-19T14:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/egypt-s-bakery-owners-besiege-supply-ministry-over-soaring-costs.html
Hundreds of Egyptian bakery owners
demonstrated outside the Supply Ministry in the latest challenge
to President Mohamed Mursi’s government as it struggles to
control anger over soaring prices and a stumbling economy.  The bakers are demanding an increase in their ration of
flour, back-payments they claim the government owes them and an
end to the diesel crisis that has seen prices for the fuel rise
on the black market. They threatened to close if their demands
aren’t met.  The protest in Cairo began hours after Supply Minister
Bassem Oda told the state-run Middle East  News Agency  that
subsidized bread and butane canisters would be included on a new
smart card system that would in effect make them subject to
rationing.  “Bassem, tell Mursi, it’s the loaf before the chair,” the
protesters chanted in reference to the seat of power.  Egypt  has been hit by daily strikes and road blockages over
issues such as a shortage of fuel, a security void and
opposition claims that Mursi has failed to restore political and
economic stability since the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011.  Egypt’s economy has struggled to rebound in the two years
since Mubarak’s ouster, with growth slowing in the last quarter
of 2012 to 2.2 percent from 2.6 percent in the previous three
months, according to government data.  The Supreme Constitutional Court ruled this week that it
was illegal for bakeries producing subsidized bread to halt
their operations. The decision came after a bakery owner sought
permission to change his operations to a private enterprise
because he was losing money amid rising fuel and supply costs.  Struggling Government  The government is trying to deal with a ballooning budget
deficit of 10.8 percent of gross domestic product, reign
currency reserves that have tumbled more than 60 percent below
their December 2010 levels, at $13.5 billion, and a weakening
Egyptian pound against the dollar. The pound has lost 8.8
percent since the central bank started selling dollars at
auction in December to ration the use of foreign currency.  Mursi’s administration is negotiating to secure a $4.8
billion International Monetary Fund loan it says is crucial to
unlocking other donor aid and financing.  The introduction of the smart cards, which the government
hopes will cut its outlay on subsidized fuel, is part of a
broader effort to curb mounting costs.  As the bakers’ protest showed, such measures may erode
support for Mursi and the  Muslim Brotherhood  before
parliamentary elections later this year. The vote, which was due
to take place next month, has been halted by a court order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  