-- Eliminating Municipal-Bond Break May Cost Cities, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-03-19T17:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/eliminating-municipal-bond-break-may-cost-cities-lawmakers-say.html
Democrats and Republicans in the
U.S. House said eliminating the tax-exemption in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market may force their constituents to 
pay more for bridges and tunnels and stifle crucial 
infrastructure projects.  At a hearing today of the tax-writing House Ways and Means
Committee, lawmakers defended the century-old tax-exemption for
investment income from municipal bonds.  “Every single taxpayer in my district will have an
increase in their taxes,” said Representative Kenny Marchant, a
Texas Republican. “All we’re going to be doing is passing that
tax down to another level.”  State and local-government officials are pressing Congress
not to alter the municipal-bond tax break. Because of it,
investors are willing to accept lower yields, saving localities
when they borrow to build schools, roads and mass-transit
projects.  With lawmakers under pressure to find ways to reduce the
federal deficit, the municipal-bond exemption has drawn fresh
scrutiny.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed capping the value of
the tax break for high-income earners, though that proposal
hasn’t advanced in Congress. The president’s bipartisan deficit-
cutting commission in 2010 proposed doing away with it as part
of a broad package of changes to the  tax code , a step that
failed to gain traction.  Property Taxes  The House committee met today to consider how revamping the
tax code could affect state and local governments, which also
benefit from rules that allow homeowners to deduct property
taxes.  Lawmakers spent more than two hours questioning witnesses.
While members of the panel raised concerns, they didn’t say
whether the law should be changed.  Representative Richard Neal, a Democrat from  Massachusetts ,
said that eliminating the bond tax exemption would have added
hundreds of billions in borrowing costs to state and local
governments over the past decade.  “State and local governments can’t bear those costs,” he
said.  Representative James McDermott, a Democrat from  Washington ,
questioned how public works projects would be completed.  “I am having a hard time figuring out what the upside of
getting rid of municipal bonds is,” he said. “How are we going
to get the infrastructure built?”  The Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means
Committee are both working on plans to reshape the U.S. tax
code, a goal that has proved elusive amid competing priorities
among Republicans who control the House and Democrats who hold a
majority in the Senate.  On  Wall Street , investors have doubts about whether
Congress will change how municipal bonds are taxed. Two-thirds
of asset managers don’t expect the exemption to be changed,
according to a survey by Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  