-- Emerging Stocks Cap Longest Drop Since November on Cyprus
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-19T22:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/emerging-stocks-snap-six-day-slump-as-cyprus-concern-recedes.html
Emerging stocks fell a seventh day,
capping the longest slump since November, as Cyprus lawmakers
rejected a tax on  bank deposits  needed to win a financial
bailout. Mexican stocks sank to a three-month low.  Oil &  Natural Gas  Corp. fell 2.5 percent as  India ’s ruling
alliance’s largest ally withdrew support and the central bank
said there’s limited room for further monetary easing.  Grupo
Mexico  SAB slumped 3.6 percent, pacing losses in the  IPC (MEXBOL)  Index,
as copper declined to the lowest in almost seven months.
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, plunged
3.9 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its price
forecast for the steel-making material.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.5 percent to
1,024.96 in  New York , the lowest level since December 7. Cyprus
President Nicos Anastasiades failed to secure Parliament’s
support for imposing losses on depositors, a key demand of
European officials in return for funds.  “Cyprus has been out there as a situation that could be
problematic,”  Walter Todd , who oversees about $940 million as
chief investment officer of Greenwood Capital Associates LLC in
Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a telephone interview. “It
elevated risk levels in the short term.”  Stocks fell even after the  European Central Bank  said it
will provide liquidity to Cyprus. Legislators in the capital
Nicosia voted 36 against the proposal with none in favor in a
show of hands today. There were 19 abstentions. Hammered out by
euro-area finance chiefs at the weekend, the deal had sought to
raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) by drawing funds from
Cyprus bank accounts in return for 10 billion euros in aid.  Biggest Losses  Eight out of 10 groups in the developing-nations index
dropped today as commodity and financial shares had the biggest
losses. The broader measure has slipped 2.9 percent this year
and trades at 10.8 times  estimated  12-month earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a multiple of
14.1 for the  MSCI World Index (MXEF)  of developed-nation shares, which
has climbed 6.6 percent in 2013.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 0.7 percent to $41.99. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a gauge of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 3.1 percent to 19.10.  Mexico’s IPC dropped 1.3 percent, slumping for a second
straight day. Grupo Mexico, the nation’s biggest mining company
by market value, capped the largest drop since Feb. 25.
Homebuilders declined for an eighth-straight day.  Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 1.1 percent. Vale SA had the
biggest drop since July as Goldman also cut its price-estimate
on the company’s American depositary receipts.  Russian Stocks  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.9 percent by the close in Moscow.
VTB Group and OAO Sberbank, the nation’s largest lenders,
decreased 1.8 percent and 0.7 percent, respectively. OAO Mechel,
 Russia ’s biggest coking coal producer, lost 3.4 percent.  The S&P BSE Sensex fell 1.5 percent in Mumbai, the sharpest
decline since Feb. 28. Oil & Natural Gas capped a third day of
losses. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government would be 44
seats short of a majority in parliament without the Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam, leaving it even more reliant on the support
of fickle regional parties to pass legislation such as bills to
boost foreign investment in pensions and insurance.  Chinese equities slid to a four-month low in New York, as
China Mobile Ltd. led a retreat among phone companies and
Suntech Power Holdings Co. extended declines after defaulting on
a bond payment.  Domestic Equities  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will rally shortly after
reaching a 2013 low this week, according to Tom DeMark, the
founder of Market Studies LLC who correctly predicted a retreat
in the Chinese stock gauge last month. The  measure  of domestic
Chinese equities will rebound once it falls below 2,232 on March
20 or 21, DeMark said by e-mail today. That would be the lowest
level since Dec. 27 for the Shanghai Composite, which declined
to as low as 2,232.02 today.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 299, according to the JPMorgan Chase &
Co. EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  