-- China’s Biggest Pork Producer Gains as Scandal Hits Small Farms
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T06:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/henan-shuanghui-to-boost-pork-production-as-china-demand-surges.html
Henan Shuanghui Investment &
Development Co. (000895) ,  China ’s biggest pork processor, plans to boost
output more than 50 percent this year as consumers look past a
safety scare linked to small farmers and demand for meat surges
as incomes rise.  As Shanghai cracks down on distributors following the
discovery of thousands of dead pigs floating in the city’s main
waterway, Henan Shuanghui is preparing to spend 5 billion yuan
($805 million) on expansion this year, said Zhang Taixi,
president of the Luohe-based company in north central China’s
Henan province.  “China’s demand for meat will certainly keep growing in
multiples,” Zhang said in an interview on March 15 in the
provincial capital  Zhengzhou , where the company held a briefing
on  food safety . Annual per capita meat consumption is about 40
kilograms (88 pounds) and is likely to double in the next few
years as China catches up to more developed economies, he said.  The 9,000 dead pigs found in the Huangpu river last week
actually point to improvements in food safety and the problems
small-scale farmers are having in meeting stricter health
standards, according to Zhang and Alice Xuan, a livestock
analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. in Shanghai. The
animals, mainly piglets and from the upstream city Jiaxing, died
from porcine circovirus and dysentery, the country’s head
veterinarian, Yu Kangzhen, told Xinhua News Agency  March 17 .  “The government is stamping out illegal trade in dead
hogs,” Xuan said. “Some poor farmers didn’t see any other
choice but to throw them away.”  Zhang said his company is buying up small abattoirs and
that Henan Shuanghui plans to slaughter 52 percent more hogs in
2013 than last year. He forecasts sales by value to rise almost
30 percent to about 53 billion  yuan .  Hog Farm  Henan Shuanghui will invest this year in a new processing
plant in Anhui, a facility that makes food-packaging materials
and a farm that will raise 500,000 hogs a year, helping double
the company’s own supply of animals, Vice President Li Hongwei
told reporters. The company will still depend on other farms to
supply 90 percent of the meat and hogs it processes, Li said.  Urban disposable  incomes  in China, the largest consumer of
pork, tripled in the last 10 years and the government seeks to
double per capita income across the country by 2020.  There were 448 million hogs in China’s farms in January,
more than six times the number in the U.S. at the end of
December, agriculture department data from both countries
showed.  Hog prices in China have fallen 11 percent this year to
14.52 yuan per kilogram on March 6, according to data from the
National Development and Reform Commission. Futures for June
settlement in  Chicago  were at 88.80 cents per pound at 2:12 p.m.
in Beijing and the most-active contract has gained 3.6 percent
this year.  Public Apology  In March 2011, Henan Shuanghui was forced to shut a plant
and apologize to consumers after  China Central Television  aired
a program that showed it purchased pigs fed with clenbuterol, an
illegal chemical that makes hogs grow leaner meat.  “The problems stemmed from the lack of management of the
industry’s upstream -- there’s not a lot we can do but
inspecting head by head,” Zhang said in the interview. “If we
find problematic pigs, we reject them.”  The company’s shares have surged 27 percent this year and
rose 0.2 percent to 73.27 yuan in Shenzhen trading.  Henan Shuanghui also formed an international division to
seek global expansion, Zhang said. Executives will go to the
U.S. in April to look for investment projects in meat-processing
and food production, he said, without providing further details.  Two Incinerators  In  Shanghai , authorities dispatched hundreds of officials
daily to inspect markets and delivery trucks, and no diseased
pork was found, the government said on its website. The city
hired two incinerators to help dispose of the carcasses, it
said.  The city said in a March 17 statement it had dispatched two
vice mayors to lead the cleanup and vowed to ensure the drinking
water isn’t contaminated and that the diseased animals don’t get
into the meat supply.  A court in Wenling city, about 350 kilometers (220 miles)
south of Jiaxing, sentenced 46 people in prison for illegally
purchasing, slaughtering and selling diseased pigs and processed
diseased pork from 2010 to 2012, the official Xinhua news agency
reported March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  