-- ESMA-Credit Raters, Cyprus, Kuroda’s ‘Fixer’: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-03-19T12:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/esma-credit-raters-cyprus-kuroda-s-fixer-compliance.html
The European Union regulator that
oversees  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO) , Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings said credit rating companies are falling short of
standards set by the bloc.  The European Securities and Markets Authority found
failings in the “process of disclosure and implementation of
changes” to the methodology used to rate the creditworthiness
of Europe’s banks, the Paris-based agency said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Moody’s, S&P and Fitch registered with ESMA in 2011,
becoming directly supervised by a single EU regulator for the
first time.  ESMA focused its review on the links between bank and
sovereign credit ratings and found that, for one or more of the
ratings companies, “the information used for certain rating
actions referred to significantly outdated data.” The watchdog
can fine companies if they don’t respond to the findings.  Credit rating firms have improved their record keeping,
internal controls and level of involvement of senior management
in rating decisions since ESMA’s last annual review was
completed in March 2012, the regulator said.  Fitch Ratings is “committed to meeting its regulatory
obligations” said Mark Morley, a London-based spokesman. “To
the extent that any of the issues raised in this report apply to
Fitch they will be promptly addressed.”  “Moody’s is fully committed to complying with the European
regulation and to further enhancing the transparency,
performance and processes surrounding our ratings as part ESMA’s
continuing supervision of our industry,” said Daniel Piels, a
spokesman.  Compliance Policy  EU Officials Pressing for Cyprus Bank Tax Signal Flexibility  European policy makers signaled flexibility on the
application of an unprecedented bank tax in Cyprus, seeking to
overcome outrage that threatens to derail the nation’s bailout.
European shares and the euro fell.  While demanding that the levy raise the targeted 5.8
billion euros ($7.6 billion), finance officials said easing the
cost to smaller savers was up to Cyprus. A vote on the tax,
needed to secure 10 billion euros in rescue loans, was delayed
for a second day until today. Banks may not reopen today after a
holiday yesterday, state-run broadcaster CYBC reported.  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
17-nation euro economy, the raid on bank accounts risks
triggering new convulsions in the financial crisis that began in
2009 in Greece. Moody’s Investors Service said that the move is
a significant step toward limiting support for bank creditors
across Europe and shows that policy makers will risk financial-
market disruptions to avoid sovereign defaults.  Scenes of Cypriots lining up at cash machines raised the
specter of capital flight elsewhere and threatened to disrupt a
market calm since the ECB pledge in September to backstop
troubled nations’ debt. With no government in Italy, Spain in
the throes of a political scandal and Greece struggling to meet
the terms of its own bailout, more turmoil could hamper efforts
to end the crisis.  The levy -- as of now 6.75 percent of all deposits as much
as 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent above that -- whittled the
euro-area’s bailout of Cyprus to 10 billion euros, down from an
original figure of about 17 billion euros, near the size of the
nation’s 18 billion-euro economy.  For more, click here, and click here.  Separately, Swiss stocks declined from the highest level in
five years amid concern an unprecedented levy on bank deposits
in Cyprus will deepen the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  For more, click here.  U.K. FSA to Publish Early Investigation Notes With Names  The U.K. Financial Services Authority plans to publish
warning notices with the names of targets of their
investigations and what rules they suspect they may have broken
at the same time the subjects themselves are notified of the
probe.  The regulator published a consultation paper yesterday with
proposals on how it will use its new power to “promote early
transparency of enforcement proceedings,” the FSA said in a
statement on its website yesterday.  Compliance Action  Kuroda Gets BOJ Monetary-Policy Fixer as Amamiya Returns  Incoming  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will have a
veteran of quantitative easing as his top policy planner, after
Masayoshi Amamiya was brought back from running the bank’s Osaka
branch.  Amamiya, who led the monetary affairs department for six
years before being sent to Osaka in May, got his old job back as
one of six executive directors, according to a BOJ statement in
Tokyo March 17. The veteran central banker did a stint at the
Finance Ministry earlier in his career, an experience he may tap
as the government and BOJ step up policy coordination.  The central bank official, 57, was at the helm of the
department that draws up policy options when the BOJ adopted a
goal of 1 percent inflation and surprised forecasters by
injecting 10 trillion yen of  stimulus  in February 2012. Now, his
return gives him a chance to plot strategy as Kuroda attempts to
corral the nine-member board behind more easing.  The return of Amamiya after less than a year as head of the
 Osaka branch  breaks with typical tenures in the job.  Analysts at banks from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JMP)  to  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
expect the BOJ to add stimulus as soon as the next policy
meeting on April 3-4.  For more, click here.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s path to revive the
world’s third-biggest economy through increased monetary
stimulus will fail to turn around persistent deflation, said
 Waseda University  professor Yukio Noguchi. If the BOJ begins to
directly underwrite Japanese government bonds, a process known
as monetization, it could lead to capital flight, a plunge in
the yen and runaway inflation, Noguchi said. That may be the
only way the nation can lighten the burden of its public debt,
he said.  That contrasts with the views of Abe’s picks to run the
Bank of Japan. Kuroda, who has said the central bank should buy
a large amount of longer-term bonds to achieve its goal of 2
percent inflation, and Kikuo Iwata, confirmed as one of two
deputy governors, who has said bond buying can end deflation
within two years.  For more, click here.  Banks Raise Cross-Border Lending by Least in 13 Years, BIS Says  Global banks’ cross-border lending increased at the slowest
rate in 13 years in the third quarter, restrained by a
contraction in loans to financial firms in the euro-area, the
 Bank for International Settlements  said.  Foreign banks are reducing their lending to European banks
on concern that the region’s sovereign debt crisis could be
exacerbated by political uncertainty in Italy, the area’s third-
largest economy. Banks are also reducing lending as they try to
meet the stricter capital requirements set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision.  Lenders reporting to BIS increased cross-border assets by
$33 billion, or 0.1 percent, in the three months through
September, according to data released by the BIS March 17.
Cross-border claims on non-banks increased by $153 billion, or
1.4 percent, in the period. Lending to banks fell by $120
billion, or 0.7 percent.  ‘Wash Trades’ by High-Speed Firms Probed by CFTC, WSJ Says  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is looking at
whether some high-frequency traders distort stock and futures
markets by acting as buyer and seller in the same transaction,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the matter.  Such trades may be illegal because they feed false
information into markets and can be used to manipulate prices.
So-called “wash trades” also give the false impression of
higher volume in trading.  The names of companies involved in the probe were not
released, the paper said.  Madoff Business Partner Kohn Says She Gave $60 Million to Family  Bernard Madoff ’s European business partner, Sonja Kohn,
told a U.K. court she gave $60 million from the convicted
fraudster to companies and trusts linked to her family.  Liquidators of London unit Madoff Securities International
Ltd. are pursuing Kohn to recover fees she was paid to introduce
European clients to his Ponzi scheme. She was ordered to come to
a London court to answer questions about the assets.  Kohn, 64, said she couldn’t remember details of all the
companies and trusts that received the money, or who controlled
them.  Liquidators of Madoff’s estate are trying to recover at
least $80 million from the directors of his firm’s U.K. unit and
others who profited from the Ponzi scheme. Kohn, a former
economics adviser to the Austrian government, set up companies
in the British Virgin Islands, Italy and Gibraltar for the
income from Madoff. Most of the companies have been wound up,
she said.  Pushpinder Saini, a lawyer for the liquidators, said Kohn
was really in control of the companies and could return assets
if she wanted.  Kohn’s lawyer Trevor Asserson told the judge his client was
also a victim of the fraud and hadn’t suspected any wrongdoing.
He didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Madoff is serving 150 years in prison in North Carolina for
the fraud that caused his New York-based firm to collapse in
December 2008 sparking investigations and dozens of lawsuits.  Courts  SAC’s Plotkin Said to Have Been Tipped by Ex-SAC Analyst  A convicted SAC Capital Advisors LP analyst at the center
of a federal criminal probe of insider trading passed inside
information to SAC fund manager Gabriel Plotkin, according to
internal e-mails and two people familiar with the matter.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said last week
in a court filing that the analyst, Jon Horvath, funneled
nonpublic information on technology stocks to two unidentified
portfolio managers at  Steven Cohen ’s $15 billion hedge fund. The
men then traded on the information, reaping more than $6 million
for SAC Capital. Previously, only one had been identified in a
separate court case: SAC fund manager Michael Steinberg.  The SEC’s complaint, filed the same day as its $616 million
insider trading settlement with two SAC units, cited the same e-
mails included as evidence by prosecutors in the trial of two of
Horvath’s co-defendants. In those messages, Horvath passed
information that came from inside  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
previewing earnings announcements. Steinberg and Plotkin, listed
as recipients, exchanged messages with Horvath, according to the
government’s evidence.  Plotkin, 34, didn’t return a message seeking comment left
at his home. The SEC’s March 15 complaint against the SAC units
didn’t name him or Steinberg, or indicate whether they knew
Horvath’s information was obtained illegally. Horvath pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the government.  Neither Steinberg nor Plotkin has been accused of any
wrongdoing.  Cohen hasn’t been sued or charged, and has denied any
wrongdoing.  Plotkin did “nothing wrong” and “has built a successful
career on a commitment to sound fundamental research,” Jonathan
Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said in an e-mailed
statement March 17. “Plotkin lost over $6 million that day on a
large Dell long position. He owned 1.8 million shares and 3,000
of Oct. 24 call options.”  Steinberg has done “absolutely nothing wrong,” said his
lawyer, Barry Berke. “At all times his trading decisions were
based on detailed analysis as well as information that he
understood had been properly obtained.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara’s office, and John Nestor, a spokesman for the
SEC, declined to comment on the agency’s allegations or the two
recipients of Horvath’s e-mails.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-00121; the
SEC case is SEC v. Sigma Capital, 13-cv-01740. Both are in U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Rejected by Top Court in Mortgage Securities Case  The U.S. Supreme Court turned away an appeal by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in an investor lawsuit over mortgage-backed
securities whose value plummeted during the 2008 financial
crisis.  The justices yesterday left intact a federal appeals court
ruling that partially backed the NECA-IBEW Health and Welfare
Fund, which is pressing the case.  At issue was whether NECA, which bought certificates from
two of 17 disputed Goldman Sachs trusts, had legal “standing”
to sue on behalf of investors in the other 15 offerings. The
court did not consider the issue of class-action status.  The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
NECA’s claims were similar to those stemming from five other
offerings, all of which contained loans made by a  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  unit and GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc. The appeals court
said NECA had standing to press those claims, though not any
claims concerning the other 10 trusts.  The case is Goldman Sachs v. NECA-IBEW Health and Welfare
Fund, 12-528.  Interviews/Speeches  U.K.’s Cameron Speaks About Newspaper Regulation Deal  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  spoke before
Parliament about the agreement between Britain’s main political
parties on measures to regulate newspapers in the wake of the
News Corp. hacking scandal.  Cameron’s Conservatives reached a deal in late-night talks
with Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats and
the opposition Labour Party to introduce a Royal Charter
creating a new newspaper complaints body, backed by a clause in
a bill passing through Parliament yesterday that will make it
difficult for the nature of the charter to be changed.  For the video, click here.  Kaufman, Bove Talk About JPMorgan Hearing, Trading Loss  Former U.S. Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat,
talked about the outlook for U.S. banking regulation and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s “London Whale” trading loss last year.  Kaufman spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rafferty Capital Markets, also
talked about last week’s hearing and said JPMorgan shareholders
and others were not hurt by the London Whale trading incident.
Bove spoke Stephanie Ruhle and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Bull Market Will Mute Calls for Regulation  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said “in a roaring bull market, cries for
more regulation will be muted.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s
 Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Chidambaram May Ease India FDI Caps, Seeks Interest-Rate Cut  The Indian government sees the case for a cut in borrowing
costs; the decision rests with the central bank, according to
India’s finance minister.  Finance Minister Shri Palaniappan Chidambaram made the
remarks in a wide-ranging interview on March 15.  India mulls scrapping or easing caps on foreign-direct
investment in many industries, Chidambaram said.  Last month’s budget provides space for an interest-rate
cut, he said. Inflation remains “a worry,” especially food-
price increases. Importers and exporters seem “quite happy”
with the rupee at 54-55 per dollar, he said.  Government can contain “runaway expenditure,” according
to Chidambaram. Revenues are to rise as economic growth
accelerates, he said. The current-account deficit is a bigger
concern than the budget shortfall.  India will try to woo investment from companies that are
among the world’s 500 largest and have yet to commit to the
country. India is considering measures to lure “longer tenure”
portfolio inflows from overseas, Chidambaram said.  On the threat of a credit-rating downgrade, Chidambaram
said it has “clearly receded by quite a few yards.”  Comings and Goings  U.K. Finance Regulator Appoints Chairmen to Independent Panels  The U.K. finance regulator appointed chairmen to the three
independent panels that critique its policies from the point of
view of the firms it regulates.  Graham Beale, the chief executive officer of  Nationwide
Building Society , was named head of the  Financial Conduct
Authority ’s practitioner panel, the regulator said in a
statement today. Andrew Turberville Smith, the finance director
and chief operating officer of Weatherbys Bank Ltd., will head
the smaller business practitioner panel, and Paul Swann,
president of ICE Clear Europe Ltd., is taking the role of
chairman of the markets practitioner panel.  Germany Picks Bafin Head for Bank Supervision, Sueddeutsche Says  Germany’s finance ministry will propose Bafin chief Elke
Koenig for the country’s spot in the Europe’s new top body
responsible for banking supervision,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung 
reported, citing unidentified people close to the government.  Koenig was picked over Bundesbank’s candidate Sabine
Lautenschlaeger, according to Sueddeutsche.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 