-- Ethanol Upending Refiners Pushes $13 Billion on U.S. Drivers
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-03-19T20:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ethanol-upending-refiners-pushes-13-billion-on-u-s-drivers-2-.html
U.S. drivers may face a $13 billion
increase in the cost of  gasoline  this year as the price of
federally mandated ethanol credits has risen 10-fold for oil
refiners including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)   Fuel processors such as Valero, the world’s largest
independent refiner, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are pushing the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency to reduce the amount of ethanol
they’re required to add to gasoline to avoid what they say will
be a sharp spike in prices at the pump just as the summer
driving season begins.  Refiners buy biofuel credits, known as RINs, which are
available as an alternative to actually blending ethanol into
gasoline. The cost of those credits has ballooned from 7 cents
at the start of the year to more than $1 as the 2013 federal
mandate for biofuel exceeds 10 percent of gasoline sales, the
maximum that refiners say the market can absorb.  Energy traders and hedge funds are treating ethanol credits
like “a casino,” Michael Jennings, chairman and chief
executive officer of Dallas-based refiner HollyFrontier Corp.,
said at the annual gathering of the American Fuel and
Petrochemical Manufacturers in San Antonio today. “It will
drive, in its current form, higher prices at the pump.”  Companies that blend gasoline and ethanol are also buying
and holding on to the credits, expecting prices to go higher and
making them harder to get, Valero Chairman and CEO  Bill Klesse 
said in an interview yesterday at the refinery group’s meeting.  Pump Price  “You have traders hoarding,” Klesse said. “The EPA has
to address it and address it now.”  Concern about the rising cost of the credits has driven
down refiners’ share prices, draining $5 billion in market value
last week from the 10 largest publicly traded U.S. independent
refiners, according to Barclays Plc.  Consumers are at risk of paying 10 cents a gallon more for
gasoline this year if the ethanol credits continue to sell at a
price of more than $1, Roger Read, a Houston-based analyst for
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , said in a March 11 note to investors.  Pump prices may surge even more as the credits make imports
more expensive and create an incentive for U.S. refiners to seek
export opportunities where no ethanol blending is required, Read
said.  Economic Cost  “The likely impact for U.S. consumers is higher gasoline
prices as supply declines,” he wrote.  The high cost of credits may add 10 cents to the price of a
gallon of gasoline, Valero’s Klesse said. An increase of 10
cents for every gallon of gasoline consumed in the U.S. in 2013
would equate to more than a $13 billion cost to consumers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refiners can make use of surplus RINS and the added cost of
high credit prices is likely to be smaller and may be as low as
$400 million, Geoff Cooper, vice president of research and
analysis at the Washington-based Renewable Fuels Association,
said today in an interview.  “It’s a market like any other,” Cooper said. “It’s going
to respond to demand, and I think what we saw last week when
prices jumped over a dollar was some panic buying.”  Prices at that level don’t reflect market fundamentals and
the cost is expected to average 31 cents this year, he said.  The rising cost of credits will be negative for refiner
earnings in the “best case” and “in the worst case could take
down both the U.S. consumer and the domestic economy,” Chi Chow, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Denver, said in a
March 13 note to clients.  Government Meeting  Valero, which is also among the country’s top ethanol
producers, plans meetings with members of Congress and agency
officials this week to discuss potential changes to the
Renewable Fuel Standard, part of a 2007 law that requires the
blending of biofuels, said Bill Day, a company spokesman.  The agency is accepting public comments on the fuel
standards until April 7, and then will review the comments
before deciding on any potential revisions to blending
requirements next year, according to an e-mailed statement.  As the amount of gasoline the U.S. consumes has declined,
refiners are unwilling to blend fuel with more than 10 percent
ethanol to meet the federal requirement. For an alternative to
blending ethanol, refiners buy credits called Renewable
Identification Numbers, or RINs, to cover part of the
requirement.  Car Warranties  Some auto manufacturers won’t offer a warranty if drivers
use fuel with more than 10 percent ethanol, effectively capping
how much refiners can blend at about 13.4 billion gallons for
2013,  Charles Drevna , the industry group’s president, said March
17 at the conference. That’s 400 million gallons less than the
government mandate, raising demand for RINs to make up the
difference.  The price for RINs rose to a record $1.06 on March 8 and
closed at 77 cents yesterday, up from 7 cents on Jan. 8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The law allows blenders of the fuel, such as owners of
retail gasoline stations and storage tanks, to be granted RINs
that they can sell to refiners or traders. Blenders have seen
profits from selling RINs soar amid the runup in prices, Jack Lipinski, CEO of refiner CVR Energy Inc., said in an interview
at the conference.  “The intent of the law was to assure ethanol was
blended,” he said. “RINs should not be a separate profit
center.”  Minimum Requirements  Lipinski and Klesse said the government should consider
making the companies that blend the fuels before selling them to
retail stations responsible for proving they’re meeting minimum
ethanol use requirements, a short-term solution that may quickly
force down RIN prices.  Exxon favors capping the amount of ethanol mandated for
blending at 10 percent of gasoline demand, Bill Colton, vice
president for corporate strategic planning, said last week.  Drevna and refining company Tesoro Corp. favor a complete
repeal of the Renewable Fuel Standard, a prospect that may
become more probable as gasoline prices rise due to the cost of
RINs, Paul Sankey, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG in New York,
said in a March 12 note to clients.  “The train is getting ready to leave the station,”
Stephen Brown, vice president of government relations for
Tesoro, said in an interview yesterday at the conference.
“Reform is going to come to the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in San Antonio at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in San Antonio at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  