-- Ethanol’s Discount to Gasoline Narrows on Tight Supplies
-- B y   K e n n e t h   C h r i s t e n s e n
-- 2013-03-19T20:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ethanol-s-discount-to-gasoline-narrows-on-tight-supplies.html
Ethanol strengthened against
gasoline, which dropped the most in almost three weeks as  Brent
crude  fell. Ethanol output is below last year’s levels.  The spread narrowed 5.78 cents to 44.01 cents a gallon as
gasoline fell with Brent, which settled at the lowest level this
year. Ethanol  production  in the first 10 weeks of the year is
down 14 percent from a year earlier, according to Energy
Information Administration data. Companies cut output after
drought in the Midwest last year elevated corn prices, which
advanced for a second day.  “With uncertainty about corn this summer, the plants are
probably still a little nervous,” Jim Damask, a manager at
Starfuels Inc. in Jupiter,  Florida , said by telephone. “There’s
just not a lot of it available, especially for the front-month
contract.”  Denatured ethanol for April delivery fell 2.6 cents, or 1
percent, to $2.605 a gallon on the  Chicago  Board of Trade.
Prices have climbed 19 percent this year.  Gasoline futures for April delivery declined 8.38 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $3.0451 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the biggest drop since Feb. 27. The contract covers
reformulated gasoline, which is made to be blended with ethanol
before delivery to filling stations.  Corn for May delivery gained 8.5 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$7.285 a bushel in Chicago. One bushel makes at least 2.75
gallons of ethanol.  Crush Spread  The corn crush spread, representing gains or losses from
turning corn into ethanol and based on May contracts, was minus
8 cents a gallon versus minus 3 cents yesterday. The amount
doesn’t include revenue from the sale of dried distillers’
grains, a byproduct of ethanol production, which can be fed to
livestock.  At least 19 ethanol plants have been idled since June,
according to the  Renewable Fuels Association  in  Washington .
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-biggest U.S. ethanol producer,
has restored operations at a plant in Bloomingburg,  Ohio , and
plans to restart a mill in Linden,  Indiana .  “That’ll certainly help a little bit, but we need more
plants to get online to see an impact,” Damask said.  The U.S. hasn’t  imported ethanol  for two straight weeks,
the first time that’s happened since June, according to a March
13 report by the EIA, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department. Spot ethanol  in Sao Paulo  fetched $2.37 a gallon
last week, climbing 14 percent so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockpiles Decline  Stockpiles of the U.S. biofuel slid for a sixth week to
18.7 million barrels in the week ended March 8, 15 percent below
a year earlier, the EIA said. Ethanol-blended gasoline made up
about 93 percent of the total U.S. gasoline pool last week, down
from 94 percent the previous week, the data show.  Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, for corn-based
ethanol were at 77 cents yesterday after peaking at $1.06 March
8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Refiners submit RINs
to the Environmental Protection Agency to show compliance with a
U.S. biofuels law, which requires refineries to use 13.8 billion
gallons of ethanol, or 900,000 barrels a day, this year and 14.4
billion next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Christensen in  New York  at 
 kchristense9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  