-- Metro Soars as UBS Heralds Start of New Era: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-03-19T09:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/metro-soars-as-ubs-heralds-start-of-new-era-frankfurt-mover.html
Metro AG (MEO) , the German retailer
ousted from the DAX Index in September after losing 60 percent
of its value in less than two years, surged in trading as UBS AG
analysts recommended buying the shares, predicting “a new era”
under Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch.  Metro climbed as much as 4.9 percent in Frankfurt to become
the biggest gainer in the HDAX Index of 110 most highly
capitalized stocks traded on the Frankfurt exchange. The stock
was up 4.4 percent at 22.72 euros as of 9:33 a.m.  Koch, who took office at the start of 2012, is focusing on
the Cash & Carry wholesale business and the Media-Saturn
electronics unit as he cuts investment in Kaufhof department
stores and Real grocery outlets. Metro agreed in November to
sell its Real stores in eastern  Europe  to Groupe Auchan SA for
1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion). He sold Metro’s Makro U.K.
wholesale unit to  Booker Group Plc (BOK)  in May and announced in
January that the electronics chain is leaving  China .  Koch “takes a more proactive stance towards portfolio
rationalization than his predecessor,” UBS analysts Benjamin Peters and Mike Tattersall wrote in a report published after the
market close yesterday. “His intention is to shrink Metro
further over the lifetime of his contract. Any larger disposals
would, in our view, improve investor sentiment substantially, as
Metro morphs into a more focused company built around its Cash &
Carry division.”  The analysts said they expect “a solid development” for
Cash & Carry, Metro’s largest unit, which they valued at 14
billion euros. Metro said yesterday that Koch will assume
responsibility for the unit this month as the company simplifies
its  management structure .  Further disposals could drive the stock as high as 46
euros, the analysts said.  It’s the first time since August 2011 that UBS has attached
a “buy”  recommendation  on the stock. The broker raised its
price forecast to 27.50 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  