-- EU Executive Insists on Firm Line on Airlines in Carbon Plan
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-03-19T13:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/eu-insists-on-firm-line-on-airline-emissions-document-shows.html
The European Union must maintain a
“firm and coordinated line” on the obligations of airlines in
the region’s emissions-trading system, the EU’s executive told
national governments last week.  The European Commission proposed in 2012 to defer the
imposition of carbon curbs on flights into and out of  Europe  to
facilitate talks on a global deal to reduce pollution from the
industry. Flights within Europe remain subject to the EU’s
carbon-reduction requirements in the cap-and-trade system.  “To avoid distortion, all aircraft operators (including
those registered outside the EU) need to fully comply for
flights operated within Europe in 2012,” the commission said in
a document to EU transport ministers at a March 11 meeting in
Brussels. “It will be important to have a common enforcement
approach in cases of non-compliance” according to the document,
which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The 27-nation EU decided in 2008 that flights to and from
European airports should be included within the bloc’s
emissions-trading system, the world’s largest, starting in 2012
after airline emissions in the region doubled over two decades.
The enlargement of the European cap-and-trade program triggered
opposition from countries including the U.S.,  China  and  Russia ,
who said the United Nation’s  International Civil Aviation
Organization  is the forum to decide about pollution curbs.  Climate Issues  A high-level ICAO group created last year to work on
climate issues for the panel’s  general assembly  in 2013 met in
December and January and is scheduled to gather again at the end
of March. Its work is centered on three strands, including a
framework for market-based measures to provide guidance on
national and regional systems, according to the EU.  “In the context of such an ICAO framework, the EU would
favor a departing-flight approach, under which a country would
decide on timing and content of appropriate measures for its
departing flights,” the commission said. “Nationality- and
airspace-based approaches are also under discussion.”  Two other issues the High-Level Group on  Climate Change , or
HGCC, is working on is a global market-based program for airline
emissions and a basket of non-market based measures, according
to the EU. ICAO experts assessed three market options --
offsetting, offsetting with revenue and emissions trading -- as
feasible, the commission said. Ideally, the high-level group
should seek to set a “clear way” for the development of a
global program by starting real negotiations and setting a
timeline for a deal, it said.  ‘Very Limited’  “However, the HGCC discussions on this item have been very
limited and the majority of the HGCC members have shown little
interest,” the EU regulatory arm said in the note. “An
agreement in principle on a global market-based measure would be
clear progress.”  The EU cap-and-trade program is the cornerstone of the
region’s plan to cut  greenhouse gases  that scientists blame for
global warming. It imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
manufacturers and power companies, leading to a cap in 2020 that
will be 21 percent below 2005 discharges. Emitters have to
submit one emission permit for every metric ton of CO2 they
discharge or pay a fine of 100 euros ($129.50) per ton.  The annual limit for the aviation industry began at 97
percent of average discharges from 2004 to 2006 and will fall to
95 percent in 2013. Airlines that joined the ETS this year were
given emission permits making up 85 percent of the industry cap
for free and will have to buy the remaining 15 percent at
auctions. They can also trade among themselves.  Emission Reports  The proposed freeze on flights into and out of Europe, also
known as the stop-the-clock proposal, would affect around two-
thirds of flights, the EU said last year. It wouldn’t apply to
flights within Europe, whose operators will have to submit
verified emission reports by the end of March and surrender
permits matching 2012 discharges by the end of April.  EU governments and the European Parliament, whose consent
is needed for the freeze to be implemented, reached an initial
accord on the proposal on March 12. The Parliament is scheduled
to vote on the measure during its next plenary meeting starting
on April 15. It will then need to be officially approved by
ministers, according to EU rules.  “To achieve full legal certainty for national authorities
and aircraft operators, the stop-the-clock proposal should enter
into force before the date of April 30, 2013,” the commission
said. “Any delay in the legislative process could lead to
serious administrative and legal complications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  