-- EU Reaches Deal on ECB Oversight Powers Over Euro-Area Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-03-19T16:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/eu-reaches-deal-on-bill-to-vest-ecb-with-bank-oversight-powers.html
European Union lawmakers and
national governments clinched a provisional deal on legislation
to turn the European Central Bank into a supervisor, a move that
would pave the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund to
provide direct bailouts to banks.  Members of the European Parliament and officials from
Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, brokered
an accord today after five hours of talks in Brussels. The
agreement hands lawmakers a role in appointing the head of the
ECB bank supervision board and equips the European Banking
Authority with stronger powers to request information from
national regulators.  “This is the largest step toward integration since the
euro,” Sven Giegold, a German legislator who negotiated for the
parliament on the law, told reporters. “It will break with the
culture of soft-touch regulation.”  EU leaders called for the new supervisor as they sought to
tame a fiscal crisis that has forced  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,
Spain and most recently Cyprus to seek international aid. The
move is part of a broader plan to build a so-called banking
union that may also include a central authority for resolving
failing lenders, due to be proposed later this year.  One-Time Levy  Cypriots woke up on March 16 to find bank transfers frozen
as the country’s authorities prepared to tax accounts as part of
a rescue package thrashed out by euro-zone finance ministers.
The agreement remains in limbo as Cypriot lawmakers weigh
whether to approve the deal amid warnings from the country’s
president, Nicos Anastasiades, that tough measures are needed to
avert the collapse of the banking system.  The ECB this week has been one of the leading voices
calling for depositors in Cyprus to accept the one-time levy,
intended to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) alongside a
planned 10 billion-euro official-sector rescue package.  Sharon Bowles, chairwoman of the economic committee, said
that the ECB’s role in designing the Cypriot aid package raised
concerns about how it would act once it has oversight powers.  “Central banks have to be tough sometimes, but what hope
is there for accountability when they seemingly force decisions
like this at gunpoint with no regard for financial
legislation,” Bowles said in an e-mailed statement ahead of
today’s talks. “We must question ECB independence on
supervision. If anything this strengthens the case for more
democratic accountability.”  Oversight Chief  Lawmakers at today’s meeting only agreed to hand the
central bank supervisory powers once they won the right to vet
candidates to become its oversight chief.  Under the deal, the ECB will put forward a nominee who
would then need to be approved by the Parliament before a vote
by governments.  Under the plans, the ECB will directly oversee around 150
banks, accounting for more than 80 percent of the euro-area
banking system in terms of assets, according to the central
bank’s own estimates.  The ECB will directly oversee at least the top three
biggest banks of every participating nation unless “justified
by particular circumstances.”  Establishing the single supervisor is a condition for
allowing direct bank aid from the euro area’s firewall. Finance
ministers have pledged to agree on guidelines for such aid by
mid-year.  Subservient Role  International Monetary Fund staff called last week for the
euro area to press ahead with setting up the single supervisor,
in a bid to break a vicious circle damaging confidence in
 Europe ’s banks and public finances. The fund also warned that
the new supervisor will need to be independent from the ECB’s
monetary policy role to prevent conflicts of interest and keep
financial supervision from taking a subservient role.  IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today endorsed the
rescue deal for Cyprus outlined by euro-area finance chiefs, to
which the IMF may also contribute. She said Cyprus will need to
shrink its banking sector as part of any rescue package.  “It is still very much a central piece of the agreement
that was reached that the banks will have to be right-sized and
restructured properly in order to make the whole business model
sustainable going forward,” Lagarde said in  Frankfurt .  EU governments have provided 1.7 trillion euros of aid for
their banking systems in response to the financial crisis that
erupted following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The amount is equivalent to more than 13 percent of the
bloc’s economic output, according to European Commission data.  Rule Changes  The legislation to hand the ECB bank oversight powers must
be approved by national governments and voted on by the European
Parliament before it can take effect. The ECB will take at least
a year to set up shop once the regulations are in place.  The EU is aiming for the ECB to fully take on its bank
oversight role by July 2014, officials have said.  Today’s deal also includes rule changes at the London-based
EBA, which co-ordinates how supervisors across the 27-nation EU
apply the bloc’s rules.  Under the deal, the EBA will also be required to review
annually whether a pan-EU stress test is needed of the bloc’s
banks, Giegold said. It will also be tasked with drafting a
handbook for regulators.  The EBA’s chairman will be given more power to put
decisions at the authority to a vote if efforts to reach a
consensus have failed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  