-- EU Threatens Russia Restructuring of Cyprus Loan: Kudrin
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-19T09:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/eu-threatens-russia-restructuring-of-cyprus-loan-kudrin.html
A European Union-imposed levy on
Cyprus bank deposits would risk a restructuring of a 2.5
billion-euro ($3.2 billion) Russian loan to the Mediterranean
island, said former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin .  “The EU should look for a solution with  Russia  through
joint negotiations and not unilaterally,” Kudrin told reporters
in Moscow. “If it’s done unilaterally, then Russia will be less
accommodating about the conditions of the restructuring.”  While partial losses for depositors are inevitable, the
Cypriot authorities should negotiate a deal with account
holders, he said today.  A double-tax avoidance treaty and low tax rates have made
Cyprus the conduit of choice for Russians moving money into and
out of their country. Including bank deposits and loans to
companies registered in Cyprus, Russia’s exposure is about $60
billion, Moody’s Investors Services estimates.  Russia may reconsider its role in the Cyprus bailout
because it wasn’t consulted about the bank tax, Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov, who succeeded Kudrin at the post, said
yesterday, according to state news service RIA Novosti. He said
last month that Russia was willing to restructure the 2.5
billion-euro loan it provided in 2011 and possibly agree to a
lower  interest rate .  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades is trying to persuade
lawmakers to back the plan to impose losses on the nation’s
depositors as part of a 10 billion-euro rescue aimed at
preventing a financial collapse and a possible departure from
the euro area.  Cyprus could meet its target of generating 5.8 billion
euros by imposing a 15.6 percent levy on  bank deposits  of more
than 100,000 euros and no levy on deposits below that amount, an
EU official said on condition of anonymity.  The levy, part of the 10 billion-euro rescue package,
initially called for a tax of 6.75 percent of all deposits up to
100,000 euros and 9.9 percent above that.  “I think the tax decision won’t be approved,” Kudrin
said. “The government coalition is collapsing because it’s not
prepared to vote for this decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  