-- European Car-Sales Drop Accelerates on Decline in Germany
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-19T08:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/european-february-car-sales-drop-10-as-recession-deepens.html
Europe’s car-sales contraction
accelerated in February as a steepening decline in Germany, the
region’s biggest market, hurt previously resilient  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG.  Registrations dropped 10 percent to 829,359 vehicles last
month from 923,553 a year earlier, the Brussels-based  European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said today in a
statement. Two-month sales fell 9.3 percent to 1.75 million
cars. The decline in January amounted to 8.5 percent.  Unemployment is rising as a recession deepens in the 17
countries using the euro. General Motors Co.,  Fiat SpA (F)  and  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  posted the biggest sales drops in Europe last
month. Declines were exacerbated in  Italy , the region’s third-
biggest car market, by an inconclusive parliamentary election,
while government incentives in  Spain  failed to stem a slide in
that country’s deliveries.  “This is as lousy as expected,” Gaetan Toulemonde, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Paris, said by phone. “We won’t
see any sign of recovery before the second half.”  The ACEA reports figures for the 27-nation European Union
plus Switzerland, Norway and  Iceland . Deliveries in western
Europe, which excludes countries that have joined the EU since
mid-2004, plunged 10 percent to 774,415 vehicles in February.  ‘Mixed Picture’  “Economic and political uncertainties, combined with
different carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation policies across
Europe result in a very mixed picture for the car market,”
Allan Rushforth, senior vice president and chief operating
officer of Seoul-based  Hyundai (005380)  Motor Co.’s European business,
said in a statement.  Four of Europe’s five biggest automotive markets shrank
last month, with the steepest plunge in Italy at 17 percent.
Deliveries in Germany dropped 11 percent, compared with an 8.6
percent decline in January. Car sales in Spain fell 9.8 percent
in February, versus a 9.6 percent drop the previous month. The
U.K. market increased 7.9 percent.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, posted a 7.2 percent
decline in sales in the region last month, led by a 12 percent
drop at the Skoda brand. The main VW marque sold 9.9 percent
fewer cars while registrations fell 3.8 percent at Audi, the
world’s second-largest maker of  luxury vehicles . Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen’s group European sales last year fell
1.1 percent, less than the 7.8 percent market contraction.  BMW’s Reversal  European sales in February fell 2.8 percent at Munich-based
BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-car producer, counter to a 6.4
percent increase the previous month.  Daimler (DAI) , whose Mercedes-
Benz ranks third among luxury-auto brands, reported a 1.7
percent decline in European sales last month, compared with a
3.7 percent gain in January.  Sales in Europe fell 13 percent at Paris-based Peugeot,
which ranks second in deliveries in the region, and 8.6 percent
at French competitor  Renault SA. (RNO)  Turin, Italy-based Fiat posted
a 16 percent drop in European sales.  Demand for cars in Europe is set to fall for a sixth
consecutive year in 2013, according to IHS Automotive research
company. Full-year sales declined to a 17-year low in 2012.  German Discounting  Dealers in Germany reduced car prices by an average 11.7
percent last month, versus 11.5 percent a year earlier, with
discounting at Fiat widening to 16.5 percent of the list price
from 12.7 percent, according to  Autohaus PulsSchlag  trade
magazine. Peugeot, Citroen and Renault’s combined average price
cut in Germany was 13.5 percent in February, it said.  Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  is among
industry leaders saying governments may need to consider
reviving incentives to encourage trade-ins of older cars for
newer vehicles. Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne , who holds the ACEA’s
rotating presidency, has countered that “natural” demand is
preferable.  Peugeot and Renault are each planning 17 percent cuts in
their French workforces, and have reached agreements with unions
within the past week on severance packages. Renault pledged in
the deal signed March 13 to keep all its plants in France open
until at least 2016 in exchange for increased worker
productivity. Peugeot’s accord, reached yesterday, governs terms
for the shutdown of its plant in the Paris suburb of Aulnay.  Plant Shutdowns  Other carmakers announcing European job cuts and plant
closings since mid-2012 include  GM (GM) , Dearborn, Michigan-based
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Tokyo-based  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   GM’s group sales in Europe last month dropped 20 percent,
led by a 38 percent decline for the Chevrolet brand. The
Detroit-based company’s Opel division reached an agreement on
March 15 with workers at three of its German plants on a pay
freeze through 2015 as part of a profit-restoration strategy.  Opel also plans to stop making cars at its plant in Bochum,
Germany, in 2016, where the assembly line employs about 3,100
workers. The shutdown would be the first of a German auto plant
since World War II.  European sales by Ford fell 21 percent in February. The
manufacturer, which is forecasting a loss of $2 billion in
Europe for 2013, won approval on March 15 from workers at its
plant in Genk,  Belgium , of severance terms for when the factory
closes in 2014.  Hyundai was the only carmaker among the top 10 sellers in
Europe to post a sales gain in the region last month, with a 1.4
percent increase.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest auto
manufacturer, sold 7.8 percent fewer cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  