-- European Stocks Fall on Concern Cyprus to Reject Bank Tax
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-03-19T17:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/european-stock-futures-retreat-before-cyprus-levy-vote.html
European stocks  dropped for a third
day as Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said lawmakers will
probably reject a 5.8 billion-euro ($7.5 billion) bank-deposit
levy needed to win a European Union-led bailout.  National Bank of  Greece  SA led a gauge of lenders to the
lowest close this year.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  sank the most since 2011
as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the shares. ThyssenKrupp
AG fell the most in a year after a report the German steelmaker
is considering raising capital. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA
slid the most in almost two months as an investor sold a stake
in the luxury-goods company.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slipped 0.4 percent to 295.55 at
the close of trading, extending the decline from a 4 1/2-year
high reached last week to 1 percent. The benchmark gauge sank as
much as 1.2 percent yesterday, before rallying to close 0.2
percent lower, as euro-area policy makers pushed Cyprus into
taking money from bank accounts to reduce the cost of its
bailout package to 10 billion euros.  “Cyprus begins to lift the veil on how Brussels works,”
 Michael O’Sullivan , head of portfolio strategy at Credit Suisse
Private Banking in  London , told  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg
Television. “One of the pillars of banking reform across  Europe 
was depositor insurance, and that’s now unfortunately off the
table. For other peripheral countries, there may be more bank
refinancing to come.”  Cyprus Debate  Cypriot lawmakers began debating how to spread the proposed
tax on  bank deposits  among account holders today. The levy,
announced March 16, sparked outrage in the island nation and
concern among investors about setting a precedent by breaking
the taboo against raiding accounts.  Parliament will probably reject the proposals, Anastasiades
told  Sweden ’s TV4 channel in an interview. Banks and stock
markets in Cyprus are closed until Thursday.  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western European markets, except Ireland and  Denmark . The U.K.’s
 FTSE 100 (UKX)  dropped 0.3 percent,  Germany ’s DAX fell 0.8 percent and
 France ’s CAC 40 sank 1.3 percent.  Greece’s  ASE Index (ASE)  plunged 3.9 percent, with National Bank
of Greece sliding 15 percent to its lowest price in more than
two decades, as the market opened following yesterday’s national
holiday. The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600
companies was 5.3 percent greater than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks fell even as German  investor confidence  rose to the
highest level in almost three years in March. The ZEW Center for
European Economic Research said its index of investor and
analyst expectations gained to 48.5 from 48.2 in February.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had predicted 48.1.  Rio Tinto  Rio Tinto , the world’s second-biggest mining company,
retreated 5.2 percent to 3,107 pence, the largest drop since
November 2011. Goldman Sachs downgraded its rating on the stock
to conviction sell from neutral, saying it estimates earnings
declines for the commodity producer after cutting iron ore price
forecasts for the next three years on oversupply.  Separately, Rio Tinto expects new iron ore supplies and
slower growth in steel demand to weigh on prices of the raw
material during the second half of the year, Greg Lilleyman, the
London-based company’s president of Pilbara operations, said at
a conference in Perth.  Ferrexpo Plc, a Ukrainian iron-ore producer, retreated 8.1
percent to 181.6 pence, a six-month low.  A  gauge of banks  in the Stoxx 600 fell 2.1 percent to the
lowest close since Dec. 31.  Spain ’s Banco Popular Espanol SA
dropped 6 percent to 64 euro cents and France’s Credit Agricole
SA retreated 5.7 percent to 6.56 euros.  ThyssenKrupp Drops  ThyssenKrupp plunged 5.5 percent to 17.37 euros, the
biggest retreat since March 6, 2012. Germany’s largest
steelmaker is preparing to sell more than 1 billion euros of
shares to increase its capital, Handelsblatt reported, citing
unidentified people close to the company. ThyssenKrupp decline
to comment, the newspaper said.  Richemont declined 4.3 percent to 76.10 Swiss francs, its
biggest drop since Jan. 21. Goldman Sachs managed the sale of
about 7 million Richemont shares for 77 francs each, according
to two people familiar with the deal.  ARM Holdings Plc declined 2.6 percent to 896.5 pence after
saying Chief Executive Officer Warren East will retire in July
after nearly 12 years in the role. The designer of chips for
Apple Inc. iPhones said Simon Segars, currently president of
ARM, will take over.  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  lost 5.2 percent to 24.50 euros in Amsterdam. The
Dutch cable-television operator’s main shareholders, including
Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., sold a 20 percent stake at
25.05 euros a share.  Telekom Austria  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , which  depends  on its home market for
more than 63 percent of sales, fell 5.1 percent to 5.48 euros,
the biggest drop since October. Austria’s telecommunications
regulator said it reserved two frequency blocks for a new
entrant to promote competition in its September sale of radio
frequencies, the biggest in the nation’s history.  Iliad SA, the French low-cost mobile carrier, surged 5.2
percent to 157.5 euros, the highest price since its 2004 initial
public offering. Annual net income was 186.5 million euros,
beating all but one of the eight analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket
chain, gained 1.7 percent to 371.4 pence, a two-year high. Sales
at stores open at least a year, excluding revenue from fuel,
rose 3.6 percent in the 10 weeks ended March 16, more than the 2
percent predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  