-- Euro Falls Toward Four-Month Low Versus Dollar on Cyprus
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-20T06:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/euro-falls-toward-4-month-low-versus-dollar-drops-against-yen.html
The euro traded 0.3 percent from
the lowest in almost four months against the dollar after the
Cypriot parliament voted down a bank-deposit levy needed to
secure a bailout, risking renewed tumult in the currency bloc.  The 17-nation currency weakened for a fourth day versus the
yen as an official familiar with the matter said European policy
makers in Cyprus discussed further capital controls and
extending a bank holiday through to the end of the week. The yen
and dollar rose against most major peers as investors sought
havens on concern Europe’s crisis will worsen. New Zealand’s
currency held declines after Finance Minister  Bill English  said
a drought has reduced pressure on  interest rates .  “It’s an impasse with the Cyprus parliament rejecting the
proposals from the eurogroup, and they will have to engage in
further negotiations,” said Hans Kunnen, the Sydney-based chief
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “This just adds to the weight
against the euro.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2887 as of 6:37 a.m. in
London from the  New York  close yesterday, when it touched
$1.2844, the weakest since Nov. 22. The shared currency was at
122.58 yen from 122.59 and traded at 1.2204 Swiss francs
following a 0.5 percent drop yesterday. The dollar fetched 95.12
yen from 95.16.  Japanese financial markets were closed today for a national
holiday.  The Cypriot parliament yesterday rejected an unprecedented
levy on bank deposits, dealing a blow to European plans to force
depositors to shoulder part of the country’s rescue.  ECB Meeting  Officials from the  European Central Bank , the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Commission may wait until the
outcome of an ECB Governing Council meeting that starts in
Frankfurt today before making any decisions, said a European
official familiar with the talks, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are confidential.  “The uncertainty in Cyprus will continue to cause
headaches for investors,”  Spiros Papadopoulos , a Sydney-based
economist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. wrote in a note to
clients today. “The failure to agree on some form of ‘deposit
tax’ maintains the pressure on Cyprus but the consequences of
voting in favor of the package are hardly favorable either.”  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, said Cyprus isn’t a
major problem.  “It has some symbolism impact on Europe, but it’s not a
really major economic issue,” Fink said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Hong Kong today. “It’s a $10 billion
issue. It does remind us of the frailty of Europe. It does
remind us that the European fix will be multiple years.”  Fed Meeting  Fink forecast the yen will stabilize at 95 yen to 100 yen
to the dollar this year.  The U.S. currency weakened against the yen before the
 Federal Reserve  ends a two-day meeting today amid speculation
policy makers will decide to keep buying bonds to support
economic growth. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will issue a
statement and economic forecasts after ending its policy
meeting, and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will brief reporters.  “You’re beginning to more clearly probe to the downside in
dollar-yen and that story continues into the Fed,” said  Robert Rennie , the chief currency strategist in Sydney at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The cold hard reality is that the offshore
environment is not really one where we can see a pick-up in
outflows from Japan.”  The yen has risen 1.1 percent in the past week, the biggest
gainer after the pound among 10 developed nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The euro has
dropped 0.7 percent while the dollar is little changed.  Current Account Gap  New Zealand’s currency fell against 15 of its 16 major
peers as traders wagered the nation’s central bank will increase
benchmark interest rates by 14 basis points over 12 months, down
from 23 basis points on March 14, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG Index based on swaps.  Finance Minister English said in a Bloomberg Television
interview that the nation’s currency may be about 15 percent
overvalued, citing the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand . Intervention
in currency markets would be futile, he said.  The nation’s current-account gap widened to 5 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 months ended Dec. 31, compared
with the median forecast of economists for 4.9 percent, the
statistics bureau said today.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell 0.3 percent to 82.25 U.S. cents
and weakened 0.3 percent to 78.23 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  