-- Leveraged Asian Investors May Spur Bond Price Slump: Barclays
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-19T08:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/leveraged-asian-investors-may-spur-bond-price-slump-barclays.html
Wealthy Asian investors who’ve
borrowed against their houses to buy bonds may find themselves
among forced sellers if  interest rates  rise, spurring a price
slump in vulnerable securities, according to Barclays Plc.  U.S. dollar-denominated notes sold by more than 20
companies including Olam International Ltd. and Henderson Land
Development Co. are some of those most exposed if private bank
clients move money out of the fixed-income market, Barclays said
in a research note dated March 14. Private banks hold 15 percent
to 20 percent of total corporate bonds in Asia and as much as 30
percent of high-yield, or junk, notes.  Low borrowing costs have been one of the main factors
driving the strong demand for Asia credit and many high net
worth investors went further into debt to buy the securities,
according to the report. In the past six months, equities have
generated solid returns while credit has lagged, creating a risk
fund flows will rotate out of bonds in a quest for higher
returns and compound the price slump.  “U.S. rates are already beginning to rise, albeit
gradually, and leveraged lending could be scaled back if risk
committees begin to focus on the quality of such lending,”
according to analysts led by Krishna Hegde, Barclays’ Singapore-
based head of  Asia  credit research. Furthermore, any sharp or
sustained sell-off in Treasuries would impact bond prices and
raise borrowing costs. Considering most private bank investors
don’t hedge rates, “this is an important risk factor,” they
wrote.  Margin Calls  Ten-year Treasury yields have risen 20 basis points this
year to  1.95 percent  as of March 19. Asian stocks have returned
 4.04 percent  since Dec. 31 versus 0.83 percent for dollar bonds
in the region, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “Based on our discussions with various private banks, we
think some private accounts could face margin calls if U.S.
Treasuries sold off by 1.5 percent to 2 percent,” Hegde wrote.
In such an event, credit committees may turn conservative and
scale back on loan-to-value ratios, which could result in margin
calls for highly leveraged portfolios, according to the report.  Bonnie Ngan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at  Henderson
Land , declined to comment on the report when contacted by e-mail
today. Hung Hoeng Chow, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Olam,
also declined to comment.  Weak Structures  Other bonds flagged in the report as being potentially
vulnerable include Cosco Pacific Ltd.’s $300 million of 4.375
percent notes due January 2023, the $350 million of 6.375
percent September 2017 bonds sold by Sun Hung Kai & Co. and  Soho
China Ltd. (410) ’s  securities  in the U.S. currency.  “A potential slowdown could affect segments such as Reg S
only issues from Hong Kong companies that are unrated or BBB-,”
the analysts wrote.  High-yield bonds currently priced below issuance levels
with a concentrated buyer base and corporate hybrids that have
weak structures could also be hurt, he said.  Bonds sold under Regulation S may not be offered or sold to
investors in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  