-- Fiat Says Profit to Fall on U.S. Jeep Snags, Europe Woes
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-03-19T18:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/fiat-says-profit-to-fall-on-u-s-jeep-snags-europe-woes.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, said first-quarter earnings will
fall as U.S. delivery snags at the Jeep sport-utility brand
compound the effects of  Europe ’s auto-market contraction.  Fiat is sticking to its full-year forecast for growth in
trading profit, or earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
gains or costs, as it expects to make up for the decline in the
first three months,  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer
of both manufacturers, told reporters today in Geneva.  “This won’t be a great quarter, but the important thing is
that we’re confirming our 2013 targets,” Marchionne said after
the annual shareholders meeting of product-inspection provider
 SGS SA (SGSN) , of which he’s chairman. At the same time, “there’s no
certainty when Europe’s sales crisis will end.”  Marchionne is relying on  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler to sustain earnings as he works to end losses at Fiat’s
mass-market brands in Europe that widened to more than 700
million euros ($912 million) last year. Turin-based Fiat, which
would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro loss in 2012 without
Chrysler, plans to boost trading profit to as much as 4.5
billion euros in 2013 from 3.81 billion euros last year.  Fiat,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  are among manufacturers planning a combined 30,000 job
cuts in Europe in response to the shrinking car market. The four
carmakers led a 10 percent decline in European auto sales in
February, according to industry figures released today.  Stock Falls  Fiat fell 1.3 percent to 4.49 euros at the close in Milan.
That pared the stock’s gain this year to 18 percent, valuing the
manufacturer at 5.61 billion euros.  Marchionne’s turnaround plan in Europe, where the
automotive market is set to shrink for a sixth consecutive year,
calls for 16 upscale cars, including an Alfa Romeo SUV, a small
SUV from Chrysler’s Jeep unit and six models at the luxury
Maserati division. The new vehicles will help fill capacity at
Fiat’s under-used assembly lines in  Italy .  Jeep has a “volume gap in the U.S., despite demand rising
there,” as production is lost while factories retool for new
models from the brand, Marchionne said.  The Italian carmaker won’t alter financial forecasts for
2013 amid the sales crisis in Europe, Marchionne said earlier
this month at the Geneva car show. The CEO, who grew up in
 Canada , has estimated that car-industry losses in Europe totaled
$7 billion in 2012.  Financing talks with banks are under way as Fiat prepares
to buy the 41.4 percent stake in Chrysler that it doesn’t
already own from the  United Auto Workers  pensioners’ health-care
fund. The company has started the valuation process for the
holding, Marchionne said March 5.  Court Ruling  A U.S. court may rule in June or July on the amount Fiat
must pay the UAW fund, known as a voluntary employees
beneficiary association or VEBA, which has been allowed to
submit more filings, Marchionne said today. That’s later than
his estimate in December that a decision would come in the first
quarter.  Chances are about even between Fiat buying out VEBA and the
fund holding an initial public offering of its stake in
Chrysler, and talks with banks on the possible share sale are in
preliminary stages, the CEO reiterated. The Italian company
won’t decide before mid-2013 on whether to make an offer for
VEBA’s stake or letting it proceed with the IPO, he said.  Meetings with banks about a possible stock offering are
“very preliminary,” he said, adding that no mandate can be
given without agreement between Fiat and the VEBA.  Fiat may pay about 2.23 billion euros to buy the remaining
stake, according to an estimate from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which sees a deal possible within 12 months.  ‘Possible Benefits’  Following a merger of Fiat and Chrysler, the manufacturer
should consider “the possible benefits” of a U.S. stock
listing, Marchionne said.  Marchionne, 60, was CEO of Geneva-based SGS, the world’s
largest product-inspection company, from January 2002 until he
took the Fiat position in mid-2004. Exor, the Agnelli holding
which controls Fiat, is SGS’s biggest shareholder with a 15
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fiat
Chairman John Elkann is also an  SGS board member .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Geneva at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  