-- Finding Iraq’s Economic Miracle
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-19T22:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/finding-iraq-s-economic-miracle.html
For many in the U.S., the 10th
anniversary of the invasion of Iraq has been an occasion for
 settling scores  and playing  “what-if” games  with history.
Iraqis don’t have that luxury -- as evidenced by the day’s wave
of bombings and assassinations that left at least 50 dead.  For Iraq, this anniversary underscores the need for Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki and his government to find a new sense
of responsibility and engagement. Otherwise, the country’s
future may be as dark as its recent past.  The latest political crisis in Baghdad stems from the
resignation of Finance Minister Rafi al-Issawi at a March 1
rally of fellow members of Iraq’s Sunni minority. They were
protesting what they view as efforts by Maliki, a Shiite, to
trample their rights.  Many Iraqis think Maliki’s strong-arm moves in recent
months -- detaining thousands of Sunnis on terrorism-related
charges, arresting Issawi’s bodyguards in December and forcing
through a 2013 budget that shortchanged Iraq’s semi-autonomous
Kurdish region on oil revenue -- were designed to consolidate
his support among Shiite hardliners. If so, the strategy doesn’t
seem to have worked: The charismatic Shiite cleric Moqtada al-
Sadr has begun holding  his own anti-government rallies . The
favorite guessing game in Baghdad these days is whether Sadr
will join with the pan-sectarian Iraqiya Bloc to try to force
Maliki from power now, or bide his time until next year’s
parliamentary elections.  Market’s Influence  Can anything compel Maliki to forge an accommodation with
Sunnis, his Shiite rivals and the increasingly independent
Kurds? Certainly not the U.S., which despite giving  billions  of
dollars in aid ($57 billion from 2003 to 2012, and about $2
billion this year) has virtually no influence in the country it
tried to remake.  It’s possible, however, that market forces have a shot.
Maliki’s government is sustained by oil-fed graft -- Iraq
surpassed Iran as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’  second-largest exporter  last year. If the flow of oil
revenue dries up, so will the government’s political support.
Thus it may be good news that when the government took bids on a
fourth round of oil licenses last year, none of the major
Western companies bothered to show up.  There are many reasons for this: corruption, political
instability, bureaucratic hassles and the failure of the
government to rebuild its crumbling pipelines and storage
facilities, as well as fears about security in the capital.
Besides, there’s now a better partner for the oil companies: the
semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government. The Kurds have
outraged the central government by signing more than 50
independent deals with foreign companies, including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , and are moving oil across the Turkish
border in trucks rather than using pipelines controlled by
Baghdad.  Maliki must realize that his bid to be Iraq’s founding
father is doomed unless he improves the economy. A first step
would be to offer friendlier terms to foreign oil companies.
Instead of insisting on technical service contracts, in which
the companies get only a flat fee per barrel, Maliki should
agree to share the oil that comes out of the ground, as the
Kurds do. (To his credit, he did discuss this with Exxon Chief
Executive Officer Rex Tillerson in January in Baghdad.) A bigger
step would be for the government finally to pass a comprehensive
deal to share the nation’s oil revenue -- an initiative that has
been stuck in the legislature since 2007.  Neighbors’ Role  A thriving Iraq will depend on stronger relations with its
neighbors. Turkey has to play a careful game. While it is
reaping an economic boon from the Kurds -- total  exports  to Iraq
broke $10 billion last year -- Turkey has little to gain from
instability or civil war in its eastern neighbor. Nor do Turkish
leaders want to see the emergence of a fully independent
Kurdistan, which might embolden Turkey’s Kurdish minority.
Instead of antagonizing the Baghdad government with talk of
building a pipeline from the Kurdish area across its border,
they should encourage Massoud Barzani, president of the Iraqi
Kurdistan Region, to negotiate a deal he and Maliki can live
with. That’s hard but not impossible: The Kurdish leadership
seems to understand that it isn’t in a position to exert full
control over Kirkuk and that an independent Kurdistan without it
may not be worth having.  Then there is the other regional Sunni power: Saudi Arabia.
Although the Saudis don’t like the oil competition, the last
thing they should want is for Iraq’s Shiite leaders to feel
pushed into the patronage of Iran. The Saudis should open an
embassy in Baghdad, where they’ve had none since 1990. More
substantially, Saudi Arabia and Qatar could make a gesture to
Maliki by doing more to keep the weapons they supply to
opponents of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad -- whom Maliki
unwisely supports -- from ending up in the hands of Sunni
militants in western Iraq. The anniversary-day explosions in
Shiite areas of Baghdad are a reminder that Maliki’s efforts to
clamp down on Sunni violence aren’t entirely unjustified.  Without ignoring what’s gone wrong, this anniversary is
best used to decide what Iraq can do right. Our feeling is that
economic growth is the key, which requires Maliki’s ensuring the
human and political rights of the Sunnis and reaching an accord
with the Kurds. If his common sense and political pragmatism
seem to be waning, perhaps the oil markets can help set him
straight.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 