-- First Niagara CEO Koelmel Exits as Crosby Is Interim Head
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-03-20T14:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/first-niagara-ceo-koelmel-departs-as-crosby-is-interim-chief-1-.html
First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG) ,
the  worst performer  in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  in the past year,
climbed the most in seven months after announcing that Chief
Executive Officer John R. Koelmel was stepping down.  First Niagara rose 4.5 percent to $8.82 at 10:14 a.m. in
New York, the most since Aug. 3. The shares declined 18 percent
in the past 12 months through yesterday, compared with a 14
percent advance in the 24-company index.  Koelmel, 60, will be replaced on an interim basis by Gary M. Crosby, and his departure was “mutually agreed upon,” the
Buffalo, New York-based company said yesterday in a statement.
In a filing today, the bank deemed the move a termination “for
reasons other than for cause.”  “I agree with the board that it’s in the best interests of
the organization under present circumstances to move forward
with new leadership,” Koelmel said in yesterday’s statement.  Koelmel joined First Niagara in 2004 and served as chief
financial officer. He was named CEO in December 2006 and
succeeded Paul Kolkmeyer, who departed amid philosophical
differences with the board, then-Chairman Robert Weber said in a
statement at the time.  Crosby, 59, was the bank’s chief administrative and
operations officer since July 2009. Before joining First
Niagara, he served as CFO and COO for the Buffalo City School
District, according to a regulatory  filing .  ‘Industry Turmoil’  Koelmel led First Niagara “during a period of difficult
economic conditions and financial industry turmoil,” Chairman
G. Thomas Bowers said in yesterday’s statement. “The board and
I are grateful to John for his leadership through this critical
period in our history and for positioning us so that we can
focus on enhancing  shareholder value  through continuing organic
growth and the efficient operation of the business we have
today.”  When Koelmel became CEO, First Niagara traded at about 2.5
times tangible book value, a measure of how much a firm would
theoretically be worth in liquidation, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That figure has declined to about 1.3
times tangible book since then, the data show.  First Niagara had a good track record as an acquirer during
the financial crisis, Joseph Fenech, a Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP analyst, wrote in a January note. The bank’s
purchase of about 57 branches from PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. in 2009 was “terrific,” and the deal for Harleysville
National Corp. announced in 2009 was “very good,” he wrote.  HSBC Branches  Then in 2011, First Niagara said it would buy upstate  New
York  branches from HSBC Holdings Plc for $900 million. First
Niagara didn’t immediately raise capital for the transaction
because it hoped to see a rebound in its stock before doing so,
Fenech wrote.  Instead, the shares plunged about 25 percent from the time
deal was announced in July 2011 until the  equity offering  on
Dec. 6 of that year as the U.S. debt-ceiling debate and European
sovereign-debt crisis roiled markets.  “The thinking had to have been that an equity raise at
more attractive pricing would soon follow,” Fenech wrote. “The
implications of raising capital at a very distressed price
several months later obviously changed the entire financial
complexion of the transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  