-- Former Maldives Leader Sees Turmoil If Unable to Contest Ballot
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-19T10:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/former-maldives-leader-sees-turmoil-if-unable-to-contest-ballot.html
The former president of the
Maldives, who says he was ousted at gunpoint in a coup last
year, predicts the country will be plunged into violence and
political turmoil if he’s prevented from standing in elections.  Mohamed Nasheed was arrested this month while campaigning
and said in a phone interview late yesterday that he expects to
be prevented from contesting the presidential ballot scheduled
for September in the Maldives, an island chain in the  Indian
Ocean  known for its luxury beach resorts.  “Usually in a coup you kill the other man, but in this
instance I remain an irritant to them,” Nasheed, a former
political prisoner who became the country’s first elected leader
in 2008, said from the Maldivian capital, Male. “They need time
to consolidate their position. They can’t consolidate if I am in
the race,” he said referring to the leadership.  A power struggle in the Muslim nation may undermine the
fight against piracy in busy shipping lanes that pass nearby,
and bolster hardline Islamist political groups which have
triggered concern in New Delhi and  Washington .  “If Nasheed is prevented from standing, there will
definitely be a law and order situation,” said S.
Chandrasekharan, director of the  South Asia Analysis Group ,
based in  New Delhi , adding that Nasheed’s party still had
widespread support. “It will be very disturbing. There will be
lots of violence.”  Nasheed left office in February 2012 after he ordered the
arrest of Chief Judge Abdulla Mohamed, accusing him of failing
to act impartially. Nasheed, who says he quit amid threats of
violence by rebellious police and soldiers that amounted to a
coup, is now on trial on charges of abuse of power relating the
incident.  ‘Free’ Judiciary  Masood Imad, a spokesman for President Mohammed Waheed
Hassan, Nasheed’s former deputy who succeeded him, said he
wanted to “make it clear to the world that the judiciary in the
Maldives is not controlled by the government. It used to be
controlled by the government in the past,” he said. “But now
it is free to do whatever it likes.”  Nasheed, leader of the Maldivian Democratic Party, won the
2008 election, ending Maumoon Abdul Gayoom’s 30 years in power.
Gayoom became president in November 1978 and held office for six
consecutive terms in elections in which he was the only
candidate.  Concerned for his safety, Nasheed sought refuge at the
 Indian High Commission  in Male for 10 days last month. He was
arrested two weeks later and is next due in court on April 4 in
a trial that he says is politically motivated and aimed at
preventing him from winning office.  Finders, Keepers  The European Union said last week it would be difficult to
consider the Maldives elections  credible  unless Nasheed is free
to contest and campaign. The U.S. wants to see “transparent and
inclusive” elections in the Maldives in which all participating
parties are allowed to put forward candidates of their choice,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a Feb. 13
statement.  Nasheed criticized the international community for their
reaction to events in the Maldives. He said governments were
content to work with the current administration rather than
standing up for democracy.  “It is really quite shocking they so rapidly accepted the
coup government and now they are finding themselves let down by
them,” Nasheed said. “There is a feeling that it is finders,
keepers -- it doesn’t matter who is in power.”  Nasheed, a human rights campaigner, gained global attention
for his activism on the issue of global warming during his time
in office. He held a cabinet meeting underwater in diving gear
to dramatize the threat posed to the low-lying Maldives by
rising sea levels.  The Maldives, a group of 1,190 coral islands, located to
the southwest of  India , is visited by more than 750,000 tourists
each year. The country has a population of about 400,000 people,
most of whom are Muslim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  