-- Former Candidate for Governor Charged in Facebook Scam
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/former-candidate-for-governor-charged-in-facebook-scam.html
 Craig Berkman, who once ran for
governor of Oregon, was arrested and charged with  securities
fraud  for selling interests in non-existent pre-IPO shares of
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to investors.  Berkman, 71, was arrested yesterday at his home in Odessa,
 Florida , and charged by federal prosecutors in New York with
making at least $8 million in two separate schemes,  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement yesterday.  Berkman is charged with two counts of securities fraud and
two counts of  wire fraud . Each of the counts carries a maximum
sentence of 20 years in prison, according to Bharara.  Berkman appeared in federal court in Tampa yesterday, where
U.S. Magistrate Judge Thomas G. Wilson set a bail hearing for
March 21, according to court records. Adam Allen, a federal
public defender who represented Berkman in the Tampa court
appearance, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
yesterday seeking comment on the charges.  Berkman, a Republican, ran for governor of  Oregon  in 1994.
He lost his party’s primary election to former U.S. Congressman
Denny Smith, who then lost the general election to Democrat John Kitzhaber.  Indirect Investment  Prosecutors claim that in 2010, Berkman set up a company
called Ventures Trust II LLC, telling investors it held shares
in Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, which was then
privately held. In reality, the fund held only a small, indirect
investment in Facebook through another investment fund,
according to a criminal complaint against Berkman that was
unsealed yesterday. Berkman used Ventures Trust II to
fraudulently raise $5.5 million from investors, prosecutors
said.  In a related scheme, Berkman created Face Off Acquisitions
LLC and told investors in 2012 that its purpose was to acquire
another company that held 1 million pre-IPO Facebook shares.
Face Off never acquired the company, according to the complaint.  Prosecutors said Berkman was forced into bankruptcy in 2009
by creditors who won a civil suit claiming he’d taken their
money in an earlier fraud. Berkman later used much of the money
raised in the Ventures Trust II and Face Off frauds to fund a
$4.75 million settlement reached for the benefit of victims of
the earlier fraud, according to the government.  Berkman was also charged yesterday in an administrative
proceeding by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
SEC claimed Berkman raised at least $13.2 million from 120
investors by selling shares in limited liability companies he
controlled.  Pre-IPO Shares  The SEC claimed Berkman told investors he had access to
pre-IPO shares of Facebook,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and
 Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  While he promised to buy shares of the companies on
behalf of investors, he used their money to pay off earlier
investors, pay his personal expenses and to pay the creditors in
the bankruptcy case, according to the SEC administrative
complaint.  The SEC also filed administrative charges against John B.
Kern, 49, a Charleston,  South Carolina , lawyer who represented
some of Berkman’s companies, according to the agency. Kern, who
wasn’t charged in the criminal case against Berkman, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on the
SEC allegations after business hours.  In October, John Mattera, another Florida man, pleaded
guilty in a different scam to sell non-existent shares in
Facebook and Groupon. In a plea agreement with prosecutors,
Mattera agreed that U.S. sentencing guidelines, which aren’t
binding, call for him to receive from 10 to more than 12 years
in prison when he’s sentenced June 7. Mattera operated
Praetorian Global Fund Ltd.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Berkman, 13-mj-00732, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
SEC proceeding is Matter of Craig Berkman d/b/a Ventures Trust
LLC, 3-15249, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  