-- Free Cash No Fix With Spanish Auto Demand Stuck in 1980s
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/free-cash-no-fix-with-spanish-auto-demand-stuck-in-1980s.html
Not even free government cash can
coax many crisis-scarred Spaniards into buying a car.  Demand for new vehicles in Spain dropped 13 percent last
year despite a government program offering discounts of 2,000
euros ($2,590) on a new car for drivers willing to part with
their old wheels. After 75 million euros in payments and another
150 million euros added in February -- all matched by
manufacturers -- deliveries have continued to decline.  “The incentives are good but too small,” said Luis
Puerta, a 61-year-old retired steelworker from Toledo who’s
sticking with his 20-year-old Seat for fear of losing his
pension. “I am very cautious and think twice before spending.”  The sales drop highlights the struggle Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy faces in trying to boost the economy. Spain is in
the sixth year of a slump that has pushed unemployment to a
record 26 percent. Gross domestic product, which remains 6.4
percent below its 2008 peak, will contract by 1.4 percent this
year, the European Commission forecast last month.  Introduced last year to spur demand, the incentives were
modeled after the cash-for-clunkers program that lifted U.S.
auto sales in 2009. Sales instead fell 9.8 percent to 58,373
cars last month, making the Spanish market just slightly larger
than that of  Belgium , a country with one quarter as many people.  Scrappage Support  About 700,000 vehicles were sold in Spain last year, less
than half the 2005 peak, according to LMC Automotive. While the
market researcher says the cash program may stem the decline
this year, the effect won’t last.  “Once the scrappage incentive support ends, we expect the
market to again head the wrong way,” falling to 650,000
vehicles in 2014, said  Jonathon Poskitt , an analyst with LMC in
Oxford,  England . When growth returns, “it will take years
before Spanish registrations look healthy by historical
standards.”  As austerity bites, consumers are focused on more
existential issues than a shiny new car in the driveway. The
auto market last year hit its lowest level since 1986, when
Spain entered the European Economic Community and embarked on
two decades of prosperity as a credit boom lured Spaniards to
borrow money for homes and autos.  “The shopping spree went on for too long,” said Pedro Nueno, a professor at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
“People now prefer to wait until economic uncertainty fades.”  Property Bubble  The car market is an extension of the real estate bubble
that has hobbled the country. The property crash left Spanish
lenders with more than 180 billion euros of soured real estate
loans. The government has proposed a battery of measures to
reduce the burden of defaults and foreclosures amid protests and
suicides linked to home seizures.  For the auto industry, any help is welcome. Incentives in
Spain are positive both for the industry and for the government
as taxes from additional sales offset their cost,  Renault SA (RNO) 
Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn told reporters last week.  “There are times when you’re lacking oxygen, and oxygen
has more value now than later on,” Ghosn said. “Look at what
central banks are doing today: they’re swamping markets with
liquidity.”  Across  Europe , car sales dropped 9.3 percent in the first
two months of 2013 as the slump spread to  Germany , the ACEA
trade group reported yesterday. The region’s auto market hit a
17-year low in 2012 and is headed for a sixth straight annual
decline.  Spain’s car dealers are feeling the full brunt of the
downturn. Almost 15 percent have closed since 2007, leaving
50,000 people -- 28 percent of the dealers’ workforce -- without
jobs, according to the country’s dealers association.  Unaffordable Luxury  At the Renault showroom in Torre-Pacheco near the southern
Mediterranean coast, sales have plunged to a handful of vehicles
a month from more than one a day in 2007, said Raquel Galindo,
an accountant there. Current demand is chiefly for the cheapest
model, the 7,900-euro Dacia Sandero.  “It’s not only that we sell fewer cars, but we feel the
squeeze in pricing,” Galindo said. “People just look for
bargains, so the first question we now ask when they come in is
how much they want to spend.”  The auto industry is key for the Spanish economy both in
terms of job creation and in tax revenue from car sales, toll
roads, parking and gasoline. To spur investment, Rajoy has
passed reforms making it easier for companies to cut wages and
reorganize staff. That has spurred carmakers  Ford Motor Co. (F) , PSA
Peugeot Citroen and Renault to boost production in Spain.  That doesn’t mean Spaniards will buy them. Luis Miguel
Calvo, a clerk at a self-storage company in the northern city of
Burgos, said his wife will start taking the bus after she lost
her job as an assistant at a law firm.  “We can’t afford an idle car in the garage anymore,” said
Calvo, 43, who’s looking to sell the Ford Fiesta he bought less
than three years ago for about 14,000 euros. “A car is a bit of
a waste of money and a luxury that’s hard to justify in the
current crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  