-- Gazprom Discusses Gas Pipe Loan in ‘Difficult’ Talks With China
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-03-19T16:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/gazprom-discusses-gas-pipe-loan-in-difficult-talks-with-china.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, is discussing a possible loan from  China 
to help build a $25 billion pipeline to supply the world’s
fastest-growing major economy as demand in Europe weakens.  While China has confirmed volumes it’s seeking to buy from
Gazprom, the talks remain “difficult” because of disagreements
over price, Gazprom Chairman  Viktor Zubkov  said in Moscow today.
He declined to disclose the size of the possible loan.  “On price, it is very difficult,” Zubkov said at the
National Oil and Gas Forum. “But I think they will agree
eventually.”  Gazprom said last month it plans to sign a contract with
China National Petroleum Corp. after almost a decade of talks to
supply as much as 68 billion cubic meters of gas a year. The
company is seeking markets in  Asia  as European demand stagnates
because of the economic slowdown and a switch to cheaper coal.
Chinese President Xi Jinping will visit Russia this week.  Credits for Russian fuel supplies in the shape of loans or
advance payments are “always” part of the oil and gas talks,
Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  said at the same forum
today.  Gazprom will stick to its principle of linking the gas
price to the price of crude and oil products in talks with
China, said Zubkov, a former first deputy prime minister.  Gazprom plans a 3,200-kilometer (2,000 mile) pipeline from
fields in East Siberia to the port of Vladivostok, at an
estimated cost of 770 billion rubles ($25 billion). It also
plans a gas liquefaction plant at Vladivostok and may cooperate
with CNPC on that project, it said on Feb. 27.  Russia and China are also discussing an increase in oil
supply to China via a branch from the Eastern Siberia-Pacific
Ocean pipeline and the Kazakh route, Dvorkovich said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  