-- Gazprom Said to Seek Stake in Eni’s Mozambique Gas Assets
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-03-19T17:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/gazprom-said-to-seek-stake-in-eni-s-gas-assets-in-mozambique.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  is seeking a stake in
 Eni SpA (ENI) ’s  Mozambique  assets as Russia’s gas export monopoly
strengthens its partnership with  Italy ’s largest oil company,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Gazprom has been discussing the acquisition of a stake in
Mozambique’s Area 4, where Eni has discovered 75 trillion cubic
feet of gas in offshore fields, said the people, asking not to
be identified because talks are private. The size of the stake
has yet to be agreed on in negotiations that may not end in a
deal, they said.  Gazprom is “interested in the asset,”  Sergei Kupriyanov ,
a spokesman, confirmed today by phone. Eni declined to comment.  Eni sold a 20 percent stake in Area 4 last week to China
National Petroleum Corp. for $4.2 billion to spread the cost of
developing the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas
export plant to ship the fuel from Mozambique. The Rome-based
company now has 50 percent. Eni and state-controlled Gazprom are
already partners in Russian gas producer OOO SeverEnergia.  Russian President Vladimir Putin plans to meet his
Mozambique counterpart, Armando Guebuza, at a summit in South
Africa next week, where they’ll discuss investment in the East
African country’s energy industry, the people said.  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) ,
Russia’s largest oil producer, is also interested in
participating in projects, they said.  Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to comment on the
meeting or its agenda.  LNG Exports  Mozambique’s gas discoveries, the world’s largest in a
decade, sparked interest among global energy producers seeking
access to new reserves. The East African country’s offshore
fields may hold enough gas to meet world consumption for more
than two years, according to Empresa Nacional de
Hidrocarbonetos, the state-backed petroleum exploration company.  Eni and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the two companies leading
exploration in Mozambique, agreed last year to jointly build the
world’s second-largest LNG export plant, with shipments planned
to start in 2018.  Anadarko and  Videocon Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  are selling 10
percent each in the Rovuma-1 field in Mozambique, as the
developers of the gas projects aim to cut costs.  Oil & Natural
Gas Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , Indian state-run energy companies,
made a joint bid to buy a 20 percent stake in that field, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said on March 14.  ‘Asset Swap’  State-run Rosneft last month announced plans to develop LNG
projects as Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin urged Putin to
break Gazprom’s monopoly on exports of the super-chilled fuel to
allow  Russia  to expand in the growing LNG market.  Rosneft in 2012 signed a strategic cooperation accord with
Eni, giving the Italian producer access to Russian blocks in the
Arctic and the Black Sea. In return, the deal gives Rosneft the
opportunity to participate in Eni’s international projects.  Gazprom is looking into some assets with “lots of
capacity” in Mozambique, Gazprom Deputy CEO Alexander Medvedev
said in an interview in February 2012. The company is looking at
an “asset swap” with a firm already working in the African
nation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  