-- Geneva Golden Age of Commodity-Firm Relocation Over, Graber Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-19T14:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/geneva-golden-age-of-commodity-firm-relocation-over-graber-says.html
Geneva is in consolidation mode,
following a “golden age” of commodity companies relocating to
the Swiss trading hub, said Stephane Graber, general secretary
of the Geneva Trading & Shipping Association.  “The golden age of a great number of companies moving over
is something that is over, for different reasons, fiscal but
also logistic,” Graber said in an interview in Geneva. “We
won’t again see the kind of growth that we had in the past 10
years.”  The city is in “consolidation mode,” Graber said.
Companies moving to Geneva in the past decade created strains on
schools, housing and public transport that are starting to be
resolved, he said.  The development of Asian markets means commodity companies
are building their presence there, according to Graber, who was
a speaker at an industry conference organized by the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development.  “It’s clear that there is a movement toward  Asia , so
 Singapore  plays a role,” Graber said. “There’s always a
competitive environment.”  That’s adding to uncertainty about future regulation and
taxation of commodity trading in  Switzerland . Gaber said he
expects future regulation to be “pragmatic” and drawn up in
consultation with traders.  “The environment will remain stable,” he said. “We’re in
a society that’s become more open, so it’s normal that there are
requirements that are different from 20, 30 years ago. Dusting
off of the Swiss fiscal regulation wouldn’t be a bad thing,
because there are also things that can be improved.”  Geneva retains its importance as a trading hub because it
brings together all actors in commodity trading, including
traders, shippers, certification companies and insurers, he
said.  “There is no other marketplace that has all the
expertise,” Graber said. “The concentration facilitates
business and operations. That’s difficult to replicate.”  The  GTSA  is a Geneva-based, non-profit association
representing the Swiss-based community of international
commodity trade, finance and freight, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  