-- German Stocks Decline Before Cyprus Votes on Bank Levy
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-19T16:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/german-stocks-decline-before-cyprus-votes-on-bank-levy.html
German stocks  fell for a third day
amid investor concern that Cypriot lawmakers will reject a 5.8
billion-euro ($7.5 billion) bank-deposit levy needed to get a
European Union-led bailout at a meeting today.  Daimler (DAI)  AG declined to its lowest price in three weeks
after data showed a contraction in Europe’s car-sales
accelerated in February.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  retreated the most
since March after Handelsblatt reported  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker is preparing for a capital increase.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.8 percent to 7,947.79 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , its biggest drop in three weeks. The
gauge has still gained 4.4 percent this year as European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi promised to do whatever is necessary
to preserve the single currency. The broader HDAX Index also
lost 0.8 percent today.  “The situation in Cyprus remains wearisome and is the key
driver for equities,” Ion Marc Valahu, co-founder and fund
manager at Clairinvest in Geneva, wrote in an e-mail.
“Investors should not underestimate the negative impact from
the EU decision to impose taxes on deposits. All the confidence
building process the ECB has put in place since last July could
unravel quite fast.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 7.4 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Shares fell yesterday after euro-area finance ministers
forced Cyprus to adopt an unprecedented levy on bank deposits to
help with the cost of the latest euro-zone bailout.  Cyprus Meeting  Cypriot lawmakers began debating how to spread the proposed
tax on bank deposits today. Parliament will probably reject the
proposals, President Nicos Anastasiades told  Sweden ’s TV4
channel in an interview today. The levy, announced March 16,
sparked outrage in the island nation and concern among investors
about setting a precedent by breaking the taboo against raiding
bank accounts. Banks and stock markets in Cyprus are closed
today and tomorrow.  The DAX fell even as German investor confidence
unexpectedly rose to a three-year high in March. The ZEW Center
for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index  of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, increased to 48.5
from 48.2 in February. Economists forecast a decline to 48.1,
according to the median of estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Car Sales  Europe ’s car-sales contraction accelerated in February
because of a steepening decline in Germany, the region’s biggest
market. Registrations dropped 10 percent to 829,359 vehicles
last month from 923,553 a year earlier, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association , or ACEA, said
today in a statement.  Daimler lost 2.4 percent to 44.70 euros. The world’s third-
biggest maker of luxury cars reported a 1.7 percent drop in
European sales last month.  ThyssenKrupp slid 5.5 percent to 17.37 euros. The
steelmaker is preparing to sell more than 1 billion euros of
shares to increase its capital, Handelsblatt reported, citing
unidentified people close to the company. ThyssenKrupp declined
to comment, the newspaper said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  fell 1.6 percent to 69.07
euros. The world’s biggest luxury-car maker forecast 2013 pretax
profit at the same level as 2012 as European auto sales drop and
it spends to bring out 25 new models in the next two years.  Metro AG (MEO)  climbed 5.4 percent to 22.94 euros, for its
biggest gain since November 2011. UBS AG analysts recommended
buying shares in Germany’s largest retailer, predicting “a new
era” under Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch, saying he “takes
a more proactive stance towards portfolio rationalization than
his predecessor.”  Koch, who took office at the start of 2012, is focusing on
the Cash & Carry wholesale business and the Media-Saturn
electronics unit as he cuts investment in Kaufhof department
stores and Real grocery outlets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  