-- German CDU’s Meister Sees Backing for Aid After Cyprus Approval
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-03-19T11:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/german-cdu-s-meister-sees-backing-for-aid-after-cyprus-approval.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party will probably back aid for Cyprus from  Europe ’s rescue
fund provided the island’s parliament finds a way to approve a
bank-deposit tax, a senior Merkel party lawmaker said.  Michael Meister, the deputy parliamentary chairman of
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , said in an interview in
Berlin today that  a “positive” outcome to the Cypriot
parliament’s deliberations would probably lead his party to give
a “green light” for aid from the European Stability Mechanism,
or ESM.  A Cyprus vote for the deposit levy would lead the CDU to
“empower Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to give  Germany ’s
approval for a contract between the troika and the Cypriots on
ESM help,” Meister said in the Bloomberg Television interview.  Cypriot lawmakers are due to vote on the rescue proposals
later today in Nicosia, after Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades warned Merkel in a call late yesterday that he may
not be able to win passage, according to a Cypriot government
official. Merkel told him he can only negotiate a rescue package
with the so-called troika of the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , a
German government official said separately.  It’s up to the Cypriots to decide how to generate the 7
billion euros ($9 billion) required by structuring the deposit
tax and other fiscal innovations, Meister said. Cyprus needs as
much as 10 billion euros in ESM aid for a total rescue package
of 17 billion euros, close to the 18 billion euros generated in
gross domestic product in 2011.  Schaeuble Briefing  Schaeuble will brief lawmakers from Germany’s three
coalition parties on Cyprus today and in a special meeting
called tomorrow, CDU Chief Whip Michael Grosse-Broemer told
reporters. Caucus leaders will canvass for support for Cyprus as
soon as the island’s parliament makes a decision on rescue
proposals, Grosse-Broemer said.  Meister said implementing a deposit tax in Cyprus won’t
spill over into a bank run in the euro area as the Cypriot bank
system’s insolvency risks are unique to the island, stemming
from an “over-banked” economy, and deposit guarantees would
kick in for other states in the currency bloc, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  