-- Gevo Partly Prevails on Butamax Patent-Infringement Claim
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-19T23:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/gevo-wins-ruling-for-no-infringement-of-butamax-patent-1-.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biofuel producer,
partly prevailed in its bid for a federal court ruling that it
doesn’t infringe a Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC patent for a
method to commercially produce isobutanol.  U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
today ruled that “as a matter of law,” Gevo doesn’t infringe
Butamax’s patent under the so-called doctrine of equivalents.
The judge agreed with Gevo that the difference between its
method and Butamax’s wasn’t insubstantial as Butamax argued. The
judge declined to rule that there’s no infringement at all,
rejecting requests from both companies to resolve the dispute
without a trial.  “While Butamax’s evidence of infringement is less than
compelling, nonetheless, the court finds it sufficient to
withstand Gevo’s motion for summary judgment, as it raises
genuine issues of material fact as to how a person of ordinary
skill in the art at the time the invention was made would
determine NADH-dependency,” the judge said, referring to the
biochemistry of enzymes.  The case is scheduled to go to trial in August.  Butamax is a joint venture between  BP Plc (BP/)  and  DuPont Co. (DD) 
Pam Schools, a spokeswoman for Butamax, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call after regular business hours seeking
comment on the ruling.  Butamax sued Gevo, backed by the oil refiner Total SA and
specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , in 2011, alleging misuse
of technology for genetically engineered microorganisms used to
produce biofuels. Robinson last year denied Butamax’s bid to
block Gevo’s fuel sales.  The case is Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC v. Gevo Inc.,  11-cv-00054, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  