-- Goldman Cuts Iron-Ore Forecast as Global Demand Growth Slows
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-03-19T17:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/goldman-reduces-iron-ore-forecast-as-global-demand-growth-slows.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
estimate for  iron-ore  prices this year on expectations demand
will moderate and steel production will slow in  China , the
world’s largest buyer.  Iron ore may average $139 a metric ton, compared with a
previous estimate of $144, analysts Christian Lelong and  Jeffrey Currie  wrote in a report today. The bank has a neutral outlook
on the commodity and prices may be supported at about $140 by
the need for high-cost Chinese mine production to balance the
market in 2013, the report showed.  Prices have dropped 7.2 percent in 2013 as China’s
industrial output had the weakest start to a year since 2009 and
concern rose that curbs on construction in the country will
reduce demand for the steelmaking material. Iron ore has peaked
and will decline over the rest of the year, Morgan Stanley said
March 7, joining analysts from Deutsche Bank AG to Credit Suisse
Group AG in forecasting lower prices.  “We expect global seaborne iron-ore demand to revert back
to its historical growth rate of 2 percent per annum,” Goldman
Sachs said. “Steel production growth has slowed in China and we
expect it will remain below GDP growth rates in the future.”  Rio, BHP  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s second-largest iron-ore
exporter, fell the most in 16 months in London trading after
Goldman cut the stock to  conviction sell  from neutral. London-
based Rio slumped 5.2 percent to close at 3,107 pence.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  dropped 3.5 percent after Goldman lowered its
rating to neutral from buy.  Iron ore  with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin slipped 0.2 percent to $134.40 a dry ton today,
according to the Steel Index Ltd. Swaps are trading at $132 a
ton for April, $127.50 for the second quarter and $121.25 for
the third, according to SSY Futures Ltd., a broker.  China will expand 8.1 percent this year and 8 percent in
2014 after the weakest annual growth in 13 years in 2012,
according to the median estimate of analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The nation’s new leadership is focusing on building a
consumer-led economy as a construction boom wanes.  New iron-ore supplies and slower growth in steel demand
will weigh on prices during the second half, Greg Lilleyman,  Rio
Tinto (RIO) ’s president of Pilbara operations, said today. Steel
demand growth in China slowed to 2.1 percent last year from 20
percent in 2010, according to Citigroup Inc.  Chinese Measures  Steel production is exceeding China’s domestic consumption
and will probably decline in the near term, Commodore Research &
Consultancy said in a report today. China’s cabinet on March 1
introduced measures to ease  house prices  and ordered stricter
enforcement of taxes on sales as authorities step up a three-
year campaign to cool the real-estate market.  China’s domestic iron-ore production may also be more
resilient than expected, Goldman Sachs said. Continued
investment in large-scale mines is likely to offset the loss of
marginal mines and moderate future demand for imports, it said.  The country  imported  56.4 million tons of ore in February,
compared with 65.5 million tons a month earlier, according to
the customs administration. Idled Chinese mines with capacity of
100 million tons a year will return to the market from March
after the winter ends,  Macquarie Research  said in a Feb. 22
report.  Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port, moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  