-- Guindos Tells Spaniards Deposits ‘Sacred’ as Cyprus Rejects Levy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-03-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/guindos-tells-spaniards-deposits-sacred-as-cyprus-rejects-levy.html
Spain  said European Union law
guarantees bank deposits of as much as 100,000 euros ($129,000),
seeking to reassure savers in the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy before Cyprus rejected a proposed levy that caused a
public backlash.  “Deposit holders in Spain can be absolutely assured that
not only is this a specific, concrete and unique situation in
Cyprus, but all deposits of less than 100,000 euros are
perfectly guaranteed in Cyprus, in Spain and in the whole of the
European Union,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters at the Spanish senate in Madrid yesterday.  While Cyprus’s exit from the single currency “is not on
the table for anyone,” it must make a decision on its bailout
because its banks are dependent on European Central Bank
liquidity, de Guindos said. Less than two hours after his
remarks, Cyprus’s parliament rejected the tax on deposits
imposed by euro region peers as part of its bailout.  De Guindos is trying to ease concern among Spanish savers
that the terms of the Cypriot rescue signal their savings may
also be at risk if the government opts to request its own
sovereign rescue. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  hasn’t ruled out
calling for European aid.  “The euro group’s position following European law is that
deposits of up to 100,000 euros are absolutely guaranteed and
are sacred,” de Guindos said.  Backtracking  The euro group backtracked on a March 15 decision to impose
a levy of 6.75 percent on deposits of less than 100,000 euros
and 9.9 percent above that amid pressure from ECB President
 Mario Draghi  and from Spain, de Guindos said. “You’ll
understand I’m not going to comment on how euro group decisions
are taken.”  The euro group has fixed the banks’ contribution to the
bailout at 5.8 billion euros while leaving the government of
Cyprus to decide on the structure of the rates of the
established tax, the minister said.  “What was done was a burden sharing,” de Guindos said.
“In all countries when there is a situation of aid, a difficult
situation with banks, the burden is shared.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  