-- Milk Powder Climbs to Record as Drought Scorches New Zealand
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-03-20T09:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/milk-powder-climbs-to-record-as-new-zealand-drought-curbs-supply.html
Whole milk powder climbed to an
all-time high as New Zealand’s most widespread drought in at
least 30 years curbs supply in the world’s largest exporter,
according to  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG)   Powder for May delivery gained 23 percent, the biggest
advance since Sept. 1, 2010, according to a trade-weighted index
on the company’s  GlobalDairyTrade  website. The near-term
contract for the New Zealand product rose to $5,313 a metric ton.
The previous record was $4,958 on March 1, 2011.  A drought declared across the entire North Island including
Waikato province, the country’s biggest milk producer, may cost
NZ$2 billion ($1.6 billion) as the dry conditions threaten
economic growth, the government estimates. Growth in milk
volumes will probably slow to 1 percent this year after
expanding 6 percent at the start of the season as the  drought 
hurts production, Theo Spierings, chief executive officer of
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, said Feb. 27.  “There was a scramble to secure reduced New Zealand supply
before the end of the season,” Con Williams, an economist at
ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd., said in a report today. “Recent
rises have been short-term buying to secure product as the
drought has reduced end of season supply.”  New Zealand’s central bank held the cash rate at a record
low on March 14 and cited concerns the dry conditions may
“substantially reduce economic output.” Dairy exports last
year made up 25 percent of all merchandise exports abroad.  Interest Rates  The drought, which has already cut milk production, may
reduce pressure for the benchmark interest rate to rise, Finance
Minister Bill English said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today. Recent rains means the nation won’t see the worst-case
damage from the drought, he said.  The New Zealand dollar declined against most major peers.
The so-called kiwi fell 0.4 percent to 82.16 U.S. cents.  Milk futures in  Chicago  have dropped 5.7 percent this year
after advancing 7.8 percent in 2012. The U.S. may export less in
the first half of 2013 on declining domestic supply, according
to Rabobank International.  “Tight supply conditions coupled with improving Asian
growth is providing significant upward pressure on dairy
prices,” Nathan Penny, an economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
said in a report today. Milk solids output in 2012-2013 may
decrease as much as 2 percent, the report said.  Dairy Prices  Dairy production may slow or be little changed in the year
to June 30 after rising 11 percent a year earlier, according to
ASB Bank Ltd. Milk supplies may be as much as 15 percent to 20
percent below a year earlier through the third quarter, Rabobank
International said this week. About 61 percent of the country’s
milk is produced on the North Island, Rabobank estimates.  The New Zealand government is also watching parts of the
South Island that are very dry, Minister for Primary Industries
Nathan Guy said March 15.  “Even if good quantities of  rains  fall, it will take a
long time for pasture covers to rebuild,” NZX Agrifax, an
agriculture data provider, said March 18. “We are unlikely to
see much of a resurge in milk production, which is already
trending well below last season.”  Fonterra, which represents about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole, skim and butter-milk
powder, dried-milk fat, lactose, butter, cheese and casein at
its GlobalDairyTrade  auctions . The company offers monthly
contracts with delivery starting from two months after the sale.
Casein is a protein found in milk.  Whole-milk powder for June delivery rose 25 percent while
prices across all five product contracts out to September rose
21 percent, Fonterra said.  In other auctions, prices for May delivery of milk fat,
butter, casein, cheddar, skim and butter-milk powder increased.
Lactose and milk protein concentrate weren’t offered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  