-- Indias Stocks Drop Most in 3 Weeks as Singh Ally Quits
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-03-19T12:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/india-s-nifty-futures-rise-before-central-bank-policy-meeting.html
Indian stocks dropped the most in
three weeks after the ruling alliance’s largest ally withdrew
support and the central bank said there’s limited room for
further monetary easing. Bonds and the rupee declined.  The S&P BSE Sensex fell 1.5 percent to 19,008.1 at the
close in Mumbai, the sharpest decline since Feb. 28. The rupee
weakened 0.4 percent to 54.3750 per dollar and the yield on 8.15
percent notes due June 2022 rose 2 basis points to 7.92 percent.
 India  VIX, the benchmark measure for options prices, rose to the
highest level in three weeks.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government would be 44
seats short of a majority in parliament without the Dravida
Munnetra Kazhagam, leaving it even more reliant on the support
of fickle regional parties to pass legislation such as bills to
boost foreign investment in pensions and insurance. The  Reserve
Bank  of India cut the  repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent from 7.75
percent and said the scope for further reductions is limited.  “It will be difficult for the government to push reforms
as smaller parties will play hard ball,” said A.K. Prabhakar,
senior vice president of equity research at Mumbai-based Anand
Rathi Financial Services Ltd. “Investors are worried the
withdrawal will make the government ineffectual.”  The DMK, with 18 lawmakers in the 545-member lower house of
parliament, withdrew support over the government’s approach to
alleged  war crimes  in  Sri Lanka . The Tamil Nadu state-based
party has signaled a patch-up is possible if its demands are
met. The government is stable and there is no crisis, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in  New Delhi .  Industrials Weaken  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest lender, slid 2.1
percent to 2,203.55 rupees.  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s
largest explorer, fell 2.5 percent to 309.85 rupees.  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest refining complex,
lost 1.1 percent to 825 rupees.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) ,
the biggest power-equipment maker, sank 5.1 percent to 185.8
rupees, the lowest close since July 2006.  The central bank cut  interest rates  for the second time
this year to bolster the weakest economic growth in a decade.
The  repurchase rate  was pared to 7.5 percent from 7.75 percent.
Thirty of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted the move
and the rest forecast no change. A quarter-point rate cut on
Jan. 29 was the first since April last year.  Foreign funds have purchased a net $9.8 billion of Indian
stocks this year, a record for the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, amid government efforts to reform the
economy by paring subsidies, allowing higher foreign direct
investment and speeding up infrastructure projects. Overseas
funds bought a net $24.5 billion of shares last year, the most
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, helping the  Sensex (SENSEX) 
to its biggest annual advance in three years.  ‘Attractive Valuations’  The stock gauge has declined 2.2 percent this year, the
third worst-performing benchmark index among Asian nations after
Malaysia and  Hong Kong . The measure is valued at 12.9 times
 projected 12-month profits , the lowest reading in four months,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trades at 10.5 times.  “Political developments could cause knee-jerk reactions
but once the dust settles focus will shift back to valuations
and the growth attractiveness of the market,” Rajesh Cheruvu,
chief investment officer at RBS Private Banking India, said by
e-mail today. “Valuation attractiveness would continue to lure
portfolio flows and support Indian equities.”  The 50-stock CNX Nifty Index retreated 1.5 percent to
5,745.95 and its March futures settled at 5,751.90.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  