-- India’s Fantasy of Disloyal Muslims May Come True
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2013-03-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/india-s-fantasy-of-disloyal-muslims-may-come-true.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is fond of boasting that not one of India’s almost 180
million Muslims has been discovered to be a member of al-Qaeda.  He could underscore an even more remarkable fact: None of
the foreign jihadists caught fighting alongside the Taliban has
turned out to be from the country with the world’s  third -largest
Muslim population.  Indeed, Indian Muslims haven’t bothered to lend even moral
support to the anti-Indian insurgency in Muslim-majority Kashmir
that has claimed more than 50,000 lives in the past two decades.  According  to  New York  Times columnist  Thomas Friedman , this
is because Indian Muslims “are the product of and feel empowered
by a democratic and pluralistic society.”  A more prosaic and less ideological explanation is that
Indian Muslims have many of their own  problems  to deal with,
largely stemming from the swift decay of democracy and
pluralism.  According to a 2012 book,  “Muslims in Indian Cities:
Trajectories of Marginalisation,”  edited by Laurent Gayer and
Christophe Jaffrelot, Muslims are as badly off, if not worse,
socially and economically, than Dalits (formerly untouchable
Hindus) and tribal peoples.  Meager Minority  Almost 40 percent of Muslims in urban centers live below
the poverty line. They constitute almost 15 percent of the total
population, but only 5.5 percent of the members of the Indian
parliament are Muslims. Gayer and Jaffrelot note the astonishing
fact that many of  India ’s biggest states do not have even one
sitting Muslim representative in the Indian parliament.  Underrepresented in the judiciary, Muslims form a meager
component of the police force. And that may be at least one
reason for what is now a disturbingly common sport in an
increasingly Hindu-nationalized India: blaming the Muslims (and
locking up a whole lot of them).  The terrorist attacks last month that killed 17 people in
the central Indian city of Hyderabad reopened a cornucopia of
conspiracy theories. Faux-enraged television anchors fingered a
terrorist outfit called Indian Mujahideen, a group whose origins
and elements remain  murky . The president of the Hindu
nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party  demanded that India retaliate
against  Pakistan .  The police promptly arrested four Muslims in Hyderabad.  All this seemed par for the course. Muslims are routinely
picked up after terrorist attacks in India and often paraded
before eager television journalists, bearing the most
conspicuous marks of their religion: beards, skullcaps and
striped scarfs.  But there was a problem this time. The Muslims detained
last month had been locked up before, after another bomb blast
near one of the oldest mosques in Hyderabad, the Mecca Masjid,
in 2007. While in prison, one of the accused ran into, in a
bizarre twist of fate, the real perpetrator of the crime, a
Hindu extremist, whose feelings of guilt pushed him into a full
confession. The police case against the Muslims -- an absurdist
fiction, actually -- began to collapse after that uncanny
encounter.  New evidence came to light, showing how rapidly anti-Muslim
Hindu terror networks, which included at least one serving army
officer, had grown across the country, while the police and the
media ballyhooed the mass arrests of various alleged Muslim
terrorists.  False Confessions  Finally, the Muslims accused in the Mecca Masjid attacks
were acquitted by the courts, which slammed the police for
extracting false confessions from them under torture.  An extensive investigation by the newsweekly Tehelka
 unearthed  many such malign and bogus cases, revealing a
countrywide pattern of what its editor, the novelist Tarun Tejpal, called “a chilling and systematic witch-hunt against
innocent Muslims.”  Of course, not all Muslims like to see themselves as
victims of majoritarian prejudice. Indeed, “Muslims in Indian
Cities” challenges the popular stereotype of a stagnant and
insular community in thrall to reactionary, self-serving
leaders.  Muslims employed in the Gulf remit almost one-third of the
$70 billion that India  receives  annually. A nascent
entrepreneurial middle class is emerging in, among other places,
Bhopal and Hyderabad.  But they have to overcome great mental barriers in a
mainstream culture largely inimical to them. It is not uncommon
for Muslim neighborhoods to be popularly tagged as “mini-
Pakistans,” or for even relatively affluent Muslims to be denied
rented accommodation and school placements.  As Jaffrelot writes, “to alienate those who invested in
education in order to be part of the brighter part of urban
India may result in the making of ’reluctant fundamentalists,’
to use the title of a recent book.”  Certainly, a demoralized people living on their nerves are
prone to see violence and bigotry everywhere.  Even one of India’s biggest film stars, Shah Rukh Khan,
recently  complained  about being constantly “accused of bearing
allegiance to our neighbouring nation.”  Khan was immediately assailed by a storm of hostile
criticism, including accusations of rank ingratitude. Pakistani
politicians, blatantly unable or unwilling to protect their
country’s minorities, cynically called upon the Indian
government to ensure the safety of Indian Muslims.  Finally, a plainly nervous Khan backtracked with some sad
Friedmanesque jauntiness: “We have an amazing democratic, free
and secular way of life,” he said.  This is not quite reflected in his own workplace,
Bollywood, whose films now depict Muslims as vicious anti-
nationals and devious Fifth Columnists.  Secret Hanging  Muslims wondering about their place in India can’t be
encouraged by the media’s recent outpouring of awe and
admiration for the notorious Muslim-baiter Bal Thackeray, or its
eager flattery of the Hindu nationalist prime-minister-in-
waiting  Narendra Modi , who is accused of complicity in the
murder of more than 2,000 Muslims in 2002.  Writing last week about the wrongful and prolonged
incarceration of a Muslim defense scientist, Praveen Swami, an
Indian journalist known for his close ties to the security
establishment,  pleaded  that “the harm caused to [the scientist]
has to be read against the possible harm to the community caused
by the investigators’ failure to arrest.”  More alarmingly, the  Supreme Court  invoked a similarly
imagined community of victimized and angry Hindus when it
confirmed the death sentence on Afzal Guru, a Kashmiri Muslim
accused of logistical support to a terrorist assault on the
Indian parliament in 2001. Guru had to die because, as the court
put it, India’s “collective conscience” demanded it.  Last month, India secretly hanged Guru. His family wasn’t
given a chance for a final meeting with him; his corpse was also
denied to them, in violation of a fundamental Islamic custom of
funeral prayers.  Many Muslims, even the few who believe that Guru was given
a fair trial, are likely to see the stealthy execution as “state
vengeance against a co-religionist,” as the deputy editor of the
newsmagazine Outlook wrote.  Some Muslims will also wonder why the sacrificial victim of
India’s collective conscience was a Muslim, and not, say, former
Indian Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi ’s Hindu assassins, who had
been waiting on death row for much longer.  More than a month after the execution of Guru, most
Kashmiris continue to suffer an intensified regime of arbitrary
curfews and brutal crackdowns. Last week, two unidentified
militants staged a suicide attack on an Indian paramilitary
outpost in Srinagar, the biggest such assault in three years.  Clashes between Kashmiri protesters and Indian security
forces in recent weeks have also claimed several casualties.
This surge in violence -- and there is more to come -- was
rendered inevitable by Guru’s dishonorable execution following a
dodgy trial, both hailed by a ratings-mad Indian media.  One can only hope that its squalid fantasy about traitorous
Indian Muslims doesn’t prove to be self-fulfilling. For the
radicalization of even a tiny fraction of 180 million Muslims
would not only fatally undermine India’s increasingly
unconvincing claims to democracy and secularism. The not-so-
reluctant fundamentalists would make the country seem as
ungovernable as its neighbor.  ( Pankaj Mishra  is the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ” and a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at pmashobra@gmail  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  