-- India’s IDBI Markets Dollar Bonds as Asian Debt Risk Declines
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-19T04:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/india-s-idbi-markets-dollar-bonds-as-asian-debt-risk-declines.html
IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  is marketing a sale
of dollar-denominated bonds as debt risk in  Asia  falls,
reversing yesterday’s increase amid easing concern that fallout
from a Cyprus bank deposit levy will reach the region.  IDBI Bank, the state-run Indian lender, is offering notes
due January 2019 at about 315 basis points more than Treasuries,
said a person familiar with the matter, asking not to be
identified because the matter is private. The Markit iTraxx Asia
index of credit-default swaps on 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside  Japan  fell 3 basis points to 102.5, after climbing 2.5
yesterday, according to traders.  Euro-area finance ministers signaled flexibility on the
terms of Cyprus’s rescue, suggesting less-wealthy depositors
could be exempted from taxes used to fund a bailout.  Filinvest
Development Corp. (FDC) , the Manila-based holding company with
investments in property and banking, and  Indonesia ’s Star Energy
Geothermal (Wayang Windu) Ltd. are among borrowers planning U.S.
currency bonds, people familiar with the deals said.  “Despite the Cyprus-led market volatility, funding
conditions for Asian corporates remain attractive,” said Mark Reade, a Hong Kong-based credit desk analyst at Credit Agricole
CIB. “Dollar funding costs are still low and global credit
investors remain cashed up.”  While average yield premiums on dollar bonds in Asia
increased  4 basis points  yesterday to 266.7 basis points more
than Treasuries, the biggest jump in six weeks, they are down 44
basis points from a year earlier, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes.  Banks Shut  Banks in Cyprus will be closed until March 21 after finance
ministers in the euro area reached an agreement on March 16
forcing depositors to share in the cost of the latest bailout.
The levy sparked outrage in the island nation and concern among
investors about setting a precedent by breaking the taboo
against raiding bank accounts.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 3 basis points to 102.5 basis
points as of 9:24 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 3 basis points to
105.5 as of 11:12 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. prices. The benchmark is down from the
highest close since March 13 yesterday, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index fell half a basis point to
105.8 basis points as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Citigroup Inc. prices. The gauge yesterday closed at its highest
level since March 7, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  