-- Iranian Envoy Sees Possible Breakthrough on Nuclear Deal
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-03-20T16:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/iranian-envoy-sees-possible-breakthrough-on-nuclear-deal.html
Iran for the first time sees the
“possibility for a breakthrough” in negotiations next month
over its disputed nuclear program, the Islamic Republic’s
ambassador to the United Nations said.  Talks in Kazakhstan three weeks ago marked a “turning
point” where the U.S. and five other world powers seemed “more
realistic” about Iran’s bottom-line position that it has a
right to enrich uranium for peaceful use,  Mohammad Khazaee  said
in an interview March 18 at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Khazaee, Iran’s UN envoy since 2007, said the nuclear
program has become a matter of “national pride, regardless of
how much we need, how much it costs.” Economic sanctions
haven’t sapped Iran’s resolve and, instead, have impeded talks
by fueling Iran’s suspicion of its critics, he said.  Khazaee spoke before President  Barack Obama  arrived today
in Israel, where Iran’s nuclear ambitions are on the agenda for
talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.  Obama has supported giving more time for economic sanctions
to persuade Iran to make nuclear concessions, while Netanyahu
has repeatedly said a military strike may be the only way to
stop Iran from producing an atomic bomb that could threaten
Israel.  The U.S., the U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia 
proposed at a two-day meeting last month in Almaty, Kazakhstan,
the easing of sanctions on Iran’s petrochemicals and gold trade
in exchange for Iran ceasing production of medium-enriched
uranium, according to officials involved in the talks.  Technical Talks  Technical experts from Iran and the six world powers held
talks in Istanbul on March 18 to discuss details of the plan. A
Western diplomat, who asked not to be named because of the
sensitivity of the negotiations, said yesterday the Istanbul
technical discussions were genuine and businesslike.  Talks among senior political representatives are to resume
April 5 in Almaty.  Iran says its 20 percent-enriched uranium is for medical
isotopes for cancer patients. Such material can be further
enriched to produce bomb-grade fuel, and the U.S. and its allies
suspect  Iran  of seeking the capability to make a nuclear bomb.  While the offer to ease petrochemical and gold sanctions is
“positive,” Khazaee said it “doesn’t help that much” and
won’t be the reason if Iran makes any deal.  Khazaee, who has been Iran’s vice minister for the economy,
chief representative to the World Bank and a member of
parliament, dismissed the Obama administration’s assertion that
sanctions on banking, trade and oil exports -- Iran’s main
source of revenue -- have forced Iran to consider an agreement
after years of stalled talks.  Oil Markets  Iran was the No. 6 producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries in February, and any rise in
tensions would hit oil markets. West Texas Intermediate crude
for April delivery, which expires today, slid $1.58 yesterday to
settle at $92.16 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Iran survived far worse conditions, including shortages of
staples such as milk, in the 1980s during the Iran-Iraq War,
Khazaee said. Today’s high prices, fueled by restrictions on
Iran’s oil exports and banking transactions, seem minor in
comparison, he said.  The key to a deal would be international acceptance of what
his government sees as its right under the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty to enrich uranium, even at the 5 percent
level needed to fuel power plants, Khazaee said.  Accepting Enrichment  Because even Iranians viewed as “agreeable” by the U.S.
share this view, he said presidential elections set for June in
Iran won’t affect talks.  Some U.S. officials have privately said there will be
pressure on the Obama administration to accept Iran’s uranium
enrichment at low levels under UN safeguards.  Israel  and some
non-proliferation specialists have said Iran must be denied any
domestic enrichment capability -- a position Khazaee said is a
non-starter.  Khazaee said the underlying obstacle is the “mistrust
between the two sides.” Fear of Iran is based on “allegations
or suspicions,” he said, denying that Iran is seeking to
destabilize or attack any of its neighbors. The U.S. has
sanctioned Iran for support of terrorism, human rights abuses
and ballistic missile and nuclear proliferation.  On the eve of Obama’s trip, Khazaee asserted that
“Israelis every day are threatening Iran” and called on Obama
to urge Israel to give up its undeclared nuclear arsenal. He
said Israel has nothing to fear from Iran.  No Attacks  “Iranians have not, and they do not intend to attack any
country, any nation in the region,” Khazaee said.  The U.S. and Israel are among countries that have accused
Iran of supporting proxies such as the militant group Hezbollah
to carry out attacks on Israeli and Jewish targets and a plot to
kill Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to  Washington .  Iran doesn’t recognize the legitimacy of Israel and has
rejected a two-state solution for  Palestine . Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for a referendum of all the
inhabitants in Israel, the West Bank and Gaza.  In an interview last week with Israel’s Channel 2
television, Obama said Iran is more than “a year or so” away
from being able to build a nuclear weapon and repeated that
“all options are on the table” if diplomacy fails.  Obama reached out to Iranians with a March 18 video to mark
the Iranian New Year, urging the government to take “immediate
and meaningful steps to reduce tensions and work toward an
enduring, long-term settlement of the nuclear issue.”  ‘Disastrous’ Result  Khazaee warned that if Israel attacked Iran, the “result
would be disastrous for everybody.” A conflict in the region
could close the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20 percent of
the world’s oil is shipped daily on average, and military
analysts have said Iran would strike back using proxies around
the world.  Khazaee discounted the possibility of an Israeli strike.  “I don’t think it’s going to happen because there are even
some wise people in the region that they know that they should
not play with the lion in the region, which is Iran,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  