-- Iranian Bank Tells U.K. Court Secret Ruling Denies Fair Trial
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-19T13:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/iranian-bank-tells-u-k-court-secret-ruling-denies-fair-trial.html
An Iranian bank argued the U.K.
 Supreme Court  shouldn’t be able to consider secret evidence that
was never made public in a case over government sanctions
because of concerns about national security.  Bank Mellat’s lawyers argued it wouldn’t be fair for judges
to see parts of a lower court ruling that were issued in
private. A litigant has “a fundamental right to know the case
against him and to answer it,” said Michael Brindle, a lawyer
for the lender.  The British government in 2009 banned any company operating
in the U.K. from dealing with Tehran-based Bank Mellat as part
of rules designed to prevent the development of nuclear weapons
by Iran. The bank says the restriction is illegal and is taking
the case to  England ’s highest court, which will hear the matter
after dealing with the secrecy issue.  The government wants to extend the use of closed trials
where evidence might compromise national security. The Justice
and Security Bill, currently being debated by lawmakers, has
been criticized by lawyers and civil rights groups who argue it
will erode the right to a fair trial.  The Supreme Court has the power to consider evidence that
isn’t public, Jonathan Swift, a lawyer for the Treasury told the
nine-judge panel.  “If it cannot see the closed parts,” of the lower court’s
judgment, “it is disabled,” he said. “That’s a serious
problem.”  Sarosh Zaiwalla, another lawyer for Bank Mellat, said the
appeal is about the principle of the rule of law.  “It’s very encouraging that a private bank from  Iran  is
knocking on the door of our court seeking justice,” Zaiwalla
said.  A U.K. Treasury spokeswoman declined to comment on the
case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  