-- Irish Pedophile Legacy Highlights Challenge to New Pope
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-20T10:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/irish-pedophile-legacy-highlights-challenge-to-new-pope.html
For Irish victims of priestly
sexual abuse, Pope Francis needs to disclose what the Vatican
knows about the crimes -- and fully apologize for them.  “He could start telling the truth about the extent of
Vatican knowledge,” Andrew Madden, a computer consultant from
Dublin who claims priests molested him when he was an  altar boy 
in the 1980s, said by phone. “If an apology was preceded by
that level of honesty, that would be very significant.”  As Francis begins his reign as the 266th pope following his
inauguration yesterday, he faces a global wave of disgust and
mistrust toward the church amid abuse cases from the U.S. to
 Latin America . The wounds run deep in Ireland, one of  Europe ’s
most Catholic countries, underscoring the challenge the pope
faces to reviving a religion eroded by secularism and shaken by
scandal.  Priests engaged in “endemic” molestation of children for
decades, according to two reports by the Irish government issued
since 2009, with prelates usually more interested in avoiding
scandal to the church than exposing offenders and protecting
children.  The Vatican’s handling of the Irish abuse cases has been
dominated by “elitism and narcissism,” Premier Enda Kenny said
in July 2011, in an unprecedented attack on the church by an
Irish leader.  Pope’s Letter  His comment came more than a year after former  Pope
Benedict XVI  had written a “pastoral letter” to Ireland
offering an apology for what he called the Irish church’s “sins
against defenseless children.” He also spoke of his own
“dismay” on learning of the years of abuse by Irish priests.  Still, the letter stopped short of an admission that the
central authority of a global church with 1.2 billion followers
also bore some responsibility. Sinead O’Connor, the Irish
singer, urged Catholics to avoid mass until the Vatican made “a
full confession,” according to a letter she wrote in the
Washington Post in March 2010. She said she’d suffered neglect
and humiliation in a church-run institution as a child.  Under Benedict, the Vatican did begin to take important
steps to tackle abuse. It doubled the statute of limitations on
prosecuting priests to 20 years and published guidelines for
dealing with accused clerics. Benedict also met and prayed with
victims, though he never visited Ireland.  Bigger Questions  “The church is addressing the abuse issue within an
institutional framework -- it’s not asking the bigger
questions,” Tom Inglis, a  lecturer  in sociology at University
College Dublin, said by phone. “This is a church that is in the
bunker of a consumer, capitalistic society, hoping it will pass
by.”  As Buenos Aires archbishop, Jorge Mario Bergoglio, as the
future pope was then known, at times failed to take decisive
action when molestation charges surfaced, the Washington Post
said yesterday, citing a lawyer for abuse victims.  Sister Martha Pelloni, a well-known activist against abuse
and human trafficking, praised his actions. During 14 years as
archbishop, Bergoglio took an increasingly harder line on abuse
and eventually ordered church officials to ensure that all
allegations were reported to the police, Pelloni said yesterday
by phone from Goya, northern  Argentina .  “I’ve worked with him and he’s been a great defender of
the dignity of the human person and against exploitation,
whether sexual abuse, organized crime or trafficking of humans
and organs,” she said.  ‘Zero Tolerance’  Bergoglio said he supports “zero tolerance” for priestly
sexual abuse and criticized previous cases in the U.S. where
accused clerics were simply moved to other parishes, according
to a 2010 book of dialogs with Rabbi Abraham Skorka. In it,
Bergoglio also said celibacy isn’t a cause of pedophilia and
that the church could eventually review the issue of priestly
celibacy for “cultural” reasons.  “It’s a matter of discipline, not of faith,” he said in
the book, according to a  transcript  posted on the website of
Catholic group Aleteia. “It can change.”  At his inauguration yesterday to thousands of faithful and
dozens of world leaders, Francis urged people in positions of
responsibility to be “protectors of creation” including nature
and people.  “Whenever human beings fail to live up to this
responsibility, whenever we fail to care for creation and for
our brothers and sisters, the way is opened to destruction and
hearts are hardened,” the pope said in St. Peter’s Square.  Cardinal Law  Francis may seek to remove retired Cardinal Bernard Law,
who covered up sex crimes as Boston archbishop, from his post as
emeritus arch-priest at St. Mary Major, Italian daily Il Fatto
reported on March 15, without citing anyone. The basilica was
the first Roman church Francis visited after his election.  U.S. sex-abuse claims alone have cost the church $3 billion
in claims, according to bishopaccountability.org. In Ireland,
religious orders have paid or offered victims about 300 million
euros ($388 million) cash and real estate, though the government
has said the bill should total 1.4 billion euros.  Catholicism’s special position in Irish society was
recognized by the nation’s 1937  constitution , which called the
church “the guardian of the faith of the great majority of the
people.” While that clause was later removed, the religion’s
tenets have continued to underpin Irish law.  Condoms, Abortion  Until 1985, condoms could only be bought with a doctor’s
prescription, divorce wasn’t legalized until 1995 and abortion
still isn’t allowed in most cases. Eighty-five percent of Irish
are nominally Catholic, Central Statistics Office data show.  Francis, who called on the church to focus on the needs of
the poor last week, took his name after St. Francis of Assisi,
the Italian medieval saint who embraced poverty, loved animals
and became a symbol of humility.  For Irish abuse victims, the pope will need to back up his
words with action.  “I am completely fed up,” said Colm O’Gorman, who heads
 Amnesty International  in Ireland and said he was abused by
priests as a child. There’s been no real apology and “it’s hard
to see how even” a new pope can impart “a significant change
in direction,” he said prior to Francis’s election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  