-- Mistakes, Excuses and Painful Lessons From the Iraq War
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-03-19T22:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/mistakes-excuses-and-painful-lessons-from-the-iraq-war.html
I supported the  Iraq War , and I’m
sorry.  I have my excuses, of course. I was a college student,
young and dumb. I thought that if U.S. President George W. Bush
and Secretary of State Colin Powell and former President  Bill Clinton  and U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  all thought it was
necessary, then that was because they had intelligence proving
as much. I thought there was no way the Bush administration
would neglect to plan for the obvious challenges of the
aftermath. I turned on the war quickly when I saw how poorly and
arrogantly it was being managed.  But at the core of my support for the war was an analytical
failure I think about often: Rather than looking at the war that
was actually being sold, I’d invented my own  Iraq  war to support
-- an Iraq war with different aims, promoted by different
people, conceptualized in a different way and bearing little
resemblance to the project proposed by the Bush administration.
In particular, I supported Kenneth Pollack’s Iraq war.  In 2002, Pollack, a Persian Gulf expert who’d worked at the
Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Council,
published “ The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq .”
Pollack’s argument, in short, was that  Saddam Hussein  was an
unusually reckless, cruel and self-deluded dictator who either
had weapons of mass destruction or was very close to attaining
them. His past, which included catastrophic wars with  Iran  and
 Kuwait , murderous rampages against his own people, erratic
personal behavior and a clear aspiration toward regional
hegemony, suggested that he wasn’t the sort of tyrant who could
be contained or reasoned with, and so Pollack’s reluctant,
unhappy conclusion was that he was the sort of tyrant who must
be stopped before the right weaponry made him unstoppable.  Third Priority  But Pollack was clear-eyed about the task ahead. Iraq, he
said, shouldn’t be America’s top priority. We should first focus
on destroying al-Qaeda. We should then work on the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. Only then should we turn to Hussein.  Moreover, when and if we did invade Iraq, we should do so
only as part of a coordinated, multilateral operation that takes
as its fundamental premise that rebuilding Iraq “is likely to
be the most important and difficult part.” On  National Public
Radio ’s Fresh Air, Pollack said that “if we do it wrong we
could create as many problems as we solve.”  Pollack’s book was a key document in the run-up to the war.
In the  New Yorker , David Remnick  called  it “the most
comprehensive and convincing case for the use of force in
Iraq.” On the  New York  Times op-ed page, Bill Keller  said  it
was “surely the most influential book of this season.” At
Slate, Chris Suellentrop  joked  that “the  Bush administration 
should consider a last-ditch effort to obtain Security Council
approval: a Paris airlift that drops thousands of French
translations of Kenneth Pollack’s ‘The Threatening Storm’ over
the city.” Pollack even appeared on “The Oprah Winfrey Show.”
Yes, Oprah.  As the months wore on, it became clearer and clearer that
Bush wasn’t fighting Pollack’s war. He didn’t focus on al-Qaeda
first, or the Israelis and Palestinians second. He was
undermining the role of multilateral institutions rather than
relying on their legitimizing role. There was little evident
planning for the aftermath, and the administration’s statements
about the length of the war, the number of troops required, and
the likely reactions of the Iraqi people were insanely
optimistic. But Pollack was still arguing that the war was worth
doing, and so was I. After all, what other chance would we get
to topple Hussein?  We got our war. More to the point, we got Bush’s war, which
was, in the end, the only war on offer. There were no weapons of
mass destruction. There was little real planning for the
occupation, which led to a huge and senseless loss of Iraqi life
in a quasi-civil war that we did too little, at first, to stop,
and arguably helped start through the misguided process of
“debaathification.” The focus on al-Qaeda, not to mention on
 Israel  and Palestine, was lost.  Looking Back  This week, I sought out Pollack, now a senior fellow at the
Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the  Brookings
Institution , to ask what he thought of the war, and his role in
it, 10 years later. Was it worth it?  “Whether the war was ‘worth it’ is a judgment that is
going to vary from person to person,” he said. “And that view
will change over the course of time. What strikes me as far more
important right now is the lessons we take from it.” Those
lessons, he continued, include, “always be skeptical of even
the strongest intelligence,” “keep in mind the potential for
unintended consequences,” “don’t ever go to war on the
cheap,” and “start with the end state you want to achieve and
build back from there.”  In conversation, Pollack comes off much as he did in his
original book: curious and questioning. He worries openly about
what he got wrong and what he could have done better. He’s
careful to avoid articulating overwhelming doctrines or overly
moralistic arguments. He talks about how he’s gone back and
marked up a copy of “The Threatening Storm,” underlining the
parts he got right and striking through the parts he got wrong,
trying to figure out whether his case still coheres and whether
there was more he could have, or should have, said. He talks
about his justifiable pride in the final chapter of the book, a
thoroughgoing indictment of the fly-by-night approach the Bush
administration took to the reconstruction of Iraq.  But his re-evaluation of the Iraq War has been limited.
“For me,” he said, “the two big revelations, one of which was
becoming clear when we went to war and the other which wasn’t
clear until afterward was the way the Bush administration
handled it, and then the absence of the WMDs.”  Shocking Failure  The lack of WMDs, Pollack continued, was a “complete
surprise.” The intelligence community -- with the exception of
United Nations weapons inspector Scott Ritter -- was simply
wrong. But to Pollack, the Bush administration’s failures were
also a shock. “Early on especially, I looked at this
administration and I really thought it was my daddy’s Bush
administration. I saw  Colin Powell  and  Dick Cheney  and Rich Armitage and even  Paul Wolfowitz . These guys had handled the
first  Gulf War  exactly right. These guys were telling
Schwarzkopf, ‘We don’t care if you don’t need a second corps,
you’re getting a second corps.’ I thought there was no way
they’d do this half-assed. But it got clearer and clearer as we
got closer that they were going to do just that.”  In 2005, Sam Rosenfeld and Matthew Yglesias  criticized , in
the American Prospect, the kind of mea culpa Pollack makes here.
“The incompetence critique is, in short, a dodge -- a way for
liberal hawks to acknowledge the obviously grim reality of the
war without rethinking any of the premises that led them to
support it in the first place.” This sounded, I told Pollack, a
bit like what he was saying. Wasn’t one lesson of the Iraq War
that we had simply been far too confident in the American
military’s capacity to invade, occupy and rebuild a complex,
volatile society that we could never hope to truly understand?  “We’ll never know,” Pollack replied. “History doesn’t
reveal its alternatives. But I think the evidence out there is
that we could have handled this much better than we did, and
that it didn’t have to be this bad. The best evidence for that
is the surge. In 18 months, we shut down the civil war and
reversed the direction of Iraqi politics.”  The absence of WMDs didn’t blunt Pollack’s primary argument
for the war. “Saddam didn’t have the capability we were
ascribing to him -- we were absolutely wrong about that -- but
he did have the motivation. He thought about nuclear weapons in
a way most of the world does not. What we’re getting from the
tapes of conversations among his inner circle is that he says
they need to acquire nuclear weapons to wage war against Israel.
There’s no sign this is bluster at all.”  I told Pollack that the situation seemed precisely the
reverse. The fact that Hussein had shut down his WMD program and
was engaged in an elaborate con to convince the Iranians and his
own people that he still had WMDs suggests that this was,
indeed, bluster.  Unique Character  Pollack didn’t buy it. “Saddam was close to being unique.
What we know about how he thought about nuclear weapons is not
something you encounter with other leaders. I worry about the
North Koreans because I don’t know what they believe. But I’m
quite comfortable that the Iranians don’t think about nuclear
weapons the way Saddam did. Containing a nuclear Iran is not a
walk in the park. But it should be doable, and it’s preferable
to war. What was important about Saddam was the uniqueness of
his character.”  I supported Ken Pollack’s war, which led me to support
 George W. Bush ’s war. Both were wrong. The assumptions required
to make them right -- Hussein had WMDs, Hussein was truly crazy,
Hussein couldn’t be contained, American military planners and
soldiers could competently destroy and then rebuild a complex,
fractured society they didn’t understand -- were implausible.  But saying, in retrospect, that I shouldn’t have supported
the Iraq War is easy. The harder question is how to avoid a
similarly catastrophic misjudgment in the future.  So here are some of my lessons. First, listen to the
arguments of the people who will actually carry out a project,
not the arguments of the people who just want to see the project
carried out. Who manages a project can be as important as what
the project is.  Second, don’t trust what “everybody knows.” There is,
perhaps, nothing more dangerous than a fact that everyone thinks
they know, because it shuts down critical thinking. In a
 retrospective  for  Foreign Policy , Stephen Hadley, Bush’s
national security adviser, said, “It never occurred to me or
anyone else I was working with, and no one from the intelligence
community or anyplace else ever came in and said, ‘What if
Saddam is doing all this deception because he actually got rid
of the WMD and he doesn’t want the Iranians to know?’ Now,
somebody should have asked that question. I should have asked
that question. Nobody did. It turns out that was the most
important question in terms of the intelligence failure that
never got asked.”  Of course, it wasn’t asked. “Everybody knew” that Hussein
had WMDs.  Third, the people who are most persuasive aren’t
necessarily the people who are actually right. Argument is a
skill. Authority is a position. Trusting too much in either can
lead you astray.  Fourth, the U.S. military is a blunt and limited
instrument. Tasks that require it to stray far outside its core
competence, such as rebuilding societies rather than destroying
them, are projects that aren’t likely to go well. In retrospect,
the constant “to be sure” caveats about how this wasn’t worth
doing if it wasn’t done right should have been a warning. It
wasn’t worth doing precisely because the odds were high that we
couldn’t do it “right.”  I supported the Iraq War, and I’m sorry.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 