-- MIT to Release Edited Documents Related to Swartz Case
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   D o n a l d   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-19T15:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/mit-to-release-edited-documents-related-to-swartz-case.html
The  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  said it would release edited documents related to the
school’s role in the prosecution of Aaron Swartz, who killed
himself while facing charges that he broke into the university’s
network to download millions of research articles.  In a letter to the MIT community, President L. Rafael Reif
said the information wouldn’t include names or information about
MIT’s computer vulnerabilities. MIT must protect people from “a
pattern of harassment and personal threats,” he said.  MIT, which prides itself on a commitment to openness, and
the  Justice Department  have faced harsh attacks for their roles
in pursuing Swartz, considered a hero by many in the movement to
make information available for free.  “At MIT, we believe in openness, and we are not afraid to
re-examine our own actions,” Reif said. “Openness must be
balanced with reasonable concern for privacy and safety.”  MIT will release the documents when it issues a report by
Professor Hal Abelson on the events leading to Swartz’s suicide,
Reif said. Swartz, facing as long as 35 years in prison and a $1
million fine, hanged himself in his  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
apartment on Jan. 11. He was 26.  On March 15, lawyers for Swartz’s estate filed a motion in
federal court in  Boston  asking that documents related to the
case against Swartz be released to the  U.S. Congress  and the
public. They are asking that the names and titles of all law
enforcement personnel and MIT employees in the documents also be
released.  Public Interest  In November 2011, a magistrate judge issued a protective
order barring disclosure of documents to anyone other than the
defense team or potential defense witnesses.  “Public interest in access to these materials in an
intelligible form outweighs the limited privacy interest in the
names and official titles of the individuals named therein,”
Swartz’s lawyers said in the March 15 motion.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston has agreed to the
release of documents but seeks to keep private the names of law
enforcement people investigating the case and MIT employees,
according to the motion.  The case is U.S. v. Swartz, 11-cr-10260, U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 Djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  