-- Napolitano Seeks to Form Government in Italy’s Split Parliament
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-20T18:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/italy-s-split-parliament-heads-to-napolitano-in-search-of-deal.html
President Giorgio Napolitano was
preparing for a second day of talks with leaders of  Italy ’s
fractious parliament as he seeks to broker a compromise on
forming a government in  Europe ’s fourth-largest economy.  Napolitano’s task in the consultations is to determine
whether Pier Luigi Bersani, the 61-year-old ex-communist who
controls the lower house in parliament, can muster a majority in
the Senate. If that proves unlikely, the 87-year-old head of
state may pick a premier from the ranks of political newcomers
or, for the second time in two years, hand the reins to an
unelected technocrat until new elections.  The coalition led by the  Democratic Party  “did not get a
full victory in the election, still it had a full victory in the
lower house and it’s a majority force in the Senate,” said
Bersani ally Nichi Vendola, head of the Left, Ecology and
Freedom party after his meeting. “We think that the effort of
presenting the country with a program and a government able to
interpret the need for a change is up to Pier Luigi Bersani.”  Consensus in Italy has been hard to come by since the
election last month upended the balance of power that defined
parliament since 1994. Public disgust with career politicians
helped split the popular vote four ways and led to the
appointment of novices like Laura Boldrini, a former United
Nations official and newly elected speaker of the Chamber of
Deputies, to key posts.  Convincing Napolitano  “I don’t think Bersani will be able to convince Napolitano
that he can form a minority government,” said  Roberto
D’Alimonte , a political science professor at Rome’s Luiss
University. “Someone like Boldrini as premier may have a better
chance.”  Napolitano will meet tomorrow with former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  and Five Star Movement leader Beppe Grillo
before closing consultations at 6 p.m. with an appointment with
Bersani. He closed today’s talks with leaders of Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s Civic Choice party.  “It’s necessary to give the country a courageous and
innovative government capable of confronting issues such as the
cost of politics and the reform of the state, but above all a
solid and stable government that doesn’t make Italy, its
companies and its families pay the price of non-politics and a
non-government,” Andrea Olivero, spokesman for Monti’s
coalition, said after meeting Napolitano.  Tapping Monti  Italy is under pressure to come up with an administration
as borrowing costs rise and the  crisis in Cyprus  renews
speculation on a euro breakup. Napolitano, whose seven-year term
ends May, turned to academia the last time Italy needed a
premier. In November 2011, he appointed Monti, then president of
Milan’s  Bocconi University , with a mandate to tame the deficit
and shield Italy from the debt crisis.  This time with a deepening recession and fractured base of
voters, Napolitano needs a government capable of stimulating the
economy and reforming the electoral law to make it easier for
one party to garner a majority in parliament.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 9 basis points to 4.64
percent. Even with today’s decline, the yield is up almost 20
basis points since the Feb. 24-25 election.  Bersani has no clear path to government as talks have
stalled with both of the rivals who, individually, are capable
of contributing to a majority in the Senate. Grillo, who ran on
a platform of sweeping established politicians from power, has
called Bersani a “dead-man talking” and refused to make a
deal. With three-time premier Berlusconi, who was sentenced in
October to four years in prison for  tax fraud , it’s Bersani who
has rejected compromise.  ‘Bed with Berlusconi’  “If Bersani gets into bed with Berlusconi, he’s
finished,”  James Walston , a politics professor at Rome’s
American University, said of Bersani. “He knows that if there
are going to be snap elections he has got to keep as much
distance as possible from Berlusconi.”  Berlusconi said today in a television interview with Italia
1 that he would tell Napolitano that “only a stable, and
authoritative government that could emerge from cooperation
between the PDL and the PD can take the steps needed by the
country.”  The offer was rejected by Enrico Letta, deputy head of the
PD, who said that Berlusconi was being hypocritical after having
brought down the Monti government, which had been supported by a
PD-PDL alliance.  Courting Grillo  Bersani renewed his appeal to Grillo by Boldrini, a member
of Vendola’s Left, Ecology and Freedom, saying on Twitter Inc.
that she and Grasso would take 30 percent pay cuts and impose
savings measures on other parliamentary officials.  “In this new political climate, and with returning
financial market pressure, there may be scope for unprecedented
alliances and solutions,”  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc, said today in a research
report.  Bersani won his first showdown in the new Senate on March
16 when he passed over long-time ally Anna Finocchiaro for the
speakership and proposed Grasso, a former mafia-fighting
prosecutor who, like Boldrini in the Chamber, is a political
neophyte. Grasso was confirmed with a plurality of the Senate,
including members of Grillo’s party.  Bersani will need an absolute majority in a confidence vote
to form a government.  The speakership vote “does not bode well for political
stability,”  Wolfango Piccoli , Eurasia Group’s head for Europe,
said March 18 in a research report. “Bersani still appears
unlikely to muster enough votes to survive a confidence vote in
the Senate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  