-- Italian Banks’ Bad-Loan Ratio Rises to Highest in 12 Years
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-19T14:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/italian-banks-bad-loan-ratio-rises-to-highest-in-12-years.html
Bad loans at  Italian banks  climbed
to the highest level in more than 12 years as the nation’s
economy endured its longest recession for two decades and
sovereign-debt risks drove up funding costs for companies.  Gross non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending
increased to 6.4 percent in January from 5.4 percent a year
earlier, according to data published by the Italian Banking
Association today. That’s the highest level since September 2000
and up from 3 percent in June 2008, said the association, known
as ABI.  “Banks’ credit quality is continuing to worsen, hurt by a
weak economic cycle and the worsening of companies’ financial
conditions,” ABI said in the report. “Compared to the pre-
crisis period, the  credit quality  has showed a marked
deterioration, especially for small companies.”  Italian firms and families are struggling to repay their
debts and find new credit lines as unemployment rises and
austerity measures put in place by the caretaker government of
Mario Monti curb economic activity. The  Italian economy 
contracted 2.2 percent in 2012 and is expected to shrink 1.1
percent this year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 45 analysts.  Non-performing loans rose an annual 18 percent to 126.1
billion euros ($163.3 billion) in January, ABI said.
Impairments, excluding writedowns, increased to 63.9 billion
euros from 49.6 billion euros a year earlier, according to the
report.  “We expect a further increase of bad loans until the
economy starts recovering,” Gianfranco Torriero, managing
director at ABI, said in the statement. “This is a
physiological impact of the Italian recession, the situation is
under control and lenders in the country remain solid.”  -- Editors: Mark Bentley, Dylan Griffiths  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  