-- Italian Output Unexpectedly Rose in January Amid Ongoing Slump
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-19T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/italian-output-unexpectedly-rose-in-january-amid-ongoing-slump.html
Italian industrial  production 
unexpectedly rose in January as the euro region’s third-biggest
economy is mired in a recession.  Output increased 0.8 percent from December, when it fell a
revised 0.2 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in
Rome today. Economists forecast a monthly decline in January of
0.3 percent, according to the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Starting from January, the statistics
institute changed the base year for the output index to 2010
from 2005.  On March 8 Fitch Ratings said that  Italy  will contract 1.8
percent this year, after shrinking 2.4 percent in 2012. It also
cut the nation’s credit rating by one level as an inconclusive
election on Feb. 24-25 produced political paralysis that
threatens Italy’s ability to deal with the economic slump. While
the policies of outgoing Prime Minister Mario Monti helped calm
the region’s debt crisis by taming Italy’s budget deficit, the
higher tax burden pushed the country deeper into its fourth
recession since 2001.  Italy should take advantage of the results obtained in
adjusting its public finances “to use them toward the real
economy, for labor cost reduction and to increase
productivity,”  Enel SpA (ENEL)  Chief Executive Officer Fulvio Conti
said yesterday in an interview in Rome. The CEO of Italy’s
biggest utility added that the country now needs a “stable
government” in order to return to economic growth.  Car Sales  Fiat SpA (F)  brand car sales fell 16.8 percent last month as
the country’s biggest manufacturer faced contracting domestic
demand. Consumer spending declined 4.3 percent last year as the
jobless rate reached the highest in more than two decades.  Still, exports rose 2.3 percent in 2012 as sales abroad of
Italian goods and services showed some resilience.  The monthly rise in industrial output was led by increases
in production of food and beverages, textile and clothes,
today’s report showed. Output fell an annual 3.6 percent on a
workday-adjusted basis, Istat said.  Istat originally reported a 0.2 percent rise of production
for December.  -- With assistance from Giovanni Salzano and Alessandra
Migliaccio in  Rome . Editors: Andrew Davis, Jennifer Freedman,
Jerrold Colten  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  