-- Titan’s Probuphine Dosing May Need Review, FDA Staff Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-19T20:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/titan-s-probuphine-dosing-may-need-review-fda-staff-says.html
Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TTNP)  plunged
the most in four years after U.S. regulators questioned whether
the company showed the dosages tested of experimental Probuphine
implant offered enough benefit to gain approval.  The shares of South San Francisco, California-based Titan
fell 42 percent to $1.19 at 4 p.m.  New York  time for their
biggest drop since December 2008. Patient response to the
treatment, for treating addiction to heroin and prescription
opioid painkillers, indicate that doses may not have been “high
enough” in the studies, Food and Drug Administration staff said
today in a  report .  The FDA staff also raised questions about the safety of the
procedure to implant Probuphine and whether physicians who treat
addiction yet don’t have surgical backgrounds would be capable
of the operation. An advisory panel to the FDA is scheduled to
meet March 21 to weigh the risks and benefits of the drug. The
agency may decide by April 30 whether to approve the treatment.  “While the placebo group had even more discouraging
results, supporting the conclusion that Probuphine does have an
effect on drug use, overall, the response was not what one might
hope for, given that the product ensures compliance with
medication for six months,” FDA staff said in the report.  Urine Samples  After four months on the treatment, three patients had
fully stopped using opioids. About a quarter of patients treated
with the medication were unable to provide even four opioid-
negative urine samples over the course of six months in clinical
trials, according to the report.  The buprenorphine dose in four Probuphine implants is less
than a third of the dosage delivered by 16 milligram
buprenorphine film.  Addicts now can use  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s Suboxone
tablets and dissolvable film that combine the same ingredient in
Probuphine, buprenorphine, with naloxone to reverse the effects
of overdose. If approved, Probuphine may generate $360 million
in sales in 2018, Michael Higgins, an analyst for Brinson
Patrick Securities Corp. in New York, said in an e-mail.  Probuphine is intended to deliver a long-lasting dose of
buprenorphine, making it more convenient than daily oral
versions. Buprenorphine is less restricted than other treatments
for opioid dependence, such as methadone, which can only be
administered in specialized clinics, according to the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.  Matchstick-Sized Implant  FDA staff questioned whether a one-time training program
for physicians to implant the matchstick-sized implant would be
adequate to avoid potential complications ranging from pain and
numbness at the infection sight to bleeding or hematoma and
nerve damage.  Buprenorphine-related emergency room visits increased from
3,161 in 2005 to 30,135 in 2010, the agency said. Of the 2010
visits, 52 percent were classified as nonmedical use of
pharmaceuticals versus 24 percent seeking substance abuse
treatment and 13 percent for adverse reactions.  Probuphine has the potential to ensure treatment compliance
and offer a decreased diversion or accidental abuse risk, Marc Rubin, chairman of Titan, said yesterday in an earnings call.  Titan licensed exclusive U.S. and Canadian
commercialization rights for Probuphine to closely held Braeburn
Pharmaceuticals, a New York-based Apple Tree Partners company.
Titan has the potential to receive a $50 million milestone
payment if the drug is approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  