-- Mitsubishi Electric Targets Acquisitions in Emerging Markets
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-03-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/mitsubishi-electric-targets-acquisitions-in-emerging-markets.html
Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) , the
Japanese maker of air conditioners and satellites, may acquire
companies in  emerging markets  to expand its factory-automation
equipment business.  The company may target purchases in countries including
Turkey,  Mexico ,  Indonesia  and  Thailand  and may announce more
details in May, President Kenichiro Yamanishi told reporters
yesterday in Tokyo, where it’s based. Mitsubishi Electric is
also benefiting from a weaker yen against the dollar, he said.  Mitsubishi Electric, which earned  66 percent  of its revenue
in Japan last fiscal year, is investing overseas amid slow
economic growth in its home market. The company will open a
factory in 2014 to make automobile equipment in Mexico and
opened a unit in Istanbul to expand its electronics business in
 Turkey  and surrounding regions in January.  “We want to use acquisitions to supplement what we’re
missing in our overseas strategy,” Yamanishi said. The company
also wants to add a second brand for overseas sales, he said.  The manufacturer aims to increase the portion of total
revenue from abroad to 40 percent in the fiscal year starting
April 2015, Yamanishi said.  While Japan’s weakening currency may boost earnings from
overseas, it won’t be enough to change the company’s current
earnings forecasts, Yamanishi said. The yen reached the weakest
level since 2009 earlier this month.  Revenue Target  Every 1-yen decline in the value of Japan’s currency
against the dollar and euro boosts Mitsubishi Electric’s annual
sales by 5 billion yen and 2 billion yen respectively, he said.  Mitsubishi Electric  forecasts  net income of 50 billion yen
($524 million) in the year ending March 31, down 55 percent from
last fiscal year, the company said Feb. 4. Sales may decline 3.3
percent to 3.52 trillion yen, it said.  The company may delay its revenue target of 4 trillion yen
to the 12 months starting April 2014 from next fiscal year,
Yamanishi said yesterday.  Mitsubishi Electric rose 0.1 percent to 826 yen in  Tokyo 
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 13 percent this year,
trailing the 20 percent advance in Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  