-- JPMorgan Sees 50%-60% Chance Macklem Is Next BOC Governor
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-19T21:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/jpmorgan-sees-50-60-chance-macklem-is-next-boc-governor.html
Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem’s chances of replacing Mark Carney as the
central bank’s top official are between 50 percent and 60
percent, according to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The second-most likely candidate is Stephen Poloz, chief
executive at  Export Development Canada , according to a report
today by Kevin Hebner and Sandy Batten in  New York . Macklem’s
promotion isn’t certain because the last two selections skipped
over the top deputy while Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has
suggested he wants someone with deep financial market
experience, according to the report.  “The market may be underestimating the possibility of a
surprise,” wrote Hebner, a foreign-exchange strategist and
Batten, a senior economist. “Choosing Macklem would represent
an endorsement of existing BoC policy, which has been to
maintain a tightening bias in the face of deteriorating economic
conditions, even as central bank policy makers in other G-7
countries add stimulus. However, we think a surprise
announcement would likely be interpreted dovishly” and may
weaken the Canadian dollar, they said.  Canada’s benchmark  interest rate  has been 1 percent for
more than two years. Policy makers in the world’s 11th largest
economy are grappling with a strong currency and sluggish global
demand that’s hampering exports, record consumer-debt loads
impinging spending and inflation averaging below the Bank of
Canada’s 2 percent target.  Governor Carney is leaving the Ottawa-based central bank on
June 1 to take over the  Bank of England  a month later.  “Front-runner Macklem is well-liked and supported within
the Bank, and we think he certainly has the qualifications to be
Governor,” Hebner and Batten wrote in the report.  Other candidates to replace Carney include deputy governors
Timothy Lane and Agathe Cote along with former deputy governor
Jean Boivin who now works at the finance department, the report
said. The job could also go to  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Vice Chairman
Kevin Lynch or Julie Dickson, the country’s top banking
regulator, Hebner and Batten wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  