-- Kerry Urges Creation of Vast Marine Reserve in Antarctica
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-03-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/kerry-urges-creation-of-vast-marine-reserve-in-antarctica.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
called for establishing the world’s largest protected marine
area in Antarctica and urged stronger global safeguards for
oceans.  Kerry and  New Zealand ’s ambassador to the U.S.,  Michael Moore , announced yesterday a joint New Zealand-U.S. proposal to
establish a Marine Protected Area, or MPA, in the Ross Sea, a
1.9 million-square-mile area off the Antarctic coast.  “When it comes to the Ross Sea and Antarctica, we’re not
going to wait for a crisis to take action,” Kerry said in
 Washington  at a screening of “The Last Ocean,” a documentary
by New Zealand filmmaker Peter Young.  Preserving the world’s oceans “is not just an
environmental issue, it’s a security issue,” Kerry said. “The
entire system is interdependent and we toy with that at our
peril.”  The U.S., the European Union and 23 other countries are set
to decide in July whether to approve permanent protections for
the Ross Sea and for a second area in East  Antarctica , or to
allow large-scale industrial fishing to continue.  An attempt to reach agreement on establishing a protected
area in the Ross Sea stalled in November at a meeting of the
Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living
Resources, a panel established by international convention in
1982. While some areas of the Ross Sea would be protected under
the joint U.S.-New Zealand proposal, the plan would still allow
fishing in the most productive areas, said Young, who called
that “a disappointment.”  ‘Critical Time’  “Last year was a critical time for us,” Young said in an
interview, referring to the 2012 attempts to establish a
protected area. While China and  Russia  raised concerns about the
proposal, there were also differences between the U.S. and New
Zealand, he said.  “We wanted New Zealand to come out with a much stronger
proposal and they just dug their heels in,” Young said. “The
U.S. had a much stronger conservation stance and basically the
U.S. had to take the New Zealand position.”  The environment, ocean conservation and climate change are
priorities for Kerry, who helped celebrate the first ‘Earth Day’
as a young man in 1970 and worked extensively on those issues in
his 28 years as U.S. senator from  Massachusetts .  In his remarks yesterday at the National Geographic Museum
in Washington, the 69-year-old Kerry recalled boyhood memories
of paddling in the ocean off Cape Cod and searching for mussels
to cook for dinner.  “I am a child of the ocean in many ways,” he said. Today,
“it’s very difficult to find mussels anywhere” in the areas he
searched as a child. “I’ve watched it happen,” he said of
environmental degradation and  climate change .  Ross Sea  Commercial fishing is already disrupting the Ross Sea’s
ecosystem, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts. The Antarctic
toothfish, also known as Chilean sea bass, has critical spawning
areas there. A 2012 study published in the “Aquatic Mammals”
academic journal found that over the years, the average size of
these fish has been shrinking. The Ross Sea also provides a
vital reference area for assessing and recording the impact of
climate change, according to Pew.  The Ross Sea, Kerry said, “is a natural laboratory and we
disrespect it at our peril.”  The proposed U.S.-New Zealand Marine Protected Area would
measure about 890,000 square miles or 2.3 million square
kilometers, roughly three and a half times the size of  Texas  and
almost nine times the size of New Zealand. It would include an
area of about 612,000 square miles, (1.6 million square
kilometers), almost four times the size of  California , where
fishing would be banned, said Moore, the New Zealand ambassador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  