-- Korean Won Rebounds After Eight-Day Losing Streak; Bonds Decline
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-19T01:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/korean-won-rebounds-after-eight-day-losing-streak-bonds-decline.html
South Korea’s won snapped its
longest run of losses in almost five years as investors judged
recent declines excessive. Government bonds fell.  The currency weakened in the last eight days and touched
the lowest level in almost six months yesterday as global funds
cut holdings of local stocks amid concern a levy on bank
deposits in Cyprus would reignite  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
dollar’s 14-day relative strength index against the won closed
above 70 in the last two days, a threshold that signals the
greenback may weaken, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors judged the recent drop in the won was excessive
and are taking profit by selling dollars,” said Jeon Seung Ji,
an analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Some investors
are betting the Cyprus impact may not be as shocking to the
local markets. Still, the market will watch the Cyprus vote on
the deposit levy.”  The won gained 0.6 percent to 1,108.60 per dollar as of
10:19 a.m. in Seoul, rising the most since March 5, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency dropped 3 percent in
the last eight trading days, its longest losing streak since
August 2008. One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
fell 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage point, to 8.70 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers told Cyprus to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) from bank depositors to unlock
emergency loans. With Cypriot lawmakers voting today on how to
spread the burden among account-holders and the proposed bank
tax roiling markets, the U.S. called for a “responsible and
fair” resolution to the crisis. Cyprus is the fifth among the
17 nations that share the currency to seek a bailout since 2010.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 climbed one basis point to 2.61 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  