-- Kuroda to Improve Dialogue With Market, Former BOJ Official Says
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-03-19T00:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/kuroda-to-improve-dialogue-with-market-former-boj-official-says.html
Incoming governor  Haruhiko Kuroda 
and his two deputies are the “right people” to lead the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  because of their ability to communicate policy
intentions to investors, a former central bank official said.  “These are the right people, the appropriate people, for
these important posts,” said Tetsuya Inoue, who was associate
director general of the BOJ’s international finance branch until
November 2008 and is now chief researcher for financial markets
at  Nomura Research Institute Ltd. (4307)  in Tokyo. “Dialogue with the
market will be better, well-designed. That will be a big
difference” from the bank under Masaaki Shirakawa.  The yen slid 18 percent against the dollar over the past
six months on expectations the next BOJ leadership would carry
out additional easing. Shirakawa steps down today, with Kuroda
taking over tomorrow. Kuroda has pledged to do whatever is
needed to end 15 years of deflation, and expressed confidence a
2 percent inflation target is achievable.  The incoming chief and his deputies, Kikuo Iwata and
Hiroshi Nakaso, won’t rush to add stimulus before the regularly
scheduled policy meeting on April 4 because they need time to
discuss their options with the rest of the board, Inoue said.
That doesn’t necessarily mean disappointing investors.  “They could send a message in their initial press
conferences this week,” he said. “They can hint at the policy
tools they’re discussing.”  Longer Maturities  Inoue expects the BOJ to buy larger amounts of government
debt and extend purchases to bonds with longer maturities,
pushing down rates at the far end of the so-called yield curve.  The central bank currently buys  government bonds  with
maturities as long as three years, as well as exchange-traded
funds, real-estate investment trusts and other risks assets,
through the asset purchase program targeted to reach 76 trillion
yen ($796 billion) by the end of this year.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond added
one basis point to 0.595 percent as of 9:50 a.m. in Tokyo from
yesterday, when it touched 0.585 percent to match the lowest
level since June 2003. The difference in yield between 10-year
and 2-year bonds dropped to 55 basis points yesterday, the least
in almost a decade.  Japan ’s government debt returned 1.7 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The yen
traded at 95.53 per dollar from 95.21.  Minutes released March 12 from the BOJ’s February policy
meeting showed some members said options for easing include
buying longer term bonds or more risk assets.  A few members said the bank might have to consider
combining bond purchases with the rinban money-market
operations, the minutes showed. That would have the added
benefit of making policy more transparent, according to Inoue.  “Simplifying the message is very important,” he said.  Inoue believes achieving 2 percent inflation will be very
difficult, and that the danger of hyper-inflation and a rapid
drop in the yen are very low.  “The most probable outcome is less than 2 percent
inflation, but the Japanese economy stabilizes,” he said. Such
an outcome should be considered a success, according to Inoue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in  Tokyo  at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  