-- Kuwait Lawmakers Give Initial Agreement to Bailout Deal
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-03-19T15:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/kuwait-lawmakers-give-initial-agreement-to-bailout-deal.html
Kuwait’s parliament gave initial
approval to a bill requiring the government to purchase
citizens’ loans taken before March 30, 2008 and write off all
the interest before rescheduling debtors’ payments in
installments.  The draft law was approved in a first round of voting by 33
lawmakers out of 56 members of parliament who were present. The
government, which has always been opposed to bailing out
consumers, abstained. State Minister for Cabinet Affairs Sheikh
Mohammed Abdullah Al-Sabah said the government rejects the law
in its current form, “but as a sign of cooperation we will
abstain and wait for fundamental amendments.”  Details of the bill are still unclear and neither the
government nor lawmakers knew the cost. “It could be 1 billion
dinars ($3.5 billion) or 4 billion dinars,” Finance Minister
Mustafa Al-Shimali told parliament, saying the government needed
more time to review it. Legislators urged the house to pass the
bill in the first round before making a number of amendments
prior to a final vote.  Previous attempts at passing similar laws have failed amid
opposition by the government, which always said Kuwaitis in
trouble with loan payments already have access to a special fund
set up in 2007. Central Bank Governor Mohammed Al-Hashel, who is
opposed to scrapping the interest on loans, said in October that
about 26,000 Kuwaitis had registered with that fund and received
interest-free loans of 420 million dinars.  ‘Lessen Suffering’  A number of lawmakers today also called for writing off the
interest on loans taken after March 2008. “We should lessen the
suffering of all the people,” Ali Al-Omair told parliament.
Banks who took money “illegally” from Kuwaiti citizens
“should return it,” Nawaf Al-Fuzaie said. Lawmakers, who
claimed banks inflated interest payments for borrowers between
2002 and 2008, said lenders would lose more than 300 million
dinars as a result of this bill.  “The central bank’s objection to the principle remains the
only rational official stance and therefore should be
appreciated and supported at a time when reason does not count
in the decisions of the public administration,” Kuwait-based
Al-Shall Economic Consultants said.  The  International Monetary Fund  has warned Kuwait will
exhaust oil revenue by 2017 if the government’s current spending
policy continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  