-- NASA Program to Find Asteroids Is Decade Behind Schedule
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-03-19T15:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/nasa-says-catastrophic-asteroid-hit-unlikely-in-near-term.html
The U.S. space agency is a decade
behind in meeting a congressional mandate to detect meteors
capable of destroying a city, and needs a telescope in space to
improve tracking, the nation’s top science officials said.  NASA’s leaders said most large asteroids that may trigger a
global catastrophe have been found and tracked, and an impact
within the next several centuries is unlikely. Smaller objects
are harder to track, arrive more often and are less lethal.  “Unfortunately, the number of undetected potential ‘city
killers’ is very large,”  John Holdren , assistant to President
 Barack Obama  for science and technology, said today at a hearing
of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. “It’s in
the range of 10,000 or more.”  A meteor blast over  Russia  Feb. 15 put fresh focus on
efforts to send a spacecraft into an asteroid to show incoming
objects can be knocked off a collision course. The Air Force
wasn’t aware of the meteor until it streaked toward Earth,
General William Shelton said. He declined to elaborate.  Defending the planet against asteroids, a focus of former
astronauts, astronomers and amateur hobbyists, generated
worldwide discussions this year as the largest meteor to explode
near Earth in a century blew out windows and injured 1,200
people near the central Russian town of Chelyabinsk.  Congress asked  NASA  to find and track 90 percent of the
asteroids that are 140 meters or greater in size by 2020. Under
current funding, the goal won’t be met until 2030, Charles Bolden, the NASA administrator, said today.  ‘Adequate Warning’  “Smaller objects, such as the recent impact in Russia will
always be difficult to detect and provide adequate warning,”
Bolden said. But “if you really want to find and detect near-
Earth objects early enough that we can do something, you need to
have something in space,” and that would cost billions of
dollars, he said.  Scientists are powerless if a large asteroid big enough to
threaten civilization was found to be on course to collide with
Earth in a few weeks, Bolden said. “The answer to you, is, if
it’s coming in three weeks, pray,” he said.  Bolden backed the efforts of the non-profit group B612 that
is seeking $400 million to launch a telescope into the orbit of
Venus to find space objects that could collide with Earth.
Getting a telescope in space is necessary to find meteors such
as the one that hit in Russia. It was difficult to find because
it came from the direction of the sun, Holdren said.  “We did detect it, at the time,” Shelton, head of the  Air
Force  Space Command in  Colorado , told lawmakers. “It wasn’t
predicted.”  The blast in the remote Chelyabinsk region was the largest
recorded since 1908, when a meteroite flattened more than 800
square miles (2,100 square kilometers) of Siberian forest.  A space object, if it’s big enough and hits in the right
spot, could destroy a city or worse. Scientists blame an
asteroid more than 6 miles in diameter for wiping out the
dinosaurs 66 million years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  