-- Natural Gas Jumps to 18-Month High on Cold Start to U.S. Spring
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-03-19T19:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/natural-gas-rises-a-fifth-day-on-outlook-for-cold-spring-start.html
Natural gas futures climbed to an
18-month high in  New York  as an unusually cold start to spring
in the U.S. may bolster demand for the heating fuel.  Gas rose 2.2 percent after a midday update to government
forecasting models showed colder weather for the Midwest and
East from March 29 through April 2, said Jim Southard, a
meteorologist with Frontier Weather Inc. in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .
Earlier predictions showed seasonal to slightly below-normal
temperatures. Prices have jumped 18 percent this year as waves
of frigid weather helped reduce a  supply glut .  “There has been a lot of bullish money thrown at this
market since the end of February,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of Schork Group Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “We had a nice rally. It’s cold now but in a
couple of weeks we’ll have less weather-related demand.”  Gas for April delivery jumped 8.7 cents to $3.969 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement price since Sept. 14, 2011.
Trading volume was 34 percent above the 100-day average at 2:36
p.m.  Open interest  yesterday rose to 1.32 million contracts,
setting a record for a second straight day.  April $4 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They rose 1.8 cents to 5 cents per million
Btu on volume of 938 contracts as of 3:03 p.m. Calls accounted
for 54 percent of the volume.  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in May
was 32.84 percent at 3 p.m., up from 32.32 percent yesterday.  “For many people, this rally has far exceeded anything
they thought they would see,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market
analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Winter Storm  A storm along the East Coast spread rain from the
Massachusetts Turnpike south into southern  New England  and New
York. From 8 to 14 inches (20 to 36 centimeters) may pile up in
 New Hampshire  and  Maine , said Scott Kaplan, a meteorologist with
Hometown Forecast Services Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire.  Spot gas at Algonquin City Gates, which includes deliveries
to  Boston , jumped 27 percent to $11.0562 per million Btu on the
 Intercontinental Exchange , the highest price since Feb. 20.  Temperatures are expected to stay below normal throughout
the eastern U.S. into April, according to  Matt Rogers , president
of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Readings from March 24 to 28 will be about 8 degrees
Fahrenheit (4 Celsius) below normal through the center of the
country and about 3 degrees lower in the Northeast, Rogers said.
The cold will moderate a bit from March 29 to April 2, with
temperatures ranging from 3 to 5 degrees colder than normal from
Great Plains to the Atlantic coast.  Gas Users  About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Gas demand  typically slumps
between the peak heating-demand season and before hot weather
drives power demand to run air conditioners.  Gas inventories  probably fell by 71 billion cubic feet last
week, based on the median of seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The five-year average decline for the period is 26
billion, according to the EIA, which is scheduled to release its
weekly gas supply report on March 21.  U.S. stockpiles totaled 1.938 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended March 8, falling below 2 trillion for the first time
since May 2011, EIA data show.  A  surplus  to the five-year average fell to 11.4 percent
from 14.8 percent the previous week. A  deficit  to year-earlier
levels widened to 18.5 percent, the most since April 2008.  Average Levels  “If the trend continues, storage levels may be in line
with the five-year average” at the end of the withdrawal
season,  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today. “The price curve is not
encouraging storage at the moment either.”  The discount of April contracts to October, a gauge of
summer demand for gas, eased 1.1 cents to 12.1 cents. The spread
over the past month has been the narrowest for this time year
going back to 2003.  Fitzpatrick expects gas futures to rise above $4 and then
sell off, to consolidate in the $3.45-to-$3.60 range.  “Storage levels will build smartly, once April arrives,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  