-- New Egyptian Facebook Page Created to Expose Sexual Harassers
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-19T11:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/new-egyptian-facebook-page-created-to-expose-sexual-harassers.html
A new  Facebook page  has been
created to expose sexual harassers in  Egypt  by calling on women
to post photos of men caught in the act. Its the latest effort
by campaigners to end gender-based violence and intimidation.  The Arabic-language page, called “Embarrass a Harasser,
The Public Record of Harassers,” was set up five days ago by a
group of girls in Egypt and has attracted more than 9,000
followers so far. “Can’t hit him? Can’t catch him? Photograph
and expose him!” reads the page’s description.  One photo, uploaded on March 15, shows a young man on a
subway car. He’s sitting in a female only-carriage and annoying
women with his stares, according to the caption. In another
image, an older man grabs the buttocks of a veiled woman. The
caption says its a misconception that clothing has anything to
do with a woman becoming a victim of harassment or not.  Women have long complained of daily sexual harassment in
Egypt. In the two years since the 2011 revolution ousted  Hosni
Mubarak , the issue has come under the spotlight, with victims
defying cultural norms to speak out publicly about attacks and
activists increasingly using new media to get out their message.  The “anti-harassment movement” Facebook page was set up
in August 2012 and has more than 32,000 followers. It says it’s
aiming to have sexual harassment made a criminal offense. The
government-backed National Council for Women began drafting a
law after at least 29 women were assaulted by a mob on Jan. 25.   Harassmap , a website that charts country-wide incidents
from catcalls to ogling, stalking and rape, was set up in 2010.  A study by the Egyptian Center for  Women’s Rights  in 2008
said that 62 percent of men surveyed admitted to sexually
harassing women and 53 percent said women bring such offenses on
themselves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  