-- New Zealand’s Dollar Overvalued Says English; Currency Falls
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-19T03:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/new-zealand-s-dollar-overvalued-says-english-currency-falls.html
The  New Zealand  dollar is 
over valued and there is little the government can do to lower
it, Finance Minister  Bill English  said. The currency fell.  The so-called kiwi, which has climbed 12 percent over the
past two years, is “driven to a large extent by quantitative
easing,” English said in an interview in Hong Kong. “We don’t
really have a way of influencing the valuation.”  English’s comments echoed the  International Monetary Fund ,
which estimate the kiwi is about 15 percent overvalued. New
Zealand’s dollar is likely to remain elevated as long as loose
monetary conditions exist around the world, the IMF said in an
annual review of the nation’s economy.  The New Zealand dollar fell to as low as 82.42 U.S. cents,
from 82.65 cents before English’s comments, before trading at
82.49 cents as of 4:36 p.m. in Wellington.  “We will expect there may be a correction in valuation
with the  exchange rate  when the  U.S. economy  is clearly picking
up, and there are signs of that now,” English said.  English’s comments “at the edge add to some of the bearish
tone we’ve seen around the New Zealand dollar,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  “I still think the currency is going to be pretty well
supported on dips.”  The kiwi’s advance against the greenback since March 2011
has been the strongest among major currencies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Intervention Futile  Targeting a lower New Zealand dollar through intervention
would be expensive and largely futile as the currency is one of
the most widely traded relative to the nation’s size, Brian
Aitken, IMF Mission Chief to New Zealand, told reporters in
Wellington yesterday. It could also cause long-term damage to
what the IMF regards as a solid monetary policy framework, he
said.  “The ability to pick the price through intervention is
probably very limited without causing all other kinds of
distortions,” he said. “Ultimately, taxpayers of New Zealand
would be paying a very high price.”  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Graeme Wheeler said
last month he’s ready to intervene in foreign-exchange markets,
adding to comments by officials from South Korea to Japan and
Norway warning their currencies are too strong. Still, “given
the strength of recent capital flows, we can only attempt to
smooth the peaks” of the kiwi, Wheeler said Feb. 20.  The central bank left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 2.5 percent last week. Wheeler said March 14 that he expects
to keep borrowing costs at a record low until next year and
signaled he may reduce its benchmark rate if the local dollar
rises more than the economy justifies. The Governor’s comments
on currency have been more explicit than predecessor Alan
Bollard, whom he succeeded in late September.  “It’s more likely for rates to stay lower,” said English,
adding that the government was still aiming to return to a
 budget surplus  by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  