-- Newfield CEO Seeks ’Certainty’ in U.S. Amid Planned Asian Sale
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-19T23:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/newfield-ceo-seeks-certainty-in-u-s-amid-planned-asian-sale.html
Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX) , which is
exploring the sale of its offshore assets in Malaysia and  China ,
said it will be able to expand production more dependably by
focusing on North America.  While some larger companies prefer to keep their portfolio
balanced between domestic and international assets, Newfield’s
potential sales are designed as part of its shift toward onshore
U.S. oil and liquids, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lee Boothby said in an interview at the Howard Weil energy
conference in  New Orleans  yesterday.  “Frankly, because of the depth and breadth and quality of
the portfolios built in North America, it becomes easy to
consider going a different path,” Boothby said. “The certainty
that comes with the outcomes associated with developing resource
plays when you actually get into development mode -- you’ll
never get that in the international conventional model.”  Newfield said on Feb. 13 it was exploring strategic
alternatives for international assets, which include offshore
holdings in Malaysia and China. The company has said its
production focus will be onshore in  North America  in such areas
as the Uinta, Cana Woodford, Williston and Eagle Ford.  Newfield believes its onshore North American business and
its Asian offshore operation merit additional investment, and
the company isn’t able to fund both in the context of its
balance sheet, Boothby said.  The Woodlands, Texas-based company has estimated domestic
production may rise from a range of 37 million to 40 million
barrels of oil equivalent this year to as much as 57 million
barrels in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  