-- NFL, Providence Equity to Invest $300 Million in Media, Tech
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-19T04:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/nfl-providence-equity-to-invest-300-million-in-media-tech.html
The  National Football League  is
teaming with  Providence Equity Partners  to invest $300 million
in private sports and entertainment-related media and technology
companies.  The NFL and the Providence, Rhode Island-based firm each
will commit equity to the partnership and operate it jointly,
the league said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The NFL said
it will target growth equity investments of $25 million to $50
million, with the capacity to make larger investments.  “We will focus on innovative growth opportunities that
could create meaningful value for the NFL and our fans,”  Eric Grubman , the NFL’s executive vice president of business ventures,
said in the statement. “We selected Providence as our partner
because they share our vision of the opportunities and bring
exceptional experience and relationships in the industry.”  NFL owners approved the partnership with Providence, which
oversees $28 billion, during league meetings in Phoenix. It may
help the league find revenue streams beyond licensing fees and
ticket sales, and comes 15 months after NFL owners approved the
creation of a $32 million investment fund.  “The NFL is the world’s premier sports and entertainment
property and is in a unique position to help and benefit from
the growth of a wide range of media assets,”  Paul Salem , a
senior managing director at Providence, said in the statement.
“We believe there are many traditional and digital media
properties that complement the NFL’s business and can add
lasting value.”  Providence’s investments in sports- and entertainment-
related media companies include the Yankees Sports &
Entertainment Network, MLS Media, World Triathlon Corp. and
video website Hulu LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  