-- Nigerian Bombings in Kano Killed 22 People, Police Say
-- B y   E d w i n   O l o f u   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2013-03-19T15:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/nigerian-bombings-in-kano-killed-22-people-police-say.html
Two suicide bombers killed at least
22 people in an attack on a bus station in the northern Nigerian
city of Kano yesterday, said the state’s police commissioner,
Musa Daura.  About 65 people were wounded when the bombers struck Kano’s
Sabon Gari district, an area mostly inhabited by migrants from
the southern Christian Igbo ethnic group, Daura said by phone.
At least five buses were destroyed in the attack, according to
Tobias Idika, chairman of a group representing the Igbos in the
region. President Goodluck Jonathan condemned the bombings as
“barbaric” in a statement.  Nigeria is cooperating with its neighbors and countries
including the U.K. and  France  to fight the militant attacks,
Jonathan said today at a conference in Lagos, the commercial
capital. The government is open to “dialogue with aggrieved
groups,” while it strives to improve access to health care,
education and jobs, he said.  One soldier was killed and two were wounded today by an
improvised explosive device detonated in the northeastern city
of Maiduguri, Borno state Joint Task Force spokesman Sagir Musa
said in e-mailed statement. The bomb was believed to have been
planted by the Islamist militant group Boko Haram, he said.  Soldier Killed  Boko Haram has been attacking targets in the north and the
capital, Abuja, since 2009 in a campaign to impose Shariah law
in  Africa ’s top oil producer. Boko Haram said it’s holding seven
kidnapped tourists and won’t release them until members of the
group are freed from prison.  The French citizens, including four children, were seized
on Feb. 19 in northern Cameroon before being taken across the
border to the northeastern Nigerian town of Maiduguri.  “These seven French will not be released until we see our
detained brethren released,” Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau
said in an audio recording e-mailed by the group to reporters in
Maiduguri. “We are holding them in custody because the leaders
of Cameroon and Nigeria have also detained our brethren with
women and children under dehumanizing conditions.”  Another group, Jamaatu Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladissudan,
or “Group of Supporters of Muslims in the Land of the Blacks,”
has also claimed responsibility for attacks.  Ansaru said in a March 9 statement that it killed seven
foreigners kidnapped last month. The Italian and Greek
governments said on March 10 that the hostages had been killed,
while the U.K. said they were probably dead.  Jonathan said yesterday that some of those hostages may
still be alive.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country with more than 160
million people, is roughly split between the largely Muslim
north and the predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edwin Olofu in Kano at 
 eolofu@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  