-- U.S. Appeals Court Hears NLRB Recess Appointment Case
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-19T17:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/nlrb-recess-appointments-challenged-by-nursing-home.html
A National Labor Relations Board
ruling against a New Jersey nursing home should be thrown out
because it was made by members President  Barack Obama  appointed
in violation of the U.S. Constitution, the company’s lawyer told
a federal appeals court.  New Vista Nursing and Rehabilitation argued today in the
U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia that by the time the
company made its final request for reconsideration of an August
2011 ruling, three of the NLRB’s five members were improperly
installed recess appointees. Obama named them while the Senate
was in session, rendering the appointments unconstitutional,
Louis Capozzi, the nursing home’s lawyer, said.  “For 150 years everyone knew what ‘in recess’ meant,”
Capozzi told the three-judge panel. “Obama nominated these
three board members because the Senate wouldn’t act on them.”  The arguments today were the first before a federal appeals
court to challenge the recess appointments since the labor board
picks were ruled unconstitutional by a three-judge panel of the
U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  in January. The Obama
administration said earlier this month it would ask the  Supreme
Court  to reverse that ruling.  Bypassing Senate  Obama made the appointments Jan. 4, 2012, bypassing Senate
confirmation by asserting lawmakers were in recess and unable to
act on nominations. Under the Constitution, a president has the
power to make temporary appointments during a recess.  Senate Republicans, who filed a brief supporting the
challengers in the Washington case, disagree that the chamber
was in fact in recess when Obama acted.  The Washington appeals court panel ruled unanimously Jan.
25 the president exceeded his authority and the appointments
were invalid. Two judges on the panel went further, saying valid
appointments could only be made for vacancies that arose while
the Senate was adjourned.  The  Newark , New Jersey-based New Vista nursing home is
disputing an NLRB decision dated Aug. 26, 2011, that found the
company unlawfully refused to bargain with a union designated as
a collective-bargaining representative, according to court
papers.  New Vista filed four motions for reconsideration with the
board and challenged its authority to act because it lacked a
quorum of three legitimate members.  ‘Proper Quorum’  The appeals court should remand the case to the board or
“stay proceedings until such time there is a proper quorum or
adjudicate the case on the merits,” Capozzi said.  Beth Brinkmann, an attorney for the government, countered
that the court should only consider the validity of the Aug. 26
order.  “Just because there is some problem with the order doesn’t
mean it doesn’t exist,” Brinkmann said.  She argued that the Senate’s break in business at the time
gave the president limited authority under the Constitution to
make temporary placements.  “Is there any way we can duck ruling on this issue?” U.S.
Circuit Judge Franklin Van Antwerpen joked during the hearing.  The NLRB has issued at least 1,041 published and
unpublished decisions since Aug. 27, 2011, according to the
National Chamber Litigation Center, the last time New Vista
claims the board had a constitutional quorum.  On Hold  At least eight cases were put on hold by judges in the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Washington while the Obama administration
considered its options.  The U.S. Appeals Court in Richmond,  Virginia , will hear
arguments in two similar cases on March 22. John Elwood, a
former Justice Department official now at Vinson & Elkins LLP in
Washington, said earlier this month that some courts that have
heard arguments may wait for a Supreme Court ruling before
issuing a decision.  The case is NLRB v. New Vista Nursing and Rehabilitation,
12-01936, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
(Philadelphia).  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  