-- Norway’s Biggest Bank Touts Deposit Insurance After Cyprus Levy
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-19T14:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/norway-s-biggest-bank-touts-deposit-insurance-after-cyprus-levy.html
DNB ASA (DNB)  Chief Executive Officer
Rune Bjerke said  Europe ’s decision to impose a levy on Cyprus
bank savings will add to the haven appeal of Norway, where
deposit insurance is more than double the European Union’s.  “We have one of the most robust banking systems globally
and one of the most super-protective regimes towards
depositors,” Bjerke said in an interview in Oslo today.
“Flight to quality and flight to Norwegian banks will be even
more important in the quarters to come.”  Bank depositors in Norway are insured for as much as 2
million kroner ($343,707), or more than double the 100,000 euros
($129,400) EU savers are entitled to. Cypriot lawmakers are due
to vote today on how to spread the burden of raising 5.8 billion
euros from bank depositors to unlock EU emergency loans. The
levy, whose initial structure called for a 6.75 percent tax on
deposits under 100,000 euros and 9.9 percent over that amount,
has sparked concern among investors about setting a precedent by
breaking a taboo against raiding bank accounts.  The EU’s handling of Cyprus’s bailout has reignited the
region’s crisis and revived demand for haven assets. Credit
derivatives suggest  Norway  is the world’s safest investment,
with credit default swaps on the nation’s debt trading below
those of both the U.S. and  Germany .  ‘Quality Flight’  “We have been perceived as a flight to quality economy,”
Bjerke said. “That position, of course, will not be slower or
less significant after what we have seen in Cyprus.”  Europe’s rescue proposal for Cyprus is likely to hurt bank
funding markets across the region, Bjerke said.  “I have a fear that the events in Cyprus will lead to
somewhat wider spreads again and somewhat higher volatility,”
he said.  Cypriot lawmakers, who meet at 6 p.m. in Nicosia today to
debate how to spread the deposit charge among account holders,
may shoot down the unprecedented levy, risking the island’s
membership in the euro. The “feeling I’m having is that the
house is going to reject it because they feel and think it isn’t
just and that it’s against the interest of Cyprus,” Cypriot
President Nicos Anastasiades told  Sweden ’s TV4 channel today.  The nation’s banks and stock exchange will remain closed at
least until March 21 amid speculation lawmakers may postpone the
vote that’s planned for later today. The 5.8 billion-euro raid
on bank accounts, intended to cut the cost of a rescue package
to 10 billion euros, sparked outrage when Cypriots woke March 16
after marathon talks in Brussels to find bank transfers blocked.  ‘Not Helpful’  Finance chiefs from the 17-member euro area late yesterday
urged Cyprus to spare small-scale savers, while keeping
unchanged the size of their demand on account holders. While
Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the euro area’s
economy, the fight over the bank tax risks triggering new
turmoil in the financial crisis that began in 2009 in  Greece .  “I hope that what we have seen in Cyprus will not lead to
a spread effect to other countries when it comes to deposit
protection schemes,” Bjerke said. “What has happened in Cyprus
is not helpful, put it that way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  