-- NRC Delays Action on Vent Plan While to Study Options
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/nrc-delays-action-on-vent-plan-while-to-study-options.html
U.S. nuclear regulators delayed
action on a recommendation that utilities install radiation
filters at 31 U.S. reactors, a victory for the industry that
estimated the proposal may cost as much as $20 million per unit.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission yesterday said its staff
should consider other approaches that would block release of
radiation during an accident. The standards, developed in
response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan, must be in
place by March 2017, according to a commission statement.  Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said the agency is seeking
an enhanced ability for nuclear-plant operators to “protect
public health and safety.”  “There will be some sort of filtering solution on these
plants,” Burnell said.  The NRC approved an order requiring the vents to work even
if a plant loses power, as happened to the Fukushima reactors.
NRC staff also recommended utilities be required to install
radiation filters as a further safety improvement.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat and
a critic of the nuclear industry, said the NRC is delaying what
he called an important safety upgrade at about a third of the
nation’s 104 operating reactors.  “The NRC has abdicated its responsibility to ensure public
health and safety in New England and across the country,”
Markey, who is running for Senate, said in a statement.  Exelon Units  The  Nuclear Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry
group, had said adding filters on vents as proposed by the
agency’s staff was among the most expensive upgrades required by
the regulator.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago owns 11 of the 31
reactors.  “The rulemaking process is the proper approach for
consideration of this matter, as it affords all stakeholders the
opportunity to participate,” said Anthony Pietrangelo, the
NEI’s senior vice president and chief nuclear officer.  Pietrangelo in a Jan. 25 letter to NRC Chairman  Allison Macfarlane  said passive and engineered filtered vents are “the
wrong starting point” to improve safety.  Edwin Lyman , senior scientist at the Union of Concerned
Scientists, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said NRC staff
had already made the case the filters were an important safety
enhancement. The NRC’s decision “kicks the can down the road.”  Lengthy Review  “We don’t see any reason for the length of time they give
staff to reach a final decision,” Lyman said in an interview.  Some European countries require installation of filter to
block radiation on vents, Lyman said. Japan announced last year
that filtered vents will be required on its reactors.  The commission is writing rules to bolster safety at U.S.
reactors after a 2011 earthquake and tsunami triggered a triple
meltdown at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, northeast of
Tokyo.  The NRC staff in November recommended that filters be
installed on the venting systems at some aging reactors similar
to those destroyed at Fukushima. The filters are built to
capture radioactive materials before they are released into the
atmosphere during an emergency.  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  of New Orleans,  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  of
Charlotte,  North Carolina , and  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta are among
companies owning units that would need to add the filters.  A requirement for the equipment would benefit filter
suppliers, such as  Areva SA (AREVA)  of Paris and Westinghouse Electric
Co., a unit of Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  