-- Obama Cuts Student-Debt Collector Commissions to Aid Borrowers
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-03-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/obama-cuts-student-debt-collector-commissions-to-aid-borrowers.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration slashed the commissions paid to private
collection companies that chase overdue  student loans , reducing
an incentive to squeeze borrowers.  Previously, the U.S. Education Department paid a commission
as high as 16 percent of the entire loan amount only if
collectors convinced defaulted borrowers to make stiff monthly
payments. Starting this month, the fee dropped as low as 11
percent, no matter the payments’ size, according to a copy of a
new contract obtained under the U.S. Freedom of Information Act.  With $77.4 billion worth of student loans in default, the
federal government turns to an army of private collectors to
pursue borrowers. These companies, which receive about $1
billion annually in commissions, have faced growing complaints
that they insist on high payments, even when borrowers qualify
for leniency,  Bloomberg News  reported in March 2012. Under the
new schedule, collectors will no longer have an incentive to
avoid offering affordable payments tied to borrowers’ incomes.  “It’s a big deal,” said Persis Yu, a staff attorney with
the Boston-based  National Consumer Law Center . “It will make
life easier for borrowers. We’re not setting people up to
fail.”  Making Good  Federal-aid law requires collectors to offer “reasonable
and affordable” payments, so debtors can rehabilitate their
loans, repairing their  credit  and making good on what they owe
taxpayers.  Under Education Department contracts, collection companies
rehabilitate a defaulted loan by getting a borrower to make nine
payments in 10 months.  The law mandates no minimum payment for a borrower to enter
a rehabilitation program, and collection companies may take
borrowers’ finances into account.  Yet, under the old contract, the companies received a much
higher commission if borrowers made a minimum payment of 0.75
percent to 1.25 percent of the loan each month, depending on its
size.  For example, a $20,000 loan would require payments of about
$200 a month for the collection company to get its full
commission. Then, the collector would receive 16 percent of the
loan amount -- or $3,200. If the payment fell below that figure,
the collector got an administrative fee of $150.  That differential provided an incentive for collectors to
insist on the amount triggering the commission and fail to tell
borrowers they could pay less, Yu said. Under the new contract,
borrowers with high debts and low incomes could get back on
track while making payments of as little as $5 a month, while
collectors could still make their commission.  Obama Effort  The new commission schedule is part of an Obama
administration effort to give borrowers a break as student loan
debt surpassed $1 trillion amid skyrocketing tuition costs. As
of last year, 5.7 million student-loan borrowers were in
default, generally meaning they have failed to make payments for
270 days or more.  In 2009, Congress expanded a program that lets students tie
payments to their incomes. Obama has pushed to make the program
more generous.  It’s a sliding scale, based on their debt, salaries and
family obligations. A single borrower with $25,000 in loans and
$20,000 in income would have to pay about $40 a month, according
to a government loan calculator. If circumstances don’t improve,
the loans can be canceled in as few as 20 years.  Flexible Repayment  The Education Department wants to provide “flexible
repayment options” while maintaining “a reasonable balance
between borrower and taxpayer interests,” spokesman Chris
Greene said in an e-mail.  Twenty-two collection companies work directly for the
 Education Department . They include Horsham, Pennsylvania-based
NCO, a unit of Expert Global Solutions Inc., which is majority-
owned by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private-equity arm, and Pioneer
Credit Recovery, owned by  SLM (SLM)  Corp., commonly known as Sallie
Mae, the largest student-loan company.  Most of the same outfits have contracts with state
guarantee agencies that also chase student-loan borrowers on the
government’s behalf. The contract change applies only to
collectors working directly for the federal government.  Former debt collectors told Bloomberg News they worked in a
“boiler-room” environment, where they could earn bonuses of
thousands of dollars a month, restaurant gift cards and even
trips to foreign resorts if they collected enough from
borrowers. In the year ended in September 2011, the department
received 1,406 complaints against the debt collectors it hires,
up 41 percent from the year before.  Taxpayer Money  Debt collection companies said they follow federal laws and
use all available tools to recover money for taxpayers, helping
to make sure future college students have access to financial
aid. The companies helped the Education Department recover $13.1
billion in defaulted loans during the year ended Sept. 30.  Regardless of commission rates, NCO offers “all available
federal programs,” Tim Galloway, senior vice president, said in
a phone interview. The company always treats borrowers “with
dignity and respect,” he said.  Pioneer “works one-on-one” with defaulted student-loan
borrowers, offering government programs “helping them return
the money they borrowed to American taxpayers,” Patricia Nash Christel, a  Sallie Mae  spokesman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net ; 