-- Obama Sees Irish Trade Growth as Ryanair Buys Boeing Jets
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   C a i s o n
-- 2013-03-20T00:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/obama-sees-ireland-trade-growth-as-ryanair-buys-boeing-jets.html
President  Barack Obama  said greater
trade with Ireland, illustrated by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s
agreement to buy 175  Boeing (BA)  Co. jets, will help drive growth in
U.S. jobs.  “This will be a major topic of discussion,” Obama said as
he welcomed Ireland Prime Minister Enda Kenny for a belated St.
Patrick’s Day celebration at the White House.  Boeing and Ryanair earlier today announced the deal for the
737 passenger aircraft worth $15.6 billion at list price as the
Dublin-based airline seeks to add discount flights in markets
vacated by full-service rivals.  Kenny said he’ll brief Obama on “the progress being made
in challenging times” facing the Irish government. As holder of
the European Union presidency, Kenny said the two leaders also
will talk about a proposed free trade agreement between the U.S.
and EU.  Ireland continues to struggle with its debt. International
Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said on a
visit to Ireland earlier this month that the country remains
“swamped” in debt, which totals about 122 percent of gross
domestic product, the fourth highest in the euro region.  Obama said Kenny has provided “great leadership in
difficult times” in Ireland and that the Irish economy is
making progress. The president has been putting his focus on
trade deals to help accelerate the U.S. economy.  Trade Talks  The U.S. and EU aim to complete  trade  talks within two
years on a deal that would expand their economic relationship.
The 27-nation EU says the accord will seek to lower tariffs,
ease regulatory barriers and expand access in investment,
services and public procurement, among other steps.  While trade and investment between the U.S. and the EU was
valued at $4.5 trillion in 2011, the two sides have been at odds
over issues including farm subsidies, food safety, health
protections and regulatory standards.  Obama and first lady Michelle Obama hosted a reception for
Kenny tonight at the White House where the two leaders toasted
what the Irish prime minister called a “very special
relationship” between the U.S. and the Irish people.  “It’s clear just how much America owes to our brothers and
sisters from across the Atlantic, and how many of us -- myself
included -- wouldn’t be here if it were not for the brave souls
who set off for the New World with no earthly idea of what
awaited them on the other side,” Obama said in his remarks.  Glass Bowl  Kenny presented Obama with a glass bowl, crafted in Ireland
and full of Irish shamrocks.  “As a nation, we make joy from sadness. As a country, we
forge success from difficulty. As a republic, we create
ourselves anew,” Kenny said in remarks tonight. “And as we do,
we remember and we honor the old.”  Obama also met separately today with Peter Robinson, leader
of Northern Ireland’s pro-U.K. Democratic Unionist Party, and
his deputy, Martin McGuinness, to discuss progress toward peace
in Northern Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  