-- Hollande Has Unique Chance to Overhaul French Economy, OECD Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-19T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/hollande-has-unique-chance-to-overhaul-french-economy-oecd-says.html
President  Francois Hollande  has a
“unique” opportunity to revamp the  French economy  in the
remaining four years of his term, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said as it cut its growth forecast.  Europe ’s second-largest economy will expand just 0.1
percent this year after failing to grow in 2012, the Paris-based
OECD said in a report on France. That compares with 0.3 percent
growth predicted in November.  Hollande, whose five-year term runs until May 2017, is
struggling to revive an economy ravaged by Europe’s debt crisis
and a policy malaise symbolized by more than three decades of
budget deficits. While lauding a relaxation of labor rules and a
cut in payroll taxes, the OECD said Hollande must not flinch
from further plans to trim spending and social benefits.  “ France  faces serious long-term challenges,” the OECD
said. “The political timetable offers a unique opportunity to
put in place an ambitious reform strategy.”  The organization’s recommendations include changes to
France’s pension and unemployment-benefits systems, both of
which Hollande has promised to do in the coming months. Spending
on pensions amounts for more than 12 percent of gross domestic
product, the second-highest among the 34 OECD members after
 Italy . Spending on health care, amounting for more than 8
percent of GDP, can also be trimmed “without harming quality,”
according to the report.  “The public debate on pensions promised for 2013 gives an
opportunity to promote fresh reforms,” the OECD said. A revamp
of jobless payouts -- such as a “staggered reduction in
 unemployment benefits ” -- “would save costs and promote
employment.”  Unemployment is already at a 13-year high of 10.6 percent
and will probably continue climbing before peaking at 11.2
percent next year, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  