-- Hollande Gets First Ministerial Resignation on Cahuzac Probe
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-19T21:42:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/hollande-gets-first-ministerial-resignation-as-cahuzac-probed.html
President  Francois Hollande 
received a first ministerial resignation as Budget Minister
Jerome Cahuzac departed following an investigation into whether
he had an undeclared Swiss bank account.  Cahuzac, 60, will be replaced by Bernard Cazeneuve, the
French president’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.
Cazeneuve was previously minister of European affairs in the
French government.  At the budget ministry, Cahuzac was responsible for
clamping down on  tax evasion . The former plastic surgeon and
Socialist lawmaker was identified by witnesses as the speaker in
the recording of a telephone conversation referring to the
existence of a Swiss account, the Paris prosecutor’s office said
March 19 in an e-mailed statement.  Hollande, who came to power last May, has raised taxes by
about 27 billion euros ($34.8 billion) and is now trying to cut
spending by 60 billion euros by the end of his mandate to reduce
 France ’s  budget deficit . The need to ask the population for
economic sacrifices at a time when growth has stalled made it
difficult for Cahuzac to stay in his post even though he has yet
to face formal charges.  “It can pose a political problem,” Socialist Senator
Francois Rebsman said on LCI television.  Sinking Popularity  The departure comes as Hollande’s popularity is sinking in
the face of budget cuts and unemployment that has climbed to a
13-year high. Hollande’s approval rating fell in February,
leaving him the most unpopular French leader since 1981, a TNS-
Sofres poll showed. More than two-thirds of the French and 44
percent of those who voted for him in the second and decisive
round of the May election say they’re disappointed with him,
according to a BVA poll in Le Parisien on March 3.  Cahuzac said he resigned out of concern for the smooth
functioning of the French government.  “This changes nothing with regard to my innocence or the
libelous character of the accusations against me and I will
henceforth devote all my energy to prove it,” Cahuzac said in a
statement from his office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  