-- Home Depot to Lowe’s Win as $40,000 Wine Cellars Return
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-19T20:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/home-depot-to-lowe-s-win-as-40-000-wine-cellars-return.html
Claudia Brown, a kitchen and
bathroom designer for  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , is witnessing what she’s
rarely seen in the past six years: customers knocking down walls
again.  “People aren’t hesitant; they’re getting what they want,”
Brown, who works in Greensboro,  North Carolina , said earlier
this month after selling a kitchen project costing more than
$13,000 and a bathroom remodel for $3,700.  Spurred by rising home  prices , homeowners who spent the
worst housing downturn since the Great Depression taking on only
must-do repairs like fixing leaky faucets or minor upgrades like
painting are again starting wish-list projects. Those revamps,
even in the face of still-tight lending conditions, include
additions costing hundreds of thousands of dollars and replacing
laminate countertops with marble that’s twice as expensive.  Spending for U.S.  remodeling  in the 12 months through Sept.
30 may climb 20 percent from a year earlier to $145.5 billion,
according to a forecast by Harvard University’s Joint Center for
Housing Studies.  “When the sky is no longer falling, when prices are
improving, homeowners are willing to invest,” said Scott Mosby,
co-owner of St. Louis-based Mosby Building Arts, an
architectural and remodeling company.  Mosby, 59, is renovating the basement of a St. Louis home
for $230,000, including $40,000 to add a wine cellar. He
estimates he’ll collect an average of $130,000 for major
projects this year, up from about $90,000 in 2010.  Shifting Gears  After years of trimming costs, firing workers and slowing
store openings, Home Depot and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  recently shifted to
preparing for the wave of remodeling. Home Depot acquired a
company that measures flooring installation in houses in May and
another that remodels kitchens and baths in October.  Lowe’s is hiring 9,000 permanent part-time workers this
year as it sells more appliances and bathroom fixtures. Both
retailers have improved online services allowing homeowners to
design projects and communicate with employees as work
progresses.  Homeowners are giving themselves “the psychological
permission to spend it and feel good about it,” Lowe’s Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said on a conference call March
13.  Niblock  told  analysts consumers are experiencing “tight
credit conditions,” impeding the pace at which housing and the
home improvement sector will grow over the next two years. Home
Depot CEO  Frank Blake  likened the housing recovery to a
“gradual thawing process” pressured by credit constraints and
less disposable income for the retailer’s customers.  Credit Standards  A Federal Reserve survey of banks found that 59 percent of
institutions had left basically unchanged credit standards for
approving home-equity lines of credit at the end of 2012. On the
question of their willingness to make consumer installment
loans, 54 percent of banks said their willingness was basically
unchanged, the Fed said in the survey released Feb. 4.  U.S. home prices slumped for almost six years through March
2012, declining by more than a third. In the fourth quarter of
last year, rebounding prices boosted household wealth to the
highest in five years, according to the Fed.  Home Depot’s Brown, 44, says she doesn’t have time for
lunch some days as she fields about 50 queries a week from
homeowners, real-estate agents helping clients dress up homes to
sell and investors flipping real estate. Three out of five
customers who ask Brown for a price quote on a renovation
actually have work done, compared with one in three customers
three years ago.  Shares Gain  The rebound has driven up the retailers’ shares, with
Atlanta-based Home Depot almost tripling since the end of 2008
and Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s advancing 78
percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s 71 percent gained
during that time.  Home Depot fell 0.8 percent to $68.79 at the close in  New
York . Lowe’s slid 1.3 percent to $38.24.  Home Depot may have climbed too much as investors
anticipated more of a housing recovery than has occurred, said
Budd Bugatch, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . The retailer closed at a 47 percent  premium 
to the  S&P 500  on a price-to-earnings basis today, compared with
a 12 percent average premium in the past five years.  “If we do get that recovery, it’s already priced into the
stock,” Bugatch said. He rates Home Depot and Lowe’s market
perform, the equivalent of a hold.  Recovering Market  Home Depot Chief Financial Officer Carol Tome said in a
telephone interview last month that the market still has a way
to recover. An estimated 13.8 million mortgages, about 28
percent of those outstanding in the U.S., had negative equity as
of Dec. 31, according to Seattle-based Zillow Inc., the operator
of the largest real-estate information website.  “When people start to think of their home as an investment
and not an expense, that should be the driver of an improving
discretionary spending environment,” said Tome, who also serves
as deputy chairwoman of the Atlanta Fed.  Bill Smead, whose Seattle-based investment firm owns
180,447 Home Depot shares, sees two waves of consumers spending
to fix up their houses: younger adults making their first
purchases and longtime homeowners like Smead himself.  Smead, 54, and his wife, Becky, are downsizing and selling
their 4,400 square-foot home in Shoreline,  Washington , after
spending more than $110,000 on improvements such as new windows
and a $2,600 kitchen range.  “The housing recovery is shifting into gear,” said Smead,
who oversees $324 million as chief executive officer of Smead
Capital Management.  Marble Countertop  Ross Bolton and Jeannie Hoag just spent $120,000 to remodel
the Greensboro home they’ve owned for 13 years. They added a
living as well as a bathroom with a marble countertop and sink,
replaced windows and upgraded the exterior with siding, stone
and shingles. A year earlier, the married couple remodeled the
kitchen themselves.  “I wouldn’t have done it if I couldn’t have afforded it,”
said Bolton, 52, who sells telephone systems to small
businesses. “My business is steady.”  Jim Kreipe, owner of Square Deal Remodeling Co. in
 Portland ,  Oregon , said that for the first time in five years,
he’s doing a renovation where a bank loaned money based on the
value of the improvements, not just the home’s equity.  “That is a sure sign that from the bank’s point of view
that housing is stabilizing and isn’t going to get any worse,”
Kreipe, 60, said in an interview.  Kreipe, who started his company two decades ago, is
wrapping up a two-story addition to a Portland home for
$200,000, about four times the value of his average project. The
homeowners first approached him about the expansion about three
years ago and proceeded in December.  “There is a growing need, a buildup,” Kreipe said. “It’s
not an all-out assault of work as it was five years ago. But you
can only put off work on your home for so long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  