-- Home Construction Starts in U.S. Probably Climbed in February
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-19T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/home-construction-starts-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-february.html
New  residential construction 
probably increased in February, pointing to more progress in the
housing industry that’s helping power the U.S. expansion,
economists said before a report today.  Builders broke ground on 915,000 houses at an annual rate,
up from an 890,000 pace in January and the second-highest since
mid-2008, according to the  median  estimate of 81 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Building  permits , a proxy for future
construction, may have advanced to an almost five-year high.  Confidence is being restored to the housing market as
property values stabilize, the  employment  outlook brightens and
mortgage rates hover around record lows. An easing of bank
lending conditions would help bring home ownership within reach
of more Americans and stoke bigger gains in  home construction .  “The housing sector looks like it’s really turning,” said
 Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in  New York . “There’s a lot of room for
anything housing related to give the economy a real boost.”  The housing starts figures are due from the Commerce
Department at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 872,000 to 1 million. Building
permits climbed to a 925,000 annual rate, the most since June
2008, from 904,000 in January, according to the survey median.  Pulte, Lennar  Limited inventories and resilient sales are driving orders
at builders such as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  At the same
time, lenders have imposed stricter standards on mortgages, an
artifact of the subprime collapse that pushed the  U.S. economy 
into its last recession, said  Ara Hovnanian , chairman and chief
executive officer of builder  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  in  Red
Bank ,  New Jersey .  “On the whole, we’re still seeing definitely stricter
guidelines,” Hovnanian said on a March 6 earnings call.
“Eventually, the pendulum, which has swung to the
overcorrection mode in terms of difficult qualification because
of what happened with subprime, that pendulum will come back to
the middle and that should add a further boost to the housing
recovery a little later in the cycle.”  Homebuilder shares have outperformed the broader market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has
surged 62.6 percent in the past year, compared with a 10 percent
gain in the  S&P 500 .  Last Year  For all of last year, builders began work on 780,000 homes,
a 28 percent increase from 2011 and the third straight annual
gain. Even with the improvement, housing starts remain short of
the 2.07 million in 2005, a three-decade high reached at the
peak of the boom.  Residential construction has added to economic growth since
the second quarter of 2011. The gains in homebuilding filter
through to other parts of the economy as well -- from appliance
makers such as  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  to retailers including home-
improvement store Lowe’s Cos.  Rising home prices are prompting consumers to spend a bit
more freely, Lowe’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Robert
Niblock  said.  “Consumers feel much better when it comes to discretionary
spending, about spending on their home, if they believe the
value is going up,” Niblock said on a Feb. 25 earnings call.
“I call it the psychological permission to spend it and feel
good about it.”  “The housing metrics are definitely moving in the right
direction,” he said.  Federal Reserve  Monetary policy stimulus from the  Federal Reserve  has
helped drive down mortgage costs and spurred the recovery in
housing. Fed officials wrap up a two-day meeting tomorrow and
they will probably agree to continue record asset purchases
aimed at ensuring the expansion is sustained.  Cheaper borrowing costs are attracting buyers able to
qualify for loans. The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate
purchase loan was 3.63 percent last week, compared with 3.92
percent a year ago, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie
Mac . The 30-year rate reached a record low of 3.31 percent in
November.  Builder sentiment paused in March, a report showed
yesterday. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence  index  dropped by 2 points to 44. Readings below 50
mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  The group’s gauges of the sales outlook and customer
traffic improved, according to the report, while an index of
present single-family home  sales  fell to a five-month low.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  