-- Top Doctors Tell FDA to Limit Caffeine in Energy Drinks
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/top-doctors-tell-fda-to-limit-caffeine-in-energy-drinks.html
Caffeine levels should be reduced
in energy drinks because of health risks, particularly to
children, doctors wrote the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Energy drinks should have no more caffeine than sodas and
companies should be required to list caffeine content on labels,
said the letter, signed by 18 doctors from centers that included
 Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine  and the  University
of Maryland  School of  Public Health . The correspondence was sent
yesterday to FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  Products including  Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) ’s signature
energy drink and Living Essentials LLC’s 5-Hour Energy have been
linked to reports of deaths, increased heart rate and abdominal
pain, though no direct causation has been proven by regulators.
The FDA, which didn’t immediately respond to the letter, said in
November it was investigating whether energy drinks are
dangerous and may need more regulation.  “There is neither sufficient evidence of safety nor a
consensus of scientific opinion to conclude that the high levels
of added caffeine in energy drinks are safe under the conditions
of their intended use,” the doctors wrote.  High levels of caffeine are linked in children and
adolescents to heart complications, seizures and obesity, the
doctors wrote.  Caffeine in energy drinks often ranges from 160 milligrams
to 500 milligrams a serving, the FDA has said. Soda typically
can have as many as 71 milligrams of caffeine per 12 ounces and
be considered safe by the FDA.  Different Standard  Democratic Senators  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , and  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut, urged the FDA in December to convene
an expert panel early this year to discuss the effects of
consumers’ caffeine consumption. Durbin began  pushing  the FDA
almost a year ago to more strictly regulate energy drinks.  Some energy drinks adhere to different standards than soda
because they are considered dietary supplements, not food.  “Available scientific evidence demonstrates a robust
correlation between the caffeine levels in energy drinks and
adverse health and safety consequences, particularly among
children, adolescents, and young adults,” the doctors wrote.  The FDA said in November it’s employing the help of outside
advisers in a review of the caffeinated drinks.  Based on the review, the agency may move to regulate the
products’ use or labeling. The FDA said it will also look into
whether the ingredients in addition to caffeine are safe. The
agency said it hadn’t seen problems with two main additives,
taurine and guarana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  