-- Orocobre’s Lithium Not Dependent on Electric Vehicles
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-19T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/orocobre-s-lithium-not-dependent-on-electric-vehicles.html
Orocobre Ltd. (ORE) , which plans to begin
extracting lithium next year from  Argentina  brine, said rising
demand for battery-powered consumer electronics has cut the
company’s dependence on electric vehicle adoption.  Orocobre Chairman James D. Calaway, who owns a 7.5 percent
 stake  in the Brisbane, Australia-based company, said he no
longer believes battery-powered vehicles are needed to use up
rising lithium production. That’s because sales of  lithium-ion
batteries  for consumer electronics such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and
power tools have increased more than expected, he said.  “I don’t think our business has any dependency on the
automobile sector at all,” Calaway, 55, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Houston bureau today. “When we first started
investing here, I thought you needed it. I don’t think so
anymore because the electronic side is so robust.”  Orocobre will begin producing lithium in the second quarter
of 2014 at its first project, Salar de Olaroz, atop salt flats
in Argentina’s Jujuy province. Minority investors in the $229
million project, with capacity to produce 17,500 tons of  lithium
carbonate  a year, include  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , an affiliate of
Toyota Motor Corp., Calaway said.  Orocobre rose 1.4 percent to C$1.45 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have dropped 14 percent this year.  Lithium Extraction  Lithium extraction will cost Orocobre less than $2,000 a
ton, which is $1,500 to $2,000 cheaper than production from
competing rock mines, Calaway said. That makes him “highly
confident” that any oversupply will cause other projects to
lose money and shut, keeping Orocobre profitable.  “In difficult market conditions, we will be making a good
margin,” Calaway said. “In good times, we will make a
fortune.”  Higher electric vehicle sales would help to tighten
supplies and boost margins later in the decade, although that’s
not required for Orocobre and others using brine extraction, he
said.  “You do not need the auto sector to come on for the low-
cost brine producers to have a great business going forward,”
Calaway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  