-- Mortgage REIT Annaly Seeks to Shift Management to New Firm
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-03-19T18:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/mortgage-reit-annaly-seeks-to-shift-management-to-new-company.html
Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the
largest real-estate investment trust that buys mortgage debt, is
proposing that it be managed by a separate firm that would
employ its current executives.  The firm’s  board  is asking shareholders to approve at its
annual meeting on May 23 a shift in which investing would be
overseen by a new company called Annaly Management Co. owned by
its management, according to a regulatory filing yesterday with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The move would leave Annaly, which ended 2012 with $133.5
billion of  assets , with a management structure similar to rivals
including  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) ,  Invesco Mortgage
Capital Inc. (IVR)  and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO)   While there would be an “immediate financial benefit” for
Annaly, the motivation for the change was probably that it means
the pay of individual executives will no longer be disclosed,
according to Steven DeLaney, an analyst in Atlanta at JMP
Securities LLC.  Bloomberg News  reported last year that the
company’s then-chief executive officer made $35 million in 2011,
dwarfing the CEOs of the six largest U.S. banks.  “While such figures would cause little reaction if
attributed to a hedge fund manager, they can be a source of
comment and consternation when earned by an officer of a
publicly-held financial services company in this post financial
crisis environment,” DeLaney wrote today in a report.  Jay Diamond , a spokesman for New York-based Annaly, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message seeking comment on the
proposed change.  Base Fee  Annaly’s management company would be paid a base fee
totaling 1.05 percent of stockholders’ equity under the board’s
proposal, the firm said in the filing. The structure would have
saved $48 million in expenses last year, Annaly said.  “During the past several years, a number of changes have
occurred in our business and in the market that the independent
members of our board of directors believe makes it desirable for
us to externalize our management functions,” the firm said.  Current Chairman and CEO Wellington Denahan was paid $25.8
million last year, compared with targeted compensation of $39.1
million, according to the filing. The firm additionally paid
$29.5 million to the estate of Michael A.J. Farrell, its former
head who died in October at 61 years old after being diagnosed
with cancer. The reported 2011 compensation of both was $35
million.  ‘Shareholder-Friendly’  While external management structures for  mortgage REITs 
tend to bring conflicts of interest, the version proposed by
Annaly is as “shareholder-friendly as they come,” JMP’s
DeLaney said today in a telephone interview. The management
firm’s executives will be required to own Annaly stock, the
entity won’t oversee other money and Annaly’s shareholders would
benefit from any sale of the manager, he said.  While the proposed management-fee percentage is lower than
peers, it may be more difficult to cut the rate under the new
management structure as Annaly’s assets grow, instead of slowing
increases in executive pay, he said.  Annaly shares fell 1 percent to $15.55 as of 1:31 p.m. in
New York. The stock  returned  10.4 percent over the 12 months
through yesterday assuming reinvested dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  