-- Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art Stays Independent
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/los-angeles-museum-of-contemporary-art-to-remain-independent.html
The Museum of Contemporary Art in
 Los Angeles  abandoned efforts to merge with another institution
and will instead look to increase its endowment.  “The board is in agreement that the best future for MOCA
would be as an independent institution,” the museum said in a
statement yesterday. “The board understands that this will
require a significant increase in MOCA’s endowment to ensure its
strong financial standing.”  The museum, founded in 1979, has experienced declining
contributions and the departure of a several high-profile board
members in recent years. The institution, with some 6,700 pieces
of art, received merger proposals from the Los Angeles County
Museum of Art and the University of  Southern California , as well
as an offer to collaborate on programs from the National Gallery
of Art in Washington.  The museum held out the possibility of embracing some other
arrangement, saying the board was “exploring all strategic
options, to honor the best interest of the institution and the
artistic community we serve.”  A funding accord with billionaire  Eli Broad , a MOCA co-
founder, bars a merger with another local institution.
Meanwhile, he’s building his own museum across the street from
MOCA’s downtown headquarters.  LACMA proposed a merger last month, while the  University of
Southern California  has expressed interest in a partnership.  ``Anything that will strengthen MOCA and maintain its
commitment to contemporary art and to  downtown Los Angeles  is
good for the art world and good for this city,'' the county
museum said in a statement.  Contributions and grants to MOCA fell 22 percent to $14.6
million in the year ended June 30, 2011, the latest publicly
available data. Four prominent contemporary artists quit the
museum’s board last year, protesting the management of director
Jeffrey Deitch, a former  New York  gallery owner who joined the
museum in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  