-- Hostess Judge Approves Asset Sales of Over $800 Million
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-19T17:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/hostess-judge-approves-asset-sales-of-over-800-million.html
Snack-maker Hostess Brands Inc. won
approval of asset sales totaling more than $800 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains ,  New
York , today approved sales to  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) ,  Grupo Bimbo
SAB (BIMBOA) ,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. 
for most of Hostess’s cake and bread brands.  Hostess attorney Lisa Laukitis told Drain the sales were in
the best interests of the company and creditors, and there is
“sound justification” for the deals, with “the highest and
best offers” from “good-faith purchasers.”  Before the sales were approved, lawyers for buyers
expressed concern about possible liability after they acquire
the properties. Drain suggested “wordsmithing” the sale
agreements slightly to protect the buyers.  “If you don’t, I will put it in,” Drain said.  Hostess was given extra time by Drain to file a bankruptcy
plan after arguing it still has significant assets to sell that
may yield more than $100 million to help pay creditors. Hilco
Trading LLC was hired last year with court permission to sell
real estate, leases, machinery, equipment and intellectual
property not part of going-concern sales.  The asset sales will be supplemented by the Hilco proceeds,
which might bring the total to more than $900 million, Heather Lennox, a lawyer for Hostess, told the court.  CEO’s Statement  “We embarked on the sales process with one overarching
goal -- to maximize value for all of the company’s stakeholders
-- and I am pleased to report that we have been successful,”
Gregory Rayburn, chief executive officer of Irving, Texas-based-
Hostess, said in an e-mailed statement. “I’d like to thank all
of the employees and advisers who supported the process and
helped preserve the value of some of the most beloved brands in
the U.S.”  A joint offer from Apollo and Metropoulos was the only
qualified bid received by the deadline for the assets they
bought. The companies offered as much as $410 million for the
Hostess snack-cake business, which includes Twinkies, CupCakes,
Ding Dongs and Ho Hos, and other assets including five bakeries
and equipment.  Flowers, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , will pay
$360 million for Hostess’s Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita
and Nature’s Pride brands, 20 bread plants, 38 depots and other
assets.  Flowers, established in 1919, produces and markets packaged
baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The company’s
top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Beefsteak Bidding  Grupo Bimbo won an auction to buy the Beefsteak bread
brand, beating an initial bid by Flowers with a $31.9 million
offer.  McKee Good Corp., maker of Little Debbie snacks, made the
only qualified bid for Drake’s. McKee will pay $ 27.5 million
for Drake’s products including Devil Dogs, Ring Dings, Yodels,
Yankee Doodles, Sunny Doodles, Funny Bones and Drake’s Coffee
Cake.  McKee, based in Collegedale,  Tennessee , will buy the brands
and equipment, according to court papers.  United States Bakery won a March 15 auction with a bid of
$30.9 million for the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and
Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus
certain equipment.  An April 9 hearing is scheduled to approve the sale of
those assets.  Bakers’ Strike  Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating its brands,
recipes, plants and other assets after failing to reach an
agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help the
company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  “Today, the court brought further assurance that” several
Hostess “iconic brands will return to the marketplace,” David Durkee, International President of the Bakery, Confectionery,
Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  “We share the enthusiasm, energy and passions exhibited by
new ownership, and believe our highly motivated and skilled
workforce will serve as indispensable partners in the seamless
re-opening of factories,” Durkee said.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-bk-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 