-- House Ethics Panel Probes Robert Andrews and Don Young
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-19T21:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/house-ethics-panel-opens-probes-of-robert-andrews-and-don-young.html
The House Ethics Committee opened
investigations to determine whether two congressmen, Republican
Don Young of  Alaska  and Democrat Robert Andrews of  New Jersey ,
improperly spent campaign funds for personal use.  In separate statements, the panel said today it appointed
subcommittees to determine whether the two lawmakers violated
the House’s Code of Official Conduct.  The subcommittees will also determine whether Young and
Andrews, co-chairman of the House Democratic Steering and Policy
Committee, made false statements to federal officials regarding
the expenditures, said the statements by the Ethics Committee’s
chairman, Texas Republican Mike Conaway, and its top Democratic
member, Linda Sanchez of  California .  The subcommittee investigating Young, 79, will review
allegations that he or others improperly sought and accepted
gifts and failed to report them on annual financial disclosure
reports. Representative Patrick Meehan, a Pennsylvania
Republican and a former U.S. attorney in Philadelphia, will lead
the investigation of Young.  “Congressman Young has cooperated with the committee and
will continue to do so,”  Mike Anderson , a spokesman for Young,
said in an e-mail.  Representative Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican and
a former state and federal prosecutor, will lead the
subcommittee investigating allegations that Andrews, 55,
misspent money from his campaign committee and his political
action committee for personal purposes, the ethics panel said.  Family Trips  Allegations that Andrews used campaign funds to pay for a
family trip in 2011 to  Scotland  and other travels to  Los Angeles 
that year were referred to the ethics panel last year by the
Office of Congressional Ethics, an independent watchdog set up
by the House to investigate complaints about official
misconduct.  In a statement, Andrews said the panel’s investigation
“will establish and confirm that I have always followed all the
rules and met all the standards of the House.” He also said he
“will eagerly provide any and all information requested” by
the panel.  Young first won his seat in 1973, Andrews was first elected
in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  