-- Today’s Forecast: Sunny With a Chance of a Housing Bubble
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-03-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/toward-a-national-weather-forecaster-for-finance.html
At the time of World War I, many
meteorologists had all but given up on the idea of accurate and
scientific weather forecasting. Then a physicist and ambulance
driver by the name of Lewis Richardson, in spare moments between
terrifying bouts rescuing the injured, undertook a momentous
project.  His aim was to calculate, by simulating the actual physics,
the development of the weather over a local zone of  Europe  over
eight hours. He failed, but only because of a small arithmetical
error. His basic idea was correct, and weather forecasting
centers around the globe now use variations of the technique
with impressive predictive success.  In Reading,  England , for example, the  European Centre for
Medium-Range Weather Forecasts  runs two supercomputers
simulating a virtual atmosphere. The model forecasts the wind,
the temperature, and the humidity at more than 20 million points
from the earth’s surface up to a height of about 40 miles. In
the U.S., the  National Centers for Environmental Prediction  does
much the same thing.  The simulations lie behind the daily and weekly weather
forecasts reported on the nightly news, as well as more speciﬁc
prediction services for farmers, the airline and shipping
industries, the military, and anyone else whose projects depend
seriously on the weather. When an  oil company  charts a path for
a tanker journey of several weeks, it saves tens of thousands of
dollars by routing away from strong winds and storms.  Driving Forces  Forces much like those that determine the weather also
drive the most important and disruptive events in economics and
finance -- bubbles, debt crises, bank runs, even waves of
corporate corruption. With ideas and techniques from other parts
of science, it’s possible to explore market feedbacks and
instabilities in detail never before possible.  In the not-too-distant future, it’s easy to imagine a U.S.
or European Center for Financial Forecasting. Thousands of
researchers would oversee massive simulations probing the
developing network of interactions among the world’s largest
ﬁnancial players, following the vast web of loans, ownership
stakes and other legal claims that link banks, governments,
 hedge funds , insurance companies and ratings companies.  The computers would test scenarios and calculate hundreds
of indicators of systemic leverage, the density of
interconnections, or the concentration of risk at single
institutions. Experts would probe models of the financial
system, looking for weak points and testing resilience, much as
engineers now do with models of the electrical grid or other
complex systems.  What’s currently missing, aside from the willingness of the
economics profession, is data. To ensure the safety and
stability of a nuclear reactor, engineers need access to every
detail of its operations and the ability to examine every
component and its links to others. The same should be true of
any agency trying to support the stability of the financial
markets.  Authorities have historically collected financial data on
an institution by institution basis, being less concerned by the
links between them. Such a piecemeal approach obviously makes it
impossible to say anything about interconnections and the
feedbacks they create.  The crisis has spurred moves to collect much greater
amounts of data on ﬁnancial networks. In the U.S., for example,
the Dodd-Frank Act created the new  Office of Financial Research 
to bring better financial data to policy makers. Private hedge
funds will soon be obliged to report information on their funds’
exposure to different asset classes, their use of leverage, and
their vulnerability to liquidity shortages.  Data Revolution  A real data revolution might go much further. Modern sensor
systems -- as computerized components find their way into almost
every object we use and own -- will probably gather as much data
in the next 10 years as we have gathered in all of human
history. One can only imagine how all these data might feed into
forecasting models. If excessive optimism or pessimism drive
many market crises, these collective excursions from reality
almost certainly show up in the physiology of the people
involved. Think of a patch worn by volunteers that gathers
physiological information and uploads it directly to some
database.  Of course, none of the forecasts based on such data will
meet the ideal of perfect knowledge of the future. Weather
forecasters don’t aim for this ideal, as they always have
incomplete data on the atmosphere and can only work with
approximate equations. They make a strength of this uncertainty
by running thousands of simulations, changing the data randomly
to reflect their ignorance and so generating thousands of
possible forecasts about the future. The result is a cloud or
“ensemble” of guesses about where the future will lie.  Ensemble forecasting in finance and economics might work
similarly, using slightly different possibilities for how people
and companies behave, also enabling those elements to have their
own independent intelligence to try things and learn tricks the
modeler may never see. The result would be not a single
prediction but a swarm of possibilities.  In pondering this future, delicate issues loom into view.
As we develop large computational systems packed with masses of
data monitoring the financial and economic system and projecting
its likely future, this knowledge becomes extremely valuable. It
should be treated as a public good, akin to clean air and water.  Dealing with such questions is the price we pay for moving
beyond the myth of a perfect self-regulating equilibrium -- the
paradigm that has dominated economic thinking for the past
several decades and that has done such a poor job of predicting
the economic weather.  We must not replace it with a new fantasy, fooling
ourselves into thinking we can build a complete theory of
markets once we appreciate their similarities to other physical
processes. We can’t eliminate fragility, only reduce it, and
then only with persistent efforts to highlight our ignorance,
our biases, our preconceptions about what can and can’t happen.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist, is the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You.” This is the last in a
series of three excerpts from his new book, “Forecast: What
Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences Can Teach Us About
Economics,” to be published March 26 by Bloomsbury. The opinions
expressed are his own. Read parts  one  and  two .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 