-- Pakistan Arrests Suspect in 2002 Murder of Daniel Pearl
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-03-19T15:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/pakistan-said-to-arrest-suspect-in-2002-murder-of-daniel-pearl.html
Pakistani security forces have
arrested a suspect in the 2002 murder of U.S. journalist Daniel Pearl in the port city of Karachi, according to Pakistani police
and military officials.  Qari Abdul Hayee, a former leader of the Sunni sectarian
group Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, or LeJ, was aware of the plan to kidnap
Pearl, the Wall Street Journal’s South Asia bureau chief, who
was later decapitated, according to a military official with
knowledge of the detention, who asked not to be named because he
isn’t authorized to comment on the case.  Imran Shaukat, the spokesman for police in Sindh province,
confirmed Hayee’s arrest during a press briefing in Karachi.  Hayee was LeJ head in Sindh province when Pearl was killed
and was wanted for his alleged involvement in deadly attacks on
the country’s Shiite minority, the military official said. A
video of Pearl’s decapitation was sent to the U.S. consulate in
Karachi.  The U.S. State Department in 2003 listed LeJ as a terrorist
group, saying it had links to al-Qaeda and was involved in
Pearl’s murder.  Pakistan ’s former Interior Minister Rehman Malik said last
month that the group was responsible for 80 percent of terrorist
activity in the country after a surge in attacks on Shiites, Geo
television reported.  Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, mastermind of the Sept. 11 terror
attacks who is imprisoned at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, carried out
the killing. Mohammed, identified by the 9/11 Commission report
as “principal architect” of the 2001 terrorist strikes, told a
March 2007 U.S. military  hearing  at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that
he had personally slit Pearl’s throat and beheaded him.  U.K.-born Islamic militant Ahmed Omar Sheikh was sentenced
to death in July 2002 for murdering the journalist and being the
lead planner in his capture. He’s still in prison.  Three of his collaborators received life sentences for
assisting in the kidnapping and ransom requests.  For Related News and Information:
Al-Qaeda Saw Pearl Kidnap as ‘Opportunity,’ Study Says  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  