-- Palm Oil Prices Near Bottom as Demand Increases, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-19T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/palm-oil-prices-near-bottom-as-demand-increases-oil-world-says.html
Palm oil  prices may be near a
bottom as demand increases in part as supplies of soybean oil
tighten, Oil World said.  Exports from Malaysia, the second-largest producer, rose by
700,000 metric tons in January and February, compared with the
same time a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said in
an e-mailed report today. The country’s shipments in the first
half of March were 5 percent higher than the previous month at
679,000 tons, it said, citing consultant SGS. Exports from top
producer  Indonesia  “exceeded expectations” in December,
leaving shipments for 2012 at a record 19.1 million tons.  Palm oil has dropped about 29 percent in the past year on
the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange as global stockpiles climbed
to a record. The price fell to a two-month low on March 14.
Exports of  soybean oil , which like palm oil can be used in
cooking and biofuel, from the world’s top three shippers slumped
23 percent in February from a year earlier, Oil World said.
Shipping delays have slowed supplies from South America, and
drought reduced the U.S. soybean crop last year.  “Following the recent weakness, we expect that palm oil
prices are close to their lows,” Oil World said. “Prices
should find support in coming weeks from the prospective sharp
decline in U.S. soybean crushings and soya oil output and
stocks.”  Palm oil production in Malaysia was below expectations in
February at 1.3 million tons, 19 percent less than in January
while still 9 percent more than February 2012, Oil World said.  Export Growth  In Central America and South America, growth in palm oil
exports may slow as more supplies are used for domestic biofuel
production to fulfill government targets, Oil World said.
Shipments from  Costa Rica ,  Guatemala , Honduras,  Colombia  and
 Ecuador  may rise 3.7 percent in 2013 to 1.25 million tons,
compared with a 20 percent jump a year earlier.  Production in those five countries may climb 6.5 percent to
2.64 million tons. While some areas of Colombia and Ecuador are
at risk of bud-rot disease, an expansion in acreage may make up
for crop losses, Oil World said.  In a separate forecast, Oil World estimated that global
peanut exports may total about 2 million tons in the 2012-13
season that began Oct. 1, down from a record 2.2 million a year
earlier, because of declining shipments from  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  