-- Patients’ Generic-Drug Lawsuits Questioned by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-19T19:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/patients-generic-drug-lawsuits-questioned-by-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court grappled
with the limits on patients’ lawsuits against drugmakers,
questioning a $21 million award to a woman who suffered
debilitating injuries after taking a painkiller.  The justices, hearing arguments today in a case involving a
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. unit, debated whether to reinforce a
two-year-old ruling that shielded generic-drug makers from
claims that they failed to warn about possibly dangerous side
effects.  The hour-long session in  Washington  pointed in different
directions, at times suggesting a narrow ruling whose
implications might vary by state. At other times, the justices
hinted at a sweeping decision that would also affect brand-name
drugmakers and potentially redefine the Food and Drug
Administration’s mission when it clears drugs for sale.  “You’re basically saying the minute that the FDA gives you
permission to sell, it’s a right to sell,” Justice Sonia Sotomayor told a lawyer for the Justice Department, which is
backing the Takeda unit in the case. “And it can’t be altered
by any state police power.”  Drug companies say a federal appeals court blasted a hole
in the 2011 ruling by upholding the $21 million award. The lower
court said the patient, Karen L. Bartlett, was pressing a
different legal theory, focusing on the danger of the drug
itself rather than the adequacy of the warning.  Failure to Warn  The generic-drug industry is supporting Takeda’s Mutual
Pharmaceutical unit in the case. Units of  Ranbaxy Laboratories
Ltd. (RBXY) ,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  are
among the companies urging the court to throw out the award to
Bartlett.  In the 2011 Supreme Court case, generic-drug companies
successfully argued that failure-to-warn suits are “pre-
empted” because federal law requires them to copy the packaging
inserts used by brand-name manufacturers. The majority said it
would be impossible for drug companies to comply with both
federal labeling requirements and state-imposed duties to supply
even stronger warnings.  The high court had previously ruled that brand-name
companies had to defend against failure-to-warn suits.  Different Claims  In Bartlett’s case, the 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said so-called design defect claims were different. Mutual
“certainly can choose not to make the drug at all,” the
appeals court said.  Mutual’s lawyer, Jay Lefkowitz, argued that withdrawal of
the product wasn’t a realistic option. “This is a classic case
of impossibility pre-emption,” he said.  He drew skepticism from Sotomayor and Justices Elena Kagan
and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Kagan said the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act didn’t give drugmakers reason to expect a shield
from traditional product-liability suits under state law.  “What we have in the FDCA is a statute that authorizes,
that says, ‘You can sell this,’” she said. “But it doesn’t say
you must sell it, and it doesn’t give you a right to sell it.”  Chief Justice John Roberts questioned the contention that
Mutual couldn’t comply with both state and federal law.  The state is saying “if you do this, you’re going to have
to pay for the damage,” he said. “It’s not a different duty.”  Under questioning from Kagan, Lefkowitz said a ruling in
his client’s favor would probably also shield brand-name
drugmakers from similar suits.  Skin Loss  Bartlett suffered what the appeals court called “truly
horrific” injuries after taking sulindac for shoulder pain. The
anti-inflammatory medicine triggered an allergic reaction that
caused her to lose more than 60 percent of her outer skin layer.  Bartlett spent months in a medically induced coma, was
tube-fed for a year and endured 12 eye surgeries. She is almost
blind and can’t eat normally because of esophageal burns.  Bartlett’s lawyer, David Frederick, spent the bulk of his
time at the lectern discussing the finer points of New Hampshire
law and arguing the jury award didn’t depend on a conclusion
about the adequacy of the warning label. He said sulindac
offered no benefits that other pain relievers couldn’t have
provided, without the potential for catastrophic side effects.  “No warning would have made any difference to lessening
the risk,” Frederick argued.  Second Guessing  Roberts and Justice Antonin Scalia both questioned whether
juries should be in the position of second-guessing the FDA.  The jury “said the risks outweigh the benefits, period, so
you should not market this at all,” Roberts said. “And it does
seem inconsistent with the federal regime.”  Ginsburg asked Frederick to respond to Mutual’s argument
that a $21 million award would represent three times the
company’s U.S. sulindac sales in 2005.  “If they are only making $7 million, they ought to
withdraw from the market because their product causes such
horrific injuries, it ought not to be sold,” Frederick
responded.  The court will rule by June in the case, Mutual
Pharmaceutical Co. v. Bartlett, 12-142.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  