-- Perry Pressured by Texas Businesses Over Medicaid Refusal
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/perry-pressured-by-texas-businesses-over-medicaid-refusal.html
Chambers of commerce representing
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  are
challenging Texas Governor Rick Perry and lawmakers to expand
health care for the poor in the state with the highest
percentage of uninsured people.  The chambers of five cities are sending lobbyists to press
Republican leaders to increase Medicaid coverage under President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Businesses are often allied with Perry, a failed contender
for last year’s Republican presidential nomination. The
chambers, however, argue Texas shouldn’t pass up $100 billion
over the next decade to cover 1.5 million adults. Obama’s plan
would pay all costs until 2016, then the state’s share would
gradually increase to 10 percent in 2020. Perry says that’s too
expensive.  “This may be the only time that we have taken an actual
formal position that is opposite that of the governor,” said
Richard Dayoub, chief executive officer of the El Paso Chamber
of Commerce. “I don’t know of any issue that has created so
much concern across the state and has amassed so much support
across party lines and throughout the business sector.”  Chambers supporting expansion in Dallas,  San Antonio ,  Fort
Worth  and Arlington include members ranging from publicly traded
companies to small shoe stores and family restaurants, many of
them strained by health costs.  ‘Socialized Medicine’  Employer-provided insurance costs an additional $1,800 a
year per worker thanks to uncompensated hospital care, according
to the Center for American Progress, a Washington research group
started by a former aide to President  Bill Clinton .  Still, while eight Republican governors have accepted the
Medicaid deal since November, Texas opposition remains intense.  U.S. Senator  Ted Cruz ’s first bill filed in Congress called
for repealing every word of the health overhaul, while Perry
told Republican activists in Washington on March 14 that it is
“one large, incremental step toward single-payer, socialized
medicine.”  Lucy Nashed, a Perry spokeswoman, said last week that
“this is not free money. It’s either being borrowed from China
or taken out of taxpayers’ pockets.”  Understanding Economics  About 29 percent of Texas citizens lack insurance,
according to a March 8 poll by Gallup Inc. The state ranked 40th
in health last year because 30 percent of residents are obese
and one of every four children lives in poverty, according to
United Health Foundation, affiliated with  UnitedHealth Group
Inc. (UNH)   Hospitals have urged expansion because it will reduce
expensive and ineffective emergency-room visits, said Stephen Mansfield, chief executive of Methodist Health System in Dallas
and next year’s chairman of the 2,100-member Dallas Regional
Chamber.  “The eight other Republican governors were just as opposed
to this initially as  Rick Perry ,” said Mansfield, who met with
him in February. “They came to understand the economics.”  Chamber lobbyists from Dallas, Fort Worth and San Antonio
have discussed Medicaid with legislators during the current
session in Austin, officials said. Dayoub of the El Paso chamber
spoke with Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst and House Speaker
Joe Straus, both Republicans, and about 35 legislators of both
parties.  Flagging Feds  Business groups “are looking short term,” said Republican
Senator David Duell, a Greenville physician who met with chamber
representatives. He said he doubted the Obama administration’s
commitment “with the long-term viability of the federal
government in question.”  Such opposition is “idiocy,” said Margaret Jordan, a
former Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas director who is president
of Dallas Medical Resources, a consortium of hospital executives
and businesspeople headed by billionaire oilman Ray Hunt.
“Medicaid expansion is a win-win for everybody.”  Refusing to expand Medicaid could cost Texas employers as
much as $448 million in fines because the 2010 law penalizes
some companies when workers can’t obtain affordable coverage,
Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. said in a March 13 report.  Perry and other opponents will compromise because of
pressure from hospitals and businesses, Trevor Fetter, chief
executive officer of Dallas-based  Tenet Healthcare Inc. (THC) , said in
an interview Feb. 27. Tenet is the third-largest U.S. hospital
firm.  “There isn’t a scenario I can envision that is worse than
the status quo in Texas,” Fetter said.  Staying Mum  Nonetheless, chambers of commerce in Austin and Houston,
home to the nation’s largest medical complex, haven’t taken
positions.  Chief executives of six of Texas’s best-known companies --
 AMR Inc. (AAMRQ) ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Exxon Mobil , Kimberly-Clark and
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  -- declined through publicists to discuss
expansion even though chambers some of the firms belong to have
taken a stand.  Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson, an ex officio member of the
Dallas chamber, hasn’t taken a position, spokesman  Alan Jeffers 
said. AT&T Chief Financial Officer John Stephens, a Dallas
chamber director, had no comment, spokesman  Brad Burns  said.  High Plains  The influence of business on Texas Republicans is modest
compared with that of evangelicals and Tea Party-affiliated
groups, said  Mark Jones , who teaches politics at Houston’s  Rice
University .  “The Republican base views Obamacare as a matter of
principle, while the monied interests view it as a dollars and
cents issue,” Jones said.  The tension is evident 330 miles (531 kilometers) west of
Dallas in Lubbock, a wind-swept city of 230,000 that is the
hometown of 1950s rock ’n’ roll pioneer Buddy Holly and Texas
Tech University. Medicaid divides the chamber of commerce, which
favors expansion, and Republican Senator  Robert Duncan , a lawyer
who has served in the legislature since 1989.  After officials at the city’s UMC Health System explained
how Medicaid expansion could cushion cost increases, chamber
directors unanimously approved a resolution, said Chairman
Carlos Morales.  “It’s a lot of money we’d be missing out on,” said
Morales, who is executive vice president of Caprock Home Health
Services Inc., a company that employs 2,200 in 12 Texas offices.  Doubting Economists  Duncan, however, says Texas can’t afford the deal because
Medicaid crowds out spending for education, parks and other
priorities.  “It’s not a free lunch,” Duncan said. He said he was
unconvinced by studies by former deputy State Comptroller Billy Hamilton and Waco economist Ray Perryman suggesting expansion
would boost the state’s economy by increasing business activity
and productivity.  Freetail Brewing Co., a San Antonio pub that employs 31
people, pays half the premiums for employees who work more than
30 hours a week, owner Scott Metzger said. Costs have risen by
10 percent or more during each of the past four years, he said.  “I’m eager and happy to offer insurance and wish I could
offer it in a more expansive way,” he said. “I absolutely
believe people ought to have that security.”  Bee Moorhead, executive director of Texas Impact, an Austin
interfaith group, said opponents are stubborn in the face of
facts.  “The numbers are as crystal clear as they are ever going
to get,” she said. “You’ve got the business community, the
urban counties, the hospitals and the doctors saying, ‘Oh, for
God’s sake give us the money.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  