-- Philippine Stocks Drop Most in Asia on Valuations: Manila Mover
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-03-19T03:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/philippine-stocks-drop-most-in-asia-on-valuations-manila-mover.html
Philippine stocks fell for a
seventh day, sending the benchmark index towards its longest
losing streak since November 2011.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  sank 1.6 percent to
6,430.90 at 10:45 a.m. in Manila, the biggest loss among Asian
markets. Philippine National Bank slid 2.9 percent after the
company reported a drop in net income last year. Bloomberry
Resorts Corp. dropped to the lowest level in six weeks.  Shares in the  Philippine stock index  are valued at 18.6
times projected 12-month earnings. The multiple was at 19.5 on
March 11, the highest level dating back to at least 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index trades at 10.5 times.  “The drop in Philippine equities is exaggerated by
valuations that continue to be be elevated,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. “Investors
are waiting for reasonable levels to come in which should be
between 6,000 and 6,200. There is no new fundamental story
domestically and the global risk has changed with the
development in Cyprus.”  The benchmark measure has fallen 5.6 percent during its
seven-day slide, paring this year’s gains to 11 percent. The
shares have risen this year on expectations the nation will win
an investment-grade sovereign rating, interest rates will stay
low and economic growth will accelerate.  Euro-area finance ministers told Cyprus to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) from bank depositors to unlock
emergency loans, maintaining the revenue target while suggesting
sparing small-scale savers.  “Foreigners aren’t around because of the risk scenario
triggered by the situation in Cyprus while locals are taking
money away in anticipation of the shortened trading next week,”
said Rico Gomez, who helps manage $2.8 billion at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  