-- DeMark Sees Shanghai Index Resuming Jump: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-19T21:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/phone-stocks-fall-as-suntech-tops-slump-china-overnight.html
The Shanghai Composite Index will
rebound this week to resume a rally from a December low that
will leave it 48 percent higher within the next six months,
according Tom DeMark, the founder of Market Studies LLC.  We “are identifying a low-risk entry zone just beneath
today’s low of the Shanghai Composite which should be a bottom
prior to the resumption of the advance,” DeMark, who correctly
predicted a retreat in the Chinese domestic stock gauge last
month, said by e-mail yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite, which closed at 2,257.43 yesterday,
will resume the  rally  once it falls below 2,232 today or
tomorrow, DeMark said. The  Paradise Valley , Arizona-based
creator of indicators to show turning points in securities said
Feb. 6 that the measure would decline about 8 percent to within
a range of 2,230 to 2,250 before rebounding. The index was down
8 percent from when he made the call to the March 18 close of
2,240.02.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 0.8 percent to a four-month low
of 90.40 in  New York  yesterday, as  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  led a
retreat among phone operators. Solar panel maker Suntech Power
Holdings Co. extended declines to a second day after defaulting
on a bond payment.  China Mobile, the world’s largest phone company by users,
said last week that it would boost  capital spending  by 49
percent this year. The Hong Kong-based company’s American
depositary receipts sank 0.9 percent to $52.20, the lowest level
since June yesterday.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA)  slipped the most in a
month, declining 2.3 percent to $50.33 in New York.  ‘Adding Pressure’  “People in general have concerns about the carriers’
increasing investments this year on their third-generation or
fourth-generation networks,” Jun Zhang, an analyst at Wedge
Partners Corp., said by phone from  San Jose , California.
“Internet companies are adding pressure on operators.”  The cost of building a trial 4G network will be shifted
from China Mobile’s state-owned parent, China Mobile
Communications Corp., to the listed company, boosting capital
spending to 190.2 billion  yuan  ($30.6 billion) this year, from
127.4 billion yuan last year, it said March 14.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  sank 1.9 percent to $13.44 in
U.S. trading, the lowest close since July. ADRs of the Hong
Kong-based company, each representing 10 underlying shares,
traded 0.1 percent below its  Hong Kong  stock, from a 1.3 percent
premium March 18.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 1.2 percent to $36.34 in
New York, the lowest close since Nov. 20. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  slipped 0.2 percent to 1,548.34.  48 Percent  DeMark, who has spent more than 40 years developing market
indicators, said Dec. 4 that the Shanghai Composite would climb
as much as 48 percent within nine months. That advance will be
achieved before September, he said by e-mail yesterday. The
index, which added 0.8 percent yesterday, has jumped 14 percent
from the Dec. 4 close.  DeMark is chief executive officer of Market Studies, which
makes money by charging traders for access to its indicators.
The company also sells subscriptions to the indicators on the
Bloomberg Professional service for $500 a month. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of  Bloomberg News , takes a percentage. DeMark has a
similar arrangement with Thomson Reuters Corp. DeMark won’t say
how many subscribers he has.  Suntech, the world’s largest maker of panels, tumbled 8.6
percent to 59 cents in New York yesterday, a record low. The
company, based in Wuxi, China, said March 18 that it received a
notice of default from the trustee administering the convertible
bonds, which matured March 15.  Abolish Subsidies  The fact Suntech was allowed to default signals that the
government and China Development Bank Corp., which bankrolled
the industry, are reluctant to continue funding the sector’s
expansion, according to Angelo Zino, an analyst with  Standard &
Poor’s .  China, forecast to become the largest solar-power market
globally this year, may abolish subsidies for some of the
largest alternative energy projects and target aid for smaller
ones, Meng Xiangan, vice chairman of the China Renewable Energy
Society, which acts as a conduit between government and industry
in Beijing, said last week.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  slid 2.3 percent to $1.27 in
New York. The Beijing-based tutoring company said yesterday that
it appointed Justin Chen, a counsel at PacGate Law Group, as the
chairman of its  audit committee , which will continue an internal
investigation announced in July into allegations by a former
employee of financial impropriety and wrongful conduct in
connection with the purchase of a training school.  The tutoring company surged 53 percent March 15 after
saying Baring Private Equity Asia Ltd. offered to take it
private for $1.46 per ADR. The company received resignation
letters from three board members March 18. Two of the directors
cited disagreements with the company’s management as reasons for
their departure.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.5 percent
to 10,740.05 yesterday, extending a three-day slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  