-- Poland Pins LOT Survival on Return of Boeing’s Grounded 787
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-19T15:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/poland-pins-lot-survival-on-return-of-grounded-boeing-dreamliner.html
Polish airline LOT, surviving on
state aid after five years of losses, will file a recovery plan
tomorrow without knowing when the  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliner on
which the strategy is built will fly again.  LOT, one of the world’s oldest airlines, tracing its roots
to 1922, had been counting on a fleet of eight 787s to spur a
return to profit through a 20 percent cut in operating costs.
With two planes delivered, it managed a single long-haul trip
before the model was ordered out of service with battery faults.  While its boarding passes still advertise  Europe ’s first
Dreamliner flights, Warsaw-based LOT has also taken the lead in
publicly demanding compensation for the global grounding. Chief
Executive Officer Sebastian Mikosz must meanwhile convince the
Polish government to extend its support by proposing an overhaul
that could call for the 787 to make up one quarter of the fleet.  “It’s a gamble,” said Sash Tusa, an analyst at Echelon
Research & Advisory LLP in  London . “If the Dreamliner comes
back and operates as promised it could have a transformational
effect on LOT in a way it won’t for most other airlines. But
pinning a recovery plan on a new model is very risky because the
 aerospace industry  does not have a good record of delivering on
time.”  Long-Haul Hopes  LOT failed to benefit from a surge in demand for no-frills
travel as thousands of Poles sought higher pay abroad after the
country’s admission to the European Union in 2004, losing out to
discount specialists such as  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)   The airline bought the 787 to target the intercontinental
market, where margins are higher and it can still hope to find a
viable niche. By March 3, LOT Dreamliners were due to have
served Toronto,  New York  and Beijing, as well as Chicago; in
reality there’s been a daily loss of $50,000 from the grounding,
operations chief Tomasz Balcerzak has said.  State-owned carriers from the Balkans to the Baltic are
battling to survive as fuel costs clip margins just as austerity
programs and a European Union aid clampdown curb funding. LOT
had an operating loss of 200 million zloty ($62 million) last
year, even after paring its headcount by 9.8 percent and
increasing the passenger total 7 percent to almost 5 million.  Mikosz, who returned to the CEO role he quit in 2010 last
month, inherits a plan to deepen the workforce cuts and slim the
fleet to 25 jets from more than 40, of which the 787s would form
a significant chunk. The revamp would aim to win EU approval for
an aid package that could total 1 billion zloty.  Malev Warning  Haunting restructuring efforts at East European airlines is
the example of Hungarian national carrier Malev Zrt., which
folded 13 months ago after 66 years of operations.  Weighed down by debts of 60 billion forint ($260 million),
Malev collapsed when European Commission ruled that the airline
must return the equivalent of $390 million in aid supplied from
2007 to 2010, prompting the government to pull the plug.  At LOT, as Polskie Linie Lotnicze LOT SA is known, a 400
million-zloty government loan granted in December may be less
than half the total financing that the company needs, Deputy
Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski said at the time.  Poland  in turn faces a June 20 deadline to submit the LOT
aid package to EU regulators for approval, according to Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission.  “It’s not difficult to make a business plan look good; the
challenge is to come up with a viable strategy,” said
consultant Samuel Engel at ICF SH&E, who worked on LOT’s part-
privatization in 1999. “You can gauge airline costs very
accurately. What doesn’t work so well is the revenue estimate.”  Swiss Flop  Founded after Poland won its independence following World
War I, LOT remained a vital link with the outside world during
the Soviet era before embracing market economics and adding
western-built aircraft after the fall of communism in 1989.  A decade of growth led Swissair Group to take a minority
stake in 1999, adding LOT to its Qualiflyer alliance, only for
the Zurich-based company to go bust in the wake of the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks on the U.S. after expanding beyond its means.  Following Poland’s EU entry, 49 percent of the market has
been captured by short-haul discount carriers, the highest
penetration among major European economies, according to the
 International Air Transport Association . LOT’s response has been
to make the wide-body Dreamliner the focus for a turnaround plan
based on retaining a sustainable long-haul network.  LOT had been working on the premise that the 787 would be
out of service until October, requiring it to extend leases on
three Boeing 767s. That changed when Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President Ray Conner said last week that flights could restart
“in weeks, not in months” after upgrades including
installation of a new battery enclosure and adjustments to the
charger.  FAA Decision  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  must still approve
the fixes and Polish Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski said
yesterday he’s hoping for a return by June. For the moment, the
only 787 to have operated a long-haul flight for LOT remains
stuck in  Chicago , with the other in storage in a Warsaw hangar.  Even before the Dreamliner’s grounding on Jan. 16, the
model had impacted the Polish company’s earnings as the first
delivery, originally slated for October 2008, came four years
late following production problems at Boeing and its suppliers.  LOT’s losses over the years amounted to 1.26 billion zloty,
according the Treasury, while it went through 10 CEOs or interim
chiefs in the seven years before the reappointment of Mikosz --
an average tenure of just eight months.  Turkish Bid  Cash reserves were probably “close to nothing” at the
time of LOT’s government loan in December, according to ICF’s
Engel.  Poland, which holds a 93 percent stake, says the longer-
term aim is to sell stock to another airline or private-equity
fund. LOT lost one potential buyer in June, when Turk Hava
Yollari AO, or  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , terminated talks over EU rules
that cap outside ownership of the bloc’s airlines at 49 percent.  Still, Poland’s population of 38 million, together with the
20 million ethnic Poles living abroad, may mean that LOT can
avoid collapse, according to Engel, who said the carrier may
follow a similar path to Austrian Airlines or the successor to
Swiss, which were purchased by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   “If they get compensation from Boeing they may be able to
pull it off,” Engel said. “Long-term, the 787 still makes
sense for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  