-- Polish Industrial Output Declines in Boost to Interest-Rate Cuts
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-19T13:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/polish-industrial-output-declines-in-boost-to-interest-rate-cuts.html
Polish  industrial output  fell more
than analysts estimated as the European Union’s largest eastern
economy slows, boosting the case for the central bank to cut
 interest rates  further.  Production declined 2.1 percent in February from a year
earlier, after growing 0.3 percent in January, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. That was more than the
median estimate for a 1.6 percent contraction in a Bloomberg
survey of 31 economists. Output dropped 2.8 percent from the
previous month.  The Polish economy is facing its deepest slowdown in 12
years as domestic demand contracts and the euro-area recession
hampers exports. The central bank has lowered borrowing costs to
a record after five interest-rate cuts since November and
Governor  Marek Belka  said last week it may do more if growth
undershoots the bank’s expectations.  “The industrial sector is still not out of the woods,”
Janusz Dancewicz, chief economist at DZ Bank Polska SA in
Warsaw, said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “A reading below
the forecast will increase chances for another rate cut.”  Car production fell 29 percent from a year earlier in
February, IBRM Samar research company said on March 8. Waning
demand from the euro area, which buys 53 percent of Polish
exports, curbed automotive output.  There are no “clear signals” of economic recovery in
 Poland , Deputy Finance Minister Janusz Cichon said in a March 14
interview, adding there’s room for more monetary easing.  The central bank is betting that reducing borrowing costs
by 125 basis points since November will help the economy rebound
from 1.3 percent growth in 2013, the worst since 2001, according
to a staff projection released last week.  Growth is more likely to stagnate than rebound in the
second half, policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski was quoted
yesterday as saying by PAP newswire. Inflation slowed to 1.3
percent in February, its weakest pace in more than six years, as
the flagging economy curbed demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  