-- Porsche SE Looks at Mid-Size German Companies to Expand
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-03-19T15:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/porsche-se-looks-at-midsize-german-companies-to-expand.html
Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s majority shareholder, said it’s confident of
finding acquisitions that will enable the company to expand its
assets beyond control of  Europe ’s largest carmaker.  “Our focus is on strategic investments in midsize
companies in Germany and abroad with experienced management,”
Martin Winterkorn, chief executive officer of both Porsche and
Volkswagen, said today in a speech at a press conference near
the holding company’s headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany. “Our
unique expertise in the automotive sector will enable us to make
optimal investment decisions.”  Porsche SE owns 50.7 percent of the common stock in
Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen, which is its only directly
held asset following the sale of the Porsche AG sports-car brand
to VW. After repaying 2 billion euros ($2.58 billion) in bank
debt with proceeds from the disposal, Porsche said last year
that it plans to make investments “along the automotive value
chain,” including in energy trading and real estate.  Philipp von Hagen, board member in charge of investment
management, said after the press conference that Porsche would
look at companies that offer “disproportional development
potential.” Investments, while difficult to predict, may be as
high as the “triple-digit” million-euro range, he said.  Disposal Gain  Net income last year surged to 7.83 billion euros from 59
million euros in 2011, boosted by a 4.75 billion-euro
contribution from the sale of the sports-car business to VW. Net
liquidity improved to 2.56 billion euros on Dec. 31 from minus
1.52 billion euros at the end of 2011.  Porsche proposed a  dividend  for 2012 of 2.01 euros per
preferred share, 2.6 times the 76-cent payout a year earlier,
and 2 euros per ordinary share, up from 75 cents. The preferred
stock is publicly traded, while the ordinary shares, which carry
voting rights, are held by the Porsche and Piech families and
the Persian Gulf sultanate of Qatar.  The payout for 2012 is higher than usual to reward
shareholders for their “loyalty,” while the dividend for 2013
could be lower again, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said at the press conference.  The company expects profit in the “low single-digit
billion-euro range” for 2013 and 2014, it said today.  Volkswagen completed buying full control of the Porsche
sports-car business in August, ending a seven-year saga in which
VW turned the tables on the maker of the 911 model following a
takeover attempt that collapsed.  Funds’ Lawsuits  Porsche SE, which is fighting market-manipulation
allegations in three countries over the failed bid for VW more
than four years ago, may be able to consolidate most of the
litigation in  Germany  after a group of hedge funds dropped a
U.S. appeals-court case.  Elliott International LP and 11 other hedge funds agreed to
end their suit at the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York,
according to a court filing published March 6. The funds will
instead focus on a parallel German case seeking 1.8 billion
euros.  The legal wrangling ultimately scuttled a planned merger
between the two companies. Investors claim Porsche failed to
inform shareholders about its takeover plan. Elliott
International has filed one of four cases seeking more than 4
billion euros combined at a court in Braunschweig, Germany.  The decision in the Elliott International case doesn’t end
the U.S. litigation. Twenty other funds are continuing a
separate case in the U.S. federal court.  Winterkorn reiterated that Porsche views all pending legal
claims as unfounded.  Porsche has set aside 41 million euros to cover costs
related to the lawsuits and fees for lawyers, Poetsch said. It
hasn’t set up provisions for possible damage claims, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Stuttgart at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  