-- Gilt Yield Falls to Lowest This Year as Cyprus Boosts Safety Bid
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-19T17:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/pound-little-changed-versus-dollar-before-u-k-inflation-report.html
U.K. government bonds rose, pushing
10-year yields to the lowest level this year, as the European
Union’s insistence that Cyprus raises cash from bank depositors
threatened to deepen the euro region’s debt crisis.  Benchmark 10-year gilts advanced for a fourth day as
Cyprus’s parliament started a debate on the proposal, which if
rejected may risk the island’s membership in the euro. EU
finance chiefs have demanded Cyprus raise 5.8 billion euros
($7.51 billion) from bank depositors in order to receive
emergency loans. The pound rose to a five-week high versus the
euro after a government report showed inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in nine months in February.  “It’s the Cyprus stuff that people are looking at,” said
Sam Hill, a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
London. “While there have been points where the gilt market’s
safe-haven status has been more open to question than in the
past, that was in the absence of a flare up in euro-area risks.
There’s an acceptance that there’s still merit in resorting to
gilts at times of difficulty.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.83 percent at 5 p.m. London time, the
lowest level since Dec. 28. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 gained 0.565, or 5.65 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,511) face amount, to 99.31.  The debate in Cyprus’s parliament is being televised live
on state-run RIK TV. The proposed levy on deposits, announced on
March 16, sparked concern among investors about setting a
precedent by breaking the taboo against raiding bank accounts.  Rejection Likely  The “feeling I’m having is that the house is going to
reject it because they feel and think it isn’t just and that
it’s against the interest of Cyprus,” the country’s President
Nicos Anastasiades told Sweden’s TV4 channel.  U.K. government bonds returned 5.8 percent during the past
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds rose 5.6 percent and U.S. Treasuries
gained 3.3 percent.  The pound strengthened for a second day against the euro
after the Office for National Statistics said U.K.  consumer
prices  increased 2.8 percent from a year earlier, the most since
May, and up from 2.7 percent in January.  The U.K. currency climbed 0.7 percent to 85.14 pence per
euro after appreciating to 85.05 pence, the strongest level
since Feb. 11. Sterling was little changed at $1.5111.  The pound has gained 2 percent in the past week, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 1 percent
and the dollar gained 0.5 percent.  ‘Obvious Opportunity’  Investors should bet the pound will weaken against the
dollar due to a number of key event risks tomorrow, according to
Barclays Plc.  Sterling will decline if Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne announces a change to the remit for the central bank in
the 2013 budget, allowing greater tolerance of above-target
price increases, Raghav Subbarao, a foreign-exchange strategist
in London, wrote in a note to clients.  “The budget presents an obvious opportunity to announce a
change in the BOE’s remit and this lowering of the barrier for
further easing should weigh on the pound,” he wrote.  Any change in voting patterns in the Bank of England
minutes to be released tomorrow also poses a risk to the pound,
Subbarao said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  