-- Premier League Rejects Qatar 2022 Move as Support Increases
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-03-19T19:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/premier-league-rejects-qatar-2022-move-as-support-increases.html
England’s  Premier League  will
oppose any plans to shift the timing of the 2022  World Cup  in
Qatar after senior soccer officials said high temperatures in
the desert state mean the event should be held in the winter.  Qatar beat bids from the U.S.,  Japan  and  Australia  in 2010
to get rights to sports’ most-watched event in a vote by
executives at soccer’s governing body,  FIFA . The organization
changed how it selects hosts a year later after allegations of
vote buying.  Russia  won the right to stage the 2018 World Cup.  The Premier League is soccer’s richest competition with
annual television revenues topping $2.5 billion from next
season. Chief Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  has said
moving the World Cup from its traditional dates in June and July
would lead to several disrupted seasons in European leagues.  “The Premier League’s view remains unchanged,” the
English competition’s organizers said in a statement today. “We
are opposed to the concept of a winter World Cup for very
obvious practical reasons that would impact on all of European
domestic football.”  FIFA has said Qatar, where temperatures rarely fall below
37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit) in June and July,
must seek to move the tournament before any changes can be
considered. That hasn’t stopped FIFA executive committee members
including European soccer chief  Michel Platini  and Michel D’Hooghe, the chairman of FIFA’s medical committee, from stating
their preference for a change. Jim Boyce, a British vice
president of FIFA, joined the debate today saying “common sense
should prevail” and the competition should be moved to January.  Optimal Temperatures  Qatar, which is smaller in size than  Connecticut , got the
rights after saying it plans to install air-cooling technology
to ensure matches are played at optimal temperatures.  The Premier League’s outgoing chairman Dave Richards gave
his backing to moving the World Cup forward.  “We’ve got FIFA now saying that medical people are saying
that they can’t play in Qatar in the summer because of the heat,
which is probably right,” he told Sky Sports News while
attending a conference in Qatar’s capital Doha. “I think over
the next few years, things will change and they will come to a
compromise.”  If the tournament is moved it may lead to protests from the
losing bidders. Under the rules of the process, potential World
Cup hosts were told that they were vying for a competition
played in June and July.  FIFA general secretary  Jerome Valcke  said earlier this
month that the 2022 World Cup could be moved to the winter if
research shows holding the tournament in the summer heat would
be dangerous for players. FIFA’s own technical committee
reported concerns about the temperature ahead of the final vote
in Zurich in December 2010.  Health Risk  “The fact that the competition is planned in June/July,
the two hottest months of the year in this region, has to be
considered as a potential health risk for players, officials,
the FIFA family and spectators, and requires precautions to be
taken,” the 2010 report said.  That didn’t stop FIFA’s executive committee from choosing
the tournament’s first  Middle East  host. It polled 14 votes out
of 22 in a run off with the U.S.  Harold Mayne-Nicholls, who headed the FIFA’s technical
group that visited World Cup bidding nations, said changing the
date wouldn’t be easy, requiring “21 days before the tournament
to prepare the team, 31 days for the tournament; then seven more
days after it finishes.”  Night Games  Mayne-Nicholls, who is the Chilean soccer federation
president, told World Soccer magazine playing games after sunset
was the best option, with kick off times of 17:55, 20:55 and
23:55.  The international calendar hasn’t been set beyond 2018,
leaving open the possibility of a change. By then, FIFA may also
have a new president, with current head  Sepp Blatter  ending a
fourth four-year term in 2015. Among the favorites is  UEFA ’s
Platini, who’s stated he backed Qatar on the condition it will
be played during the northern hemisphere’s winter even though
that wasn’t an option at the time of the vote.  FIFA executive board gathers in two days for its quarterly
meeting when plans for the next World Cup in  Brazil  next year,
as well as the Russian and Qatar events, will be discussed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  