-- Putin Rebuffed by Pension Funds as $14 Billion Sales Loom
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-03-20T16:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/putin-rebuffed-by-pension-funds-as-14-billion-share-sales-loom.html
Russia’s plans to relax investment
limits on pension funds don’t go far enough to ensure demand for
the government’s $14 billion asset sale program, say  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
Kapital Asset Management LLC and Otkritie Capital.  The Finance Ministry proposed on March 12 allowing funds to
invest in share placements, an effort to tap $65 billion of
retirement savings for the planned initial public offerings and
additional stock sales by state-owned companies. President
Vladimir Putin would keep a mandatory positive annual return
requirement for the funds, a disincentive for them to increase
equity holdings, according to the money managers.  “This plan opens doors but to enter they need to get rid
of the annual positive returns requirement,” Aleksei Belkin,
who helps manage about $6.8 billion in assets, including
retirement funds, as chief investment officer at Kapital Asset
Management in Moscow, said by phone March 13. Pension funds
“will hardly want to participate in IPOs on their own free
will,” he said.  While  Russia ’s private pension funds are permitted to
invest as much as 65 percent of their capital in equities, they
have allocated only about 10 percent, according to a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. report on Feb. 4. In the U.S., pension funds
had about 52 percent of their holdings in shares last year,
according to a global survey by  Towers Watson & Co. (TW)  Many Russian
private funds had a majority of their holdings in stocks before
the  Micex index’s 67 percent retreat  in 2008 led them to become
more averse to risk, Goldman said.  Lower Returns  In neighboring Poland, pension funds hold 37 percent of
assets in shares, a source of capital for eastern  Europe ’s
busiest market for IPOs, according to data from the government
regulator. Poland caps equity holdings at 48 percent. Russian
pension funds delivered returns of 10 percent last year,
compared with 16 percent in Poland, data from the National
Association of Pension Funds and the Polish regulator show. The
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.7 percent to 1,459.03 by the close in
Moscow.  Putin, in a bid to trim the budget deficit, told a cabinet
meeting in January that share sales by some of Russia’s largest
state companies must be opened to pension funds by jettisoning
rules that restrict equity holdings.  Pension funds are currently limited to investing in about
30 publicly-traded Russian companies selected based on trading
volume, capitalization and other criteria, as well as government
and corporate bonds and bank deposits. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s
biggest gas producer, and OAO Rosneft, the country’s leading oil
producer, are both missing from the approved list.  Moscow Spotlight  The government plans share offerings for companies from VTB
Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender to OAO Sovcomflot, the
largest shipper, and OAO Alrosa, the nation’s diamond monopoly.  The sales should take place mainly on Russian exchanges,
Putin said at his residence in Novo-Ogarevo, according to a
transcript on the Kremlin website posted on Jan. 25.  The government may turn to Vnesheconombank, the state
development bank known as VEB, which managed 68 percent of
Russia’s pension savings investments last year, if its share
sales fail to attract interest from private funds, according to
Vladimir Tikhomirov, the chief economist at Otkritie Capital,
which manages $8.4 billion, including pension money. The
government currently restricts VEB from investing in equity.  “If a private fund decides that the share price is too
high and won’t be interested, VEB might step in as an anchor
investor,” Otkritie’s Tikhomirov said by phone on March 13 from
Moscow. “As a result, the government and budget interests might
be satisfied, while pensioners might suffer.”  Investing ‘Effectively’  The Kremlin’s private equity fund and its partners bought
about half of the shares in last month’s IPO of the Moscow
Exchange, which raised 15 billion rubles ($486 million) with
shares priced at the bottom of the proposed range.  Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in Moscow on March 12
that asset sales are set to resume in the second half of this
year, targeting 427 billion rubles.  “If these amendments are confirmed, this will allow
pension funds to enter and participate in initial placements of
shares, not only in additional placements of stocks that are
already trading,” Russian Deputy Finance Minister Alexei
Moiseev told reporters in Moscow on March 13. This will allow
pension funds to “invest effectively,” he said.  Sufficient Resources  About 1 percent of Russia’s 143 million population
participates in the financial market, while pension fund
investments account for around 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product, Putin said at the cabinet meeting in January.  In  Poland , pension fund investments accounted for 17
percent of GDP last year and in the U.S. 108 percent of GDP,
according to the Polish regulator’s and Towers Watson’s data.  The amount of pension money under private management in
Russia will reach $60 billion by the end of this year, according
to Goldman Sachs estimates in the Feb. 4 report. That represents
7 percent of Russia’s market capitalization.  “The government came up with this proposal to use state
pension funds in privatization deals,” said Oleg Popov, who
manages about $1 billion in assets, including pension money, for
Allianz Investments in Moscow. “The fact that there’s a
mandatory annual positive return requirement prevents pension
funds from investing in equities and IPOs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  