-- Trading at ’05 Low Signals Buy During Sales Drought
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/trading-at-05-low-signals-buy-during-sales-drought-muni-credit.html
Trading in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market has fallen to the lowest level since 2005. For
investors, that’s a sign to buy as states and cities throttle
back new debt sales to the least in two decades.  Rather than borrow to start projects such as roads and
bridges, cities and states are refinancing higher-cost
obligations at the fastest clip since the 1990s after yields
sank to  generational lows , Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show.  While tax-exempt yields are the highest in 11 months, net
borrowing will probably remain at half the historic level for
the next decade, which is “bullish for prices,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Municipal Market Advisors, a
Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm. With less new debt
coming to market, investors such as Gary Pollack at Deutsche
Bank AG’s private-wealth unit say they’re reluctant to part with
bonds.  “Since the net supply of municipal bonds is falling, I’m a
bit more hesitant to sell items that I may not be able to get
back in the secondary market -- or even the primary market,”
said Pollack, who oversees $6 billion of munis as head of fixed-
income trading in  New York  for the Deutsche unit.  Less Local  Munis join other fixed-income assets changing hands less
frequently than before the 18-month recession that ended in
2009. In the past year,  $247 billion  of Treasuries traded among
the 21 primary dealers in an average week, according to data
from ICAP Plc, the largest interdealer broker of the debt. In
the year before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, volume was about 25 percent higher.  Muni transactions fell by about $60 billion to $3.2
trillion last year, the lowest since at least 2005, according to
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. The number of trades
sank by 700,000 to 9.7 million, the least since 2007.  State and local bonds trade less frequently than their
federal and corporate counterparts as individual investors own
almost half the tax-exempt market directly, Federal Reserve data
show. Those investors typically hold the securities to maturity.
A third of muni trades occur within a month of issuance when
measuring by dollar amount, MSRB data show.  New bond sales trailed the amount of money investors
received from maturing and refinanced debt by about $5 billion
in 2012, the second-straight year of so-called net negative
issuance, Fed data show. It’s the longest such streak since
1995. From 2005 to 2007, average issuance exceeded that  cash
flow  by $196 billion annually as municipalities ramped up
borrowing for new projects before the financial crisis.  Cost Clip  As localities repair their finances following the
recession, they are reducing interest costs by refinancing at
lower yields. When cities and counties buy back bonds and issue
new securities at reduced rates, they leave muni supply
unchanged. The New York City Transitional Finance Authority
plans to sell $1 billion in bonds tomorrow, with about a quarter
of the offer going toward refunding.  Refinancings composed 62 percent of local debt sales in
2012, the most since 1993, according to John Hallacy, head of
muni research in New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “It’s going to be a thinner, more hotly contested market”
with fewer bonds to trade, said Fabian at Concord,
Massachusetts-based MMA.  Junk Drive  Lower-rated munis are among areas benefitting from the
shortage. The  yield penalty  on BBB munis relative to top grades
narrowed last week to 0.97 percentage point, the lowest since
September 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield buyers piled into the segment after localities
sold just $552 million of noninvestment grade local bonds last
year, the least since 2009, according to Moody’s Investors
Service data compiled by Bank of America. Invesco Ltd. closed
its $7.2 billion  High Yield Municipal Fund (ACTDX)  to new investors in
September because demand was outpacing investment opportunities.  “We’ve been dealing with low supply in our marketplace for
a long time,” said Mark Paris, a senior portfolio manager at
Invesco in New York. “When you look at calls, redemptions and
inflows relative to supply, that’s what really has given the BBB
space a boost.”  Yield Shield  The scarcity serves as a cushion for muni yields as bonds
lose appeal amid signs of a strengthening U.S. economy.
Investors withdrew about $113 million from muni mutual funds
last week, the biggest outflow this year, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show.  At  2.04 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis are
close to the highest since April, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  They have exceeded the  interest rate  on comparable-maturity
Treasuries for four straight trading days, the longest span
since December, Bloomberg  data  show. The ratio is about 105
percent, compared with an average of about 92 percent since
2001. The higher that percentage, the cheaper that local bonds
are relative to their federal counterparts.  Munis typically lose value this month as investors dispose
of the securities to pay tax bills before the April 15 filing
deadline, Bloomberg data show.  Such selling “may still have a week or so to run,” Fabian
at MMA said in a report yesterday.  States and cities are set to borrow $9.5 billion this week,
the busiest period this year, Bloomberg data show. In the
biggest sale, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority plans to offer
$1.4 billion of tax-exempt securities tomorrow. Proceeds will
help finance road-widening and bridge upgrades.  Following is a pending sale:  ILLINOIS plans to issue $800 million of general-obligation
bonds via competitive sale April 2, after settling this month
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over fraud
charges. The regulator said Illinois misled bond investors from
2005 to 2009 about shortfalls in its retirement funds. The state
postponed a $500 million offer in January after  Standard &
Poor’s  downgraded it to A-, six steps below AAA. Illinois is the
company’s lowest-rated U.S. state. (Added March 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  