-- Rand Extends Year’s Worst Slide as Eskom Blackout Concern Rises
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-19T14:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rand-extends-year-s-worst-slide-as-eskom-blackout-concern-rises.html
The rand declined, extending the
worst slide among emerging-market currencies this year, on
concern forced power blackouts by Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. may
hamper output in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  South Africa’s currency slipped 0.8 percent to 9.2490 per
dollar by 4:24 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its fall this year
to 8.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
on the benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 rose 4
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.44 percent.  Eskom, the state-owned electricity company, is “very
concerned” about coal supplies and its reserve power margin,
the Johannesburg-based Beeld newspaper reported, citing
spokeswoman Hilary Joffe. South Africa’s central bank will
probably leave its benchmark repo rate unchanged tomorrow,
according to all 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey, while
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will persist damped demand for
assets seen by investors as riskier.  “Our bigger worry remains that there will be renewed
blackouts,” John Cairns, a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Eskom is
running with tight capacity.”  The rand depreciated 15 percent against the dollar in the
first quarter of 2008, when coal shortages and maintenance at
power plants forced Eskom to cut electricity to the nation’s
mines.  The risk of rolling blackouts this quarter and next year is
“very high” after strikes at mines owned by  Exxaro Resources
Ltd. (EXX) , the nation’s second-biggest coal producer, cut supplies to
plants, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based analyst at Nomura
International Inc., said in a note yesterday. That may drive the
rand as low as 9.95 per dollar, he said.  Cyprus Concern  Most emerging-market stocks fell and commodity prices
declined amid concern Cyprus won’t meet the conditions for an
international bailout of its banks. Cyprus’s parliament probably
won’t pass the law taxing deposits, Reuters reported, citing
government spokesman Christos Stylianides.  “The focus is still on Cyprus, and we’ve seen a bit of a
selloff of emerging-market assets, with the rand tracking
that,” Duncan Howes, a currency trader at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “Then there is the Monetary Policy
Committee statement tomorrow. The market is probably lightening
up before that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  