-- Paul Looks to Broaden Appeal by Backing Immigration Shift
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rand-paul-endorses-legal-status-for-undocumented-immigrants.html
Senator  Rand Paul  of  Kentucky 
endorsed immigration changes that would give legal status to
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. in a move to broaden his
appeal ahead of a potential 2016 Republican presidential bid.  Paul’s plan, outlined in a speech yesterday, would create
work visas for an estimated 11 million immigrants in the U.S.
illegally and let Congress verify border security before
revamping the nation’s immigration laws.  Paul set his proposal apart from one being crafted by a
bipartisan group of senators, including another potential 2016
Republican presidential candidate,  Marco Rubio  of  Florida . Their
plan would provide a pathway to citizenship.  “I’m not creating a new line for citizenship,” Paul said
on CNN yesterday. “I’m just saying, you get in the current line
that exists.”  “You don’t have to go back home, but we also don’t want to
put you at the front of the line because that’s unfair to people
who’ve been waiting legally,” he told reporters on a conference
call yesterday.  Paul’s wariness over explicitly endorsing a pathway to
citizenship emphasizes the political risks both he and Rubio are
taking in advocating new immigration measures that remain
unpopular with many in their party’s voting base. The Senate
group has said it wants to unveil its plan next month.  ‘Big Step’  The 50-year-old son of former U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas , a 2012 Republican presidential candidate, is a leader
of the limited-government  Tea Party  movement. Rand Paul’s
decision to back a shift in immigration policy may give more
Republicans in the right wing of the party the political support
they need to back a rewrite of current law.  “I’m a conservative Republican who says we need to move
forward on immigration reform,” Paul said on the conference
call. “That’s a big step forward.”  Paul is basking in the media spotlight after narrowly
beating Rubio last week in a 2016 straw poll at the Conservative
Political Action Conference outside  Washington . Rubio has been
clear about his support for a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants.  The Iowa  Republican Party  announced yesterday that Paul
will be the keynote speaker at a party dinner May 10. The state
hosts the first contest of the presidential primary season, so
visits there by aspiring candidates are closely watched.  ‘Less Radioactive’  “Paul is pretty cleverly becoming a leader in the party,
and he’s getting himself out there,” said Republican strategist
 John Feehery , who was an aide to former U.S. House Speaker
Dennis Hastert of  Illinois .  “By getting involved and opining on this, it makes him
less radioactive to the more mainstream Republicans, and it’s a
tack to the center, but a slight tack,” Feehery said.  Paul suggested giving “probationary work visas to
immigrants who are willing to work,” in a speech yesterday to
the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce in Washington. He said the
work visas would give their holders no special citizenship
advantage because they would wait in the same line of immigrants
applying from outside the U.S.  “If they want to be citizens, I’m open to debate as to
what we do to move forward,” Paul said, acknowledging many
immigrants may be stuck waiting indefinitely.  Political Perils  While Paul eschews the term “path to citizenship,” his
proposal bears similarities to the Senate group’s principles.
Those include allowing individuals who go to the back of the
line of prospective immigrants, pay taxes and learn English, to
eventually earn a green card.  Ronald Zahn, a Tea Party leader from  Wisconsin , said he
gets nervous when he hears politicians talk about a “pathway to
citizenship,” emphasizing the political perils involved for
both Republicans.  “It implies that those who did something illegally can get
ahead of those trying to do it legally,” said Zahn, a 73-year-
old retired school teacher. He expressed confidence that neither
Rubio nor Paul would support such a plan.  “We’re not going to do any special pathways that
discourage people from doing it the right way,” Rubio said
yesterday in an interview on CNN. Separately, Rubio declined to
comment on Paul’s plan, saying he hadn’t seen it.  Both senators avoided any significant mention of the
immigration issue when they spoke last week at CPAC, a gathering
that attracts limited-government activists. Those activists,
many of whom strongly oppose changing immigration laws, have
played a significant role in the Republican presidential
nomination process.  Paul’s Ambitions  “This was a very Pollyannish speech,” Muzaffar Chishti,
director of migration policy at  New York  University’s law
school, said of Paul’s speech yesterday. “What he doesn’t make
clear is if people should get permanent legal residency.”  Paul’s announcement deals with his own political ambitions
and the importance of immigration as an issue to the Republican
Party, said Brad Blakeman, a Republican strategist and former
deputy assistant to President  George W. Bush .  “There is no Tea Party in the political sense, no central
leader, no candidates, so Rand Paul is stuck between a rock and
a hard place,” Blakeman said. “He is coming to the center and
adopting policies that a Republican nominee would have to
support if you want the nomination, and more importantly, to be
electable.”  Paul’s position differs from the principles of the
bipartisan Senate group in other ways. Paul proposed no
additional obligations for employers.  Border Security  “My plan will not impose a national ID card or mandatory
E-Verify, forcing businesses to become policemen,” he said.  Meanwhile, like the Senate group, Paul proposed allowing
work permits and other authorizations only after Congress
certifies that U.S. border control has been improved.  Under a five-year provision in his plan, Congress would
hold annual votes following a report from an inspector general
verifying that the U.S. border is secure.  House Speaker John Boehner yesterday avoided questions on
whether he supports steps that could lead to citizenship for
those who came to the U.S. illegally. Still, the  Ohio Republican 
said overhauling the nation’s immigration system is a “top
priority” in the Republican-led chamber.  Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican and member of
the Senate group, said his party will have to embrace a path to
citizenship if they don’t want to block a new immigration law.  Pathway Key  “There will never be a bill without a pathway to
citizenship signed by the president,” Graham said. “And in
turn there will never be a pathway to citizenship without a new
immigration system replacing the current one.”  Boehner said he met with four Republicans from a bipartisan
House group that has been meeting in secret for about four years
to work on an immigration plan. Boehner said the Republican
members are “basically in agreement” with the Democrats on how
to proceed on legislation.  On March 18, the  Republican National Committee  released
recommendations on how the party could find more electoral
success, including one that called for its leaders to “embrace
and champion comprehensive” immigration reform.  “If we do not, our party’s appeal will continue to
shrink,” the committee said in the report.  Exit polls of voters in the Nov. 6 election showed
President  Barack Obama  won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote
nationwide. Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  took 27 percent, down
from 31 percent for the party’s presidential ticket in 2008, 44
percent in 2004 and 35 percent in 2000.  Among the first bills Paul co-sponsored after arriving in
Washington in January 2011 was one to amend the Constitution to
end birthright U.S. citizenship for children of undocumented
immigrants. Citizenship would be granted to those born in the
U.S. to a parent who is a citizen, has permanent residency
status or serves in the U.S. military.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  