-- Transocean Crew ‘Should Have Done More,’ CEO Testifies
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r . ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/transocean-crew-should-have-done-more-ceo-testifies.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  Chief Executive
Officer Steven Newman said the company’s crew on the Deepwater
Horizon “should have done more” to prevent the rig’s 2010
explosion in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Transocean’s missteps in connection with the explosion led
Newman to recommend the company pay $1.4 billion in civil and
criminal penalties and plead guilty to a criminal charge for
violating the Clean Water Act, he told U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  yesterday in a non-jury trial in New Orleans over fault
for the spill. Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean owned the
Deepwater Horizon rig that was drilling  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well.  The company acknowledged “our people should have done
more,” Newman testified. Instead, he said, “They accepted the
assessment of the BP well site leaders.”  The blowout aboard the Deepwater Horizon spilled more than
4 million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico and killed 11
people. The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP, Transocean, and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cement services.  A trial over liability for the disaster began Feb. 25. The
judge will determine responsibility for the disaster and whether
one or more of the companies acted with willful or wanton
misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal requirement for
establishing gross negligence.  For BP, a finding of gross negligence would mean the
company might be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion
in  Clean Water Act  fines, as well as unspecified punitive
damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5 billion
settlement the company reached with most private party
plaintiffs last year.  Gross Negligence  For Transocean and Halliburton, findings of gross
negligence would mean the companies could be held liable for
punitive damages for all plaintiffs.  While Newman admitted Transocean employees made mistakes in
connection with the rig explosion, he added under cross-
examination that an internal review found no systemic problems
that caused or contributed to the disaster. “We had no
management failures within the management system in place,” the
executive said.  ‘Good People’  “I believe we had competent managers carrying out the
drilling operation,” Newman added. “I think we had a good
system in place. I think we had good people.”  The government and spill victims have argued BP was over
budget and behind schedule on the deep-water Macondo well off
the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the oil company to cut corners
and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Newman testified yesterday that Transocean and its
employees had no financial incentives to cut corners or
sacrifice safety for profits. “It’s a hazardous business,”
Newman told Barbier. “Safety is one of our core values and I
think it’s fundamental to what we do.”  Just ‘Luck’  Robert Cunningham , a lawyer for spill victims, challenged
Newman on whether the fatal Deepwater Horizon explosion was a
matter of bad luck and whether Transocean’s safety philosophy
was based on those kind of analyses.  “Sometimes the difference” between a fatal incident and
one that causes no damage or injuries “can be nothing more than
luck,” Newman added.  Barbier also heard testimony yesterday from  Tim Quirk , a
Halliburton manager who oversaw tests on the cement formula used
on the Macondo well a month after the explosion.  BP officials contend the results of those tests on the
stability of the cement formula used by the Deepwater Horizon
crew to seal the well were destroyed despite court orders
requiring that they be preserved.  Quirk said he was asked by Halliburton colleague  Ronnie
Faul  to run the tests in May 2010 to see if the Macondo
formulation was “thin.” Faul also requested the tests be done
“off to the side,” the lab manager acknowledged.  Faul asked him not to write a report, but “to just phone
the results to him,” Quirk recalled. He acknowledged Faul’s
request was “a little unusual.”  Deferred Motion  Once the tests were complete, Quirk discarded his notes
because he didn’t have to write up a report and wasn’t “aware
of any preservation order” that covered them, he added.  On March 18, Barbier deferred BP’s request that he find the
government and spill victims hadn’t proved claims that the  oil
company  was grossly negligent in its handling of the explosion
and spill, according to court filings.  “Frankly, I am not going to grant that motion,” Barbier
told BP’s lawyer in court. “I’ll either deny at this stage or
defer a ruling. Likely I would just defer a ruling and let the
trial proceed.”  He also deferred ruling on a similar request by another
defendant, M-I Swaco, a unit of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , which
provided drilling fluid for the project, according to the
filing.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  