-- RBA Sees Rate Cuts Working as Currency Helps Stabilize Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-19T03:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rba-saw-signs-economy-responding-to-cuts-easing-scope-stays-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said
the economy is responding to low interest rates and Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  indicated a higher currency and savings
levels allowed for lower borrowing costs even as mining boomed.  The impact of the policy easing “still had further to
run,” the RBA said in  minutes  today of the March 5 meeting
where it kept its key rate at 3 percent. “While further
reductions may be required, on the information currently to hand
it was appropriate to hold rates steady.”  Australia’s dollar averaged $1.0380 in the past two years,
more than 30 cents above the level of the prior two decades,
spurred by near-zero rates in the U.S. and  Japan , and the crisis
in the European Union. Lowe said today the EU’s decision to
force Cypriot savers into a bailout was a “step back” for the
region and could increase instability in the financial system.  “The fact that this approach of haircutting depositors has
been sanctioned could lead the public to think it could happen
again,” Lowe said in response to audience questions following a
speech in Sydney. “It could make the system more susceptible to
bank runs and that’s something that the authorities in  Europe 
will have to watch very, very carefully.”  The RBA’s No. 2 official said in his  speech  earlier that
the Australian currency’s strength and a savings ratio that
soared after the financial crisis -- it was 10.1 percent last
quarter, from minus 0.1 percent in the first three months of
2006 -- is helping stabilize the economy.  Currency Pressure  His analysis contrasts with complaints from manufacturers
and retailers that have struggled to compete with cheaper
imported products and consumers unwilling to spend. Lowe
repeated that  1.75 percentage points of rate cuts  in the 14
months through December are designed to help alleviate pressure
from the  exchange rate , and added that the currency’s strength
was now driving productivity gains in the economy.  “Nowadays, there is a greater recognition that the high
exchange rate is likely to be quite persistent and firms,
including in the manufacturing sector, are adjusting to this,”
Lowe told the Australian Industry Group. “This adjustment in
business processes and models is often painful. But the fact
that it is occurring is one reason why the Reserve Bank has been
tentatively optimistic for some time that productivity growth
would pick-up from the low rates experienced over much of the
previous decade.”  Currency Gain  The local dollar’s more than 50 percent climb in the past
four years has been a drag on the economy, and the currency has
remained above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for more than eight
months, the longest stretch since it was freely floated in 1983.
It was little changed after the minutes and traded at $1.0393 as
of 12:56 p.m. in Sydney.  Traders are pricing in a 15 percent chance the RBA will
lower borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point to a record
2.75 percent next month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We continue to get a sense that the RBA remains in wait
and see mode,” said Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-Pacific strategist at
TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “There is some chance that the
bank’s easing bias is softened at the next communiqué, but we
don’t expect it to be dropped entirely until the bank is
confident enough about the outlook for non-mining investment.”  The minutes released in Sydney today cited recent data
suggesting a “modest increase” in non-mining investment was in
prospect in the year through June 30, 2014.  Job Surge  Data last week showed employers in February added 71,500
workers, the biggest increase in almost 13 years, and the
 unemployment rate  held at 5.4 percent as more people searched
for work. The  economy  expanded 3.6 percent in 2012, the fastest
pace in five years, as resource investment and exports
outweighed subdued manufacturing and construction.  Still, business confidence declined last month, according
to private data, home-loan approvals slid in January and the
nation’s trade deficit was also twice as wide as economists
forecast, according to government reports.  Global markets had rebounded this year as Europe appeared
to have contained its crisis. That confidence was shaken three
days ago when the Cypriot government announced a tax on
deposits, seeking European aid after its banks lost 4.5 billion
euros ($5.8 billion) on Greek sovereign debt and failed to meet
European  capital requirements . The U.S. called for a
“responsible and fair” resolution to the financial  crisis in
Cyprus , the fifth euro country to seek a bailout since 2010.  ‘Step Back’  “What we’ve seen in the last couple of days is a step
back,” Lowe said today. “The idea that you would go and
effectively haircut small depositors to help a government fiscal
situation was not something that had really been countenanced by
the international community before.”  The RBA last month lowered its economic growth and
inflation forecasts as investment outside the  mining industry 
remains elusive and a high local currency contains prices.  Lowe said the Australian economy has “adjusted pretty
well” to the shocks in the global economy and monetary policy
has played an important role by keeping inflation “low and
stable.” It is committed to continuing that role, he said.  Without the appreciation of the exchange rate, “it is
highly likely that the economy would have overheated and that we
would have had substantially higher inflation and substantially
higher  interest rates ,” Lowe said. “It is also worth adding
that, in any case, it is unlikely that we would have avoided a
substantial real exchange rate appreciation, with it coming
through the more costly route of higher inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  