-- Treasuries Climb for a Third Day on Cyprus Concern as Fed Meets
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-19T21:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/treasury-yields-remain-lower-before-fed-starts-policy-meeting.html
Treasuries gained for a third day,
pushing 10-year note yields to a two-week low, as investors
sought refuge on concern that turmoil over bailout out Cyprus
will worsen Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The benchmark note’s  yield  dropped as the Federal Reserve
started a two-day meeting amid speculation policy makers will
decide to keep buying bonds to support economic growth.
Treasuries climbed even after a report showed new U.S. home
construction rose in February and building permits increased to
the highest level in almost five years. Cyprus’s parliament
voted down a levy on bank deposits that’s a bailout condition.  “The Cyprus issue is holding the market hostage and
throwing the Fed a curveball, keeping Treasuries well bid,”
said Thomas di Galoma, a managing director at Navigate Advisors
LLC, a brokerage in Stamford, Connecticut, for institutional
investors. “People are concerned that the issue could bleed to
other countries in Europe.”  The  10-year yield  dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.9 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.89
percent, the lowest level since March 5. The yield has  closed 
between 1.9 percent and 2.06 percent since March 5. The price of
the 2 percent note due February 2023 climbed 15/32, or $4.69 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 7/8.  Yields on  30-year bonds  slid six basis points to 3.13
percent and touched 3.11 percent, the lowest since March 6.  Volume Increases  Trading  volume  rose 33 percent to $352 billion, the most
since March 8, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer
broker of U.S. government debt. The average daily volume for the
past year is $247 billion.  “It’s strictly just a flight-to-quality bid,” said
Charles Comiskey, head of Treasury trading in New York at Bank
of Nova Scotia, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
U.S. central bank. “The Fed really has to mention the economy
has improved somewhat. The real fear for this market is that
they change their tune somewhat, and they could, because the
data has changed.”  U.S. government securities were at the costliest level in
almost two weeks. The 10-year term premium, a model that
includes expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation,
was at negative 0.71 percent, the most expensive since March 5.
A negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries due in a decade or more have been trading at
almost the cheapest level since 2011 relative to global peers
with comparable maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Yields on the Treasuries reached 54 basis points
higher than those in an index of other sovereign debt on March
14, the most since August 2011, the data showed. The spread was
53 basis points yesterday.  Cypriot Vote  Yields remained at almost their lows of the day after
Cypriot lawmakers rejected the unprecedented tax on bank
deposits, dealing a blow to European plans to force savers to
shoulder part of a bailout of the country. Legislators in
Nicosia, Cyprus’s capital, voted 36 against the proposal, with
none in favor in a show of hands. There were 19 abstentions.  Hammered out by euro-area finance chiefs at the weekend,
the deal had sought to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion) by
drawing funds from Cyprus bank accounts in return for 10 billion
euros in international aid.  The European Central Bank said in a statement it “takes
note of the decision of the Cypriot Parliament and is in contact
with” the International Monetary Fund and the European
Commission. “The ECB reaffirms its commitment to provide
liquidity as needed within the existing rules,” it said.  Fed Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee will issue a statement
and economic forecasts tomorrow after ending its two-day policy
meeting, and Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will brief reporters.  Treasuries have lost 0.297 percent in March as the U.S.
economy gained traction, halving February’s 0.594 percent
return, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed. Data this
month showed the U.S. jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent in
February, the lowest level since December 2008, and retail sales
rose 1.1 percent, the most in five months. Consumer prices rose
2 percent from February 2012, another report showed.  The Fed reiterated after its January meeting it will keep
buying bonds until there’s “substantial improvement” in the
labor market. It said it will hold interest rates at almost zero
as long as the unemployment rate is above 6.5 percent and
inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  overnight target 
rate at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008. It’s purchasing $85
billion a month of bonds to cap borrowing costs, and bought
$3.14 billion of Treasuries today due from May 2020 to February
2023 as part of the program.  ‘Paramount Concern’  “As long as inflation is low, the paramount concern is the
unemployment rate,” Dan Greenhaus, chief global strategist at
the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York, wrote in a note to
clients. “As long as inflation and inflation expectations
remain contained, the FOMC could ease policy indefinitely. ”  Traders’ inflation expectations shrank for a third day. The
yield gap between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, called the 10-year  break-even rate , touched 2.53
percentage points, the least on an intraday basis since March 1.
The gap, which was at a three-week high of 2.6 percentage points
March 8, signals traders’ outlook for consumer prices over the
life of the debt. It averaged 2.35 over the past year.  Builders broke ground on 917,000 homes at an annual rate,
up 0.8 percent from a revised 910,000 pace in January that was
higher than initially estimated, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington.  Building permits , a proxy for
future construction, advanced 4.6 percent to 946,000, the
strongest since June 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  