-- Release of Immigrants Caused by Budget Cuts, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-19T18:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/release-of-immigrants-caused-by-budget-cuts-u-s-official-says.html
The head of the U.S. agency that
released more than 2,000 detained immigrants facing deportation
said the decision was made for budgetary reasons, as Republicans
questioned whether it placed people in danger and was
precipitated by politics.  The budget for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
and with it the agency’s detainment capacity, has been stressed
by across-the-board budget cuts that started taking effect March
1 and uncertainty over the annual budget,  John Morton , the
agency’s director, told lawmakers today.  “There are no mass releases of dangerous criminals under
way, or any planned in the future,” Morton said in remarks in
front of the House Judiciary Committee today. “Just an effort
to stay within our budget.”  House and Senate Republicans have voiced concern that the
release of the 2,228 illegal immigrants being held in detention
was politically motivated and placed more than 600 individuals
with a criminal record back onto the streets.  “Irresponsible decisions to release detained illegal
immigrants unreasonably and unnecessarily put the public at
risk,” Virginia Representative Bob Goodlatte, the Republican
chairman of the Judiciary panel, said today. “The question
remains: Are these individuals being released based on
legitimate budgetary concerns or because sequestration gave the
Obama administration a political reason to release deportable
aliens?”  Under Watch  Morton said the decision to release the illegal immigrants
was made by career employees, not political appointees and that
all of the released individuals remain under watch.  “Our intent is still to remove them from the  United
States ,” Morton said.  Known as sequestration, the U.S. government faces $85
billion in federal spending cuts for the rest of this fiscal
year and $1.2 trillion during the next nine years. Agencies have
also been operating under temporary budgets after lawmakers were
unable to enact spending bills for the entire fiscal year.  Lawmakers in both chambers are currently working toward
passing a budget for the rest of this fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  