-- Remgro Earnings Decline on Refinancing of Mediclinic Debt
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-19T16:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/remgro-earnings-decline-on-refinancing-of-mediclinic-debt.html
Remgro Ltd. (REM) , a South African
company with interests in banking,  food production  and health
services, said first-half earnings fell 35 percent on debt
refinancing charges for  Mediclinic International Ltd. (MDC)   Basic earnings, including the Mediclinic charges and
excluding some one-time items, declined to 1.72 billion rand
($186 million) in the six months through December, the company
said in a statement today. Profit attributable to shareholders
plunged 52 percent, while sales rose 14 percent to 7.86 billion
rand.  “Remgro participated in Mediclinic’s rights issue
undertaken to refinance its Swiss and South Africa debt during
October 2012,” the company said in a separate e-mailed
statement. Remgro’s share was 1.42 billion rand, it said.
Excluding the refinancing for the hospital operator, basic
earnings rose 19 percent.  The results represent “solid growth” for the period
“despite challenging trading conditions across most of the
South African market,” Remgro said. Financial services, led by
the company’s stakes in RMB Holdings Ltd and FirstRand Ltd.,
contributed 1.32 billion rand to so-called headline earnings,
it said.  The second half of the fiscal year is “definitely not an
easy six months,” Chief Executive Officer Jannie Durand said in
a phone interview from  Cape Town .  Rainbow Chicken Ltd. (RBW) , in which
Remgro has a 73.4 percent stake, will be affected by “high
import costs” and the weak rand, he said.  The  stock  fell for a third day in Johannesburg, closing
down 0.1 percent at 174.17 rand. That pared the gain this year
to 9.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  