-- Ringgit Forwards Rise From Seven-Month Low Ahead of Cyprus Vote
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-03-19T01:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ringgit-forwards-rise-from-seven-month-low-ahead-of-cyprus-vote.html
Malaysian ringgit forwards climbed
from their weakest level in more than seven months ahead of a
vote by Cypriot lawmakers on a bank-deposit levy aimed at
securing aid from the European Union.  Euro-area finance ministers told Cyprus to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.5 billion) from depositors to unlock emergency
loans. Crude oil futures in  New York  traded near a one-month
high as European policy makers signaled flexibility in applying
the tax announced three days ago. Investors should buy
Malaysia’s ringgit as a likely rise in  oil prices  will boost the
economic outlook for the petroleum-exporting nation, according
to Credit Agricole Private Banking.  “The pressure seems to be quite united in telling Cyprus
to brace for a cut,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , an economist in
 Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “There seems to
be a limited downside reaction but we still can’t say for
certain the Cyprus parliament will not surprise on the
downside.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.2
percent, the first gain in five days, to 3.1868 per dollar as of
9:39 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They touched 3.2015 yesterday, which was the weakest
level since July 30.  The contracts to fix an exchange rate in a year’s time were
at a 1.9 percent discount to the spot rate, which advanced 0.2
percent to 3.1250. Non-deliverable forwards are settled in
dollars. One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure
of expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.27 percent.  Malaysian consumer prices probably climbed 1.5 percent in
February from a year earlier, after rising 1.3 percent the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg survey ahead of March 20 government report.  Government bonds  fell. The yield on the 3.26 percent notes
due March 2018 rose one basis point to 3.24 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  