-- Rock Band Boston Song Publisher Sues Over Copyrights
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-19T19:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rock-band-boston-song-publisher-sues-over-copyrights.html
A publisher of hit songs by the
1970s rock band  Boston , including “More Than a Feeling” and
“Don’t Look Back,” sued the group’s leader and songwriter, Tom
Scholz, to prevent the termination of his copyrights.  Paul Ahern, the plaintiff, said that Scholz assigned
copyrights to the songs he wrote in a 1975 agreement. He claimed
that in January Scholz said he planned to terminate those
rights, according to a filing today in federal court in New
York.  The threat to end the copyrights “casts a pall on the
assets of the compositions, diminishes their value and
complicates the ability of plaintiffs Next Decade and Ahern to
commercially exploit them,” his lawyers said in the complaint.  Scholz, a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, said that the  U.S. Copyright Act  of 1976 grants him
the authority to terminate Ahern’s copyrights, according to the
suit. Those rights would end in 2015.  “Tom Scholz filed to reclaim his copyrights, as many
artists have done recently,” Craig Pinkus, his lawyer, said in
an e-mail. “The lawsuit from Mr. Ahern apparently seeks to
resolve those rights in court. Mr. Scholz is confident in his
legal position.”  Ahern, a Florida resident whose publishing firm is Pure
Songs, said he employed Scholz in 1975 to write the songs that
were included on Boston’s first two albums. He seeks a judicial
declaration that Scholz has no interest in the copyrights to
those songs and that the notice of termination is invalid.  First Album  Boston recorded its first albums for Epic Records, a unit
of  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Sony Music Entertainment. The self-titled debut
album sold 17 million copies, according to the Recording
Industry Association of America, and the single “More Than a
Feeling” reached number five on the Billboard Hot 100. The
second album, “Don’t Look Back,” sold 7 million copies, the
RIAA reported, and the single peaked at number four.  The case is Ahern v. Scholz, 13-01812, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  