-- Romania Ends Moratorium on Shale Gas Exploration, Premier Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-19T15:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/romania-ends-moratorium-on-shale-gas-exploration-premier-says.html
Romania  ended a moratorium on shale
gas exploration in a bid to boost domestic energy resources and
curb reliance on fuel imports from  Russia .  It may take four to five years to assess potential volumes,
Prime Minister Victor Ponta said in an interview broadcast live
on  Adevarul ’s website today. Exploration will start in Vaslui in
the east and may extend to the southeastern county of Constanta.  “The moratorium ended in December and hasn’t been
extended,” Ponta said in his first public announcement of the
decision. “If shale gas is found in Romania, I’m convinced that
technology will advance so much in four or five years that it
will practically ensure the release of all the regular
environmental permits.”  The extraction of shale gas requires hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, which involves blasting rock with water, sand and
chemicals to open up fissures. Concerns among environmental
groups, regulators and landowners that fracking may contaminate
water have led  France  and  Bulgaria  to ban the practice.  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  of the U.S. owns exploration licenses in Romania.  Ponta’s cabinet imposed the moratorium last May pending the
completion of European environmental studies. The drilling
technique is already employed in the U.S., allowing the country
to surpass Russia as the biggest gas producer.  Chevron plans to start the search for shale resources at
its Barlad concession, according to a report in Ziarul
Financiar. Greenpeace last year threatened to sue the government
for allowing the company to explore for shale gas, citing
potential harm to the environment and local residents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  