-- Rothschild Loses Daily Mail Libel Suit Appeal in London
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-19T16:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rothschild-loses-daily-mail-libel-suit-appeal-in-london.html
Nathaniel Rothschild  lost a ruling
in his effort to sue the U.K.’s  Daily Mail  newspaper over an
article describing a 2005 meeting he had with politician  Peter Mandelson  and billionaire Oleg Deripaska.  Rothschild, the 41-year-old co-founder of resources company
 Bumi Plc (BUMI)  and scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty, was
ordered to pay 50,000 pounds ($75,600) in costs by the three-
judge panel in the U.K. Court of Appeal today, which upheld a
prior ruling dismissing his libel suit.  The Daily Mail, published by Associated Newspapers Ltd.,
said Rothschild had arranged for Mandelson, a member of the U.K.
House of Lords, to attend a dinner in Russia to close a deal
between  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and Deripaska’s United Co. Rusal Plc. That
deal led to the loss of 300 British jobs it reported.  Rothschild lost his bid to replace the chairman and chief
executive officer of Bumi last month. He had been locked in a
fight over the control of the company with Indonesia’s Bakrie
family, with whom he co-founded the coal and metal mines
operator in a 2010 deal.  “I had difficulty in accepting that an article which had
been so inaccurate, in such a material way, could be justified
in the circumstances of this case,” Judge Richard McCombe said
in the written judgment handed down today. However, he said he
was satisfied the lower court reached a “correct conclusion.”  Ed Fitzgerald, a spokesman for law firm Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP, which represents Associated Newspapers,
declined to comment on the ruling.  Lawyers for Rothschild didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  