-- Rowan Says It’s Open to Tax-Advantaged Partnership for Its Rigs
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-03-19T01:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/rowan-says-it-s-open-to-tax-advantaged-partnership-for-its-rigs.html
Rowan Companies Plc (RDC) , the shallow-
water rig contractor building four new ultra-deepwater vessels,
is “open minded” to forming a tax-advantaged partnership for
some of its rigs.  “We’re looking at it,” Chief Executive Officer Matt Ralls
said in an interview at the Howard Weil energy conference in New
Orleans. “If it proves to be an acceptable investment vehicle
at a lower cost of capital, we would study it further.”  Master-limited partnerships, or MLPs, don’t pay federal
income taxes and distribute most of their available cash to
holders of their units, which are similar to shares in a
corporation. More companies are placing assets into partnerships,
allowing them to maintain control while taking advantage of the
tax-sheltered structure.  An MLP works best when it has assets with a lot of contract
backlog, Ralls. Having signed one of its four ultra-deepwater
rigs so far, the company wouldn’t have enough vessels to put
into a partnership today, he said.  “We are interested,” Ralls said. “We’re just not going
to be pioneers on MLPs.”  Rowan, which has shallow-water rigs from the U.S. Gulf of
 Mexico  to Southeast Asia, will let another company prove the
effectiveness of the structure first, he said.  Largest Offshore  Transocean Ltd., the world’s largest offshore rig
contractor, is “quite seriously” studying whether to put three
ultra-deepwater rigs into a partnership,  Chief Financial
Officer Esa Ikaeheimonen told analysts and investors on a March
4 conference call. Ikaeheimonen worked at  Norway ’s  Seadrill Ltd. (SDRL) 
when that company put some of its rigs into a partnership last
year.  Ralls, who will be retiring as chief executive officer in
mid-2014, said he’s “personally skeptical” how well drilling
rigs work for an MLP.  “The jury’s still out on the efficacy of the Seadrill”
partnership, Ralls said. “When you look at the way their stock
trades, it’s not clear they’ve improved that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  