-- Russian Bank Chief Says Cyprus Deposit Tax Plan Discriminatory
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-19T14:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/russian-bank-chief-says-cyprus-deposit-tax-plan-discriminatory.html
Artem Konstandian, president of
Russian lender OAO Promsvyazbank, said the proposed deposit tax
in Cyprus is “discriminatory” because it penalizes its
customers for the Mediterranean island’s economic problems.  Promsvyazbank Cyprus is a unit of the Russian lender and
should not be subject to the so-called country risk of another
state, Konstandian said in a statement on the lender’s website.  The levy represents “an expropriation of money” from
honest market participants, according to Konstandian. The
measures “violate rights of depositors” and do not comply with
“rules of trade,” he added.  Finance ministers in the euro area reached an agreement on
March 16 that will impose a tax on depositors in Cypriot banks,
which are estimated by Moody’s Investors Service to have held
about $31 billion in Russian funds as of the end of last year.
Russian President Vladimir Putin yesterday called the proposal
“unfair, unprofessional and dangerous.”  Cyprus’s parliament may reject the proposal in a vote
today, according to President Nicos Anastasiades. Banks in the
country are closed until at least March 21.  Moscow-based Promsvyazbank is among at least a dozen
prominent Russian lenders that have Cypriot units. State-
controlled VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, appears to
be the “most exposed” to risks in Cyprus because its local
unit manages about $13.8 billion of assets, Moody’s said. OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, and OAO Gazprombank, the
country’s third-biggest, also have operations on the island.  Billionaire Brothers  “It’s not discriminatory against Russians because
presumably it applies to Ukrainians, Greeks and whoever has
deposits there,” Tom Adshead, chief strategist at Kazimir
Partners, a Moscow-based hedge fund, said by phone. “The plan
is rather to punish the Cypriots and to make it impossible to
let their banking system become much bigger that it should be.”  Billionaire brothers Alexei and Dmitry Ananyev set up
Promsvyazbank, Russia’s tenth-largest lender by assets according
to Interfax, in 1995. Alexey has overseen Promsvyazbank’s board
since 2006, while Dmitry represents the northern Russian region
of Yamal-Nenets in the upper house of Parliament.  The brothers, who started out importing computers in the
early 1990s, paid about 150 million euros ($194 million) in June
to buy back a 14.4 percent stake in the bank that  Commerzbank
AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, acquired in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  