-- Russia’s Cyprus Reaction Smacks of Hypocrisy
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-03-19T16:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/russia-s-cyprus-reaction-smacks-of-hypocrisy.html
For a country whose government and
banks reneged on tens of billions of dollars in foreign
obligations during its own financial crisis in 1998,  Russia  has
responded with incongruous fury to the prospect of a similar
event in Cyprus.  Russians have a peculiar vested interest in the European
Union’s efforts to rescue the island nation’s banking system. To
pay its share of the bailout, the Cypriot government is planning
to impose a tax on depositors, many of which are Russian
entities that have long used Cyprus as an offshore haven. The
levy could wipe out about 10 percent of the  estimated  $19
billion in deposits of Russian companies, and possibly more.  A 10 percent haircut would be mild compared with the 51
percent Russia  took  from investors after it defaulted on its
domestic bonds back in 1998 and the even larger losses suffered
by depositors in some Russian banks. Still, Russian politicians,
from President  Vladimir Putin  on down, have harshly denounced
the Cypriot plan.  Putin  called  it “unfair, unprofessional and dangerous,”
according to the RIA Novosti news service. Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev termed it “confiscatory.” Parliament speaker  Sergei Naryshkin  said the proposed levy was tantamount to
nationalization: “The Cypriot authorities consider the money
deposited by people in banks as their own.” Finance Minister
Anton Siluanov  issued  a veiled threat that Russia, which has
loaned Cyprus $2.5 billion, might not take part in further
rescue packages if the deposit levy is approved.  Ultra-nationalist deputy  Vladimir Zhirinovsky , for his
part, came to parliament dressed for a funeral. “I put on a
black suit because this is a day of mourning for the Republic of
Cyprus, for the euro area, for private property, for the
European Union,” he said,  according  to RIA Novosti. “We do not
gloat about it because it’s mainly our depositors and it’s our
nation’s money regardless of how they made it here.”  Wealthy Russian individuals do not, as a rule, keep their
private fortunes in Cypriot banks. They prefer stronger
financial institutions or less transparent jurisdictions. Yet
Russian corporations have used Cyprus extensively since the
1990s. The island uses  English law , convenient for settling
disputes. The corporate tax, at 10 percent, is among  Europe ’s
lowest. Nonresidents’ dividends are exempt from withholding tax.
The authorities have always been pro-business and, according to
people conducting their affairs in Cyprus, willing to turn a
blind eye when necessary.  As a result, in the third quarter of 2012 (the last period
for which data from the Russian Central Bank are available),
Cyprus was Russia’s second biggest source of foreign direct
investment after Luxembourg. Since 2007, more than $114 billion
has flowed into Russia from the small Mediterranean nation,
practically all of it Russian money paid as dividends by Cyprus-
registered holding companies and reinvested into Russian
production assets. Much of that money comes into Russia in the
form of loans, an approach that minimizes corporate taxes. All
of Russia’s big metals exporters and its biggest independent
natural gas producer, Novatek, have corporate structures and
bank accounts in Cyprus.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who has used Cyprus
extensively throughout his business career, called the proposed
tax “a true financial landmine under the so-far-united Europe,”
 according  to the Kommersant newspaper. Saying he will not be
affected personally, Prokhorov claimed the moral high ground:
“This assaults the foundations of Western civilization, the
sanctity of private property. We have gone through these kinds
of things in Soviet times, when the authorities conducted
confiscatory monetary reforms. It is well known where that led.”  Sergei Dubinin, chairman of VTB, the state-owned Russian
bank that has a large subsidiary on Cyprus, struck a similar
tone,  saying  the shareholders of the Cyprus banks that caused
the financial crisis had to shoulder responsibility, rather than
pass it on to all depositors.  Cypriot lawyers running the special purpose vehicles for
Russian companies have been trying to provide what comfort they
can to their clients. A businessman forwarded to me a letter he
had received from his solicitor, Stelios Americanos.  “Most of Cyprus political parties have expressed their
disapproval of the particular measure,” Americanos wrote. “The
main concern are the foreign depositors as the impact of such
levy, if imposed, shall need to be minimized. The discussions
are ongoing with all the political parties, the government, the
Eurogroup, under the watchful eye of the Russian Federation.”  Some senior Russian experts, notably former finance
minister  Alexei Kudrin , doubt that the measure will pass.  Yet there are those in Russia who would welcome the Cypriot
tax despite the obvious damage to the nation’s corporations.
Yevgeny Savchenko, governor of the Southern region of Belgorod
and a Putin ally, suggested that Cyprus confiscate 70 percent of
Russians’ deposits on the island. “That would help separate
patriots from Cypriots,” he quipped,  according  to the RBC news
service.  Many Russian bloggers are certain that the tax proposal is
specifically aimed at corrupt Russian bureaucrats and
capitalists. “Germany, France and  Great Britain  have decided to
resolve Cyprus’s, and some of the EU’s, debt problem at the
expense of Russian criminals and corrupt bureaucrats,”  wrote 
Valery Morozov, a businessman who fled Russia after accusing
Kremlin officials of corruption, in his LiveJournal blog. “The
policies of Putin and his inner circle, based on criminal ethics
and not laws or citizens’ interests, had one day to clash with
the political and economic interests of the rest of the world.”  Other bloggers have taken a more light-hearted approach.
One joke  making the rounds : “The Russian government is worried
about the behavior of Cyprus, where members of the Russian
government have been hiding money from the Russian government.”  As the Cyprus situation unfolds, Russians will need to make
up their minds whether they should protest against a European
attack on their country’s national interests, gloat at the
plight of unscrupulous capitalists and corrupt officials, or
bemoan the trampling of sacred property rights. In any case,
Cyprus is likely finished as a haven for Russian capital. Tax
consultants in Cyprus are already suggesting their clients take
a closer look at Switzerland and Liechtenstein.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 