-- Russia Sees Win on Cyprus as Europe Targets Depositors
-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-19T17:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/russia-sees-win-on-cyprus-as-europe-targets-depositors.html
Russia  stands to benefit from the
plan to tax  bank deposits  in Cyprus, which makes other economies
look good by comparison, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said.  “I take what’s happening now as a clear signal that
there’s something to compare against when we’re being criticized
for a bad investment climate,” Shuvalov said to reporters today
in Kazan, about 800 kilometers (500 miles) east of Moscow. “We
have something to point to. When things were bad for us, we
never dared to do anything like this.”  Russia, which defaulted on $40 billion of domestic debt in
1998, discussed with the European Union and Cyprus the
possibility of easing the terms of a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.2
billion) loan it made to the Mediterranean island nation. Cyprus
Finance Minister Michael Sarris is flying to Moscow tonight to
save those talks after after President  Vladimir Putin  called a
plan to “bail in” depositors “unfair.”  “It’s bad that someone’s going to lose something, but from
the point of view of what Russia stands to gain, Russia is more
likely gaining than losing,” Shuvalov said. The country may
also see some inflows of capital as investors leave Cyprus.  Cypriot lawmakers may shoot down the unprecedented levy on
bank deposits, risking the island’s membership in the euro.  The “feeling I’m having is that the house is going to
reject it because they feel and think it isn’t just and that
it’s against the interest of Cyprus,” Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades told  Sweden ’s TV4 channel in an interview today.
State-run RIK TV showed the debate beginning in Nicosia.  Russian Money  European countries including  Germany  have demanded that
Russia be part of any new rescue package to Cyprus. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in January demanded an
investigation into whether Russia is using the island as a
destination for  money laundering . Cypriot officials deny the
country is a haven for illegal money.  Russia may reconsider its role in the Cyprus bailout
because it wasn’t consulted over the deposit tax plan, state
news service RIA Novosti cited Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
as saying yesterday.  Siluanov is scheduled to meet Sarris in Moscow tomorrow
morning, his said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Kazan, Russia at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  