-- Ryanair Weighs Boeing 737 Max After Record European Order
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-19T20:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ryanair-places-15-6-billion-order-for-175-boeing-737-800-planes.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  may buy as
many as 200 of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s newest narrow-body jet, the 737 Max,
later this year after placing a record-setting order for the
model that’s being phased out.  Ryanair’s commitment to buy 175 of the existing 737-800
models, with a catalog value of $15.6 billion, is Boeing’s
biggest European sale and will let the Dublin-based carrier add
discount flights in markets vacated by full-service rivals.
Ryanair may become a “lead customer” for the re-engined Max,
with an order of 100 to 200 by year-end, Chief Executive Officer
 Michael O’Leary  said.  “Today’s order is very much an interim order and a
forerunner for what I very much hope will be an order for Max
aircraft once our teams finish their study,” O’Leary said at a
press conference in New York with Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President Ray Conner. “We both hope the joint team we’ve
established will report back and come up with a deal for a Max
order sometime before the end of this calendar year.”  A Max order may help Boeing catch up to Airbus SAS’s new
A320neo, which has outsold its rival and is set to enter service
two years earlier. Airbus’s sales success makes it unlikely for
Ryanair to get the discount it would want to buy the plane,
O’Leary told analysts.  Europe ’s biggest low-cost carrier last placed a major order
in 2005 and has been contemplating a new deal for more than
three years with deliveries from Boeing having ended in
December. The carrier got a heavy discount on the last purchase
and the new accord has similar terms, with “slightly higher
prices,” O’Leary said.  Price War  Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy  spoke last week
of an ongoing price war between the two planemakers, though
Conner told investors March 4 that the aggressive pricing
pressure to get initial Max orders had subsided. He also said
Chicago-based Boeing would “be OK” on the so-called bridge
pricing on the final orders for the current model.  Ryanair rose 4.8 percent to 6.08 euros in Dublin. Boeing
advanced 0.4 percent to $85.51 at the close in New York.  The new jets, scheduled for delivery between late 2014 and
2018, will permit 5 percent annual growth and take passenger
numbers above 100 million from 79 million in 2012, Ryanair said.
A Max order would address expansion through 2019.  “This puts Ryanair back on a growth track which they were
at risk of not seeing,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  with a buy rating on the stock.  Ryanair Growth  O’Leary said the past year or so has seen a “significant
uptick” in growth opportunities, with the failure of Spanair SA
and Hungary’s Malev Zrt. plus job cuts at carriers spanning SAS
AB of Scandinavia, the Iberia unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG)  and discount rival  Air Berlin Plc. (AB1)   “We needed this order to fill the gaps left by the likes
of Iberia in Spain and SAS in Scandinavia as the network
airlines concentrate on long-haul and feeder services,” he said
in an interview.  Some 75 of the new planes will replace older ones, with the
rest adding capacity, taking the total toward 400 aircraft, all
of them 737-800s. The fleet might grow to more than 500
jetliners with a follow-on order that could reach a list price
of more than $20 billion.  Shopping Around  Ryanair had said it was also considering Airbus A320
planes, which have nine fewer seats, as well as the C919 from
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of  China , a new entrant to the single-
aisle market. Another option was to grab jet orders from rivals
struggling to fund purchases, though secondhand prices are high,
making that option unattractive, O’Leary said.  The fleet deal will be funded from cash flow and debt, with
some aircraft sold under so-called sale-and-leaseback
arrangements. With capital outlays increasing this year and
next, the Irish airline will hold off on further share
repurchases and special dividends until 2015, it said.  Today’s order, Boeing’s largest this year, comes after
Airbus won commitments for more than 400 A320 aircraft in the
past week from  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  and Lion
Mentari Airlines PT of  Indonesia .  The Ryanair contract helps fill up remaining delivery
positions at Boeing as the U.S. manufacturer seeks to smooth the
production transition from the current 737 to the Max model.  “We didn’t have a lot of open slots anyway, but this
pretty much closes the gap we did have,” Boeing’s Conner said.
“We have a few more left over, but not that much.”  The team evaluating the Max is probing several issues
including whether buying the heavier model makes sense, since it
will incur higher airport landing charges, O’Leary said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  