-- Saab Says Gripen Export Chances Rise as F-35 Buyers Review Plans
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-19T16:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/saab-says-gripen-export-chances-rise-as-f-35-buyers-review-plans.html
Saab AB (SAABB)  says sales prospects for
its Gripen fighter are improving as country’s such as  Denmark 
and Canada reconsider buying the  Lockheed Martin (LMT)  Corp. F-35
Joint Strike Fighter and others set fighter purchase plans.  Sales of current model Gripens and the NG, the next
generation model, may exceed 300 units in the next two decades,
Eddy de La Motte, head of Gripen Exports said today. A lease of
fighters to Malaysia, a new sale to  Finland  and a follow-on deal
with Thailand are possible, he said in an interview.  European and U.S. combat jet makers such as  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
Lockheed Martin and  European Aeronautic , Defence & Space Co. are
battling in numerous overseas markets as domestic orders come to
an end, risking the closure of production facilities. Saab
secured Gripen’s future with an agreement from its home country,
Sweden, and Switzerland to jointly develop the new version to be
delivered from 2018.  “We can now offer a fixed price, fixed performance and
fixed timetable,” de la Motte said. “The outlook is better
than anything I’ve seen.”  Canada opened talks with Saab after the country in December
decided to review options amid concerns over mounting costs for
the F-35 it was set to buy. “We have got a formal request,” de
la Motte said, while adding a decision has not been taken to
mount a sales campaign.  “ Canada  has strong ties to the U.S. and we are really
looking at trying to assess our chances,” he said.  More Bullish  The Stockholm-based company is more bullish about the
outlook in Denmark, another F-35 program partner, where the
government said last week it would pick a combat aircraft in
2015. “It is ideal timing,” de la Motte said.  Brazil is among the country’s also considering Gripen. The
government recently asked Saab and rival bidders Boeing and
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  to extend their offers beyond a March
deadline as it considers its plans, de la Motte said.  A lease to Malaysia would be arranged through the Swedish
government, rather than Saab directly and may involve as many as
20 planes, he said. The  Czech Republic , a current lessor of
Gripens, is also in talks with Sweden to extend its use of the
jet.  Contract timing, particularly in Eastern Europe, is in flux
because of budget pressures, de la Motte said. Prospects there
include sales to Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia, he said.  Saab secured a 47.2 billion Swedish krona ($7.32 billion)
development pact for the Gripen NG in February and expects to
book an order to build 60 of them before year end, Chief
Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe said at the time. Switzerland
plans to buy 22 aircraft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  