-- Sainsbury Reports 3.6% Increase in Fourth-Quarter Sales
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-19T10:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/sainsbury-reports-3-6-percent-increase-in-fourth-quarter-sales.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket chain, reported the strongest sales growth
in more than two years as the grocer avoided the fallout from
 Europe ’s horse meat crisis and sold more non-food products.  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 3.6 percent,
excluding revenue from fuel, in the 10 weeks ended March 16,
London-based Sainsbury said today. That beat the 2 percent
median estimate of seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg and was
the fastest growth since the third quarter of 2011.  Sainsbury shares  rose as much as 3.1 percent to the highest
in more than two years. The retailer was the only one of
Britain’s four biggest supermarkets to gain market share in the
12 weeks ended Feb. 17, Kantar Worldpanel said Feb. 26. As the
industry struggled to cope with the horse-meat crisis, Sainsbury
said none of its products contained traces of equine DNA.  Chief Executive Officer Justin King said today that the
grocer is reaping the reward of a long-term investment in
“supply chain and sourcing credentials.” Still, the horse meat
crisis didn’t play “a substantial part” in the sales
performance, he said on a conference call.  Sainsbury has carried out DNA testing on meat products for
more than 10 years. Its fresh chicken has been 100 percent
British since 2003, while all the fresh beef is sourced from the
U.K. and Ireland. Larger competitor  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  became the first
grocer to withdraw frozen beef products from its shelves in mid-
January and only after that introduced DNA testing on all meat
products, while pledging to buy more British meat.  Store Extensions  “Sainsbury has avoided being implicated in the horse meat
debacle and so its sales growth is comfortably the strongest of
the big four,” said Andrew Gwynn, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas in London. “In fairness, horse meat likely isn’t the
only driver here.”  Sainsbury said its general merchandise and clothing
business is growing at nearly three times the rate of food and
reached 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) of annual sales in
February. About 0.5 percentage point of the same-store sales
growth was due to store extensions, the same as the previous
quarter and less than in the first half, the company said.  Sainsbury rose to 376.4 pence, the highest since March 4,
2011, and was up 2.2 percent at 373.2 pence as of 10:10 a.m.  The shares have gained 23 percent in the past year.
Speculation of a bid by Sainsbury’s largest individual
shareholder, the Qatar Investment Authority, for  Marks & Spencer
Group Plc (MKS) , may revive takeover speculation for Sainsbury and
boost the stock further, according to Exane’s Gwynn.  ‘Very Supportive’  Chief Financial Officer  John Rogers  declined to comment
today on whether the company has talked to the QIA over the past
week about its commitment to Sainsbury.  “They’ve always been very supportive of our business and
we communicate with them like we communicate with all our
shareholders,” he said.  Sainsbury’s King said today that the grocer is unlikely to
respond to this month’s introduction by Tesco of a new price
comparison program. Tesco’s Price Promise extends to own-label
products, unlike Sainsbury’s Brand Match campaign, which the
retailer has been running on branded goods since October 2011.  “You will have seen a significant conversation around
Tesco’s price match on how on earth one truly and fairly
compares own-label and I would share that concern,” King said
on the conference call.  “The vast majority of our own-label is not comparable to
that of our own competitors for supply-chain reasons,” he said.
Sainsbury will be “pointing out to Tesco where we believe their
own-label products are being unfairly compared to ours.”  For the full-year, comparable sales, excluding fuel, rose
1.8 percent, Sainsbury said.  King is “comfortable” with analysts’ profit estimates for
the year, he said in an interview with CNBC.  “Sainsbury’s acceleration highlights the relative ease
with which it is hitting its earnings expectations,” Alastair Johnston, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  