-- Saudi Princes Lose Bid for Immunity in U.K. Share Dispute
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-19T14:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/saudi-princes-lose-bid-for-immunity-in-u-k-share-dispute.html
Two Saudi Arabian princes lost an
attempt to use sovereign immunity to keep private details of
their dispute in the U.K. with a Jordanian businessmen over a
jointly controlled company.  Neither Prince Abdulaziz bin Mishal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud
or his father Prince Mishal bin Abdulaziz Al Saud “can properly
be regarded as members of King Abdullah’s family forming part of
his household,” Judge Geoffrey Vos in  London  said, referring to
the Saudi monarch in his ruling refusing to grant the request.  Sovereign immunity prevents heads of state or monarchs from
being directly prosecuted in civil and criminal proceedings.  The dispute pits Global Torch Ltd., a British Virgin
Islands incorporated company in which Prince Abdulaziz has a 50
percent stake, against Apex Global Management Ltd. Apex is run
by a Jordanian businessman and incorporated in the Seychelles.  Global Torch and Apex, principal shareholders of U.K.-based
Fi Call Ltd., accused each other of misconduct, wrongdoing and
misappropriation of funds in connection to four separate sales
of company shares, according to a prior London court  ruling .  British courts are increasingly being used by wealthy
foreigners to adjudicate their global disputes, being seen as a
fairer forum to air grievances than their home countries. In
August,  Boris Berezovsky , who fled  Russia  and now lives in exile
in the U.K., lost one of the largest civil suits ever heard in
Britain to  Roman Abramovich , the billionaire owner of Chelsea
Football Club.  ‘Flatly Inconsistent’  In the judgment handed down in February, the Saudi princes
lost an application to have parts of the trial held in private
to prevent what they called “scandalous and outrageous,”
allegations being made against them from becoming public.  The princes’ evidence “evolved” through the immunity
hearing, Vos said in his written ruling. Prince Mishal’s
story “changed significantly” and was “flatly inconsistent,”
with the way he “originally put his case.”  Apex has “always had the utmost confidence in, and respect
for, the integrity of the English judicial system,”  Steven
Morris , a lawyer representing the company, said in an e-mailed
statement. “That confidence has been vindicated.”  Vos granted the princes permission to appeal his ruling
today.  Anna Ward, a spokeswoman for Clifford Chance LLP, the
princes’ lawyers, declined to immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  