-- Scene Last Night: Giving Touted at New Manager Awards
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-03-19T15:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/scene-last-night-giving-touted-at-new-manager-awards.html
San Francisco-based Marcato Capital
Management LLC was named Best Emerging Manager last night at the
first annual  Global Emerging Manager Awards  presented by S&P
Capital IQ and New Legacy Group LLC.  During dinner at the Waldorf Astoria, Thomas J. Tierney,
chairman and co-founder of the Bridgespan Group, led a panel
about philanthropy based on the book “Give Smart,” which he
co-authored with Joel L. Fleishman.  The idea, said Joseph Weilgus, chief executive officer of
New Legacy, was to inspire the next John Paulsons gathered in
the room.  Panelist Justin Rockefeller advised guests to “look for
what you’re uniquely qualified to do.” Rockefeller, a board
member on the investment committee of the Rockefeller Brothers
Fund, also suggested making a list of causes and issues you want
to support.  That way, he said, “your individual giving can match your
values, rather than what your friends asked you to write a check
for.”  Among those who came to the stage to accept awards -- to
music that sounded like a “Mad Men” theme or the background at
a spa -- were Marcato Chief Financial Officer Richard Van Doren,
Vernon West, CEO of Skyline Capital Management; brothers
Santiago and Daniel Osorio of Andean Capital Management; and
Philip Garthe, chief operating and compliance officer of HG Vora
Capital Management.  Nominees represented a range of investment approaches. Brad Lawson, portfolio manager at Point Defiance Capital Management
LP, said his fund focuses on microcap “so I can get on the
phone with the CEO.”  ‘Small, Nimble’  “We’re small, nimble and generally agnostic regarding
sectors,” Steve Richardson of New York-based Golub Capital
Synexus Fund said. “And we look at the tail risks.”  Michael Ginnings, a colleague of Richardson’s, summed up
some of the pressures of the industry. “You can’t really have
an off day,” he said.  The awards program considered funds with a less than three
year track record and assets under management of less than $500
million, as well as funds with any track record and less than
$300 million in assets under management.  Funds in nine categories were honored:  Credit: Premium Point Mortgage Credit Fund, New York.  Event-driven: HG Vora Special Opportunities Fund, New York.  Global macro: Trend Macro Fund LP, Greenwich,  Connecticut .  Long-short equity: Point Defiance Microcap Fund LP, Tacoma,
 Washington  (“the only hedge fund in Tacoma,” said Lawson).  Multi-strategy/arbitrage: Andean Capital Management,
Bogota.  Asia-focused: SFP Value Realization Fund Ltd.,  Singapore .  Emerging markets-focused: Skyline Master Fund,  London .  Europe-focused: Permian Investment Partners, New York.  Global-focused: Brookfield Global Listed Infrastructure
Fund,  Chicago .  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 