-- Senator Inhofe Says He’ll Delay Vote on Jewell Nomination
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-03-19T23:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/senator-inhofe-says-he-ll-delay-vote-on-jewell-nomination.html
Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma
Republican, says he’ll delay a Senate vote on Sally Jewell’s
nomination as interior secretary until he gets assurances she’ll
address his concerns about some home-state environmental issues
if she’s elevated into the job.  In a letter prepared for Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, Inhofe said his demands include that the Interior
Department’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service soften restrictions
on oil and gas development in Eastern Oklahoma that has been
barred because of the presence of an endangered species, the
American Burying Beetle.  “This is hurting my state’s local economy and is
preventing many well paying jobs from being created,” Inhofe
wrote, arguing that the endangered species listing is outdated.
A copy of his letter was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Inhofe’s objections threaten to slow full Senate
consideration of Jewell’s nomination after the Energy and
Natural Resources Committee votes on the nomination on March 21.
Holds are a tradition that allow any senator to delay action,
although they are often dropped under pressure from other
lawmakers or after some kind of accommodation is struck.  Jewell, 57, is the president of  Recreational Equipment Inc .
If confirmed, she would run the sprawling, 70,000-employee
department that manages national parks, 500 million acres of
mineral-rich lands, Arctic drilling and  duck stamps  for wetland
conservation.  President  Barack Obama  nominated Jewell on Feb. 6. If
approved by the Senate, she will succeed Ken Salazar in the
cabinet-level post.  Republican Senator Roy Blunt of  Missouri  has placed a hold
on Obama’s nomination of Gina McCarthy as head of the EPA until
the senator gets an update from the administration on its plans
for a flood-control project in southern Missouri, Bloomberg BNA
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  