-- Republicans Say Perez Faces Questions Over Housing Case
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/senate-republicans-say-perez-faces-questions-on-st-paul-case.html
Senate Republicans say Thomas Perez, a Justice Department official who’s been nominated to
lead the U.S. Labor Department, faces tough questions about the
role he played negotiating a deal that caused the city of St.
Paul,  Minnesota , to agree to drop a Supreme Court case.  Senators including Pat Roberts of  Kansas , a top Republican
on the Senate labor committee that will consider the nomination,
say they want to examine whether Perez acted improperly in his
role in St. Paul’s decision to drop the high-court appeal. Fair-
lending advocates said the case would have harmed a central
enforcement tenet in housing discrimination law.  “It’s of real concern to us, and it’s one thing in a long
list of things where we think this person is ill-advised,”
Roberts said in an interview.  Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the Democratic chairman of the
labor panel, said Perez did nothing wrong in brokering a deal
that had St. Paul drop its appeal in exchange for the Justice
Department declining to join two whistle-blower lawsuits against
the city. Those two lawsuits alleged the city misused federal
housing dollars and might have secured as much as $180 million,
according to the Republican lawmakers probing the case.  Under the False Claims Act, the Justice Department can
decide to join, or intervene, privately filed whistle-blower
cases. The department recovered a record $3.3 billion in suits
filed by whistle-blowers in the 2012 fiscal year, the agency
said in December.  ‘Nothing There’  “We’ll address all that,” Harkin said of his committee’s
confirmation proceedings. “I’ve looked into it and there’s
nothing there. Everything was proper. I think Tom Perez is an
outstanding individual, and when all this dust settles I think
people will recognize that he’s an excellent person to take over
the Department of Labor.”  If confirmed by the Senate, Perez would replace Hilda Solis, who resigned in January, and would play a prominent part
in pushing President  Barack Obama ’s agenda on issues including
an immigration overhaul and raising the nation’s minimum wage to
$9 an hour from $7.25. Perez, 51, has led the Justice
Department’s civil rights unit since 2009.  Obama nominated Perez on March 18 even as congressional
investigators continue to press for more details about his role
in the St. Paul deal.  Perez played a major role in securing the agreement,
according to congressional investigators. In a September 2012
letter, four Republican lawmakers said documents they had
obtained show Perez “orchestrated a deal to induce the city to
drop its Supreme Court challenge.”  Involvement Questioned  The documents included e-mails from career attorneys at the
department questioning why senior Justice Department officials
were getting involved in the process, according to the
congressional letter. In October 2011, lawyers in the
department’s civil division recommended the government join one
of the whistle-blower lawsuits. By February, that decision had
been reversed, lawmakers said. On Feb. 10, the city requested
the Supreme Court dismiss its appeal.  Justice Department officials said Perez’s actions were
cleared by an ethics official and that the deal was not, as
congressional investigators have said, a “quid pro quo.”  “The resolution reached in these cases was in the best
interests of the U.S,” said Dena Iverson, a Justice Department
spokeswoman. “The decision was appropriate, and followed an
examination of the relevant facts, legal and policy
considerations at issue, and made after Mr. Perez had consulted
with career ethics officers.”  ‘Quid Pro Quo’  The building confirmation battle is being joined by other
Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee, where Senator
Charles Grassley of  Iowa , the top Republican, is accusing Perez
of arranging a “quid pro quo” deal. Jeff Sessions, an Alabama
Republican who also serves on the panel, said the St. Paul
matter is “a very big deal” that threatens to derail the
confirmation.  “It was the wrong thing to do,” Sessions said in an
interview. “It was a highly important legal issue that he was
afraid he would lose, so he basically created an incentive --
some might call it a bribe -- for a city not to pursue this
legal case.”  Senator Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican and member of
the labor committee, said the St. Paul negotiations by Perez add
to a list of reasons why he questions whether the nominee should
be elevated to run the Labor Department.  Other Objections  “Everything I know raises questions about his ability to
serve as labor secretary, and he’s going to have to satisfy me
that he has qualifications that I don’t think he has,” he said.  The deal between the Justice Department and the city isn’t
the only thing Republicans have objected in Perez’s background.
The nomination was met by opposition from Republicans, including
one -- Senator David Vitter -- who has committed to blocking
Perez’s confirmation over the enforcement of a voting rights law
in Vitter’s home state of  Louisiana .  Perez comes from a Justice Department office with a history
of political infighting. Cases specifically handled by the
voting unit within the civil-rights division have drawn partisan
criticism which has carried over into the lawyers and employees
in the unit, according to an inspector general’s report released
last week.  “We believe the high partisan stakes associated with some
of the statutes that the Voting Section enforces have
contributed to polarization and mistrust within the section,”
the report said.  ‘Staff Conflict’  Perez, in his response to the report, said “without
question, the voting section in January 2009 had low morale and
an unacceptable degree of staff conflict.” The report said the
civil-rights division under his watch has improved and that many
of the issues that plagued the division during the Bush
administration, including hiring practices, are in better shape.  Still, the report casts blame on both the Bush and Obama
administrations for the polarized nature of the division, and
Perez acknowledged there was more work to be done.  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte has
pledged to hold a hearing on the report, and Representative
Frank Wolf, who is chairman of a subcommittee that oversees the
Justice Department’s budget, said an “outside, independent
panel” should conduct a review of the unit and its policies.
Goodlatte and Wolf are both Republicans from  Virginia .  Ten current or former state attorneys general pushed back
on the idea that Perez has been overtly political, saying the
lawyer has been “fundamentally fair” in his role at the
Justice Department.  “He is committed to justice and the rule of law and able
to work across party and philosophical lines to achieve just
results,” the current or former state officials said yesterday
in a statement. The group included attorneys general Kamala Harris of  California , Beau Biden of  Delaware , and Lisa Madigan
of  Illinois  -- all Democrats -- and Mark Shurtleff, the former
Republican attorney general of  Utah .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  