-- Serb Central Bank Says 2-Week FX Swaps to Ease Liquidity Trouble
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-19T16:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/serb-central-bank-says-2-week-fx-swaps-to-ease-liquidity-trouble.html
Serbia ’s central bank will hold
two-week foreign-exchange swaps this week for the first time
since 2009 to ease liquidity problems in the market and help
banks improve asset management.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will start offering
foreign-exchange swaps March 22, in addition to three-month
transactions, in response to demand from some commercial banks,
it said today in e-mailed answers to Bloomberg questions.  The bank chose the two-week derivative because “shorter
maturities of FX swaps could help banks as an additional
possibility for liquidity management, with the central bank
redirecting excess funds from one group of banks to another,
with an overall neutral effect on the banking system,” its
press office said.  The bank first launched foreign-exchange swaps in 2009 as
part of its response to the global financial crisis aimed at
stabilizing the Serbian financial system at a time of capital
outflows that weakened the dinar. This time, the swaps have
nothing to do with exchange-rate risks, the bank said.  The global financial crisis weighed on the Serbian
financial market “in the form of tighter credit-risk assessment
of contracted parties in interbank dinar or foreign currency
trades,” the central bank said. Tighter risk assessments
undermined some banks’ “ability to transact with other banks.”  The central bank reported no demand for three-month swaps
at a March 12 auction, after selling 1 million euros ($1.3
million) at 27.950 swap points and buying 1 million euros at an
average of 28.736 swap points on March 5. The three-month
Belgrade Interbank Offered Rate, or BELIBOR, stood at 11.36
percent as of 11:16 a.m. in Belgrade today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The two-week BELIBOR stood at 10.28
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  