-- Shanghai Greenland to IPO Unit in Hong Kong, Eyes U.S. Property
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/shanghai-greenland-to-ipo-unit-in-hong-kong-eyes-u-s-property.html
Shanghai   Greenland  Group Co., the
builder of China’s third-tallest tower, said it’s planning to
list a unit in Hong Kong this year as it seeks to enter the U.S.
property market.  The state-owned developer will set up a subsidiary in Hong
Kong, which will include some of its assets abroad, and list the
unit on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange this year, Chairman Zhang Yuliang said in an interview in Shanghai yesterday, without
giving a timetable. Zhang declined to say how much money the
developer is looking to raise in the IPO of the unit that will
focus on doing business in foreign countries.  Shanghai Greenland, which announced a A$480 million ($498
million) redevelopment in Sydney last week, plans to invest in
hotel and residential projects on the West Coast of the U.S. and
expects to complete the deals by the end of the year, Zhang said.
The company joins other Chinese developers, including  China
Vanke Co. (000002) , entering the U.S. as the government puts curbs on
residential property at home.  “We will invest in countries where Chinese people go to
the most; we are looking for a Chinese market that’s extended
abroad,” Zhang said, citing growing numbers of Chinese buyers.
“We have strong brand awareness among Chinese customers and
know well about what they really want.”  Vanke, the biggest developer listed on mainland exchanges,
has entered a residential-property venture in San Francisco with
Tishman Speyer Properties LP, while Xinyuan Real Estate Co. in
September said it was developing a  New York  project.  Foreign Business  Closely held Shanghai Greenland expects revenue from its
foreign business to reach as much as 3 billion  yuan  ($483
million) this year and the portion accounting for total revenue
to grow “steadily” each year, Zhang said. The developer
targets property sales of 150 billion yuan this year, a jump of
39 percent from 2012.  The company invested in a mixed-use project, including
hotels, shopping malls and water amusement parks, in Jeju in
South Korea, and in a hotel in  Frankfurt  last year, said Zhang.  Shanghai Greenland, set up in 1992, said in 2010 that it
will invest 30 billion yuan in a 606-meter skyscraper that is
under construction in the central Chinese city of Wuhan. Once
completed, which is scheduled in 2016, it will only be dwarfed
by the 660-meter Ping An Finance Center in the southern city of
Shenzhen, due to be finished in 2015, and the 632-meter Shanghai
Tower to be completed next year.  China ’s tallest building currently is the 492-meter
Shanghai World Financial Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  