-- Sharp Affirms Operating Profit Goal After Samsung Orders
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-03-19T08:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/sharp-affirms-operating-profit-target-after-samsung-panel-orders.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the unprofitable
Japanese television maker, affirmed its target for a second-half
operating profit as it gets orders from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and tries to meet a condition of bank loans and share sales.  “We’re going ahead with a target to post an operating
profit in the second half,”  Miyuki Nakayama , a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman for Sharp, said by phone today. The electronics
maker agreed this month to supply liquid-crystal displays to
Samsung, including large-sized TV panels, as part of a tieup.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s agreement to pay 5 billion yen ($52
million) of a 9.9 billion yen total investment in the Osaka-
based company partly depends on a profit in the six months
ending March 31, the companies said in December. Becoming
 profitable  is a condition for an extension of 360 billion yen of
loans to Sharp due June 30, a person with direct knowledge of
the matter said in January.  Sharp expects a record full-year net loss of 450 billion
yen and is seeking to raise funds after failing to conclude a
132.5 billion deal with Foxconn Technology Group and its
billionaire founder Terry Gou after almost a year of talks.  Sharp expects a second-half operating profit on orders from
Samsung, Asahi reported earlier today, without attribution.  Shares of Sharp were unchanged at 307 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo. The stock has gained 1.3 percent this year,
 compared  with a 20 percent rise in the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  Qualcomm Delay  Sharp said yesterday Qualcomm’s 5 billion-yen payment was
delayed after it couldn’t meet terms of their original
agreement, including developing production technology for its
Micro Electro Mechanical System displays.  An initial 4.9 billion yen investment by Qualcomm was
completed in December.  Samsung agreed to acquire 3 percent of Sharp for 10.6
billion yen on March 6 as it accelerates a shift toward higher-
end TV sets using organic light-emitting diode technology, or
OLED, which offer sharper, brighter images while consuming less
power.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company, which already buys
screens from Sharp, agreed to the tieup to secure liquid-crystal
displays for smartphones and TVs.  Sharp lost 55 percent of its market value last year and
warned in November there was “material doubt” about its
ability to survive after hemorrhaging 103 billion yen in cash
from operations in the fiscal first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  