-- Shell Bids for North Sea Forties; Surgut Offers Urals Crude
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-19T17:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/shell-bids-for-north-sea-forties-surgut-offers-urals-crude.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  failed to buy
North Sea Forties crude while BP Plc offered the grade
unsuccessfully.  OAO Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s fourth-biggest oil producer,
issued a tender to sell two cargoes of Urals for loading next
month, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  North Sea  Shell bid for Forties for loading April 3 to April 7 at 15
cents less than Dated Brent, a Bloomberg survey of traders and
brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed. That
compares with the two cargoes it bought yesterday at discounts
of 10 cents and 40 cents to the benchmark.  BP did not find a buyer for Forties loading April 3 to
April 5 at 50 cents less than the cash cost of Brent, Forties,
Oseberg and Ekofisk for May, the survey showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days narrowed by 3 cents to a discount of 25 cents a
barrel to Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the smallest discount since March 7.  Brent for May settlement traded at $108.15 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $109 in the previous session. The June
contract was at $107.71, a discount of 44 cents to May.  Buzzard’s share in Forties rose to 40 percent for the week
to March 17, BP said on its website. That’s up from 39 percent
in the previous week and is the most since Feb. 10.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals grade, the
Platts survey showed.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed by 22 cents to $1.38 a barrel, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the smallest differential since Feb. 21.
In northwest  Europe , the  discount  was at $1.90 a barrel,
compared with $1.88 in the previous session.  Surgut is offering one lot to load from Ust-Luga on April 3
to April 4 and the other from Primorsk on April 3 to April 4,
the people said, asking not to be identified as the information
is confidential.  OAO Zarubezhneft is seeking to buy a consignment of the
grade for delivery to Omisalj in  Croatia  from April 13 to April
17, the people said.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 3 cents to $3.26
a barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show. That’s the
lowest since Feb. 28.  Bharat Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s second-biggest state
refiner, issued a tender to buy low-sulfur crude for loading in
the first half of May, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, issued a tender
to buy low-sulfur crude for loading in May or delivery in June,
according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  