-- SingTel Stands to Get Forex Gain in Any Optus Satellite Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-19T09:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/singtel-stands-to-reap-forex-gain-in-any-optus-satellite-sale.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) 
stands to benefit from a 45 percent rise in the Australian
dollar against its home currency in any sale of the Optus
Satellite division it bought in 2001.  A strengthening of the Aussie over the past decade left
revenue at the unit 41 percent higher last year in Singapore
dollar terms than it would have been without the change in
exchange rates. The unit of Southeast  Asia ’s largest phone
company may be worth as much as A$2 billion, Nomura Holdings
Inc. estimates.  SingTel, as the Singapore-based company is known, said
yesterday that it had appointed Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley to conduct a strategic review of the unit.
Potential buyers include European and north American satellite
companies, such as Intelsat Global Holdings SA, Eutelsat SA, SES
SA, and Inmarsat Plc, as well as infrastructure funds, said
Jeffrey Tan, an analyst at OSK Holdings Bhd.  “Those names are trying to widen their footprint in
Asia,” Tan said by phone from  Kuala Lumpur . “The Asian
satellite operators are busy ramping up their own capacity” so
are less credible buyers, he said.  Optus Satellite’s revenue was A$222 million during its 2001
financial year, according to statements filed during Cable &
Wireless Optus Ltd.’s takeover by SingTel. That was worth S$206
million in SingTel’s home currency, based on the  exchange rate 
used during the takeover.  The A$319 million of revenues the division recorded in 2012
was worth S$417 at the company’s reported exchange rate for that
year, 41 percent more than the S$295 million that would have
resulted at 2001 rates.  Aussie Gains  The Australian dollar traded at about 1.296 Singapore
dollars as of 6:15 p.m. Tokyo time, about 45 percent more than
on March 16, 2001, the day Singtel announced its A$17 billion
($17.6 billion) takeover proposal for Cable & Wireless Optus,
which included the satellite business.  “No decision has been reached on the future plans for the
business,” Michele Batchelor, a spokeswoman for SingTel, said
by e-mail. “The Optus Satellite business remains a strong
performer and good investment.”  A sale will face hurdles because of the national security
implications of selling satellites that carry  Australia ’s
defense communications, said  Simon Morris , a Melbourne-based
partner with Corrs Chambers Westgarth who’s given legal advice
on cross-border transactions. It would also need to be approved
under U.S. rules on the export of satellite technology.  Defense Signals  “Everyone reads the headlines saying ‘The next war’s going
to be an I.T. war’,” he said by phone. “In that sense it’s
understandable why there’d be concern over anything that relates
to communications or I.T.”  Approval of the deal would pass through the Foreign
Investment Review Board, a government agency that approves
overseas purchases of Australian assets, Morris said. While it
probably wouldn’t need a separate defense review, as relevant
government agencies are consulted as part of the Board’s usual
process, it would attract more scrutiny because of the nature of
the business, he said.  “Anything that is defense-related, there’d be another
layer over that,” he said. That would reflect “China-type
concerns.”  Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s largest maker of
telecommunications equipment, has been excluded from public
tenders on a state-owned national broadband network being built
in Australia. The decision was taken “in the national
interest,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard said  last March.  Luke Coleman, a Sydney-based spokesmen for Huawei, declined
to comment.  ’Cyber Intrusions’  Optus Satellite’s C1 orbiter carries communications for
Australia’s military, including secure messages and imagery
that’s sent to troops out of sight of Australia’s coast,
according to a  2003 statement  by the country’s defense minister.  Australia’s Defence Department needs to provide written
consent “before any change in the interests of the satellite
can take place,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
ministry. All its contracts relating to the satellite will
expire by the end of this year and the department is evaluating
tenders for future services from Optus, according to the
statement.  Cyber security has become a sticking point in bilateral
talks between China and the U.S. National Security Adviser
Thomas Donilon said March 12.  “Cyber intrusions emanating from China at a very large
scale” are threatening to derail U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
efforts to improve ties between the countries, Donilon said.
Such accusations were groundless and China itself is a victim of
hacking attacks, Premier  Li Keqiang  said March 18.  “The scale of certain countries’ cyber operations and the
nature and level of those intrusions have been substantial,”
 Ross Babbage , a Canberra-based security consultant and former
Australian defense adviser, said by phone. “This has not
facilitated trust in foreign investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  