-- Singh Seeks to Heal Coalition Rift on Sri Lanka as Markets Drop
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-03-19T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/singh-seeks-to-heal-coalition-rift-on-sri-lanka-as-markets-drop.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  will today seek to mend a rift with his biggest ally after
it vowed to quit the ruling coalition over policy on alleged  war
crimes  in Sri Lanka, undermining the minority administration.  Indian stocks and the rupee fell yesterday on concern the
loss of support from the  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam  would weaken
Singh’s efforts to revive growth in the  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy. While the DMK delayed announcing a formal parting and
hinted a compromise was possible if differences were narrowed,
two key regional parties promised the prime minister their
continued backing.  “In the end, an amicable solution will probably be
reached,” said R.K. Gupta, who helps oversee about $645 million
of assets as a New Delhi-based managing director at Taurus Asset
Management Ltd. “This type of event is very destructive for the
economy and how investors see  India .”  Singh is battling to refocus the government ahead of an
election in 2014, end two years of criticism over alleged
corruption and repair a slowing economy. In a signal the DMK was
open to a patch-up, its leader Muthuvel Karunanidhi said he
wouldn’t immediately sever links with Singh’s Congress. The
party has threatened before to quit the alliance, only to
backtrack.  The standoff in India comes as the United Nations Human
Rights Council prepares to vote this week on a U.S.-sponsored
resolution calling on  Sri Lanka  to fully investigate alleged war
crimes by its troops during the final few weeks of the conflict
with Tamil guerrillas in 2009. The southern state of  Tamil Nadu ,
where the DMK is based, shares cultural and religious ties with
Sri Lankan Tamils.  Shares Fall  The benchmark S&P  BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped 1.5 percent in Mumbai
yesterday, the most in three weeks, extending the second-worst
performance among emerging Asian countries this year after
 Malaysia . The rupee weakened 0.4 percent to 54.3750 per dollar
and the yield on 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 rose 2 basis
points to 7.92 percent. India VIX, the benchmark measure for
options prices, rose to the highest level in three weeks.  A weaker government would find it even more difficult to
pass proposed legislation, including bills to increase overseas
investment in pensions and insurance.  The exit of the DMK, one of nine coalition partners in the
governing alliance, would leave Singh 44 seats short of the
halfway mark in the lower house of parliament.  Karunanidhi is demanding India’s parliament vote to condemn
Sri Lanka and is seeking to toughen the resolution to be
presented to the UN agency. Congress leader  Sonia Gandhi 
dispatched her top three ministers, including Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram and Defense Minister A.K. Antony, to
talk with Karunanidhi in Chennai on March 18.  Murdered Child  Sri Lanka’s military and Tamil Tiger fighters probably
committed serious violations of international law in the final
stages of their conflict, resulting in as many as 40,000
civilian deaths, a UN report released in April 2011 said.  A documentary shown at the UN council this month included
images of the bullet-riddled body of a child its makers
identified as the 12-year-old son of slain Tamil Tiger guerrilla
leader Velupillai Prabhakaran. The film shows photographs it
says were taken with the same camera of the boy eating a biscuit
in the custody of Sri Lankan soldiers and later shot dead.  Sri Lanka denies the alleged atrocities in 2009 and has
branded calls for an inquiry as meddling by the international
community. While India supported a similar resolution at last
year’s UN rights council meeting, it is yet to make its
intentions clear ahead of the vote expected this week.  Mayawati Support  The DMK has 18 lawmakers in parliament’s lower house.
Without its support, Singh would be further reliant on the
backing of groups like the Samajwadi Party and the Mayawati’s
Bahujan Samaj Party, which compete for power in the country’s
most populous state,  Uttar Pradesh .  Mayawati speaking to reporters yesterday reiterated her
support for the government.  Karunanidhi has threatened to pull out of the government
before as he fought with Singh’s Congress party over how to
contest a state election. He also pressured the prime minister
ahead of last year’s UN vote.  Relations between the Congress and its southern ally have
been strained since former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , a member of the DMK, was arrested in 2011 in a federal
probe into the 2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses.  Karunanidhi’s daughter and parliamentary lawmaker Kanimozhi
is also among those on trial for colluding to sell spectrum to
unqualified companies for personal benefit.  ‘All Respect’  “There’s going to be a lot of political uncertainty
because of this now,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist with
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “It highlights how politics is
still a big risk in India, particularly given this is a pre-
election year.”  Speaking to reporters yesterday after the DMK announcement,
Chidambaram said the government had received the latest draft of
the U.S. resolution and was studying it to see if it needed
changes.  Karunanidhi’s “statement deserves all respect and we have
taken note of it,” Chidambaram told reporters in New Delhi.
“The stability of the government and the continuance of the
government are not an issue.”  Regarding the DMK’s call for a parliamentary resolution
condemning Sri Lanka, the government had begun consultations
with all parties, Chidambaram said. The finance minister noted
that Karunanidhi had said he could reverse his decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  