-- SocGen Predicts ‘Volcano Eruption’ for Debt: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-19T12:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/socgen-predicts-volcano-eruption-for-debt-south-africa-credit.html
South African bonds face the risk
of a sell-off by foreign investors as the rand’s plunge dims the
allure of the nation’s debt, according to  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   The rand’s 8.2 percent fall against the dollar this year is
the worst of 25 emerging markets monitored by Bloomberg. South
African 10-year yields have climbed 12 basis points this month,
compared with a 13 basis-point drop for similarly-rated  Mexico .  Risks for foreign investors have increased as South  Africa 
posted a current-account deficit close to a four-year high in
the fourth quarter after mining strikes and slower growth in
 Europe  cut exports from Africa’s largest economy. A widening
shortfall requires more foreign inflows to pay for imports, a
source of funds that has dwindled after record 2012 purchases.  “There is trouble brewing in South African markets,”
 Benoit Anne , the London-based head of emerging-markets strategy
at SocGen, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.
“We may be getting closer to a real-money investor
capitulation, the market equivalent of a volcano eruption.”  SocGen is underweight South African bonds in its Emerging-
Market Optimal Local Bond Portfolio. The nation’s debt of all
maturities longer than one year has lost 7.4 percent for dollar
investors this year, the third-worst after  Japan  and the U.K.
among 26 sovereign markets tracked by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Capitulation Unlikely  The rand weakened 0.6 percent to 9.2227 per dollar by 2:33
p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on  government bonds  due February
2023 were unchanged at 6.84 percent. The yield may rise to 6.97
percent by year-end, according to the median estimate of five
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The currency’s decline already reflects the deterioration
in the nation’s economy and the rand is poised to recover, HSBC
Holdings Plc analysts Di Luo, Murat Toprak and Murat Ulgen said
in a research note e-mailed to clients today. South African debt
will continue to benefit from strong investor flows into
 emerging markets , they said.  “Currency weakness itself does not lead to bond
capitulation,” the HSBC analysts wrote. “An extension of the
downward spiral of the rand is unlikely if fixed-income
capitulation does not materialize.”  Foreign investors have been net  buyers  of 13.5 billion rand
($1.5 billion) of South African bonds this year, or an average
of 1.2 billion rand a week, compared with average weekly
purchases of 1.8 billion in 2012, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data from the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange .  ‘Becoming Hazardous’  The current-account  gap  reached 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product, down from a revised 6.8 percent in the third
quarter, which was the biggest shortfall since the same period
in 2008, the  Reserve Bank  said on March 12.  The shortfall may narrow as the weaker rand boosts the
competitiveness of South African exports, Bruce Donald, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
said in a March 18 note. “It is perhaps becoming hazardous to
position for further real depreciation of the  exchange rate .”  The Reserve Bank will leave its benchmark repo rate
unchanged at 5 percent tomorrow, maintaining the rand’s yield
advantage over the dollar, according to all 19 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The premium investors receive for holding
South African 10-year debt rather than U.S. Treasuries has
climbed seven basis points this month to 489.  Forced Blackouts  The risk of forced blackouts by Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,
the state-owned electricity company, may weaken the rand to 9.95
per dollar, Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based emerging-
markets economist at Nomura International Inc., said in a note
yesterday. The currency also faces threats from labor disputes,
a widening budget shortfall and a potential credit-rating
downgrade, he said.  The rand fell 15 percent against the dollar in the first
quarter of 2008, when coal shortages and maintenance at  power
plants  forced Eskom to cut electricity to the nation’s mines.
 South Africa ’s credit outlook was kept at negative by  Standard &
Poor’s  last week.  Fitch Ratings  cut the debt rating one level to
BBB in January, following downgrades by Moody’s Investors
Service and S&P last year.  “General fiscal worries should continue to combine with
growth and balance-of-payments worries to be a key and ongoing
market driver,” Montalto wrote. “Our view of weakness from
here is still intact.”  The cost to protect South African dollar-denominated
sovereign debt against non-payment for five years using credit
default swaps jumped 28 basis points this year to 171. The
swaps, which increase when risk perception deteriorates, pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a borrower breaks debt agreements.  “While the rand has sold off aggressively for a while, so
far local rates have generally lagged,” Anne at SocGen said.
“Bond selling has been fairly contained. This may change as
stress continues to build up in the foreign-exchange market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  