-- Sopogy CEO Shifts to Marketing, SunEdison Exec Named COO
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-03-19T21:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/sopogy-founder-kimura-demoted-sunedison-exec-named-coo.html
Sopogy Inc., the closely held
Hawaiian solar-thermal technology company, brought in an
executive from investor  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)  to
oversee day-to-day operations as founder and Chief Executive
Officer Darren Kimura shifts to a new role.  David Fernandez, former vice president of North American
operations at MEMC’s SunEdison solar project development unit,
was named president and chief operating officer, the Honolulu-
based company said in a statement today.  Sopogy will “really benefit from a pure execution
specialist,” Kimura said in an interview today. “From my
perspective this is a big positive for the company.”  Kimura, who describes himself as a serial entrepreneur,
will become chief global strategist and chief marketing officer
of the company he founded in 2002.  Sopogy has yet to appoint a replacement for Kimura’s
positions as chairman and CEO, Tsurumi Hamasu, a spokeswoman,
said today by e-mail.  Sopogy technology includes mirrored troughs to focus the
sun’s energy on tubes filled with fluid, helping drive turbines
that generate electricity or creating heat that can be used for
enhanced oil recovery or manufacturing.  The company has shifted now primarily to heat generation,
away from power generation, after the price of photovoltaic
panels fell nearly  60 percent  in the past two years, Kimura
said.  Sopogy sees an addressable market for its technology of
about $20 billion in the U.S. Kimura estimated that businesses
spend about $7 per million British Thermal Units for natural gas
to produce heat. Sopogy’s technology delivers solar-heated water
for about $4 to $6 per mmBtu.  “We’ve really done a good job carving out a good niche for
or technology for process heat and steam,” Kimura said. “Now
it’s about making it better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  