-- South Korea Set to Fuel Property as China Moves to Cool: Economy
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-03-20T03:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/south-korea-to-fuel-property-as-china-targets-market-slowdown.html
South Korean housing sales at the
lowest levels since 2006 are increasing the urgency of President
Park Geun Hye’s plans to bolster the market, just as  China ,
 Singapore  and  Hong Kong  enact cooling measures.  Transactions fell 14 percent to 47,288 in February, the
least for that month in seven years, according to the land
ministry. Prices are also sliding, with values in  Seoul  lower
than any time since March 2008.  While Asian neighbors wrestle with housing costs propelled
by increased incomes and inflows of capital, in  South Korea  a
household-debt binge is constraining mortgage borrowing. With
the Park administration set to hold its first full cabinet
meeting in Seoul tomorrow after the new leader took office on
Feb. 25, HSBC Holdings Plc says fiscal stimulus is needed.  “Demand has slumped and is proving difficult to revive,”
said Ronald Man, an HSBC economist in Hong Kong. “Incomes need
to rise faster to spring the real-estate market back to life.”  The government may announce a supplementary budget of 10
trillion won ($9 billion) on March 26, Yonhap News reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information. Asked
about the Yonhap report, Choi Sang Mok, a director general at
the  finance ministry , said no decision had been made.  Ruling and opposition lawmakers agreed to this month
approve reinstating a home-purchase  tax cut , according to their
e-mailed statement on March 17. Still, the Financial Services
Commission is not considering easing debt-to-income and loan-to-value restrictions on mortgage borrowing, chairman nominee Shin
Je Yoon said in parliament on March 18.  Singapore, China  In Singapore, home sales plunged in February after the
government’s seventh round of cooling measures. Prices in the
city-state had climbed to a record in the fourth quarter. Hong
Kong has expanded curbs and warned of the risk of an abrupt drop
in prices. In  New Zealand , the central bank says it’s guarding
against the risk of a bubble.  China this month intensified curbs on the  property market 
as the new Communist Party leadership aims to limit the risk of
bubbles and keep housing affordable. Chinese officials are among
those expressing concern about possible inflows of capital from
monetary easing in developed nations.  “Unlike China where more people entering the middle-class
are boosting demand, the housing market in South  Korea  is quite
saturated,” Seung Yeon Ju, a property-market analyst at Daishin
Securities Co., said in Seoul. “Demand here has become quite
weak with less people betting on properties for investment
purposes amid abundant supply.”  Sagging Sales  In South Korea, January’s total of 27,070 home transactions
was the second-lowest for any month in data starting in 2006,
after tax breaks expired in December, land ministry data show.  Demand has slumped after mortgage-lending restrictions were
rolled out over the past decade to limit bubbles and as
pessimism over valuations increased because of the global
financial crisis, according to HSBC’S Man.  Household debt 
climbed to a record 959.4 trillion won in the fourth quarter of
last year.  Residential  house prices  slipped 0.5 percent in February
from a year earlier, the biggest decline since September 2009,
according to data from Kookmin Bank. Prices fell 0.1 percent in
February from January, an eighth straight monthly drop and the
longest losing streak since 2005, even after the Bank of Korea
cut benchmark borrowing costs twice last year.  Worst Winter  “It was the worst winter ever since I started the real
estate business in 1996,” Im Hyeong Lim, 60, a property dealer
in Mokdong, one of the most affluent residential areas in Seoul,
said yesterday.  “I was sitting idle with no transactions at all in January
and only one deal in February,” she said. “Many people are
delaying purchases in fear of further price declines.”  A sagging property market adds to the challenges posed by
the yen’s declines against the won, which aid export rivals in
 Japan , and population aging, set to cut the nation’s labor
force. The won fell today to near its weakest against the dollar
in six months, after the government said it will consider
measures to curb volatility in capital flows. The won was at
1,119.86 per dollar as of 12:29 p.m. in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  South Korean officials aim to get the nation closer to a
potential growth rate estimated by central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo at 3.8 percent, after last year’s 2 percent expansion
was the weakest since the global recession.  Construction Companies  “The property market is in a dire situation, with many
small builders suffering credit problems,” said Cho Dong Pil, a
construction industry analyst at Hanwha Investment & Securities
Co. in Seoul. “Reviving the housing market will be one of the
foremost policies for the new government as falling home prices
can send household debt out of control.”  Companies that will benefit from any pick-up include
 Hyundai Industrial Co. (009540) ,  Daewoo Engineering & Construction Co. (047040) ,
and  Halla Engineering & Construction Corp. (014790) , Cho said.  “My top policy priority is a quick normalization of the
property market,” Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime
Affairs Suh Seoung Hwan said in his inaugural speech on March
12, adding that a slump had gone on for too long and “effective
policy measures are in urgent need.”  With a birth rate of 1.24 children per woman in 2011, South
Korea will be short 2.8 million workers by 2030, according to a
Finance Ministry report released on Dec. 26. The nation’s
potential gross domestic product growth would drop to 1.9
percent by 2031 from a 3.8 percent average pace during
2011-2020, the report said.  Federal Reserve  “South Korea’s property market has been where the biggest
portion of wealth went for a lot of people for decades. This
isn’t true any more,” Park Won Gap, senior analyst at Kookmin
Bank said by phone. “People no longer believe that betting on
properties will pay off for two big reasons -- oversupply and an
aging population.”  Elsewhere today, the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will announce a
monetary-policy decision and the  Bank of England  releases
meeting minutes. Officials in  Europe  must weigh how far to push
Cyprus after lawmakers in the Mediterranean nation rejected an
unprecedented levy on  bank deposits , throwing into limbo a
rescue package to keep it in the euro.  The  Bank of Korea ’s Kim told economists in Seoul today that
the crisis that rocked the global economy and financial system
in recent years may be in its final stage.  “We can’t say the crisis is very near an end yet but we’re
in a process of wrapping it up gradually,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  