-- South Africa Debt Ensnares Stores as Consumers Struggle
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-03-20T09:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/south-africa-debt-ensnares-stores-as-consumers-struggle.html
Waiting for a friend at the Sandton
City shopping center in Johannesburg, Abey Ngijina holds a
single bag of groceries. The 55-year-old sound technician has
cut his monthly food budget in half, swapping branded goods for
unbranded alternatives and buying less meat.  Ngijina is among the growing ranks of  South Africans  who
took out loans to cope with soaring grocery and utility costs,
and who are now forced to trim spending on those essentials to
repay the debt. These days, Ngijina devotes more than 40 percent
of his 11,000 rand ($1,200) monthly salary to loan payments.  The cutbacks are unwelcome news for  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) ,
 Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  and other leaders of South  Africa ’s $72
billion retail sector. Spending on food and clothing faces a hit
this year, meaning less growth than  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
anticipated in 2011 when it plunked down $1.8 billion to buy 51
percent of Massmart.  “Households seem to be putting a brake on spending,” said
Thabi Leoka, head of macro research at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  The belt-tightening isn’t always voluntary. At Shoprite,
Africa’s largest food retailer, debt  collectors (MLCOL)  have stood near
the checkout counter and demanded money from people who ask for
cash back when buying groceries with plastic, according to Chief
Executive Officer Whitey Basson.  The slowdown in  consumer spending  -- which in the final
three months of last year contracted for the first time since
2009 -- will crimp retailers’ profit. Net income at Shoprite
will rise more slowly this year, according to analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Full-year  profit estimates  for Massmart are down
about 4 percent over the past month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Inflation Bites  Over the past three months, Massmart’s  stock  has declined
1.5 percent, while Shoprite has fallen 11 percent. That compares
with a 3.1 percent gain in the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH) ,
the country’s benchmark.  An increasingly sluggish economic environment has weighed
on retail stocks.  Consumer confidence  has dropped to the lowest
since 2008 and the 25 percent unemployment rate is the highest
among the 35-plus  emerging markets  monitored by Bloomberg.  “There are no indications that the cost pressures on
consumers will ease in the short term,” Shoprite’s Basson said
at a Feb. 19 press conference.  The central bank predicts  inflation  will hit 5.8 percent
this year. That’s been fueled by the weaker rand, which has
slumped more than 16 percent over the past 12 months, the worst
performer among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Gasoline, Vegetables  Electricity prices  soared  10 percent in the 12 months ended
January, according to Statistics South Africa, and gasoline
prices rose 12 percent. Dairy prices jumped 10 percent,
vegetables surged 12 percent, and breads and cereals climbed 7.1
percent.  Those rising costs, along with easy access to credit,
fueled a 39 percent increase in unsecured loans, to 140 billion
rand in the year ended Sept. 30, according to the National
Credit Regulator in Johannesburg. That debt can carry annual
 interest rates  as high as 80 percent. About one in three
borrowers defaults, according to  Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , a
lender in Stellenbosch, near  Cape Town .  More than 9 million South Africans now have a blemished
credit record, up 8.9 percent from two years ago. President
 Jacob Zuma ’s government has pushed for new regulations to
protect consumers amid social unrest and strikes. In November,
South Africa’s National Treasury and the Banking Association of
South Africa said they had agreed to tighten lending rules after
the number of people with bad credit records rose to a record,
threatening to trap poor families in a debt spiral.  Sluggish Environment  Retailers have become ensnared in the spiral. Increases in
the price of fuel and power have created a “sluggish trading
environment” and will hold back consumer spending in the second
half of Shoprite’s fiscal year, ending in June, the company
says. Since November, Massmart says, it has seen a “marked
slowdown in sales” in  South Africa .  “The carry cost of debt is eating into disposable
income,” Massmart Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said
in a Feb. 28 phone interview. “We expect to see customers
paying back debt” rather than taking out more loans.  As shoppers cut back, Massmart says it’s implementing more
promotions that lower prices for everything from diapers to beer
over a period of months, rather than the typical week or so.  Such discounts may not be enough for Busi Hlatshwayo, a 54-
year-old office cleaner. To pay expenses that can exceed her
income, she has taken out loans of 1,000 rand -- a fifth of her
monthly salary -- that incur interest of 800 rand in just a few
weeks.  “I have too many loans and the cost of transport and
school fees keeps going up,” said Hlatshwayo, who says she’s
buying more maize and potatoes and less meat and milk. “Food is
one thing I can cut back on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  