-- Soybean Use by Top Three Producers Seen Falling 10% in 2 Months
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-03-19T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/soybean-use-by-top-three-producers-seen-falling-10-in-2-months.html
Soybean use from the world’s top
three producers dropped 10 percent in the last two months,
compared with a year earlier, because of shipping delays from
 Brazil  and slow farmer sales in  Argentina , Oil World said.  Soybean crushing and exports from Brazil, the U.S. and
Argentina totaled 26.21 million metric tons in January and
February, down from 29.12 million tons in the same time in 2012,
the Hamburg-based researcher said in an e-mailed report today.
Demand has shifted to the U.S., where crushing and exports have
“exceeded expectations,” reaching a record 56.3 million tons
from September through February. Usage in the same period
plunged 33 percent for Brazil and Argentina.  “South American soybean crushings and exports fell short
of expectations in the past two months,” Oil World said.
“Despite rapid harvesting of a record crop, Brazilian soybean
crushings and exports were still down.” It cited shipping
delays and a shortage of trucks.  Soybean futures reached a seven-week high in February on
the Chicago Board of Trade on increased demand for U.S. product.
The oilseed is down about 6 percent since then. Brazil may
harvest a record 83.5 million tons of the oilseed, according to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Argentine Frost  In Argentina, crops are at risk of frost damage because of
“unseasonably cold” weather, and production may be below its
most recent forecast of 49 million tons, Oil World said. While
farmers are “reserved sellers,” the harvest will accelerate
this month. In Brazil, recent dry weather in Mato Grosso, Mato
Grosso do Sul and Goias means harvesting is almost finished on
at least 60 percent of soybean areas, Oil World said.  “Brazilian exports of soybeans are increasing seasonally
but latest indications suggest that also in March soybean
exports from Brazil will again fall short of requirements,” Oil
World said. “There is ongoing competition between exports of
soybeans and corn.”  U.S. soybean meal exports in February were 1.25 million
tons, up 75 percent from a year earlier, Oil World estimated.
Shipments since the marketing year began Oct. 1 are 56 percent
higher than a year earlier, with “substantial increases” going
to the European Union and Central America, it said. Argentina’s
soybean meal exports since October fell 32 percent and Brazil’s
shipments are down 21 percent from a year earlier.  U.S. shipments of  soybean oil  more than tripled from
October through February, compared with the same period a year
earlier, to 679,000 tons, Oil World said. Argentina’s exports
fell 15 percent to 1.3 million tons and Brazil’s shipments
dropped 45 percent to 327,000 tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  