-- Standard Chartered Sees Xi Visit Driving China-Africa Trade
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-19T05:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/standard-chartered-sees-xi-visit-propelling-china-africa-trade.html
Trade and investment flows between
China and  Africa  will gain momentum this year as President  Xi Jinping  visits several nations on the continent during his first
overseas trip,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said.  Xi, who took over from  Hu Jintao  last week, will visit
Russia, Tanzania,  South Africa  and Congo from March 22 to March
30, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Rising Chinese
investments in Africa will continue, Stephen Priestley, the
bank’s head of origination and client coverage for the
continent, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday.  Trade between China and Africa may have risen to a record
last year after growing 20 percent to 163.9 billion  yuan  ($26.4
billion) through October, according to China’s Ministry of
Commerce. Forecasts of a more stable economic environment will
help drive trade and investment, Priestley said.  “There are fewer disruptions within Africa than there were
in the last year and the year before,” he said. “We just saw
an election in  Kenya , we just had an election in Ghana and there
was a transfer of power and there’s no disruption to the
economy. It’s a stable growth pattern.”  Standard Chartered, with operations in 16 African
countries, plans to invest $100 million over the next three
years, opening 110 branches on the continent and recruiting 950
consumer-banking staff. Revenue from Africa made up more than 8
percent of income last year, according to the London-based bank.  ‘Substantial Goodwill’  Chinese investment in Africa totaled almost $20 billion at
the end of last year, creating jobs, tax revenue and training
for local residents, Shen Danyang, spokesman for China’s
commerce ministry, said at a briefing in Beijing today.  “China has built substantial goodwill in Africa over the
years,” said  Standard Chartered ’s Priestley. “It now needs to
make sure it balances that, making sure that certain companies
ensure there are skills transfered and that they don’t replace
the labor in these countries.”  Nigeria’s central bank governor Lamido Sanusi warned in a
Financial Times article earlier this month that Africa must
shake off its romantic view of China and accept that it is a
competitor as much as a partner and that it’s capable of
exploitation as much as Western nations.  “China is a major contributor to the deindustrialization
of Africa and thus African underdevelopment,” Sanusi wrote.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  