-- Starbucks Buys First Coffee Farm to Expand Grower Support
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-03-19T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/starbucks-buys-coffee-farm-to-expand-support-program.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  bought a farm in
Costa Rica, the first such purchase by the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator as it expands a grower-support program and
sources beans farmed in an ethical fashion.  The 240-hectare (593-acre) holding will help support
growers and their families, while allowing Starbucks to create
new blends of coffee to sell, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said in a statement. Seattle-based Starbucks has
committed to buying only ethically sourced coffee by 2015.  Starbucks, which sells fair-trade blends and reserve
coffees from countries such as Nicaragua and Cameroon, has spent
about $70 million during the past 40 years on farmer-support
programs and loans. It opened its first farmer-support center in
San Jose,  Costa Rica , in 2004 and has since opened ones in
Rwanda, Tanzania, Colombia and China.  The farm, which employs about 70 people, “has plenty of
land for us to be able to experiment with varieties,” Craig Russell, senior vice president of global coffee, said in an
interview today.  “We wouldn’t rule out whether we’d need other property,”
Russell said.  The company didn’t disclose how much it paid.  Starbucks  fell  0.2 percent to $56.83 at the close in New
York. The shares have gained 6 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 8.6 percent.  Earlier this month,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the largest
restaurant chain by sales, said it will invest $6.5 million
during the next five years to help coffee growers in  Guatemala 
produce more high-grade beans from sustainable farms. The Oak
Brook, Illinois-based company  sells  McCafe-brand caramel mochas,
as well as flavored frappe coffees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  