-- Sugared Drinks Tied to 180,000 Deaths Worldwide Each Year
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-19T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/sugared-drinks-tied-to-180-000-deaths-worldwide-each-year.html
Sugary drinks and sodas may be
associated with about 180,000 deaths a year worldwide, including
25,000 in the U.S., by exacerbating conditions such as diabetes,
 heart disease  and cancer, a study found.  The beverages raised deaths worldwide from diabetes by
133,000, from cardiovascular disease by 44,000 and from cancer
by 6,000, according to the  study  presented today at a meeting of
the  American Heart Association  in New Orleans.  “Sugary drinks are high in calories and sugar and low in
nutrients, so drinking these beverages does not make you feel
full and you continue to eat as normal,” Gitanjali Singh, the
co-author of the study and a postdoctoral research fellow at the
Harvard School of  Public Health  in Boston, said in an e-mail.
“These extra calories contribute to weight gain, which in turn
contributes to cardiovascular disease and diabetes.”  Policy makers, particularly in New York City, have debated
ways to limit access and consumption of the drinks, including
sodas, sugared fruit drinks, ice teas and sports drinks. Their
goal is to cut the rise of obesity and its associated health-
care costs. In the U.S., 36 percent of adults and 17 percent of
children are obese, according to the  Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention  in Atlanta.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  sought to ban sale of the
drinks in containers larger than 16 ounces. A state judge struck
down the ban on March 11. The city is appealing the ruling.
Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Big Soda  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  is the world’s biggest maker of carbonated
beverages, followed by  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Inc. (DPS) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Coca-Cola and
Pepsi also dominate the market for sports drinks, along with
closely held Red Bull GmbH.  The  American Beverage Association , which represents the
industry, harshly criticized the study.  “This abstract, which is not peer-reviewed nor published
in a way where its methodology can be fully evaluated, is more
about sensationalism than science,” the group said today in a
written statement. “The researchers make a huge leap when they
take beverage intake calculations from around the globe and
allege that those beverages are the cause of deaths which
the authors themselves acknowledge are due to chronic disease.”  In the study, the researchers compared consumption of
sugary drinks with rates of obesity. They then compared the
effect of increased obesity rates on the levels of diabetes,
cardiovascular disease and cancer.  Higher Consumption  Latin America  had the most diabetes deaths related to
sugary drinks, according to the study.  Mexico , where the
researchers said the consumption of sugared drinks is higher
than almost anywhere in the world, had the highest associated
death rate, with 318 deaths out of every 1 million adults linked
to the volume of sugared drinks they consumed, according to the
study. Eastern and Central Eurasia had the highest number of
associated deaths from cardiovascular disease.  Sugar-sweetened beverages are the biggest source of
calories in the U.S. diet, said  Rachel K. Johnson , a professor
of medicine and nutrition at the University of  Vermont . Those
calories don’t act like most other foods, Johnson said in a
 video  accompanying the study.  “One of the problems of sugar-sweetened beverages is that
we don’t seem to compensate as well for the calories as we do
for solid foods,” Johnson said. “In other words, when we
consume sugar-sweetened beverages we don’t reduce the amount of
food we consume.”  Johnson cautioned the study didn’t prove cause and effect,
just that there was an association between sugared-drink intake
and death rates.  Singh, the study co-author, said that taxing sugary drinks
in the same way as cigarettes, or limiting advertising or
access, may help reduce usage.  “Our study shows that tens of thousands of deaths
worldwide are caused by drinking sugary beverages and this
should impel policy makers to make strong policies to reduce
consumption of sugary beverages,” Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at    rgale5@bloomberg.net  