-- Syrian Opposition Pledges Rule of Law in Rebel-Held Areas
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-20T08:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/syrian-opposition-meets-on-government-for-rebel-areas.html
The Syrian opposition’s newly
elected interim Prime Minister Ghassan Hitto pledged that rebel-
held areas will apply the rule of law, as he began to build a
government to replace President Bashar al-Assad.  Speaking yesterday after opposition delegates chose him for
the premier’s post during a meeting in Istanbul, Hitto said his
administration would begin to govern from inside the country,
appealed for members of the armed forces to lay down their
weapons and promised that there would be no dialogue with Assad.
The opposition should take the Syrian government’s seat at the
 United Nations  and the  Arab League  and have control over the
country’s embassies, he said.  While rebel fighters, including groups affiliated with al-
Qaeda in  Iraq , have pushed Assad’s army from territory in the
north of the country, they have struggled to create a united
political and military structure two years after anti-Assad
protests began. The civil war has killed more than 70,000 people
and left 5 million as refugees or in need of aid, the UN says.  “For the government to succeed, it should unite Syrian
guns under a professional army,” Brigadier-General Mustapha al-
Sheikh, one of the first senior officers to defect from the
Syrian army, said in an interview from close to the Turkish
border. “The civilian rebels do not have the experience or the
discipline to act like professional troops.”  Damascus-Born  Hitto won 35 of 49 votes, according to a count broadcast on
Al Jazeera television. The 50-year-old communications executive
was born in Damascus and has a bachelor’s degree from Indiana’s
 Purdue University  and an MBA from Indiana Wesleyan University,
according to a resume on the Syrian opposition’s Facebook page.  The new premier will present a list of ministers to the
Syrian National Coalition for approval, Hisham Marwa, a member
of the coalition, said in Istanbul before the vote. The new
government’s base inside  Syria  won’t be disclosed because it
would be targeted by Assad’s forces, Marwa said.  The pro-Assad Al Watan newspaper said the coalition is
“detached from reality and developments on the ground.”  In fighting yesterday, a scud missile killed several people
in the town of Khan al-Asal, Al Arabiya television reported,
citing the rebels’ Aleppo Media Center. Twenty-six people died,
including 16 government soldiers, in the rocket attack, the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said on its
Facebook page.  ‘Grave Escalation’  Syrian State television accused “terrorists” of firing a
rocket laden with chemicals, and Syrian Information Minister
Omran al-Zoubi described the attack as a “grave escalation.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama   has warned the Syrian
government that the use of such weapons would be a “red line”
that would bring consequences. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said the allegation was probably an attempt to
discredit the opposition.  Syrian forces killed 90 people yesterday, including 34 in
Damascus and its suburbs, according to the Local Coordination
Committees, a Syrian opposition group. Forty-three government
soldiers were kipped, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Right s
said.  Britain and  France  last week pressed their European Union
partners to lift an arms embargo on Syria, arguing that  Europe 
should do more to help the opposition. The U.K. has announced it
will supply armored vehicles and  body armor , while France said
it may act alone to arm the rebels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  