-- U.K. Banks Urge Government to Broaden Scope of Lending Program
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-19T13:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/u-k-banks-urge-government-to-broaden-scope-of-lending-program.html
U.K. banks are urging the
government to broaden the Bank of England’s Funding for Lending
Scheme to include more collateral and additional companies to
increase credit.  The program, introduced last August, could allow access to
regulated firms and those whose parent companies have banking
licenses, British Bankers’ Association Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Browne wrote in a letter yesterday to U.K. Business
Secretary Vince Cable obtained by Bloomberg News. Cable had
asked for ways to enhance the plan in a meeting with the BBA on
March 13, according to the letter.  Under the program, banks have been able to borrow treasury
bills from the central bank to fund lending and have 18 months
to use the facility and as long as four years to repay. Only
banks with access to the discount-window facility can use the
program, which accepts the same collateral. The flow of net
lending shrank by 2.4 billion pounds ($3.6 billion) in the
fourth quarter, and Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said on
March 6 that results from the plan were “disappointing.”  “Banks across the spectrum firmly see that FLS has
fulfilled its purpose in easing funding/liquidity in the market
for both participating and non-participating players and in
allowing a price benefit to be passed to businesses and
households,” Browne said in the letter. The lobby group
canvassed members to provide ideas and “increase its impact,”
he said.  ‘Take Time’  Some of the funding could be allocated to Capital for
Enterprise Ltd., a government-owned fund management company, or
other government programs such as the Business Finance
Partnership and Business Bank, the BBA said.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  led a drop
in U.K. lending in the fourth quarter as the Bank of England
said its credit-boosting program will “take time” to feed
through to loan growth.  Net loans at Lloyds plunged by 3.1 billion pounds in the
period. Aggregate drawdowns by banks from the program were 9.5
billion pounds in the fourth quarter, pushing the total to 13.8
billion pounds since it began.  Banks with so-called non-core loans they are seeking to
sell or not renew, such as Lloyds and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , could have those assets omitted from the net lending
figures, the BBA said.  The ideas represent a range of views from its members and
not all agree with each one, the lobby group said.  -- Editor: Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  