-- U.K. Extends Tax-Free Child Care for 2.5 Million Families
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/u-k-extends-tax-free-child-care-for-2-5-million-families.html
The British government will extend
tax-free child care for 2.5 million families as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  aims to build electoral support in
tomorrow’s budget.  Families where all parents work will be entitled to 1,200
pounds ($1,811) per child of tax-free assistance from the
government, the Treasury said in a statement released in London
today. The plan which begins operating in 2015, won’t be
available to households with a parent earning more than 150,000
pounds a year.  “This is a boost direct to the pockets of hard-working
families in what will be one of the biggest measures ever
introduced to help parents with child-care costs,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said in the Treasury statement.  Osborne this week promised another austere budget,
introducing policies paid for by existing budgets. With an
economy close to its first-ever triple dip, voters, investors
and ministers are looking to Osborne to provide measures to
underpin the economy.  Today’s measure will be funded by scrapping the existing
child-care program and from other savings in the welfare budget.
The cost of the package will be published in tomorrow’s budget.  Coalition Partners  Parents currently in receipt of child-care support will see
an increase in the amount they get from the government. The new
program will cover as much as 20 percent of child-care costs up
6,000 pounds a year.  Calls for greater action to aid growth from both his
 Conservative Party  and its Liberal Democrat coalition partners
have subsided in recent days, suggesting Osborne’s budget will
include measures to appease Cabinet critics such as Business
Secretary Vince Cable.  The government yesterday outlined 1 billion pounds of
support for the  aerospace industry  over the next seven years and
promised to bring forward measures to cap social-care costs for
the elderly.  Osborne is constrained by the weaker-than-expected economy,
which the Ernst & Young ITEM Club says will push the chancellor
to borrow 8 billion pounds more in the fiscal year that ends
this month. Growth this year will be revised down to about 1
percent from a 1.2 percent forecast in December, said the ITEM
Club, an economic forecaster.  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2012, leaving it 3 percentage points below its pre-
recession peak, Office for National Statistics data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  