-- U.S. Senate Banking Panel Backs Cordray on Party-Line Vote
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-03-19T14:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/u-s-senate-banking-panel-to-vote-on-cordray-as-deadlock-looms.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee
approved the nomination of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau in a party-line vote that reflected
the remaining obstacle to his confirmation effort.  Today’s 12-10 vote saw all of the panel’s Democrats back
Cordray 53, while Republicans unanimously opposed him.  Despite the committee approval, President  Barack Obama ’s
second nomination of Cordray, the former Ohio attorney general
can’t be confirmed unless Senate Republicans and Democrats can
overcome a deadlock that has prevented a full-Senate vote.  Cordray’s nomination has been mired since 2011 in a dispute
over Republican demands that the agency be restructured with a
commission to run it instead of a director and a budget
subjected to congressional appropriations. Its budget is
currently drawn directly from the  Federal Reserve .  Democrats insist that Congress debated the agency’s current
structure in passing the Dodd-Frank law in 2010, and that
Cordray deserves confirmation after having done the job well for
more than a year.  Obama nominated Cordray to a five-year term on Jan. 24,
more than a year after installing the former Ohio attorney
general in the position using a so-called recess appointment.  The president used the procedure to bypass Republican
opposition in the Senate, where 60 of the 100 members must agree
to allow a vote to occur on the floor. More than 40 Republican
senators have pledged to block a floor vote on any nominee to
run the CFPB unless their demands are met.  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, has
helped unify opposition to Republican demands since joining the
chamber this year. Warren set up the agency while serving as an
Obama administration adviser before running for office.  The Republicans’ position hardened after a federal court
ruling raised questions on the validity of the recess
appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  