-- Syria Chemical Weapons Claim Lacks Evidence, U.S. Says
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-20T10:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/u-s-investigating-allegations-of-chemical-weapon-use-in-syria.html
The U.S. has “no evidence to
substantiate the charge” that rebels battling Bashar al-Assad’s
regime in  Syria  used chemical weapons, President  Barack Obama ’s
spokesman said.  Any use of chemical weapons in Syria is a “serious
concern” and the U.S. is investigating claims by the Assad
regime, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  Syria’s Ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari,
accused “terrorist groups” of firing a rocket laden with
chemicals, whose “thick smoke” killed 25 people and injured
110 in the Khan al-Assal area in Aleppo province. Jaafari made
the allegation in a letter sent yesterday to UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and this month’s president of the decision-
making  Security Council , Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin.  The Russian Foreign Ministry gave credence to the Syrian
government’s version of events, saying in a statement that it
was concerned “that weapons of mass destruction have fallen
into the hands of fighters.”  Russia  is an arms supplier to
Syria and has vetoed three resolutions at the Security Council
seeking to threaten the regime with punitive sanctions.  The Obama administration, which has criticized Russia for
supporting Assad, disagreed.  The U.S. doesn’t “have any information to suggest that the
opposition has the capability to do what the regime has
alleged,”  Victoria Nuland , spokeswoman for the State
Department, told reporters yesterday.  Obama’s ‘Red Line’  The two attacks were the work of the Assad regime and
should be the subject of an international inquiry, including a
visit to the sites, the opposition Syrian National Coalition
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The interim government stresses its willingness to
receive this delegation on Syrian territories, and ensure secure
and safe passage,” it said.  Obama has told the Syrian government that its use of such
weapons would cross a “red line.”  “The president was clear when he said that if Assad and
those under his command make the mistake of using chemical
weapons or fail to meet their obligations to secure them, then
there will be consequences and they will be held accountable,”
Carney said.  ‘Serious Response’  The U.K., which along with  France  is shifting toward more
active assistance to the rebels, underscored the warning against
any use of such weapons in Syria.  “Clearly, if chemical weapons were used then that would be
abhorrent and it would require a serious response from the
international community,” Britain’s UN Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant told reporters yesterday in  New York .  While Syria’s regime has produced, stored and weaponized
chemical weapons, “little is known from open sources” about
the size and condition of the stockpile, the nonpartisan U.S.
Congressional Research Service said in a report in December.  The regime reportedly has stocks of nerve and blister
agents such as sarin, VX and mustard gas.  The Syrian opposition -- which has just elected a new
interim prime minister, Ghassan Hitto -- has accused Assad’s
forces of using chemical agents over the course of the two-year
conflict. There have been no confirmed cases, and it wasn’t
determined whether such allegations referred to deadly nerve
agents such as sarin gas or nonlethal irritants such as tear
gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  