-- U.S. Water Infrastructure Given ‘D’ Grade by ASCE Group
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-19T17:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/u-s-water-infrastructure-given-d-grade-by-asce-group.html
The U.S. drinking water and sewage
infrastructure earned a barely passing grade of D from the
American Society of Civil Engineers today, which said at least
$1 trillion is needed to fix the problem.  The ASCE in its quadrennial  Report Card for America’s
Infrastructure  said the drinking water infrastructure improved
slightly, to a D from an almost failing D- in 2009, even as U.S.
pipes and treatment plants near the end of their expected
lifespan. With almost 240,000 water main breaks a year, it would
take more than $1 trillion to repair and replace systems, the
report said, citing the American Water Works Association.  Almost 14,000 of the country’s 84,000 dams that help
provide water and power were rated “high hazard,” with the
average age of an American reservoir 52 years. The report said
the U.S. needs to spend about $298 billion over the next 20
years to repair and expand wastewater and stormwater systems,
whose grade improved marginally from a D- to a D.  “The grades are in and the nation’s drinking water and
wastewater infrastructure is still in a poor state,” said Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Sterba of American Water Works Co., the
largest publicly traded U.S. water company. “If it were a
student, such ongoing marginal performance would not be
acceptable.”  Sewage Runoff  The ASCE report said investments in new and improved
treatment plants will cost as much as 20 percent of the $298
billion, with expanding pipes and wastewater networks making up
the balance. Better piping will reduce sewer overflows, when
stormwater overwhelms plants and holding tanks, and raw
effluents run off into waterways.  With state and local governments now responsible for about
98 percent of the capital investments in water infrastructure,
the engineers’ group proposed to finance needed work by
boosting government-backed revolving loans with $7.5 billion in
federal funds and using more tax-free private activity bonds to
help pay for private water investment projects.  It also recommended establishing a federal water
infrastructure trust fund and a Water Infrastructure Finance
Innovations Authority to borrow from the federal government at
U.S. Treasury rates to finance water projects.  “Not meeting the investment needs of the next 20 years
risks reversing the environmental, public health and economic
gains of the last three decades,” the ASCE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Johnston at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net  