-- UBS Quits Euribor Amid Bank Exodus From Rate-Setting Panels
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-03-19T16:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/ubs-quits-euribor-amid-banks-exodus-from-rate-setting-panels.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
plans to pull out of a panel setting Euribor rates, following an
exodus of lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Rabobank Groep in
the wake of scandals involving interest-rate benchmarks.  UBS is withdrawing its involvement with the euro interbank
offered rate, a benchmark for trillions of euros in lending, as
it exits most debt-trading businesses and focuses on funding
itself in dollars and Swiss francs,  Serge Steiner , a spokesman
for the Zurich-based bank, said by e-mail today.  Membership of panels setting benchmarks such as Euribor and
the London interbank offered rate has become potentially
expensive as regulators consider litigation, fines and criminal
penalties in response to misbehavior. UBS was fined about 1.4
billion francs ($1.5 billion) in December by regulators in the
U.S., U.K. and Switzerland for altering submissions to
benchmarks such as Libor.  UBS will cease to contribute to Euribor by the end of
March, Euribor-EBF Director Cedric Quemener said by e-mail
today. The Brussels-based European banking group administers
benchmarks including Euribor. Paris-based L’Agefi reported the
news earlier.  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  will leave the panel as of March
20, Euribor-EBF said on its website today.  Europe’s top financial regulator,  Michel Barnier , said last
month that he’s considering forcing lenders to participate in
setting rates including Euribor. The benchmark is derived from a
daily survey of lending quotes conducted for Euribor-EBF by
Thomson Reuters Corp.  Dropping Out  Regulators will draw up a list of lenders that should be
forced to participate in setting interbank rates “in view of
their involvement” in those markets, Barnier, the European
Union’s financial-services chief, said on Feb. 8.  The Euribor panel consists of 39 banks, including UBS,
according to Euribor-EBF’s  website . Since September,  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) , Rabobank, Bayerische Landesbank, DekaBank
and Citigroup have withdrawn from Euribor, the group says.  UBS,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among
banks that have dropped out of the setting of the Eurepo Index,
which is also managed by Euribor-EBF.  UBS said in October it would trim risk-weighted assets by
about 100 billion francs by the end of 2017 as it shrinks the
fixed-income businesses of the investment bank. The bank will
lower risk-weighted assets at the fixed-income unit by 80
billion francs from 110 billion francs. Of these, about 30
billion francs will come from credit businesses and 40 billion
francs from rates, UBS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  