-- Lufthansa Technik Looks at Expanding Maintenance Ventures
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-03-19T14:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/lufthansa-technik-looks-at-expanding-maintenance-ventures.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s aircraft-
maintenance, repair and overhaul unit, the world’s biggest
independent provider of the services, may set up more ventures
as planemakers add models and to confront new competitors.  Ventures are a means to avoid losses in overhaul operations
when a new plane enters the market, and can help win repair
licenses from engine makers reluctant to provide them to third
parties, August Wilhelm Henningsen, who heads the Lufthansa
Technik unit, said in an interview in Hamburg.  “It’s a question of opportunities,” Henningsen said
today. “You need to make sure you are big enough to generate
economies of scale.”  Philippine Airlines Inc. and Air  China  Ltd. are among
 Lufthansa Technik ’s partners in the  airline industry , and the
unit works with London-based engine manufacturer  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  in Arnstadt,  Germany , servicing the manufacturer’s
Trent models that power  Airbus SAS (EAD)  wide-body airliners. The
Rolls-Royce venture may also work on engines supplied to
Airbus’s planned A350 model, Henningsen said.  Prices for maintenance and repairs are falling as equipment
makers extend offerings in the lucrative after-sales market and
new airlines in emerging economies are pushing into the
business, Henningsen said at a Hamburg press conference. The
industry may eventually consolidate as carriers shed businesses
they don’t see as essential to survive, he said.  ‘Stronger Competitors’  “The market will have fewer competitors in the future, but
stronger ones,‘‘ Henningsen said. ‘‘ Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  is
expanding its MRO operations, and new rivals are arising in
China.’’  Sales at the Hamburg-based division fell 2 percent last
year to 4.01 billion euros ($5.2 billion) as declining work for
its main customer and parent more than offset work outside
Lufthansa. Operating profit jumped 24 percent to a record 317.5
million euros, and the number of planes serviced rose 5.8
percent. Spending was also reduced under Lufthansa’s Score
profit-improvement program.  Lufthansa Technik is seeking to offer spare parts and
engine services for  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s planned CSeries,
Henningsen said. Lufthansa’s decision to order the airliner
isn’t a prerequisite for the MRO arm to service it, he said.  ‘‘We have planes like the new-generation  Boeing Co. (BA)  737
that we’ve been servicing for 20 years, while Lufthansa has
never bought one,” Henningsen said. “Now the situation is
similar with Boeing 787. So far, we’ve doing components supply
only, while some customers may also be interested in getting
line maintenance from us.”  For Airbus’s double-decker A380, the unit has a joint
venture with Air France-KLM Group to supply components, a setup
that may serve as a model for future deals, he said. The unit is
also fixing wing cracks suffered by A380s in Lufthansa’s
Frankfurt-based fleet, and in Manila and Beijing for other
customers, Henningsen said, declining to identify the clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Hamburg via 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  