-- Hungary to Limit Loan Rescue for Stability, Gyuris Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/hungary-to-limit-loan-rescue-for-stability-gyuris-says.html
Hungary  plans no “dramatic”
measures to help foreign-currency borrowers, the acting head of
the banking lobby said as investors seek clarity amid an
overhaul of policy making leadership and a weakening forint.  “I see no large-scale, short-term, half-baked policy
proposals today that would have turbulent consequences,” Daniel Gyuris, the acting head of the Hungarian Banking Association,
said by phone yesterday. Talks with Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s Cabinet were focused on overdue mortgages and the
government hasn’t signaled plans to convert all foreign-currency
loans into forint, he said.  Hungary temporarily allowed the early repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages at below-market rates in 2011, forcing
lenders to swallow losses. That, along with Europe’s highest
bank levy made the industry unprofitable for the first time in
13 years. Hungary needs to fix its foreign-currency loan
“problem” to free up its exchange-rate policy, Orban said on
March 12.  The forint plunged 6.3 percent against the euro in the past
three months, the most among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It gained 0.3 percent to 305.5
per euro by 7:25 p.m. yesterday, snapping a two-day decline even
amid concern that Cyprus’s planned bailout may aggravate
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest bank,
dropped 1.3 percent to 4,422 forint.  ‘Major Question’  “It’d be a relief to know if this was the definitive
foreign-currency loan plan and if this affected a relatively
limited amount of loans,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based
analyst at CIB Bank Zrt., a unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , said by
phone. He said the “major question” is whether the central
bank plans to tap foreign-currency reserves for any such plan.  The central bank declined to comment, citing a policy to
refrain from public statements in the week before interest-rate
decisions, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s press office said in an e-
mail yesterday.  MNB President  Gyorgy Matolcsy , who took over the
institution this month, will preside over his first rate
decision on March 26. As Economy Minister, Matolcsy spearheaded
the government’s self-described unorthodox policies such as the
nationalization of private pension funds and the retroactive
taxing of large companies including banks, which pushed the
economy into a recession last year, damaged lending, hurt
investments and cost the country its investment grade.  Mortgage Loans  Hungarian households amassed 4 trillion forint ($16.8
billion) in foreign-currency mortgages as of Jan. 31, of which
1.1 trillion forint were more than 90 days overdue, according to
data from the financial market authority PSZAF.  Hungarians borrowed predominantly in Swiss francs to take
advantage of lower  interest rates  until a forint drop following
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent
repayments soaring and boosted the ratio of bad debt.  The Cabinet wants banks to convert foreign-currency
mortgages to forint and forgive part of the debt for borrowers
with payments overdue more than 90 days, news website Nol
reported March 6, without saying how it got the information. The
central bank may help lenders get access to foreign currency
from its reserves, Nol said.  Hungary will “obviously talk about this,” Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga  told TV2 March 4 in response to a question
whether the Cabinet and the central bank will tap foreign-
currency reserves to stimulate the economy and help mortgage
holders. He added that decisions about using reserves belonged
to the central bank. Varga was still the minister-designate
then. The Economy Ministry didn’t respond to e-mailed questions
yesterday.  ‘Market-Based’  The government plans steps in the first half of this year
to help companies convert foreign-currency loans into forint,
Orban said March 12, adding that budget constraints had
prevented the Cabinet from introducing measures earlier.  The government hasn’t indicated any such plan in talks with
lenders, Gyuris said, adding that a solution for overdue home
loans would be “market-based.” Deploying entirely new tools to
help foreign-currency borrowers would pose a risk to financial
stability and the government probably won’t push banks onto an
“unpredictable path,” he said.  “It’s uncertain whether the government will engage in such
deep unorthodoxy as the early repayment scheme was,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at  Raiffeisen Bank
International (RBI)  AG, said by phone.  The government may show self-restraint when devising
measures to help foreign-currency borrowers as it needs banks to
prop up lending and lead the economy out of recession, Concorde
Securities Zrt. said on March 6.  That contrasts with the assessment of Capital Economics
Ltd., which on March 18 forecast that Hungary would “most
likely” impose haircuts on  mortgage loans  as well as small- and
medium-sized company debts, with the central bank shouldering
part of the cost from its foreign-currency reserves.  “We’ve seen a lot of packages and plans” from the
government that were “preceded by a lot of comments and
speculation,” Jobbagy of CIB said. “The market now wants to
hear from the central bank.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  