-- Unilever, Holcim Skirt Royalty Tax Burden With Treaties
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-03-20T04:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/unilever-holcim-skirt-royalty-tax-burden-with-treaties.html
Tax treaties will help the Indian
units of Unilever and  Nestle (NESN)  SA avoid paying higher levies on
royalties to their parents, frustrating Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram’s efforts to bolster collections.  Rules in  India ’s double tax avoidance treaties with
 Switzerland  will help  Nestle (NEST)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the No. 1 maker of
power transformers, cap tax on royalties at 10 percent,
according to e-mail from the companies. Chidambaram in his
budget last month proposed raising the levy to 25 percent from
the year starting April 1 as he seeks to rein in the worst
deficit among the largest  emerging markets .  Royalty fees by local units of two dozen overseas companies
more than doubled in the past four years to 36.4 billion rupees
($669 million), according to Institutional Investor Advisory
Services. Higher tax on the payouts may have helped Chidambaram,
who also asked top earners to pay more income tax, as he
struggles to meet his budget-deficit goal of 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product and avoid a credit rating downgrade.  The tax increase will have “no meaningful impact on the
trend by multinationals to hike royalties from their Indian
subsidiaries,” said Nick Paulson-Ellis, India country head for
Espirito Santo Securities Ltd.  The biggest multinational companies operating in India are
based in the U.S., Japan, Switzerland, France, Germany, the
U.K., the Netherlands and Sweden, Paulson-Ellis said. All have
double tax avoidance treaties with India, he said.  Investor Protests  Unilever (UNA) ’s local subsidiary will pay a 15 percent tax,
spokesman R. Ram said, citing an agreement between the South
Asian nation and the U.K.  The payments have spurred protests from minority investors
in India as profits are diverted overseas, according to Jitendra
Nath Gupta, founder of proxy adviser Stakeholders Empowerment
Services.  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  on Jan. 23 said it will double fees
to the parent, prompting its biggest two-day drop in two years.
The stock had its  recommendations  cut by at least 11 brokerages
following the announcement. Chief Financial Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy said the higher fees were “designed to help us grow
competitively.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which paid 18 billion rupees as
royalty to its parent  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  in the year ended March
31, exceeding the company’s 16.8 billion rupee profit in the
period, will need to set aside 20 percent as tax as stipulated
in an agreement between India and Japan.  ‘Camouflaged Dividends’  “Royalties are camouflaged dividends that go only” to the
parent, said Gupta. “By taxing it lower than dividends which
are shared by all, there is a double incentive to pay more in
royalties.” India levies a 16.2 percent tax on dividends.  Maruti’s shares, which have gained 0.2 percent in the past
year, rose 0.1 percent to 1,364.95 rupees at 10:01 a.m. in
Mumbai. Nestle India Ltd. fell 0.3 percent to 4,667.05 rupees,
while Hindustan Unilever added 1.4 percent to 460.05 rupees.  Chidambaram in his budget speech on Feb. 28 said royalties
paid for use of brand name and technical service fees would
attract a 25 percent tax. The slowest pace of economic growth in
a decade led the minister to raise some taxes. He also asked
people earning more than 10 million rupees a year to pay more
taxes.  “There was some hope that” Chidambaram’s proposal would
prompt companies to consider higher dividends, said Amit Tandon,
managing director of Institutional Investor Advisory Services.
“But the fine print was different.”  ‘Multinationals’ Behavior’  In an interview on March 15, Chidambaram, while discussing
 transfer pricing , expressed concern about the eroding tax base
as multinationals distributed their profits over several tax
jurisdictions.  “There is a general, wider political thought on the
behavior of multinationals in exploiting the system across
various tax jurisdictions,” said Espirito’s Paulson-Ellis. “It
is an issue for legislature in many countries.”  ABB’s Indian unit paid 200 percent of its  profits  as
royalty for the year ended March 31, according to a Dec. 19
report by Espirito Santo, which found that the 25 biggest
foreign-owned firms in India more than doubled their payments
between 2008 and 2012.  Nestle paid 33 percent of its profit and 4.2 percent of its
sales as royalty, according to the report.  Spokesmen at Swiss  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) ’s units  Ambuja Cements Ltd. (ACEM) 
and  ACC Ltd. (ACC)  didn’t respond to e-mail queries. Investors at both
cement makers, 51 percent owned by Holcim, agreed to double
royalty fees to 1 percent of sales on Feb. 19.  “Government over a period of time signed up a bunch of
treaties to encourage investment in the country,” said Tandon.
“In the process, it also created a few loopholes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  