-- Vale Tumbles to Six-Month Low as Goldman Cuts Ore Forecast
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-19T21:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/vale-slumps-to-six-month-low-as-goldman-cuts-iron-ore-forecast.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, fell to a six-month low as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lowered its estimate for the value of the material and cut
the price target on the company’s American depositary receipts.  Vale slumped 3.9 percent to 32.39 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo , the lowest since Sept. 4. The stock
contributed the most to the benchmark  Bovespa index ’s 1.1
percent drop today. Vale’s ADRs sank 2.6 percent to $16.98 in
 New York .  Prices for  iron ore , the main ingredient used to make
steel, will probably average $139 a metric ton this year, down
from a previous estimate of $144, Goldman Sachs analysts wrote
in a research report today. Analysts from Morgan Stanley and
Deutsche Bank AG also have forecast lower prices this year.  “The two key drivers of this more subdued outlook are the
growing role of scrap in Chinese steel production, and ongoing
investment in Chinese domestic iron-ore production,” the
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote.  China, the world’s largest iron-ore buyer, accounts for 34
percent of Rio de Janeiro-based Vale’s  revenue , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman analysts  Marcelo Aguiar  and Diogo Miura cut the
target price for Vale’s ADRs to $26 from $29.30, according to a
separate research note today.  Vale’s Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said March
18 he expects iron-ore prices to average $110 to $145 a metric
ton this year. Prices “may suffer a bit” in the second half
because of supply increases, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of
ferrous minerals and strategy, said on a Feb. 28 conference
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  