-- Vatican to Set Up Contemporary Art Pavilion in Venice
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-03-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/vatican-to-set-up-contemporary-art-pavilion-in-venice.html
The Vatican will have its own
contemporary-art pavilion at the  2013 Venice Art Biennale , a
first in its 84-year history as an independent state, Biennale
organizers said at a news briefing in  London .  The artist(s) representing the  Holy See  will be announced
in the next few weeks, said Biennale President Paolo Baratta.
The Vatican is one of 10 new participant countries (out of a
total of 88) in the Biennale, the sprawling international
exhibition held in Venice every two years.  Another highlight this year: a global, themed exhibition
titled “Encyclopedic Palace” with works by  Richard Serra  and
Bruce Nauman and a show-within-a-show curated by  Cindy Sherman .  Baratta was asked for details of the Vatican pavilion.  “The theme should be concerning the First Book of Genesis:
from creation to the Tower of Babel,” Baratta told journalists
at the Italian Cultural Institute in London yesterday.  “The curator of the pavilion will hold a press conference
in the coming weeks,” he said. “The Holy See has been engaged in
a few other tasks these days.”  Following the abdication of  Pope Benedict XVI  on Feb. 28,
an Argentine-born pontiff, Pope Francis, was elected last week.
The Catholic Church has faced reports of pedophilia and
mismanagement. Some officials are seeking to project a more
modern image and be more attuned to the everyday needs of the
faithful.  Baratta said the Vatican pavilion would, by coincidence, be
next to  Argentina ’s: in the Sale d’Armi section of the Arsenale,
a complex of former barracks currently being revamped.  Cultural Courage  He said talks with Vatican cultural officials began long
ago, and termed their pavilion opening an “act of courage.”  Attending the briefing was British Council Director of
Visual Arts Andrea Rose, who chooses the U.K. pavilion artist
every two years. She said Vatican cultural officials sought her
advice on the Biennale during a visit to London last year.  “They said they wanted to put into public view the fact
that there were other things beyond mere country boundaries,
political state boundaries, that united people,” Rose said,
given the Vatican’s wish to represent “the community of
Catholics.”  When officials requested a list of artists, Rose asked if
they had to be Catholic, and the answer was “absolutely not.”
Nor was there a will to use Church properties in  Venice  as
venues. “They said no, we don’t want to use any of them, because
that’s too associated with religion: We want a white cube
space.”  “What they primarily wanted to know was how much it costs,
and I said, well, quite a lot, actually,” said Rose.  Bloomberg is sponsoring artist  Sarah Sze  at the 2013 Venice
Biennale’s U.S. Pavilion by supporting digital and Web-based
interaction with her work, as well as public education projects.  Muse highlights include:  Mark Beech  on music,  Lance Esplund 
on art exhibitions,  James Russell  on architecture and  Scott
Reyburn  on the art market.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 