-- VirnetX, Selfridges, NBCUniversal: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/virnetx-selfridges-nbcuniversal-intellectual-property-1-.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC)  dropped its
bid to get a U.S. trade panel to ban imports of the iPhone in
March, after winning a $368 million jury verdict over  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s use of patented networking technology without permission.  A U.S. appeals court in January made clear patent owners
such as VirnetX that don’t make products can seek to halt
imports of foreign-made items. That they have that right has
brought Apple together with Google Inc. and Samsung Electronics
Co, its opponents in smartphone patent fights around the world,
to lobby Congress to stop companies like VirnetX from using the
threat of trade cases to force legal settlements or win
royalties.  Patent-licensing companies say such legislation would
address a situation that doesn’t exist.  The International Trade Commission, whose mission is to
protect the U.S. economy from unfair competition, hasn’t in the
past six years issued a single import ban requested by patent
owners who didn’t either make products or invent the technology
in question, a trial lawyers’ group found.  Eighteen percent of ITC cases during that time were filed
by patent licensing companies, according to a June report by the
agency.  The ITC Working Group spent $550,000 last year lobbying
Congress, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. The
group’s mission is to force patent licensing companies to sue in
federal court for relief instead of seeking import bans at the
ITC.  The House Judiciary Committee last week held a hearing on
curbing “abusive” patent litigation.  District court is the only proper forum for companies like
VirnetX, Tanielian said. The threat of a possible import ban is
being used to force manufacturers into settling for more than
they would normally pay, he said.  Some patent-licensing companies see the push to involve
Congress as part of a battle to dilute their rights, which
includes efforts to limit software patents and make the loser in
a patent case pay the winner, said Matthew Vella, president of
 Acacia Research Corp. (ACTG) , of Newport Beach, California, a licensing
company that filed a case against Ericsson AB in January.  Intel in February won a patent-infringement case brought to
the ITC by X2Y Attenuators LLC. The case drew the attention of
lawmakers from both political parties who said granting X2Y’s
request to block Intel chip imports would cost jobs at U.S.
plants that do initial manufacturing before products are
assembled overseas.  The ITC has issued only three import bans in cases
involving patent owners that don’t make products. Each of those
owners --  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) ,  Tessera Technologies Inc. (TSRA)  and the
 University of Nebraska Medical Center  -- had developed the
technology, according to the ITC Trial Lawyers Association.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Mr. Selfridge’ TV Success Prompts Trademark Application Filings  Wittington Investments Ltd.’s Selfridges unit has filed an
application with the U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office to
register “Mr. Selfridge” as a trademark, the U.K.’s Daily Mail
 reported .  The choice to seek trademark registration came in the wake
of popularity of the “ Mr. Selfridge”  television  program  about
Harry Selfridge, the American-born founder of the department
store chain, according to the Daily Mail.  The program, which began airing in the U.K. in January,
brought in upwards of 8 million viewers in that country and will
have a second season next year, the newspaper reported.  Selfridges  is also applying to register “Mister
Selfridge,” according to the Daily Mail.  Loyola Marymount Warned Against Use of ‘CollegeFest’ Mark  Loyola Marymount University  of Los Angeles was sent a
cease-and-desist letter warning it to quit using “College
Fest” as a name for an event set for March 24, the Loyolan, the
school’s student newspaper,  reported.   CollegeFest Promotions, part of New York’s  Mr. Youth LLC 
marketing organization, said it has used the “CollegeFest”
mark for years and threatened legal action if the name use
didn’t stop, according to the Loyolan.  The letter alleged that Loyola’s use of “CollegeFest”
violated federal trademark laws, the Loyolan reported.  NFL Retirees Reach Settlement With League Over Image Rights  The National Football League and retired players who sued
it over the uncompensated use of their likenesses have asked a
U.S. judge for preliminary approval of a $50 million settlement.  The accord provides for $42 million to be paid over eight
years into a fund for the benefit of retired players, according
to papers filed yesterday in federal court in St. Paul,
 Minnesota , where the case was brought. U.S. District Judge Paul
Magnuson has scheduled a hearing on the proposal for March 22 in
federal court in Fort Myers,  Florida .  The lawsuit, accusing the league of trading on the “glory
days” of the NFL, was filed in 2009 by six players including
former Los Angeles Ram Fred Dryer, Houston Oilers Dante “Dan”
Pastorini and Elvin Bethea and the Minnesota Vikings’ Jim
Marshall, on behalf of all of their retired colleagues.  The new fund will be overseen by a panel of retired players
approved by the court and run separately from the 32-team league
and the NFL Players’ Association.  While the bulk of the settlement will be go toward medical
research, housing assistance and career transition programs, $8
million will be devoted to the initial operations of the new
licensing agency and to litigation costs, according to a
settlement information website.  Brian McCarthy, a league spokesman, confirmed the details
in an e-mailed statement. The preliminary approval hearing will
be held in Fort Myers because Magnuson is on temporary
assignment there, McCarthy said.  The case is Dryer v. National Football League, 09-cv-2182,
U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Music File-Sharing Award Left Intact by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court let stand a $222,000 award against a
Minnesota woman for illegally downloading and sharing songs,
leaving intact a victory for the music industry in its anti-
piracy campaign.  The justices yesterday turned away an appeal by Jammie
Thomas-Rasset, who argued unsuccessfully that the award was so
large it violated the Constitution. A federal appeals court
upheld the award last year.  The suit against Thomas-Rasset was one of 30,000 filed by
the recording industry against alleged copyright infringers from
2003 to 2008. Most of the cases led to settlements, and Thomas-
Rasset’s was one of only a handful still being fought in court.
Record companies say piracy results in billions of dollars in
lost sales.  Thomas-Rasset was sued in 2006 under the U.S. Copyright Act
by the country’s largest record labels, including units of  Sony
Corp. (SNE)  and  Vivendi SA. (VIV)  The lawsuit focused on 24 recordings,
though the appeals court pointed to evidence that her account on
the Kazaa file-sharing service contained 1,700 recordings.  The case is Thomas-Rasset v. Capitol Records, 12-715.  NBCUniversal Fires Back in Suit Over Military-Mission Show  NBCUniversal Media LLC filed a request for the dismissal of
a copyright infringement suit brought by a former New York
police officer over its “Stars Earn Stripes” reality show.  In a March 15 filing, the network said that the content
Richard Dillon claims is infringed isn’t protected under U.S.
copyright law. Many of the elements Dillon says the show
infringed were common elements in television programs that were
publicly disseminated before Dillon submitted any “treatment”
to any of the defendants, according to the NBC filing.  Some of the elements are ubiquitous to reality television,
NBC said. The network asked the court to look at Web pages
related to a number of existing reality shows, including
“Dancing With the Stars,” “Hulk Hogan’s Celebrity
Championship Wrestling,” “Celebrity Circus,” “Celebrity
Cooking Showdown,” “Skating with Celebrities” and “Who Wants
to be a Millionaire? Celebrity Edition.”  Dillon filed the copyright infringement suit in November
2012 in federal court in Los Angeles, objecting to the show,
which featured such celebrities as Laila Ali, Nick Lachey and
Todd Palin competing to execute “missions” inspired by real
military exercises. Each contestant also competed for a cash
prize on behalf of a military, veterans or first-responder
charity.  The case is Dillon v. NBCUniversal Media LLC, 2:12-
cv-097828-SJO-AJW, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  CNN Finds Tech Companies Claim Diversity Stats Are Trade Secret  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Cable News Network’s attempts to report
on diversity at major technology companies hit a trade secrets
roadblock,  the network said  on its website.  Of the 20 companies it considered the “most influential
U.S. technology companies, only  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and
 Ingram Micro Inc. (IM)  complied without objections to  CNN ’s request
for information about the gender and ethnic makeup of its
workforce, the network said.  CNN then went to the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, which said it was legally barred from releasing the
information the network sought.  The network then went to the U.S. Department of Labor,
which took more than a year to respond to the request and
finally said it couldn’t release such details from companies
that aren’t federal contractors.  Some of the others -- Apple Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  -- told the Department of Labor that their data
couldn’t be released because it was the kind of trade secret
that could cause competitive harm, the network reported.  Nevada Lawmakers Consider Keeping Energy Purchase Costs Secret  A bill has been introduced in  Nevada ’s legislature to keep
secret the prices paid for renewable energy by  NV Energy Inc. (NVE) , a
Las Vegas-based utility company, the Elko Nevada Free Press
 reported .  All three members of the state’s Public Utility Commission
told the Free Press that, the pending legislation
notwithstanding, they were in favor of disclosing the prices.  The proposed legislation is a retread of a bill passed in
2011, and vetoed by the state’s governor, according to the
newspaper.  That 2011 bill contained a provision that said the pricing
information and other elements of a power-purchase contract was
a trade secret, according to the Free Press.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 