-- Vodafone Said to Be Ready to Accept Lower Debt Rating on M&A
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-03-20T12:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/vodafone-said-to-be-willing-to-accept-lower-debt-rating-on-m-a.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  told investors
it’s willing to accept a lower debt rating in the event the
wireless carrier pursues a takeover, according to a summary of a
meeting held yesterday.  Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford, speaking at a
conference organized by Citigroup Inc., said the world’s second-
largest mobile-phone company would take a  BBB+ rating , the
third-lowest investment grade and one step below the company’s
A- ranking by  Standard & Poor’s , should an opportunity to make
an acquisition arise, according to a copy of the note obtained
by  Bloomberg News .  Vodafone’s readiness to accept a lower rating -- which may
result from taking on additional debt -- means the company isn’t
under pressure to sell its 45 percent stake in U.S. venture
Verizon Wireless, Citigroup said in the note. The amount of debt
required to move to BBB+ may be 7 billion pounds ($10.6 billion)
or more and could finance a bid for Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG (KD8) , as Vodafone expands its fixed-line presence, said
 Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  “They’re just making it clear that they could buy without
necessarily being a forced seller of Verizon Wireless, which is
a very rational thing to do,” London-based Bienenstock said in
an interview. “The problem is, how much of your footprint is
really going to be fixed by going to find solutions with
acquisitions of up to 9 or 10 billion pounds? The answer is,
not very much.”  Bundled Packages  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, declined to comment because the event was private.  Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said last month he’d
be interested in expanding combined offers of voice, Internet
and mobile services across  Europe . The company is looking for
ways to make its network more efficient as service revenue from
wireless customers slips.  The carrier put its plans to approach  Kabel Deutschland ,
valued by the market at 6.2 billion euros ($8 billion), on hold
after leaks of a potential offer, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  Vodafone fell 0.7 percent to 186.30 pence at 12:30 p.m. in
London trading. The stock had gained 21 percent this year
through yesterday. Kabel Deutschland, Germany’s largest cable
provider, rose 1.1 percent to 70.24 euros in  Frankfurt .  Dividend Policy  Credit-default swaps insuring Vodafone’s bonds have fallen
about 8 percent since Bloomberg reported Feb. 27 that Vodafone
had put its Kabel Deutschland plans on hold. They climbed 1.5
percent today to 83 basis points.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Vodafone’s 4.65 percent euro-denominated bond due 2022
fell 0.4 percent to 119.68 cents on the euro. The yield climbed
2.5 percent to 2.17 percent from 2.12 percent.  The company’s board will probably consider all sources of 
cash flow , including cash from  Verizon Wireless , when setting
its  dividend  policy, the note from the investor meeting showed.
The company received more than $8 billion from its U.S. wireless
stake last year, though the payments are irregular.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which owns the other 55
percent of Verizon Wireless, is working to resolve its
relationship with Vodafone this year after weighing options that
range from buying Vodafone’s stake to a full merger of the two
companies, people familiar with the situation said this month.
Vodafone’s portion of the venture may be worth $115 billion,
according to analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  