-- Wal-Mart Wine Selling Is Key to South Africa’s U.S. Push
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-03-20T12:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/wal-mart-wine-selling-is-key-to-south-africa-s-u-s-push.html
South Africa, the eighth-biggest
wine producer, is seeking to regain a foothold in the U.S.
market lost to imports from Australia to  Argentina  by promoting
brands at  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. and  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)   “We used to have a quite substantial market presence in
the U.S. and it went all the way down,” George Monyemangene,
the consul general of South Africa in New York, said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters. “Maybe we were not as
responsive as we should have been to newcomers.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, started selling
South African wines in August 2012 and now has bottles in 1,600
stores, according to Deisha Barnett, a spokeswoman in
Bentonville,  Arkansas . Whole Foods Market, the largest U.S.
natural-foods grocer, is planning a South African wine promotion
later this year, said Doug Bell, the company’s national wine and
beer buyer.  South Africa ’s share of the market for wines imported to
the U.S. fell to 1.2 percent last year from a peak of “about 8
percent” in the 1990s, according to data from San Francisco-
based Wine Institute and Monyemangene. Italian wines have about
29 percent of the import market, followed by France, Australia
and Argentina. Imports of South African wine to the U.S. have
risen fivefold since 2000, compared with a more than 12-fold
jump for Argentina and New Zealand wine imports, according to
the South African Consulate.  “South African wine has matured,” Bell said in a
telephone interview from  Blue Ridge ,  Georgia . “It’s time to
showcase them. The quality is there. I don’t think they’re the
little brother of the wine world anymore.”  Seven Sisters  In the U.S., Wal-Mart sells Seven Sisters wines, founded by
seven sisters of South Africa’s Brutus family, Barnett said in a
telephone interview. Wal-Mart entered Africa’s largest consumer
market in 2011 with the acquisition of a majority stake in
Johannesburg-based  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)   The efforts to boost sales of South African wine in the
U.S. are taking place as the rand trades at a four-year low
against the  U.S. dollar  amid labor disputes in the  mining
industry , a widening budget shortfall and the threat of a
downgrade of South Africa’s BBB credit rating, the second-lowest
investment grade. The currency has slipped more than 8 percent
this year, the most among 25 major emerging-market currencies
compiled by Bloomberg.  White Wine  The weaker currency will boost South Africa’s total wine
exports 5.1 percent this year to 430 million liters, a level 23
percent higher than two years earlier, according to a USDA
Foreign Agricultural Service report dated March 14. White wine
makes up 81 percent of the country’s exports to the U.S.,
according to the report.  South Africa wine production dates back to the 1600s, when
the Dutch East India Company established a supply station in the
Cape of Good Hope. Exports began booming after countries stopped
boycotting South African products in protest over apartheid, the
white minority government that ended in 1994.  Monyemangene, the consul general, said producers may have
lost market share by underpricing “top-end” wine. With the new
agreements with U.S. retailers, sales are starting to increase,
he said.  “We have some intermediate to long-term agreements within
the export market,” Monyemangene said in the March 13
interview. “We have seen a rise in terms of volume of wines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  