-- Walgreen Drops Cardinal Health for AmerisourceBergen Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-19T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/walgreen-alliance-boots-win-right-for-amerisourcebergen-stake.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and Alliance Boots
GmbH agreed to have AmerisourceBergen Corp. handle their
pharmaceutical distribution and gained the option to acquire a
minority stake in the company.  The agreement with Chesterbrook, Pennsylvania-based
AmerisourceBergen to distribute branded and generic
pharmaceuticals will start in September and last 10 years, the
companies said today in a statement.  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH) , whose
contract with Walgreen to distribute drugs won’t be renewed,
dropped the most since June 2009.  The partnership will reduce costs, provide daily delivery
of drugs to stores and boost sales of cancer and other specialty
medicines for Walgreen, which last year bought a 45 percent
stake in Alliance Boots for $6.7 billion to create a global
chain of pharmacies. Cardinal Health said its contract with
Walgreen had generated 21 percent of revenue in fiscal 2012.  “It will make some of these high-cost, complex medications
available” in stores, Walgreen Chief Executive Officer Greg Wasson told reporters today on a conference call. The
 AmerisourceBergen (ABC)  accord “is an improvement on our existing
contract” with Cardinal Health and is projected to provide a
modest boost to fiscal 2014 profits after one-time costs, he
said.  AmerisourceBergen Stake  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois ,  climbed  5.4 percent
to $44.74 at the close in  New York  for the biggest advance since
July 19. AmerisourceBergen  rose  3.6 percent to $50.06, the
highest price since its initial public offering in 1995.
Cardinal Health, based in Dublin,  Ohio , slumped 8.2 percent to
$42.35.  The accord allows Walgreen and Alliance Boots the option to
purchase as much as 7 percent of AmerisourceBergen’s  equity  in
the open market, plus equity warrants for 16 percent of the
shares, according to the statement.  AmerisourceBergen will distribute branded pharmaceutical
products that Walgreen currently  sources  from distributors and
suppliers. In addition, generic pharmaceutical products that
Walgreen presently distributes itself will be included in
calendar-year 2014, according to the statement.  Walgreen today also reported second-quarter earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates.  Net income in the period ended Feb. 28 rose 11 percent to
$756 million, or 79 cents a share, from $683 million, or 78
cents, a year earlier, the company said. Excluding some items,
profit was 96 cents a share. Analysts had estimated 93 cents on
average, according to date compiled by Bloomberg.  Walgreen renewed a contract in July to provide Express
Scripts Holding Co. customers with prescriptions, ending a
standoff that caused it to lose shoppers to  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  