-- Wall Street Wins Under Swap-Rule Changes Moving in House
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-20T20:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/wall-street-may-win-swap-rule-reprieve-in-u-s-house-legislation.html
U.S. House lawmakers advanced
legislation that would ease Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules and
give banks greater ability to trade swaps overseas.  The House Agriculture Committee voted today to move seven
measures, including one to allow trading of almost all types of
derivatives by units of banks that hold government-insured
deposits -- such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  A
separate bill would restrict U.S. regulators’ ability to apply
rules to overseas transactions.  The measures, which would need approval from the House and
Senate before heading to President  Barack Obama , are part of an
effort to amend or limit the regulatory overhaul the president
signed into law less than three years ago. Dodd-Frank requires
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission to create swap-market rules after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The bills are “common-sense tweaks,” Representative  Frank Lucas , the Oklahoma Republican who leads the agriculture panel,
said at the meeting. “They are intended to restore the balance
that I believe can exist between sound regulation and a healthy
economy.”  The lawmakers are working to undo Dodd-Frank provisions
even as the CFTC and other regulators are trying to complete the
overhaul. The House panel’s moves were assailed by Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who last week released a report and
held a hearing on a derivatives bet that cost JPMorgan more than
$6.2 billion in 2012.  ‘Watering Down’  “Last year, some members of Congress supported watering
down Dodd-Frank derivative safeguards, but abandoned those
efforts after the world learned that JPMorgan Chase had lost
billions of dollars on derivative trades,” Levin said in a
statement. “It is incredible that less than a week after new
JPMorgan Whale hearings detailed how the bank’s London office
piled up risk, hid losses, and dodged regulatory oversight, that
some House members are again supporting the weakening of
derivative safeguards.”  One measure, approved on a 31-14 vote, calls for altering a
requirement that banks with access to  deposit insurance  and the
 Federal Reserve ’s discount window move some derivatives trades
to affiliates that have their own capital. Commodity, equity and
structured swaps tied to some asset-backed securities would be
allowed in banks under the legislation.  “You’re putting the taxpayers on the hook,” said
Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the panel’s top
Democrat, at the hearing. “This could come back to haunt you.”  Opposed Changes  Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition including the
AFL-CIO labor federation as well as other unions and consumer
groups, has opposed changes to the so-called push-out rule.  A second bill would require the CFTC and SEC to complete
joint rules defining when swaps rules apply to cross-border
transactions. The full rulemaking process requires agencies to
conduct analysis of costs and benefits; federal courts have
overturned rules based on inadequate economic assessments.  The CFTC’s proposed guidance, which lacks an economic
analysis, has spurred opposition from JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S. banks, which say they will be hurt
compared with foreign-based rivals.  “What this bill is is an attempt to derail the guidance
and tie down the ability of the CFTC to do anything,” Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for Financial Reform,
said in a telephone interview.  Joint Determination  Representative  David Scott , a Georgia Democrat, said the
measure allows the two agencies to jointly determine if rules
should apply to certain countries. He said Dodd-Frank’s other
requirements for bank registration and higher collateral and
clearing standards limit the “re-importation of risk” from
other countries.  Additional legislation approved today exempts commercial
and manufacturing so-called end users from having to post
collateral to support trades. A separate bill advanced prevents
trades between company units from being considered swaps and
subject to clearing and other Dodd-Frank regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  