-- Was the Iraq War Worth Its Cost to the U.S.?
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-03-19T22:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/was-the-iraq-war-worth-its-cost-to-the-u-s-.html
Ten years after the overthrow of
 Saddam Hussein , Americans, Iraqis and others are asking whether
the past decade of U.S. involvement in  Iraq  was worth it.  Some respond with a resounding yes or no, expecting the
force of their reply to be sufficient justification for their
judgment. The frustrating reality is that it is still too early
to form a definitive answer. Rather than leave this emotional
question at that, it is worth identifying what we are in a
position to evaluate and to make preliminary assessments of the
relevant variables, which are still too fluid to judge
definitively.  Let’s begin by considering the factors we can reasonably
appraise. First is that Hussein is no longer in power. Although
a minority of Iraqis would embrace his return if it were on
offer, most have greater hopes for a more meaningful life with
him gone. Although violence continues, most Iraqis no longer
have to worry about the arbitrary arrests, disappearances and
killings that touched huge swaths of society under the Baath
regime. Iraqis in the new security forces have died in
significant numbers, but nothing on the scale of the hundreds of
thousands who met their deaths as fodder for Hussein’s ruthless
wars. Concerns about Iraq’s instability affecting the broader
region remain, but the regime that invaded two of its neighbors
in little more than a decade no longer rules to plot a third.  Second, Iraq has become a meaningful contributor to global
oil markets. It now pumps more oil than any other member of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries besides  Saudi
Arabia . Iraq is poised to contribute much more in the years
ahead. This production has in part allowed the U.S. to pursue a
sanctions-based strategy against  Iran’s nuclear program  and
could prove critical to meeting global demand at a reasonable
price if the world economy improves in the months ahead.  The Counterfactual  Let’s next consider factors that won’t grow clearer with
the passage of time, such as the counterfactual. Some may
imagine that, in the absence of the invasion of Iraq, the Middle
East today would look much as it did in 2002: mostly stagnant
and repressed, but more or less stable. There are, however,
reasons to doubt this scenario, particularly when we consider
 Iran . Were Hussein still in power, Iran would probably be more
quiescent in the region. But Iran’s nuclear ambitions would
probably be even more intense than they are today. Hussein would
have wriggled free from sanctions many years ago, reaped large
windfalls from the high oil prices of the mid-2000s and,
consistent with the findings of the Kay Report, continued the
pursuit of the weapons that had eluded him by 2003. It is at
least possible that Hussein would now have nuclear weapons. At
best, Iran under the Islamic Republic and Iraq under Hussein
would be locked in a race for a nuclear weapon, making the Gulf
arguably the most dangerous region of the world.  Another factor about which we have scant new information is
the opportunity costs of a decade of American attention and
effort focused on Iraq and the political capital spent getting
others to support U.S. endeavors there. These costs are hard to
quantify, but certainly are significant. The U.S. might have
paid more attention to the rise of  China  and shoring up its
Asian allies, something to which it has turned belatedly. Or the
U.S. might have concentrated more on its own hemisphere, helping
it better integrate and meet its own energy needs.  One place where the outcome would probably not be
different, however, is  Afghanistan . Many suggest that the war in
Iraq came at the expense of success in Afghanistan, although
this claim doesn’t stand up well under scrutiny. The
considerable resources devoted to Iraq are unlikely to have been
allocated to Afghanistan even in the absence of the  Iraq War .
This is particularly true when we look at the early years, when
the dedication of greater resources might have prevented the
security and governance vacuum that created fertile ground for
the later re-emergence of the Taliban. At the time, the U.S.
expected to be fighting the war on terrorism in multiple
engagements worldwide, which meant it couldn’t afford extensive
long-term commitments to any one theater.  Remaining Variables  Last, let’s consider two other variables, crucial to the
final reckoning, but still in flux and therefore eluding
judgment. First is the domestic outcome in Iraq, which remains
volatile and fluid. Iraq has built a set of institutions on
paper, and to some extent in practice, that could serve as the
foundation of a modern, democratic state. Its constitution,
while imperfect, is one of the most progressive in the region.
Moreover, in the past several years, Iraqi leaders have largely
managed a number of core disputes through the political process,
not through armed opposition or violence.  That said, there are developments that would weigh heavily
on the positive side of the ledger, but none have come to
fruition. Iraq hasn’t become a model to other countries for
governing highly divided societies in a productive way. A
related point is that Iraq hasn’t come close to meeting its
potential as an economic, political or diplomatic power in the
region because of corruption and internal divisions that create
openings for the meddling of external powers.  Iraq also hasn’t demonstrated itself to be a useful ally to
the U.S. It is conceivable that it could do so by helping to
resolve regional disputes or that its emerging role in OPEC
could bring significant indirect benefits to the U.S. and global
economy. But neither has yet occurred. In fact, Iraq’s actual
positions on issues like  Syria  have been more problematic than
helpful. Had a security agreement between Iraq and the U.S. been
successfully concluded in 2011, it is likely that Iraq would be
a more forthcoming partner in these arenas.  Any grand tally has to acknowledge that the contours of the
Iraqi state are far from being fully formed. Things could
deteriorate badly, but it is also possible that Iraq will
ultimately size up positively across the above dimensions. The
situation in  Baghdad  today, however, gives scant room for
optimism. Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki continues his efforts
to consolidate power. And the civil war in Syria is creating
strains on Iraq’s still nascent institutions and the prospect of
fragmentation is all too real.  Regional Role  The second variable still in flux, and critical to the
final assessment, is the outcome in the broader region. Will the
Arab revolutions of the past two years ultimately lead to a more
stable and prosperous Middle East? Iraq’s role in instigating
such revolutions is small compared with the domestic grievances
in  Egypt ,  Libya , Syria,  Tunisia  and Yemen. But Iraq’s experience
is related, even if not in the ways commonly imagined.  Few Arabs were motivated to emulate Iraq by watching events
there from 2003 to 2011. However, in subtle ways, the region’s
reaction to events in Iraq helped pave the way for the
revolutions. For instance, President  Hosni Mubarak  of Egypt
allowed large-scale protests for the first time in 2003 to
protest the Iraq War, providing Egyptian activists with their
first lessons in mass mobilization. In addition, the destruction
of one of the most brutal regimes in the region opened the eyes
of some Arabs to other possibilities.  Moreover, still hanging in the balance is the confrontation
between the international community and Iran. Iraq could well
play a role in any plausible resolution to the current standoff,
given its close relationship with Tehran and  Washington  and its
long border with Iran. Whether diplomacy, military force or
containment ultimately prevails, the U.S. will find the road
easier if Baghdad is aligned.  Given the several still-undetermined variables and the wide
variety of plausible outcomes, it is too early to bring final
judgment on American efforts in Iraq even 10 years on. It is
plausible that Iraq, for all the pain and trouble it caused,
will eventually come to be seen as a good investment. It is also
equally and, at this point, more conceivable that continued
strife and sectarianism in Iraq will add to the turbulence of
the region. Iraq may continue to be a headache at best, and a
fundamental challenge at worst, to American efforts in the
 Middle East  for years to come.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own. This column
is adopted from a  longer essay  published in the American
Interest.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 