-- Why Workers Welcomed Long Hours of Industrial Revolution
-- B y   E m m a   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-19T15:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/why-workers-welcomed-long-hours-of-industrial-revolution.html
Writers and academics often show an
interesting ambivalence about industrialization. Today, they
regard it as a blessing, the single-most-effective way to lift
people out of poverty. But in thinking about Britain’s
Industrial Revolution, they have tended to reach the opposite
conclusion: The rise of the factory, they argue, caused the end
of more “natural” working hours, introduced more exploitative
employment patterns and dehumanized the experience of labor. It
robbed workers of their autonomy and dignity.  Yet if we turn to the writing of laborers themselves, we
find that they didn’t share the historians’ gloomy assessment.
Starting in the early 19th century, working people in Britain
began to write autobiographies and memoirs in ever greater
numbers. Men (and occasionally women) who worked in factories
and mines, as shoemakers and carpenters, and on the land, penned
their stories, and inevitably touched on the large part of their
life devoted to labor. In the process, they produced a
remarkable account of the Industrial Revolution from the
perspective of those who felt its effects firsthand -- one that
looks very different from the standard historical narrative.  More Hours  First, working-class writers put a very different spin on
the increase in working hours that accompanied
industrialization. The autobiographies make clear that in pre-
industrial Britain, there simply wasn’t enough work to go
around. As a result, few people were fully employed throughout
the year. This gave them leisure time, but it also left most
families eking out an uncomfortable living on the margins.  The lack of consistent employment also forced workers to
stay in positions that were unsuitable or grossly exploitative.
William Chubb, living in the sleepy Wiltshire village of East
Harnham, spent four years working as a glove maker, despite
fearing that the work was destroying his eyesight. As he glumly
noted, he had “no better, or indeed no other way, to get a
livelihood.” And in rural  Scotland ,  James Ferguson  stayed at his post
as a miller’s assistant even though the miller was a drunkard
and left him “almost starved.” What other choice did he have?
There was no point in returning to his father, “who I knew full
well could not maintain me.”  This situation changed dramatically with the onset of
industrialization. In the factory heartlands, there was a lot of
work that needed to be done, which benefited anybody with a
strong back and healthy body. There were jobs not only in the
factories, but in building them. The industrial  workforce  needed
homes, shoes, clothes, furniture, bread and beer -- it all meant
jobs for large numbers of workers, skilled and otherwise, and
incomes that greatly exceeded what could be earned from the
land. Historians have tended to rue the increase in working
hours, and in the modern world long hours are often associated
with deteriorating  living standards , but the assessment of 19th-
century workers was often quite different. Of laboring in a
stone quarry, Emanuel Lovekin declared he enjoyed “very good jobs and
plenty of money.” John Lincoln considered that in the factory his
“work was very Light and the pay very good.”  Not all factory workers enjoyed better wages or appreciated
the new working conditions, of course, but many found that
industrialization meant the difference between poverty and
plenty.  Power Dynamics  Higher levels of employment also helped change the balance
of power between master and laborer. So long as jobs remained
scarce, workers, by necessity, obeyed their employers. The price
of dissent or disobedience was unemployment. With more jobs,
such subservience became less and less necessary. In the booming
new industrial towns, workers could, and did, walk out on
employers over relatively minor matters, confident that finding
more work wouldn’t be difficult. One autobiographer left his
position simply because he “grew sick” of the work; another
because he didn’t want to “beg pardon” after a falling out with
his master; another objected to wasting his precious Sunday
mornings at his master’s religious services; and another quit
when his master refused to let him take his tea breaks off the
premises. All working relationships are defined by a disparity
in power between master and servant. But that inequality is
rendered more palatable if we’re well remunerated for our
services and can leave at will.  The way in which working people described the upheavals of
this period provides us with a powerful reminder of the
transformative effect of industrialization and of its capacity
to improve living standards, even for the poor. Generations of
historians have dwelled on the loss of old working patterns and
presumed that the introduction of more intensive ones was
detrimental to workers’ welfare. But these developments weren’t
viewed in such a sinister light at the time. Industrialization
promised full employment, and for those used to scraping
together a living from the land, this was very good news indeed.  ( Emma Griffin  is a senior lecturer at the University of
East Anglia and the author of “Liberty’s Dawn: A People’s
History of the Industrial Revolution.” The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this post: Emma Griffin at
 E.Griffin@uea.ac.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 