-- Winter Storm Threatens Heavy Snow in Northern New England
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-03-19T17:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/winter-storm-threatens-heavy-snow-in-northern-new-england.html
A late winter storm that tied up
air traffic along the East Coast will bring more snow across
northern New England as it winds down in New York.  The storm is spreading rain from the  Massachusetts  Turnpike
south into southern New England and New York. Heavy snow is
falling north of the highway, also called Interstate 90, and
from 8 to 14 inches (20 to 36 centimeters) may pile up in New
Hampshire and Maine, said Scott Kaplan, a meteorologist with
 Hometown Forecast Services Inc.  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  “It’s done across most of the area by midnight tonight;
obviously it will end earlier the farther west and south you
go,” Kaplan said today.  As of 1 p.m. New York time, 84 flights into and out of
Boston’s Logan International Airport had been canceled, for a
total of 421 around the U.S., said  FlightAware , an airline
tracking service in Houston. Delays of more than an hour were
reported at New York’s LaGuardia Airport and New Jersey’s Newark
Liberty, according to the  Federal Aviation Administration’s 
website. Flights to Philadelphia International were delayed
almost an hour.  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch across upstate
New York into  Maine , the weather service said. Snowfall warnings
are also in place across parts of Ontario and  Quebec , including
 Montreal , according to Environment  Canada .  NYC Snow  New York City’s Central Park had 3 inches of snow
overnight, said Mike Layer, a  weather service  meteorologist in
Upton, New York. Six inches fell in Westchester County in New
York and 5 inches in Fairfield County in  Connecticut , he said.  The temperature was 36 degrees Fahrenheit (2.2 Celsius)
under overcast skies in Central Park at 1 p.m.  At Logan Airport, 6.4 inches fell, while 11 inches was
recorded in Lunenburg, Massachusetts, about 45 miles west-
northwest, according to the weather service. Light rain was
falling in  Boston  at 1 p.m.  The weather is expected to remain cooler than normal in the
eastern U.S. into April, said Matt Rogers, president of
Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda,  Maryland .  From March 24 to 28, temperatures will be about 8 degrees
below normal through the center of the country and about 3
degrees lower in the Northeast, Rogers said. The cold will
moderate a bit from March 29 to April 2, with temperatures
ranging from 3 to 5 degrees lower than usual from the Great
Plains to the Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  