-- World Bank’s Basu Says Faster Inflation Can Ease Global Turmoil
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-19T18:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/world-bank-s-basu-says-faster-inflation-can-ease-global-turmoil.html
World Bank Chief Economist Kaushik Basu recommended that developed nations let inflation accelerate
for a limited period to prompt a faster exit from global
economic stagnation he sees lasting two more years.  “Controlled inflation is very difficult but I think for
industrialized countries, inflation is a way to balance out some
of your debts without picking individuals who are winners and
losers,” Basu said in  Washington  today. “Not a very nice thing
to do but you have to do some non-nice things today given the
world’s situation.”  Months of respite in the euro region’s debt crisis were
brought to an end this week with a fight over a proposed tax on
bank deposits in Cyprus, a condition for an international
bailout to the Mediterranean island. Treasuries rallied and the
euro traded at its lowest level of the year. Cyprus’s parliament
rejected the levy today, dealing a blow to European plans to
force savers to shoulder part of the country’s aid package.  While liquidity injections by the central banks of rich
nations have bought time, they have not solved underlying
problems, Basu said in his speech at the Washington-based Center
for Global Development, an aid research group.  Basu’s suggestion echoed a proposal by Olivier Blanchard,
his International Monetary Fund counterpart who said in 2010
higher inflation targets would give central banks more scope to
react to shocks. As Blanchard did in 2010, Basu cited a 4
percent inflation figure as an example.  Blanchard’s idea was dismissed by officials from  Europe  to
the U.S., with Jean-Claude Trichet, then the European Central
Bank president, calling it “plain wrong.”  Basu said today it was probably a better moment for such an
idea, while cautioning against the risks of not being able to
put inflation “back into the cage.”  “This is a time when this should be considered,” he told
reporters after his speech. “We’ve overborrowed, we’ve
overconsumed, and this needs to be corrected, and this is
probably the best way to do it now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  2539Z GR <Equity> 