-- WTI Crude Oil Rebounds in New York After Biggest Drop in a Month
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-20T13:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/wti-oil-trades-near-one-week-low-u-s-crude-stockpiles-decline.html
West Texas Intermediate rose after
its steepest plunge in a month, while Brent futures rebounded
from their lowest level since December, as policy makers weighed
bailout options for Cyprus.  Both WTI and Brent climbed as much as 1.1 percent, causing
the spread between the two benchmark crudes to halt a three-day
contraction. Luxembourg’s Luc Frieden called for his fellow
euro-area finance ministers to reconvene “as soon as possible”
to assemble a new rescue package for Cyprus after the island
nation rejected a levy on bank deposits. U.S. crude stockpiles
declined by 413,000 barrels last week, the American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday. Government data on supply will be
released today.  “The market appears more than able to stomach all the bad
news,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst in  Frankfurt  at
Commerzbank AG, which predicts WTI will rise to an average $96 a
barrel in the second quarter. “While just a year ago events in
Cyprus may have sparked massive turmoil in financial markets,
markets appear to be increasingly immune.”  WTI futures for April delivery, which expire today,
advanced as much as 97 cents to $93.13 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange and were at $92.95
at 12:40 p.m. London time. The more-actively traded May contract
was up 80 cents at $93.32. The volume of all futures was 21
percent below the 100-day average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The front-month contract lost $1.58, or 1.7 percent
yesterday, the most since Feb. 20.  Technical Bounce  Brent for May settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange climbed as much as $1.15 to $108.60 a barrel.
The volume of all futures was down 25 percent from the 100-day
average. Prices slid $2.06 yesterday to $107.45, the lowest
close since Dec. 10.  The European benchmark grade was at a premium of $15.07 to
WTI for the same month, after falling to $14.93 yesterday, the
narrowest closing spread since July 24.  Brent, the benchmark grade for more than half the world’s
oil, rebounded as a technical indicator showed yesterday’s drop
was unsustainable, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 14-day
relative strength index fell below 30, a level that signals
futures are oversold. The reading was 34.1 today.  WTI has chart resistance along its middle Bollinger Band,
around $93.60 a barrel, Bloomberg data show. Futures yesterday
traded near this indicator for a third day without settling
above it, signaling a level where sell orders may be clustered.  The European Central Bank’s Governing Council, which was
due to meet today in Frankfurt, must decide whether to give
Cyprus more time or consider cutting off funds to its lenders.  Bank Levy  The Cypriot parliament rejected an unprecedented tax on
bank deposits aimed at raising 5.8 billion euros ($7.5 billion)
in return for 10 billion euros in external aid. The European
Union accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil demand in
2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the largest U.S.
oil-storage hub and the delivery point for New York-traded
futures, shrank by 289,000 barrels last week to 49 million, the
lowest level this year, the API data showed yesterday.  An Energy Department report today may show U.S. crude
supplies increased by  2 million barrels  last week to 386 million
barrels, the highest level since July, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories gained 278,000 barrels last week,
the API data showed. They are forecast to decrease by  2 million
barrels  in the government report. Distillate stockpiles,
including heating oil and diesel, dropped 1.3 million barrels,
compared with a projected 1 million barrel decline in the
survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Information Administration, the Energy Department’s statistics
unit, for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  