-- ThyssenKrupp Falls on Capital Increase Report: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-03-19T09:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/thyssenkrupp-falls-on-capital-increase-report-frankfurt-mover.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the German
steelmaker struggling to rebuild after a failed expansion in the
Americas, slumped the most in more than a year in Frankfurt
trading on speculation it’s planning a capital increase.  ThyssenKrupp slid as much as 6.9 percent, the steepest
intraday drop since December 2011, and traded 6.5 percent lower
at 17.185 euros as of 10:15 a.m. local time. The shares lost 43
percent of their value last year after the company wrote down
3.6 billion euros ($4.7 billion) and canceled its dividend for
the first time.  The steelmaker is considering a capital increase of more
than one billion euros, Handelsblatt reported earlier today.
Kilian Roetzer, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, declined to
comment on the report.  “ThyssenKrupp needs a capital increase, it cannot survive
without it,” Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH
& Co KG, said by phone from Kronberg near Frankfurt.  A possible obstacle to an increase is the Alfried Krupp von
Bohlen und Halbach Foundation, the company’s largest
shareholder, whose 25.33 percent stake gives it a blocking
minority in ThyssenKrupp. The foundation is headed by Berthold Beitz, a 99 year-old veteran German industrialist.  “The question is what the foundation will do,” said
Wodniok. “It probably couldn’t participate in a capital
increase,” he said.  Handelsblatt said Beitz may have been convinced of the
necessity of the increase given the company’s finances. The
foundation didn’t immediately return a call from Bloomberg News
seeking comment.  Net Loss  Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger is expanding the
company’s non-steel business and cutting its business divisions
to five from eight. ThyssenKrupp posted a net loss of 4.7
billion euros in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  Hiesinger, 52, is seeking to repair the damage from price-
fixing and bribery scandals as well as the botched expansion in
the Americas.  ThyssenKrupp unexpectedly announced on March 8 that Gerhard Cromme is stepping down on March 31 as chairman of the
supervisory board. The Board approvedDeutsche Telekom AG Chairman Ulrich Lehner as his successor today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  