-- Yuan Weakens as PBOC Lowers Fixing Before China-U.S. Trade Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-19T03:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/yuan-weakens-as-pboc-lowers-fixing-before-china-u-s-trade-talks.html
The  yuan  fell for a second day
after the central bank lowered its reference rate as President
Xi Jinping met U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob L. Lew in Beijing
for talks.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan  reference rate  at a
one-week low of 6.2758 per dollar today amid renewed turmoil  in
Europe after Cyprus proposed a levy on bank deposits. PBOC
adviser Song Guoqing said China doesn’t need to tighten its
policy as yet and there is a low chance of an interest-rate rise
in the first half of this year.  “There’s too much uncertainty out there, so policy makers
will prefer to be more cautious,” said Roy Teo, a currency
strategist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Singapore. “When global
growth picks up and there’s more clarity in Europe, China and
others will be more tolerant of currency appreciation.”  The yuan was trading at 6.2166 per dollar as of 10:49 a.m.
in Shanghai compared with 6.2158 yesterday, prices from the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System show. It touched 6.2124 on
Jan. 14, the strongest level since the government unified the
official and market rates at the end of 1993. China limits the
market rate to a 1 percent band on either side of the daily
fixing rate.  After meeting with President Xi, Lew said the U.S. and
China need to reduce trade barriers. He will meet Premier Li
Keqiang tomorrow. Citigroup Inc. economist Paul Brennan said in
Perth today that growth in the world’s second-largest economy
will ease below 8 percent in the second half of this year.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, China’s currency slipped
0.05 percent to 6.2105 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were steady at
6.3080, a 1.4 percent  discount  to the spot rate in Shanghai.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
was unchanged at 1.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  