-- Yudhoyono’s Spokesman Rules Out Immediate Fuel-Price Rise
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-03-19T10:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/yudhoyono-s-spokesman-rules-out-immediate-fuel-price-increase.html
Indonesia ’s government has no
immediate plan to raise fuel prices, a spokesman for President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said as the leader prepares to adjust
the country’s subsidized fuel policy.  “I can assure there won’t be an increase in subsidized fuel
prices in April,” Julian Aldrin Pasha, spokesman to the
president, told reporters in Jakarta today. Yudhoyono has
considered input from various parties, including a number of
suggestions to boost fuel prices in the coming weeks, Pasha said.  The government is formulating a more targeted fuel-subsidy
policy because the current one benefits middle to upper-income
groups more than the poor, Yudhoyono said last week. The plan
may be fleshed out in one to two weeks, and subsidies will be
controlled and managed, he said then. Indonesia was weighing the
benefits and disadvantages of raising prices or choosing another
method, he said March 13.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy is under pressure to curb
demand for oil imports, which have contributed to a record trade
deficit in October and one of the worst-performing currencies in
Asia in the past year. Reducing government payments to keep fuel
prices low would also allow the president to allocate more of
the state budget to infrastructure projects needed to lure
investment and spur growth.  Indonesia’s 2013 budget deficit may be more than 2 percent
of gross domestic product, exceeding the government’s target of
1.65 percent, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  told reporters
in Jakarta today. The bigger-than-target shortfall estimate is
due to high subsidy costs, lower tax revenues and declining
exports because of the global slowdown, he said.  Raising subsidized fuel prices is the last option for the
government, Martowardojo said last week. The government may
impose limits on the sale of subsidized fuel for privately owned
vehicles, and the controls will probably be applied in five big
cities, he said.  Yudhoyono’s scope to raise prices is narrowing ahead of
elections in 2014. The country limited the use of partially
government-funded diesel in January. The government has avoided
raising fuel prices since protests derailed an increase early
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  