-- Zambia’s Ex-Leader Banda to Face 3rd Day of Questioning
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-03-19T13:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/zambia-s-former-leader-banda-to-face-second-day-of-questioning.html
Zambia’s former President Rupiah Banda must appear before government investigators for a third
day on Friday to face questions about alleged corruption.  Banda is being interviewed “under warn and caution for
various offenses,” Namukolo Kasumpa, spokeswoman for the
Government Joint Investigative Team, told reporters today in
Lusaka, the capital.  Lawmakers last week lifted Banda’s immunity from
prosecution after Justice Minister Wynter Kabimba read out a
list of allegations against him, including “abuse of authority
of office, fraud and misappropriation of public funds.” The
former president denies any wrongdoing, his lawyer, Sakwiba Sikota, said on March 15.  Banda, who became president in 2008 after Levy Mwanawasa
died in office, went on to win elections in  Africa ’s biggest
copper producer later that year. He was defeated in the 2011
presidential vote by Michael Sata.  Banda’s legal team is “frustrated” as the government
investigators are on a “fishing expedition,” Sikota told
reporters after a second day of questioning today.  The former president is being questioned regarding a family
trust, a Nigerian oil deal, and campaign materials, Kasumpa
said. Kabimba also accused Banda of using Mauritius-registered
companies to finance “opaque transactions that are indicative
of money laundering activities.”  A cautioning usually preceeds formal charges being laid in
court, Sikota said.  “We are going through the processes,” Banda told
reporters today. “It will come to an end and the truth will
come out.”  Opposition leaders have claimed Zambia’s ruling Patriotic
Front is using the fight against corruption as a political tool
to target detractors. They have also accused Sata of tribalism,
and trying to create a one-party state.  The kwacha was unchanged at 5.38 a dollar as of 2:35 p.m.
in Lusaka today after dropping 0.2 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  