-- Zients Staying at OMB Said to Complicate Decision on Trade Job
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-03-19T18:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/zients-staying-at-omb-said-to-complicate-decision-on-trade-job.html
Jeffrey Zients will remain acting
director of the Office of Management and Budget for the time
being, which may take him out of the running to become the next
United State Trade Representative, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Zients had been the leading candidate to replace  Ron Kirk 
as USTR, said the person, who asked for anonymity to discuss a
personnel decision. President  Barack Obama  has asked him to stay
on at OMB until his nominee, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, is
confirmed by the Senate.  That may open the path for other USTR candidates, including
Francisco J. Sanchez, the undersecretary of commerce for
international trade, and Mike Froman, assistant to the president
for international economics, the person said.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  confirmed that
Zients is staying at the OMB for now. “He has been an
enormously valuable player on the president’s economic team,”
Carney said at a briefing. The decision doesn’t reflect concern
that Burwell’s nomination would run into roadblocks in the
Senate, he said.  Reuters reported earlier that Zients would stay at OMB,
taking him out of the running for the trade post.  Carney said Zients was asked to stay because the
administration and Congress are still wrangling over ways to
deal with the deficit and the White House is preparing the
president’s fiscal 2014 budget, which is scheduled to be
delivered to Congress the week of April 8.  Zients has served twice as acting director of White House
budget office. The most recent appointment was in January 2012.
He has also been its deputy director and its chief performance
officer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  