-- Zimbabweeans Approve New Constitution in Referendum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-19T12:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-19/zimbabweeans-approve-new-constitution-in-referendum.html
Zimbabweans approved a new
constitution to set up fresh elections later this year that will
pit President  Robert Mugabe  against his longtime rival, Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai .  The constitution was passed with 3.08 million votes in
favor and 179,489 against in the March 16 referendum, the
Zimbabwe Electoral Commission said today in the capital, Harare.
There were 56,627 spoiled ballots. Both Mugabe’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front and Tsvangirai’s Movement
for Democratic Change called for a yes vote.  The vote was a pre-requisite for presidential elections in
line with an agreement brokered by the 15-nation  Southern
African Development Community  following disputed polls in 2008
that international observers said were marred by violence. SADC
and the U.S. called the referendum peaceful.  “Since the majority of votes were received in favor of the
adoption of the draft constitution, the draft constitution is
declared to have been adopted by the people of  Zimbabwe  as the
constitution of Zimbabwe,” Chief Election Officer Lovemore
Sekeramai told reporters in the capital, Harare.  Mugabe and Tsvangirai have shared power in a coalition
government since 2009. Zimbabwe holds the world’s biggest
platinum and chrome deposits after  South Africa  and also has
reserves of coal, diamonds and gold.  The new constitution restricts the president to two five-
year terms and requires a two-thirds vote by members of
parliament to approve a state of emergency. It also guarantees
Zimbabweans freedom from torture or degrading treatment and bans
detention without trial, while security forces are barred from
being members of a political party or group.  Land Ownership  Provisions on land ownership in the new constitution mean
white-run commercial farms won’t be returned to their former
owners.  Mugabe, 89, who’s ruled the southern African nation since
independence from the U.K. 33 years ago, isn’t barred from
contesting elections as the presidential  term limits  aren’t
retroactive.  Western nations and international human-rights groups have
accused Mugabe of rigging elections since 2000 and brutalizing
his opponents to cling to power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  