-- ‘Eyes of the Country’ on Texas Abortion-Bill Battle, Davis Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-30T16:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/-eyes-of-the-country-on-texas-abortion-bill-battle-davis-says.html
 Texas Senate Republicans “will
probably be a little bit smarter” about passing a restrictive
abortion bill in the special session that begins tomorrow, State
Senator Wendy Davis said.  Davis, a Democrat, last week blocked passage of an anti-abortion bill championed by Texas Republicans including Governor
 Rick Perry . She spoke for more than 10 hours on the Senate floor
June 25, a filibuster that drew thousands of abortion-rights
supporters, sent the Austin capitol into chaos and catapulted
her into the national spotlight.  The maneuver prevented lawmakers from voting on the bill
before a midnight deadline that marked the end of the
legislative session, effectively killing the measure. Perry has
called the state legislature into special session tomorrow to
give lawmakers another chance to vote. In the Senate, where a
simple majority is required to approve the legislation,
Republicans hold 19 of 31 seats.  “They mismanaged the clock terribly last time and they
also ran roughshod over a lot of our Senate rules and traditions
to try to ram this bill through,” Davis said on the CBS’s
“Face the Nation.” As the Senate prepares to take up the bill
again, “the eyes of  Texas , the eyes of the country are
watching; they are going to be held accountable for the
decisions they make in this process,” she said.  In an interview with ABC’s “This Week,” Davis called the
abortion bill a “big government intrusion” that contradicts
Perry’s support for limited government.  “I’m going to fight with every fiber I have to keep it
from passing,” she said in an interview that aired today.  Abortion Rights Rally  Abortion rights activists planned a rally on the steps of
the Texas capitol tomorrow.  “The decision to force yet another special session on
legislation to virtually ban abortion is an affront to the
thousands of Texans who turned out in droves to oppose these
efforts,” said  Cecile Richards , president of Planned Parenthood
Action Fund, an abortion rights group.  The bill would prevent women from terminating pregnancies
after 20 weeks and impose new rules on clinics that provide
abortions. Abortion rights supporters said if the bill becomes
law, most of the state’s clinics would be forced to close.  Public opinion on the issue is complicated. A June 20  poll 
by the  University of Texas  and the Texas Tribune newspaper found
that more than 60 percent of the state’s citizens support
banning abortions after 20 weeks, while 49 percent support
abortion rights in general.  Since 2010, Republican-led legislatures across the U.S.
have sought to enact similar abortion limits. Ten states have
passed laws banning the procedure after 20 weeks. Some of those
laws face legal challenges and haven’t gone into effect.  Teenage Mother  Davis , 50, was a teenager when she gave birth to her first
child. She was the first person in her family to earn a
bachelor’s degree, eventually graduating from  Harvard Law School 
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Perry, in a June 27 speech to the National Right to Life
conference, brought up Davis’ teenage pregnancy and said she
should consider the plight of children in similar circumstances.  “It is just unfortunate that she hasn’t learned from her
own example that every life must be given a chance to realize
its full potential and that every life matters,” he said.  Davis responded on the CBS show.  “That was a terribly personal thing to say,” she said.
“It showed disregard for the fact that we all, we each own our
own personal history. We make choices and have the opportunity
to take chances that present themselves to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  