-- Macquarie Set for Profit Gain as Australian Dollar Weakens
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-01T02:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/macquarie-set-for-profit-gain-as-australian-dollar-begins-slide.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , which earned 63
percent of its revenue from outside  Australia  last year, is set
for a profit boost from the local currency’s decline to a near
three-year low against the  U.S. dollar .  For every sustained one-U.S.-cent drop in the Australian
dollar, the country’s largest investment bank could increase
earnings by as much as 1.4 percent, said Christopher Hall, a
senior investment officer at Adelaide-based  Argo Investments
Ltd. (ARG) , which owns Macquarie shares. Net income could gain as much
as 4 percent in the quarter ended June, he said in an interview.
The currency touched the lowest since September 2010 today.  Macquarie has expanded its offshore operations since 2009,
buying five North American businesses in that year to offset
slowing growth at home. Even before the currency’s slide, the
company was on course for a second consecutive year of profit
gain after it cuts costs.  “Macquarie is a clear beneficiary from the falling
Australian dollar,”  James Ellis , a Sydney-based analyst at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said by phone. “The growth from their
Americas earnings in recent periods has been more consistent
than from other regions.”  The investment bank’s revenue from the Americas, mainly the
U.S. and  Canada , rose to 33 percent of the total in the year
ended March 31 from 8 percent four years earlier, filings show.  Navleen Prasad, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie,
declined to comment on the impact of the falling currency on
profit.  Second-Worst  The so-called Aussie has declined 7.5 percent this year,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes, outperforming only the yen. The Australian currency
weakened to 91.10 U.S. cents today, the lowest since September
2010, before trading at 91.67 as of 11:37 a.m. in Tokyo.  Analysts have cut their year-end forecasts for the Aussie
and now expect it to trade at 95 U.S. cents from $1.01 at the
end of March.  All other things being equal, “if the currency remains
low, profit accretion will certainly be significant going
forward,” Argo’s Hall said. Macquarie derived 51 percent of its
revenue from market-facing businesses such as advisory,
equities, fixed income and currencies in the year to March 31,
filings show.  Commercial Banks  Earnings gains from the weaker currency will probably be
greater for Macquarie than for Australia’s four major commercial
banks, based on estimates by  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the nation’s
third-largest lender by market value, is expected to improve
earnings for the year to Sept. 30 by only 0.3 percent due to the
currency’s fall as its foreign-exchange exposure for the period
is 70 percent hedged, UBS analysts led by Jonathan Mott said in
a note on June 25. ANZ is expanding in  Asia  and plans to double
the contribution to profit from the region to 30 percent by
2017. Other lenders will see little change in their earnings
from the dollar’s move, the UBS analysts said.  Macquarie said in 2010 that the global credit crunch after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 provided a
“once-in-a-generation” window to expand in the U.S.  Shares of Macquarie have  gained  14 percent this year,
compared with a 1.6 percent advance for the benchmark  S&P/ASX
200 (AS51)  index. The Sydney-based bank fell 3.2 percent to A$40.52 at
12:45 p.m. local time.  Macquarie will probably report net income of A$1.1 billion
in the year ending March, according to the average  estimate  of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  