-- Lafarge Taps Cheaper Housing Boom as Brazil Catches U.S.
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-07-01T07:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/lafarge-taps-cheaper-housing-boom-as-brazil-catches-up-with-u-s-.html
Lafarge SA (LG)  said some emerging markets
such as  Brazil  and  Mexico  are now constructing as many new homes
as the U.S., allowing the world’s second-biggest cement maker to
make up for sluggish growth in western Europe.  “Urbanization is still far from being completed in China,
Brazil is building as many homes as the U.S., about 1.5 million
per year, and Mexico as well,” Lafarge Chief Executive Officer
Bruno Lafont said in an interview at the company’s headquarters
in Paris. Lafarge, with a market value of 13.6 billion euros
($17.7 billion) has developed new technologies and services to
make new constructions “more affordable whether it’s for a
power plant or a family home,” he said.  Lafont needs a boost from  emerging markets  as he has been
cutting jobs and selling assets to counter a construction slump
in Europe and repair a credit rating that has fallen below
investment grade. The volume of global construction will climb
by 70 percent to $15 trillion by 2025 from $8.7 trillion in
2012, with almost 60 percent of growth coming from China, India
and the U.S., according to a report released today by research
groups Global Construction Perspectives and  Oxford Economics .  China and India combined need 270 million new homes in the
next 12 years to meet the needs of their growing populations,
while Brazil and Mexico together need more than 27.5 million,
the report showed.  Affordable Housing Boom  India ’s construction market will grow by 7.4 percent on
average per year through 2015, just above China’s 7.2 percent
growth and  Indonesia ’s 6.5 percent,  Graham Robinson , Executive
Director of Global Construction Perspectives, said in an
interview. Brazil will grow at a slower rate, at 2 percent, as
the market is hampered by higher taxes and red tape, he said.  “We see a huge growth in affordable housing” in emerging
markets, Robinson said. Sub-Saharan  Africa  will be the region
with the second-fastest construction growth after Asia, he said.  Lafarge generates 25 percent of its sales in Africa and the
Middle East, positioning the French company “very well” to
benefit from global construction trends, Lafont said.  Lafarge traded 1.2 percent higher at 47.83 euros in Paris
as of 9:27 a.m. The stock has  dropped  2.1 percent since the
start of the year, prior to today, underperforming the 2.7
percent gain of the French benchmark index CAC 40. Swiss rival
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the biggest cement maker, dropped 1.6 percent in
the same period in Zurich, while  Germany ’s  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) 
gained 13 percent in  Frankfurt .  European Woes  Faced with Europe’s economic slump, Lafont last year
unveiled a plan to lift operating profit by 1.75 billion euros
by 2015 through cost cuts and sales of new products and
services. He said this year that most of the target will be
reached by the end of 2014.  This year, Lafarge is scheduled to commission a new cement
plant in India, where it generates between 4 percent to 5
percent of its sales, and it also plans to add capacities in
Iraq and Canada and renovate a facility in the U.S.  The U.S. construction market will grow by 4.5 percent on
average per year through 2025, while western Europe’s is stuck
at 1 percent, Robinson said.  As a result, European cement makers have reduced capacities
in their home markets and Lafarge, whose debt surged after the
2008 purchase of Orascom’s cement operation for $15 billion,
decided to idle some plants in its home region. Still, new
technologies to construct buildings at lower costs and reduced
capacities should allow Lafarge to operate its European business
at a profit, Lafont said.  Overcapacities  “Europe isn’t dead at all, we’re going to be able to
create value through innovation,” the Lafarge CEO said. “All
players have already worked on restructuring their capacities,
it’s a continued process. I think our current position is rather
solid and resilient.”  In  China , which represents 3 percent of Lafarge’s assets,
“the cement industry went through a slightly tougher period in
2011 and 2012, but you have to look long term,” Lafont said.
“We’re making money in China, we should make more and be more
efficient.”  This year, Lafarge agreed to sell its U.S. gypsum business
for $700 million and a cement plant in the Ukraine for 96
million, and to raise 200 million euros in a capital increase of
its Indian subsidiary to fund local growth.  “The company has worked a lot on its portfolio over the
past 7 to 8 years,” Lafont said. “These large changes are
poised to be completed. Lafarge will continue to optimize its
portfolio” to focus “on growth of selected markets where we
have better positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  