-- Algosaibi Plans New Debt Offer After Biggest Mideast Default
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-07-01T12:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/algosaibi-plans-new-debt-offer-after-biggest-middle-east-default.html
Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co.
plans to make a new offer on $7.2 billion of debt to creditors
including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Standard Chartered  Plc as it seeks
to bounce back from the Middle East’s biggest corporate default.  The Saudi Arabian company, which runs a bottling plant for
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  products in the kingdom and has interests ranging
from finance to shipping, will propose the new deal “in the
coming months,” said Chief Executive Officer Simon Charlton.
Creditors rejected a proposal from Algosaibi four years ago.  “The group wants to get back to focusing on business and
gain access to credit markets,” Charlton, who is also
Algosaibi’s chief restructuring officer, said in an interview in
Dubai on June 27. “Our goal is to be able to reach a fair and
reasonable solution with all banks, including foreign banks.”  Algosaibi and billionaire Maan al-Sanea's  Saad Group  
defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans in 2009, roiling 
new lending in  Saudi Arabia , the Arab world’s biggest economy, 
and forcing banks to set aside provisions to cover losses. 
Units of Algosaibi and Saad, which are linked by family 
relations, borrowed from more than 80 regional and international
banks to finance expansion into real estate and investments in
the kingdom and elsewhere.  The company hired Charlton, former head of forensic
services in the Middle East for Deloitte LLP, and Ben Jones,
also from Deloitte, as chief financial officer last month.  Upfront Payments  The new debt proposal will include some upfront payments
and those spread over a longer time, Charlton said, declining to
give further details. Algosaibi has started talks with Saudi
Arabian banks and some other creditors, he said.  “Algosaibi believes that all parties need to be flexible
and realistic and we are not wedded to any particular
solution,” said Charlton. “We are dealing with Saudi banks as
a matter of priority as the royal order directs.”  Terms of the revised deal are likely to be less favorable
than the initial offer, Charlton said. “We’re not in the same
position as we were,” he said. “There have been four years of
wasteful litigation and the assets have declined in value
because the company has not been able to maximize the value of
them given these issues and the asset freeze in Saudi Arabia.”  Well Received  Algosaibi’s liabilities have dropped to about 27 billion
riyals ($7.2 billion) from 34 billion riyals in 2009 because
claims from creditors to The International Banking Corp. in
Bahrain are no longer included, said Charlton. One-third of the
liabilities are owed to Saudi Arabian banks, including  Al Rajhi
Bank (RJHI)  and  Saudi Investment Bank (SIBC) , another third to Middle Eastern
lenders and the remainder to global banks, he said.  “At this point, given the losses made, any recovery would
likely be well received by the banks,” said  Khalid Howladar , a
senior credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service. “Most banks
in the GCC have fully provided for the exposure and indeed many
have already written off the losses.”  A spokeswoman for BNP Paribas, who asked not to be
identified, declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Standard
Chartered who also asked not to be identified.  The restructuring attempt comes amid a recovery in the
kingdom’s banking industry, which is benefiting from government
plans to invest more than $500 billion developing infrastructure
and industry to boost  job creation . Lending to private
businesses grew almost 17 percent in the year to May, the
fastest pace in more than four years, according to data from the
 Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , the kingdom’s central bank.  New Borrowing  Lending to private businesses contracted in December of
that year, SAMA data show. The kingdom’s economy expanded 0.1
percent in 2009, the  slowest pace in 10 years , before recovering
to as high as 7.1 percent two years later, according to the
central bank data. The non-performing loan ratio at Saudi banks
peaked at 4.1 percent in 2009 and fell to 2.4 percent last year,
the lowest level for three years, according to Moody’s.  Charlton said Algosaibi plans to borrow from local and
international banks once the restructuring is resolved.  “After more than four years of complete radio silence, the
company is starting to make the right noises,” said Ahmad Alanani, the Dubai-based director for the  Middle East  at Exotix
Ltd. “The devil, however, is in the details.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  