-- Angola Delays Stock Markets Plans to 2016, Futures Follow
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/angola-delays-stock-markets-plans-to-2016-futures-follow.html
Angola pushed back plans for the
start of stock-exchange trading by a year to 2016, with a
futures and commodities market in  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer set to begin a year later.  “There might be a window of opportunity to start earlier
depending on how things go” in developing the bourse, Archer Mangueira, the chairman of the country’s Capital Markets
Commission, said in a June 28 interview at the London Stock
Exchange. Two months ago, Mangueria said it would begin
operations in 2015. The MSCI Frontier Markets Index rallied 7.7
percent this year, with gauges in Ghana, Kenya and Nigeria among
the world’s 10-best performers.  Angola expects its stock exchange to have a market value of
10 percent of gross domestic product within 18 months of its
start up, he said in April.  Angola ’s largest banks, which
include Banco Angolano de Investimentos SA and Banco de Poupanca
e Credito SA, as well as mobile-phone companies Unitel SA and
Movicel Telecomunicacoes Lda., are expected to list on the
exchange, he said.  Angola, which is seeking to boost foreign investment after
a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002, forecasts economic
growth of 7.1 percent this year from 7.4 percent in 2012. Crude
accounts for three-quarters of budget revenue, according to the
International Monetary Fund. The formerly Marxist nation ranks
157th out of 176 countries on Transparency International’s 2012
Corruption Perceptions Index.  Mangueira’s “commission is already working on the
definition of standardized contracts for certain kinds of
financial products,” he said of plans to trade futures and
commodities.  Bonds Market  Angola delayed the start of its secondary market for bonds
to the first quarter of next year, he said.  “This is an estimation,” Mangueira said. “We might make
some adjustments based on whether the legal instruments are
fully developed and implemented, technological infrastructure is
in place, and employees are trained.”  The publicly traded market for Angolan notes had been
planned to start by the end of September, Mangueira said last
month. The market, which will use electronic trading, will add
to Treasury bills already bought and sold among financial
institutions and help develop a yield curve, he said at the
time.  Angola sold $1 billion of dollar bonds to selected
investors maturing in 2019 at a yield of 7 percent in August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After the bonds rallied
in 2012, yields on the notes have risen 134 basis points, or
1.34 percentage points, this year to 6.427 percent.  The country’s Capital Markets Commission visited  London ’s
bourse to establish contacts and connections and to partner with
them on training, Mangueira said.  “We have signed an agreement with the LSE so that our
staff can receive training in the area of negotiation and post-negotiation systems,” he said. “LSE has high-value expertise
that we could learn and use to develop a securities market
academy in Angola, which is a priority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  