-- ANZ’s Mohindra Sees Singapore REITs Weathering Rate Storm
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-07-01T09:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/anz-s-mohindra-sees-singapore-reits-weathering-rate-storm.html
Singapore ’s  property  trusts,  Asia ’s
second-worst performers this year, are well-positioned to
weather an increase in interest rates as they diversify their
funding sources, said  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The average debt maturity of Singapore REITs has risen to
four to five years from three years, Rohit Mohindra, the head of
real estate for  Southeast Asia  at ANZ, said in an interview in
Singapore on June 27. Only about 7 percent of the debt issued by
the island-state’s REITs needs to be refinanced this year,
according to Mohindra.  The FTSE Strait Times Real Estate Investment Trust Index,
which surged 37 percent in 2012, has  lost  4.1 percent this year
on concern higher interest rates would make it more difficult to
raise funds. Between the Singapore-dollar bond market and banks,
there is ample liquidity for REIT sponsors in Singapore to
access capital from local and foreign banks, Mohindra said.  “Singapore REITs are very well positioned to weather the
storm,” Mohindra said. “They have diversified and accessed the
market repeatedly.”  Singapore’s REITs are the second-worst performers in Asia
after those in  South Korea  when measuring total returns
including dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore’s central bank uses the  exchange rate  rather than
 interest rates  to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace of
appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
center of the band. A flatter slope allows slower appreciation
or depreciation over time.  New Measures  Singapore on June 28 unveiled rules governing how financial
institutions grant property loans to individuals, extending
efforts to curb excessive price increases. The government also
said today that  home prices  climbed to a record in the second
quarter.  New government measures on home loans make so-called
diversified and retail developers more attractive, analysts
Desmond Ch’ng and  Wilson Liew  at Maybank Kim Eng Securities Pte
said in a note to clients today.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19
the central bank may start dialing down its stimulus effort if
the economy achieves sustainable growth.  “The catalyst event will be the news flow in the pickup in
the economy, also in the U.S.” said Vikrant Pandey, a
Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte. “Because we derive
our interest rates from there indirectly, if the U.S. data
continues to be strong, then the Fed will let the interest rates
rise sooner rather than later.”  Most Singapore REITs have a leverage level of about 35
percent, which is “prudent,” Mohindra said. Debt at
Singapore’s 20 largest REITs is about S$24.1 billion ($19
billion) of which about S$1.6 billion needs to be refinanced
this year, he said. The refinancing amount for next year is
about S$4.5 billion, followed by S$7 billion in 2015, he said.  ‘Rate Shock’  Companies in the property industry accounted for about 17
percent of the S$9.52 billion bonds issued in Singapore this
year, said Mohindra. In 2012, sales rose 45 percent to S$32
billion from a year earlier, with real estate companies making
up about a quarter of it, he said.  Property trusts in the island-state may have to diversify
their funding sources as they aren’t prepared for an “interest
rate shock,”  Fitch Ratings  said in March. The city’s REITs have
been increasing short-term debt with record-low interest rates
and face refinancing risks when borrowing costs rise, which may
force them to sell assets or shares to boost their funding,
according to the ratings company.  Singapore REITs, the biggest fundraisers in the city’s
initial public offering market in the past year, had relied on
short-term debt to reflect the length of commercial leases,
Johann Kenny, director of corporates at Fitch said in March.
Their funding costs in the past six years don’t reflect the
challenges in a “normalized” interest rate scenario, he said.  Rising Yields  Yields on Singapore’s 10-year government  bonds  climbed to
2.77 percent on June 24, the highest since Feb. 9, 2011,
according to data compiled by the central bank. The rates have
gained 91 basis points since the end of March, set for the
biggest quarterly advance in five years.  “REITs have already anticipated some of the rate increases
and taken fixed rate debt versus floating, and have longer-dated
tenures,” said UOB’s Pandey. “Some of the REITs have been
oversold.”  Singapore REITs are trading at an average  dividend  per unit
yield of 6.3 percent, 384 basis points above the Singapore 10-year government bond yield,  Standard Chartered  said in a note
dated June 24.  “On their financing needs, they are OK,” Mohindra said.
“Do higher rates influence their decision if they were to make
a new acquisition? Yes, probably it does and hopefully it gets
reflected in the terms and the price and the value that they pay
for the asset and in terms of trying to pay for the higher cost
of debt that they may use to finance that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  