-- Rudd Gets Boost in Australian Polls After Ousting Gillard
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-30T22:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/australian-voters-prefer-rudd-to-abbott-as-leader-poll-shows.html
Kevin Rudd took the lead as
 Australia ’s preferred prime minister in the first polls since he
ousted Julia Gillard, as his Labor party narrowed the gap
against the opposition ahead of this year’s election.  A Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper shows
Rudd, who will name his Cabinet team today, leads Liberal-National leader Tony Abbott as preferred leader 49 percent to 35
percent. Labor is trailing the coalition by two percentage
points on a two-party preferred basis, from 14 points a week
ago.  Rudd, 55, who defeated Gillard in a party room vote on June
26, said he returned to the leadership to avoid a
“catastrophic” election defeat for Labor. He faces the
challenge of uniting his party and building a policy platform on
issues including the nation’s carbon tax and dealing with entry
into Australia by asylum seekers, many fleeing war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations.  “Honeymoon is a good term for it,” Norman Abjorensen, a
Canberra-based political analyst at Australia National
University, said by phone yesterday. “The opposition have had a
free run recently and suddenly you have the worst possible
scenario for Abbott -- Rudd returning.”  Election Date  Rudd, who hasn’t committed to Gillard’s pledge to hold the
election on Sept. 14, needs to fill Cabinet positions vacated by
supporters of Australia’s first female leader. The Governor
General will swear in ministers and parliamentary secretaries at
2 p.m. in Canberra.  Jacinta Collins ,  Julie Collins  and  Catherine King  are among
those to be added to the Cabinet, the Australian newspaper
 reported  yesterday, citing a spokeswoman for Rudd.  Melissa Parke 
will also be named to a post, the report said. Voicemail
messages left with two of Rudd’s spokesmen outside of business
hours yesterday were not immediately returned.  Jacinta Collins is a senator in Victoria and Julie Collins
is a member of parliament in Tasmania. Together with King,
currently minister for road safety, their appointments will
boost the representation of women in the Cabinet.  New Cabinet  Rudd will announce the Cabinet today, Labor deputy prime
minister Anthony Albanese told reporters during a stop in
northern Tasmania.  Abbott called the forthcoming election Australia’s
“clearest choice in a generation,” speaking at a party rally
in  Melbourne  on June 29.  “It is a choice about fundamental values, it’s a choice
about what we believe in as a people and a nation,” he said.  Rudd visited the Blue Mountains area, west of Sydney, on
June 29 to campaign with the local Labor candidate.  “I think we’re doing OK but we’ve got a long, long way to
go,” he said.  Newspoll Survey  The Newspoll, conducted June 28-30 and published today,
shows the coalition leading Labor by 51 percent to 49 percent on
a two-party basis, designed to gauge which party is most likely
to form a government under Australia’s preferential voting
system.  The survey of 1,149 people had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3 percentage points. Newspoll is 50 percent owned by News
Ltd. and 50 percent by Millward Brown Inc., a market-research
company.  Rudd is also the preferred choice for prime minister by 51
percent of voters compared with 34 percent for Abbott, according
to a  Galaxy poll  of 1,002 voters. Support for the ruling Labor
party increased as much as 10 percent in Sydney and Melbourne
suburbs including Blaxland and Maribyrnong, according to a
separate  ReachTEL poll  conducted June 27.  Galaxy Poll  The Galaxy poll, published in the Sunday Telegraph
newspaper yesterday, did not specify the margin for error in the
study conducted June 27-28. The gap between support for Labor
and a Liberal-National coalition narrowed to 2 points on a two-party preferred basis, down from 10 points in a June 11-13 poll.  No margin for error was given in the ReachTEL poll,
published in the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper June 29. Rudd
declined to specify a new election date when pressed by Liberal-National coalition leaderAbbott, 55, last week. There won’t be
a “huge variation,” he said, and any announcement would be
consistent with the constitution. Australian law requires the
election to be held by Nov. 30.  Gillard restored Labor’s advantage in opinion polls when
she ousted Rudd in June 2010, surveys by Nielsen and Galaxy
showed at the time.  Legacy Issues  Rudd must decide whether to support some big-ticket policy
items that Gillard struggled to sell to voters, including the
nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas emissions and a tax on
mining company profits that will reap A$1.8 billion ($1.64
billion) less revenue than previously forecast for the financial
year ended yesterday, show budget documents released May 14.  “The government’s about bringing the country together, not
dividing it,” Rudd said. He has challenged Abbott to a debate
over the country’s debt and deficit within the next two weeks.  Illegal immigration will probably be on the agenda when
Rudd visits  Indonesia  on July 4 and 5 to meet with Indonesian
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, after Abbott promised to
“stop the boats” carrying asylum seekers.  While asylum seekers have been arriving in Australia since
the Vietnam War in the 1970s, the issue became more politicized
about a decade ago when then-Prime Minister John Howard’s
Liberal-National government detained refugees, including
children, in offshore processing camps or in detention centers
in remote areas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  