-- Avalanche Take MacKinnon With Top NHL Pick as Devils Get Goalie
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/avalanche-take-center-mackinnon-with-no-1-pick-in-nhl-draft.html
The  Colorado Avalanche  took 17-year-old center Nathan MacKinnon with the No. 1 pick in the National
Hockey League draft, while the  New Jersey Devils  acquired a
possible successor for goaltender  Martin Brodeur .  The Avalanche opted for offense over defense yesterday in
selecting MacKinnon, who was the No. 2-rated North American
draft-eligible player behind defenseman Seth Jones, according to
NHL Central Scouting. The 6-foot, 182-pound (1.82 meter, 85
kilogram) MacKinnon totaled 32 goals and 43 assists in 75 games
last season for the  Halifax Mooseheads  of the  Quebec  Major
Junior Hockey League.  “It’s always been my dream as a kid to go No. 1, I’d be
lying if I told you anything different,” MacKinnon told the NBC
Sports Network in a televised interview. “Going up against a
guy like  Seth Jones  is very motivating.”  Jones, who is the son of former National Basketball
Association player Popeye Jones and learned to play hockey while
growing up in Denver, was taken fourth by the Nashville
Predators. The Florida Panthers took Aleksander Barkov, a 6-foot-3, 209-pound center from Finland, with the second pick and
the  Tampa Bay Lightning  followed by selecting Jonathan Drouin, a
left wing who also played for the Mooseheads.  “I’m going to try to make -- in a good way -- those teams
regret not taking me,” said Jones, who was the first of four
U.S.-born players taken in the first round of yesterday’s draft
at the Prudential Center in Newark,  New Jersey .  The hometown Devils traded the ninth overall pick to the
 Vancouver Canucks  to acquire 27-year-old goaltender Cory Schneider as a possible successor to Brodeur, who is 41 and
under contract for one more season.  Brodeur’s Run  Brodeur has spent his entire 20-year NHL career with the
Devils, winning three Stanley Cup titles, and his 669 wins are
the most by a goaltender in league history. Schneider had a
17-9-4 record for the Canucks last season, with a 2.11 goals-against average and five shutouts.  “I’m really excited to be coming to New Jersey,”
Schneider said in a statement. “I’ve always followed them; I’ve
been a fan of Marty Brodeur’s since I was younger. To
potentially get to work with him is going to be incredible.”  MacKinnon, the seventh straight forward drafted No. 1,
joins an Avalanche team that had the NHL’s second-worst record
last season at 16-25-7. Joe Sacco was fired as coach and
replaced last month by former goaltender Patrick Roy.  The Avalanche in April landed the No. 1 pick in the draft
lottery over the  Florida Panthers , who had the league’s worst
record. It marked Colorado’s first No. 1 selection since the
franchise moved from Quebec in 1995. As the Nordiques, the club
selected Mats Sundin, Owen Nolan and Eric Lindros with the
draft’s first pick in three straight years from 1989 to 1991.  There were 21 forwards and nine defensemen selected in the
opening round of the draft, which concluded with the Stanley
Cup-champion Chicago Blackhawks taking right wing Ryan Hartman
from Plymouth of the Ontario Hockey League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  