-- Haas Wins AT&T National for Fifth PGA Tour Title in Four Seasons
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-07-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/bill-haas-wins-at-t-national-for-fifth-title-on-pga-golf-tour.html
Bill Haas  won the AT&T National by
three strokes to join  Phil Mickelson ,  Dustin Johnson  and  Justin Rose  as the only golfers on the U.S.  PGA Tour  with at least one
victory in each of the last four years.  Haas, 31, shot a 5-under-par 66 during yesterday’s final
round at Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland, to
finish with a four-round total of 12-under 272. His U.S.
countryman Roberto Castro was second at 9-under after a 69 and
another American, Jason Kokrak, tied with D.H. Lee of South
Korea for third place a shot further back.  Haas received $1.17 million for his fifth career PGA Tour
win, which came in his 229th start. His father, Jay, got his
fifth win in his 181st start and totaled nine PGA Tour titles.  “It’s so hard to win out here; it’s pretty special,” Haas
told reporters. “The putter felt great and saved me on the back
nine a couple of times.”  Haas, who started the day in a four-way tie for the lead,
had one bogey and six birdies to secure his first win since the
Northern Trust Open in February 2012. He came into the AT&T
National having missed the cut for weekend play at three of his
four most-recent PGA Tour events.  Haas, who won the season-ending Tour Championship and the
FedEx Cup in 2011, was congratulated after his round today by
 Tiger Woods , whose foundation hosts the event. Woods wasn’t in
the field because of an elbow injury and isn’t scheduled to play
again until the British Open, which begins July 18.  “He played beautifully,” Woods said of Haas. “He handled
his business through the tougher stretch of holes and pulled
away.”  The tour now moves to the Old White TPC at White Sulphur
Springs, West Virginia, for this week’s Greenbrier Classic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  