-- Bullish Bets on Dangdang Jump on Margin Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/bullish-bets-on-dangdang-jump-on-margin-outlook-china-overnight.html
Options traders are the most bullish
on  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  in 16 months after the web
retailer posted the biggest gain in the first half of the year
among the most-traded Chinese equities in the U.S.  Calls outstanding for Dangdang surged 14-fold last quarter
and totaled twice the number of puts, the  highest ratio  since
February 2012, according to options data compiled by Bloomberg.
Beijing-based Dangdang jumped 67 percent from April through June
as it changed its focus to sales with higher profit margins,
while the Bloomberg China-US Equity Index sank 6.7 percent.  Dangdang, which hasn’t made a profit over the past two
years, boosted its first-quarter gross margin to the highest
since 2011 after the biggest Chinese online book seller shifted
focus to more profitable goods such as baby products and added
listings from other retailers that pay a commission. It also
started offering luxury fashion at discounts in so-called flash
sales, emulating the model of  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , which has
quadrupled in the past year.  China ’s online retail sales will
surge 65 percent this year, compared with a global average of 17
percent,  according to  U.S. researcher Emarketer Inc.  “Previously we thought it may take a few years for
Dangdang to break even, but in June we adjusted our expectation
to the second or third quarter of 2014,” Ming Zhao, the founder
of 86Research Ltd., which focuses on Internet companies, said in
a phone interview from Beijing. “Vipshop’s performance sparked
imagination about the growth potential for Dangdang.”  Margin Growth  Outstanding call contracts for locking in gains in
Dangdang’s American depositary receipts rose to 35,700 on June
25, compared with 18,024 puts that protect investors against
losses, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Three-month  implied
volatility  in its ADRs, the gauge of option costs, has dropped
30 percent from a high of 98 reached in August.  Dangdang announced in a May statement a 17.2 percent gross
margin in the first three months of 2013, compared with 14.2
percent a year earlier and the 14.8 median estimate of four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company reported first-quarter net loss of 72.7 million  yuan  ($11.7 million), which
represent a 27 percent decrease from a year earlier.  Analysts project Dangdang’s second-quarter net loss
narrowed to $13.7 million, from a $19.2 million loss in the same
period of 2012. Seven out of 15 analysts have a buy rating for
Dangdang, while six recommend holding the stock, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Oppenheimer & Co. analysts raised their second-quarter
sales growth forecast for Dangdang by 3 percentage points to 25
percent after the company gave in May a guidance of 23 percent.
The brokerage also lifted its estimate of gross profit.  ‘Attractive’ Valuation  Dangdang’s rally will endure if the commission-generating
marketplace shows growth in the second quarter and profit
margins improve, according to Andy Yeung, a New York-based
analyst at Oppenheimer who rates Dangdang a buy. “Dangdang’s
valuation is actually very attractive if you compare it with
other publicly-traded e-commerce companies.”  Dangdang’s trading at 5.2 times its net assets, compared
with a ratio of 8.8 for its peer Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based
Internet retailer of branded fashion.  Vipshop dropped 4 percent in the last quarter to $29.16,
paring its advance this year to 63 percent.  LightInTheBox Holding Co., a web seller of lifestyle
products which raised $78.9 million earlier last month in its
initial public offering, has increased 42 percent from its IPO
price to $13.46.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slumped 12 percent last
quarter to $32.52, the worst performance since September 2011.
The China-US gauge dropped 4.1 percent in June, the biggest
slide in four months, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
retreated 1.5 percent last month.  Yanzhou Plunges  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-largest coal
producer, sank 48 percent in the last quarter to $7.11, the
lowest level since March 2009. It posted the biggest decline on
the China-US index both for June and the second quarter.  China’s official  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINDX)  for June
manufacturing was probably at 50.1, down from 50.8 the previous
month, signaling slower output growth, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 33 analysts before government data scheduled for
release today.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index dropped 15 percent
for the second quarter while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank
12 percent, after government data showed China’s economic  growth 
slowed to 7.7 percent in the first three months this year and a
cash squeeze drove up interbank  money-market rates  to record
highs in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  