-- California Same-Sex Marriages Resume as Court Lifts Ban
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t ,   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 2013-06-30T16:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/california-same-sex-marriages-resume-as-court-lifts-ban.html
Same-sex couples in  California 
rushed to city and county offices to get marriage licenses after
a federal appeals court lifted a hold on the weddings following
a June 26 U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  The one-sentence order by the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco  drew a challenge from gay-marriage opponents, who said
the appeals court acted prematurely. Justice Anthony Kennedy
today rejected the challenge, letting marriages continue.  The first same-sex couple to be married in San Francisco
City Hall since 2008 was Kris Perry and Sandy Stier, both
plaintiffs in the court case against California’s Proposition 8.
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  performed the ceremony
on a balcony overlooking the city hall rotunda.  “I now declare you spouses for life,” Harris concluded,
to an outburst of cheers and applause.  With a 5-4 procedural ruling, the Supreme Court reinstated
a judge’s order allowing gay marriages by concluding that the
sponsors of Proposition 8, the 2008 ballot initiative that
banned gay marriage, lacked legal standing to appeal a trial
judge’s order. California officials until now enforced
Proposition 8, refusing to issue same-sex marriage licenses even
while opposing the ballot initiative in court.  Twelve other states and the  District of Columbia  have
legalized same-sex marriage, six of them in the past year.  DOMA Struck  The  Supreme Court  also struck down the 1996 Defense of
Marriage Act that denied benefits to same-sex couples legally
married in states that allowed it. The court stopped short of
declaring a constitutional right for gays to marry, or even
ruling directly on California’s voter-approved ban, as the
justices considered the issue for the first time.  The decisions sustained the momentum that has grown behind
same-sex marriage over the past decade. A Bloomberg National
Poll released this month found that 52 percent of adults
supported legalization, with 41 percent opposed. The poll had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  There were more than 130,000 married, gay couples in the
U.S., according to estimates from the 2010 Census.  After the appeals court order, California Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, directed county clerks in the state’s 58
counties to immediately begin issuing marriages licenses to
same-sex couples.  Power Challenged  The Proposition 8 sponsors said the appeals court should
have waited until the Supreme Court issued a certified copy of
the judgment in the case -- something the high court typically
doesn’t do until 25 days after its opinion is released. The 25-day period is designed to give the losing side time to seek
rehearing.  The appeals court “was without jurisdiction to issue its
order purporting to dissolve its stay,” the sponsors, led by
former state Senator Dennis Hollingsworth, argued in papers
filed with the Supreme Court.  Kennedy, who handles emergency matters from the San
Francisco-based appeals court, made no comment in rejecting the
request from the Proposition 8 sponsors to halt the weddings.  The appeals court decision lifting the ban was condemned by
supporters of Proposition 8.  ‘Outrageous Act’  “This outrageous act tops off a chronic pattern of
lawlessness, throughout this case, by judges and politicians
hell-bent on thwarting the vote of the people to redefine
marriage by any means, even outright corruption,” Andy Pugno,
general counsel for the  ProtectMarriage.com  Coalition, said in a
statement.  “Homosexual marriage is not happening because the people
changed their mind,” Pugno said. “It isn’t happening because
the appellate courts declared a new constitutional right. It’s
happening because enemies of the people have abused their power
to manipulate the system and render the people voiceless.”  Perry and Stier might have been beaten to their vows by
another same-sex couple who received their marriage license from
the Los Angeles County clerk’s office at 4:07 p.m. on June 28,
spokeswoman Regina Ip said.  In San Francisco, Bobby Meadows, 40, and Craig Stein, 39,
married each other on the balcony overlooking the  City Hall 
rotunda. Meadows wore shorts and held a small bouquet of yellow,
red and blue flowers. Stein wore jeans. The deputy marriage
commissioner who presided over the ceremony hugged each as he
handed them their marriage certificate.  Overwhelming, Awesome  “It’s amazing,” Meadows said in an interview. “I grew up
never expecting to be able to do this in my lifetime, to
announce the love for the man that I love. It’s overwhelming.
It’s awesome.”  San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee said City Hall would be open
yesterday and today from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.  More than 18,000 same-sex couples got marriage licenses in
California in the five months between a state Supreme Court
ruling that gay marriages were legal and the 2008 passage of
Proposition 8, which effectively overturned that decision.  The appeals court said in February 2012 that Proposition 8
violated the constitutional guarantee of equal protection by
stripping same-sex couples of a right they once had -- and that
heterosexual couples would continue to possess.  The appeals court decision upheld a San Francisco federal
judge’s 2010 ruling that Proposition 8 violated equal protection
rights of gay and lesbian couples, and put the ruling on hold
until the case had been appealed and argued to the U.S. Supreme
Court.  The case is Perry v. Brown, 10-16696,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The Supreme Court case is
Hollingsworth v. Perry, 12-144.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  