-- Carney Gets Downton Abbey Tips Amid Central Bank Transfer Market
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/carney-gets-downton-abbey-tips-amid-central-bank-transfer-market.html
Addressing a black-tie dinner last
month in the heart of London’s financial district, Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  had a message for incoming Bank of
England Governor  Mark Carney .  “Mark, if you’re watching on television tonight, this is
how the British eat every night,”  said  Osborne, as the U.K.’s
banking elite feasted on chicken and quail terrine, followed by
beef filet with ox cheek.  Quips about dining etiquette in the land of Downton Abbey
are among the assimilation tips on offer for Carney, who today
completes his transatlantic transfer to London from the
governorship of Canada’s central bank. In becoming the first
foreigner to run the 319-year-old BOE, he joins a select band of
policy makers who aren’t native to the economies where they set
 interest rates .  Past and present luminaries of the international market for
central bankers include  Stanley Fischer  in Israel,  Adam Posen  in
the U.K. and Stefan Gerlach in Ireland. The willingness of
governments to look across borders reflects their desire to
employ the best expertise to revive economic growth and staff
institutions that have become increasingly technocratic as they
buy bonds and regulate banks.  “It’s quite unusual that such a senior position in a major
central bank is filled by an outsider,” Gerlach, a Swede who
has served as deputy governor of the Irish central bank since
September 2011, said in an interview. “When you take a step
back, you think that hiring foreign nationals is an obvious way
for central banks to go.”  City Familiarity  Carney, 48, doesn’t lack insights on the U.K., where he
will live for the next five years, having left the  Bank of
Canada  in May after serving as governor since 2008. Married to a
Briton, he studied at the University of Oxford and worked in
London for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  He agreed to seek a British
passport when he got the BOE job.  As Financial Stability Board chairman, Carney is familiar
with the role of the City of London, the moniker for the U.K.’s
financial sector that is home to bank titans  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and is the hub for global  currency trading . In
Everton, he even has a British soccer team to cheer for.  “He’s quite simply the best qualified person in the world
for the difficult job that lies ahead,” Osborne said on June
19. “Isn’t it a credit to our country that we accept without
question that someone who is not British, but who is the best in
the world, can lead our central bank?”  MPC Members  At the Bank of England, Posen, an American, was a member of
the Monetary Policy Committee from 2009 until last August.  David Blanchflower , a citizen of both the U.K. and U.S. who teaches at
Dartmouth College in New Hampshire, joined the BOE from 2006 to
2009. Founding members of the MPC in 1997 included  Willem Buiter 
and  DeAnne Julius , British passport holders who were born abroad
and spent much of their careers there too.  Some leave London to serve overseas. After working at the
Bank of England for three decades, Ian Plenderleith became
deputy governor of the South African  Reserve Bank  from 2003 to
2005.  Charles Goodhart , another member of the first MPC, advised
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Buiter’s wife Anne Sibert was
a member of Iceland’s Monetary Policy Committee until recently.  European Central Bank officials determine policy for
sixteen euro-area economies as well as their own. Frenchman
Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the ECB from 2003 to 2011,
listened to German language lessons when traveling.  “The concept of central banking is very much based upon
the same main principles, whether you are in Canada or in the
U.K.,” Trichet said in an interview.  Language Learning  Fischer stepped down yesterday after eight years as Bank of
Israel governor, having taken Israeli citizenship to perform the
role. Born in what was then North Rhodesia, he also carries an
American passport. To avoid being branded the “American
Governor,” he prepared by boning up on his Hebrew and ensuring
he could easily converse on the economy and country with locals.  “It was very important I learned the language and
understood the economy well before I came,” said Fischer.
Carney “understands the British economy well” and “Canadian
English is acceptable,” he said.  The economist  John Maynard Keynes  would have agreed.
 According  to former BOE Governor  Mervyn King , the first chief of
Canada’s central bank, Graham Towers, was proposed by Keynes to
succeed Montagu Norman at the Bank of England in the 1940s.
Towers’ own deputy in Ottawa came from the Bank of England.  Company Bosses  King, speaking alongside Osborne on June 19, noted that the
U.K. is particularly open to international leadership. Vodafone
Group Plc, BP Plc and British American Tobacco Plc are led by
foreigners, as are soccer teams from Chelsea to Manchester City.
Carney’s compatriot, Moya Greene, helms Royal Mail Group Ltd.  To prepare for his new economy, Posen, now president of the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington,
recommends Carney study its structure, regional diversities and
history. He also advises him not to let his international
commitments get in the way of traveling around Britain.  “If you can show humility about understanding the
specifics and the regions and institutions, that will serve you
in good stead,” said Posen, who estimates he spoke to as many
as 8,000 people in about 20 regional visits.  Still, Posen said Carney’s hiring is the “high water
mark” for the global market in central bankers. Leaders in the
U.S.,  Japan (BOJDTR)  and euro area are unlikely to want foreigners
running policy, while those in  emerging markets  will want to
encourage home-grown talent, he said.  Outsider Advantage  Goodhart says Carney should also take his time before
deciding how best to run the  Bank of England .  “Central banks, economies, structures, histories all
differ and I would hope he’s not yet decided what changes he
intends to make,” said Goodhart, who is now emeritus professor
at the London School of Economics. “It would be a good thing to
wait and actually look at the institution.”  For Gerlach, another veteran of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, one advantage of being an outsider is the ability to
join an organization untainted by prior events. In Ireland, that
includes the banking turmoil it suffered in an aftershock of the
2008 financial crisis.  “I can see that in the collapse of the bubble, and the
formation of the bubble, that just about everyone here must have
taken a view,” he said. “So it’s hard to be neutral” for
someone with a local background.  Blanchflower, who has criticised King’s BOE for “group
think,” said the U.S. Federal Reserve system benefits from the
views of a dozen regional presidents and that he provided
broader views in the U.K.  “The benefit of having people with diverse views and
backgrounds seems important,” he said.  Carney has signaled he shares that perspective as the BOE
tries to augment the economic recovery and begins to flex its
new powers to regulate the financial industry and ensure
stability. He arrives in a London tainted by rate-setting
scandals and bank bailouts.  “The value of me going there to the institution is to
bring a different perspective,” Carney told Canada’s CTV News
in February. “To be a bit of an outsider, to help with the
reform, the re-founding, of the Bank of England.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  