-- Chileans Vote in Primary Heralded by Pledges and Protests
-- B y   P h i l i p   S a n d e r s
-- 2013-06-30T13:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/chileans-vote-in-primary-heralded-by-pledges-and-protests.html
Chileans are voting in a primary
election that will probably confirm former leader  Michelle Bachelet  as the favorite for presidential elections in November,
raising the prospect of higher taxes and spending.  Bachelet, who led  Chile  from 2006 to 2010, is expected to
beat three other aspirants to become the opposition coalition’s
candidate for the November vote, according to opinion polls.
Andres Allamand is forecast to win the candidature for the
ruling alliance. Voting started at 8 a.m. and will end at 6 p.m.
with the result released within the next few days, according to
Chile’s  electoral service .  The primary has been heralded by a raft of policy pledges,
with Bachelet promising increased spending on education and
health services, and protests, as students demand improved
education. To pay for her proposals, Bachelet backs raising the
corporate  tax rate  by 5 percentage points and reducing the
amount of money companies can put aside for future investments
without paying tax. Candidates for the ruling coalition have
promised to cut levies on gasoline.  “One outcome of the pre-electoral period has been myriad
populist proposals from left to right,” Bank of America Merrill
Lynch analyst Marcos Buscaglia wrote in a report June 25. “Most
of the noise stems from the movement to the left of Bachelet.”  Bachelet’s presidential bid was backed by 43 percent of
voters questioned by Diego Portales University in the month
through April 3. The survey of 1,200 people had a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points. Asked which
opposition alliance candidate they would vote for in the
primary, 76 percent said Bachelet.  A poll by MORI of 1,200 people between June 7 and 20 gave
Bachelet at least 75 percent of the opposition bloc vote.  ‘More Lefty’  “Right now, the language has been more lefty on the left
and more righty on the right,” Robert Funk, a political
scientist at University of Chile, said by phone from Santiago
June 27. “That has to do with speaking to your base. You have
to win the primary to go on to the election.”  The police stormed schools across Santiago on June 27 that
had been occupied by students demanding improved education and
an end to profits in the industry. The schools, now occupied by
the army, are to be used as polling stations.  The student movement also led a day of protests on June 26
that ended in confrontations with the police.  The Candidates  Bachelet, who headed the women’s office at the  United
Nations  until March, will face her former finance minister
Andres Velasco, Claudio Orrego for the Christian Democrats and
Jose Antonio Gomez of the Radical Party.  For the ruling coalition, Allamand is running against Pablo Longueira, the candidate for the Independent Democratic Union.
Allamand is backed by National Renovation, the former party of
President Sebastian Pinera.  A poll by Central University on June 17 and 18 showed 65
percent of people expect Allamand to beat Longueira. The survey
of 300 people didn’t ask for voter preferences and had a margin
of error of 5.65 percentage points. The MORI poll also concluded
that Allamand would win, without giving percentages.  Bachelet, constitutionally banned from running for a second
consecutive term, took a break from politics to lead UN Women, a
gender-equality agency created in 2010, the same year she left
office.  Her success in November’s election would return her center-left coalition to power after a four-year hiatus. The bloc, that
includes Bachelet’s Socialist party and  Christian Democrats , had
ruled Chile since 1990, when the former dictator Augusto Pinochet left office.  Torture and Exile  As a 23-year-old medical student, Bachelet was detained and
tortured by officers of the dictatorship in 1975. The year
before, Bachelet’s father, Air Force General Alberto Bachelet,
died in jail of a heart attack after being tortured on suspicion
he opposed the coup that toppled Socialist President Salvador Allende.  Bachelet completed her studies in East Germany after being
exiled to  Australia . An agnostic and divorced mother of three in
a Catholic country, she defied social norms on her return to
Chile and rise to power.  Chile’s ruling coalition was thrown into turmoil earlier
this year when its leading presidential candidate,  Laurence Golborne , was forced to back out from the primaries when it was
revealed he has money in an offshore account registered in the
British Virgin Islands. He hadn’t registered the savings when
declaring his assets to Congress.  As mining minister, Golborne had led the rescue of the 33
miners trapped underground in northern Chile. The rescue is
being turned into a film with  Antonio Banderas  and  Jennifer Lopez .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in Santiago at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  