-- China’s Refined Copper Imports to Gain: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-30T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/china-s-refined-copper-imports-to-gain-chart-of-the-day.html
Copper imports by  China  are poised to
rise further from a two-year low in April as a drop in global
prices has triggered a record number of orders to remove the
metal from warehouses across  Asia .  The CHART OF THE DAY shows canceled warrants from  London 
Metal Exchange warehouses in Malaysia, Singapore and  South Korea 
soared to an all-time high as copper prices plunged to the
lowest in almost three years. Orders to remove the metal from
storage in Malaysia alone more than doubled in the past month,
according to the LME, whose network covers more than 700
warehouses, handling about 80 percent of the global metals trade.  Imports by China, the world’s biggest copper user, are
expected to pick up as demand for financing has increased after
the imports became profitable, Barclays Plc said in a research
report. This dynamic, in which traders can get loans using the
metal as collateral, played a part in supporting the surge in
LME warrant cancellations in Johor,  Malaysia , according to the
June 21 report.  “There were very good arbitrage opportunities in May and
early June,” said Ren Gang, deputy general manager of the
Shanghai unit of Qingdao Youbangyuan Trading Co., a privately
owned copper importer. Traders can exploit price differentials
by buying in London and selling in Shanghai.  Copper, used in pipes and wires, fell for the third
straight quarter, the worst run since 2001. Economists from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to China International Capital Corp.
last week cut forecasts for China’s  economy  in 2013 after money-market rates surged to record highs, raising concerns that
increased borrowing costs could further hurt growth.  Premiums, a gauge of Chinese demand, paid by importers over
the LME cash price, are at the highest since 2009, according to
Metal Bulletin data compiled by Bloomberg. Refined copper
imports climbed 27 percent in May from a month earlier, data
from the customs department showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  