-- China Agrees to Asean Sea Talks Amid Philippines Warning
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-07-01T05:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/china-agrees-to-asean-talks-on-sea-spat-amid-philippine-warning.html
China agreed to talks with Southeast
Asian nations on a set of rules to avoid conflict in the  South
China Sea , winning praise from diplomats even as the  Philippines 
warned of increased “militarization” of the waters.  Talks on a code of conduct between China and the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  will begin in September,
according to a joint statement released after the two sides met
in Brunei yesterday. The move represents a reversal from a year
ago, when Asean failed to show a united front amid Chinese
pressure to avoid discussing the topic at regional meetings.  “China and Asean countries are close neighbors and we are
like members of one big family,” China Foreign Minister Wang Yi
told reporters. “We believe that a united, prosperous and
dynamic Asean that seeks greater strength through unity is in
China’s strategic interest.”  China had resisted the talks as competition for oil, gas
and fish in the waters increased tensions with fellow claimants
including the Philippines, which has boosted military ties with
the U.S. and  Japan . Secretary of State  John Kerry  is in Brunei
today to attend the annual meetings after holding talks with
Palestinian and Israel leaders.  The Philippines said yesterday “the massive presence of
Chinese military and para-military ships” around two land
features it claims in the South China Sea posed “threats to
efforts to maintain maritime peace and stability in the
region.” At the same time, the country backs Asean’s bid for a
binding code of conduct, it said in a statement.  Situation ‘Stable’  Wang, in his first Asean meeting as foreign minister since
President Xi Jinping took office in March, called the overall
situation in the South China Sea “stable.” He pledged to
upgrade an Asean-China trade agreement and “push forward”
talks on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which
includes Asean,  China  and five other Asia-Pacific countries.  Two years ago, Asean and China approved guidelines to
implement the 2002 agreement that called on countries to avoid
occupying disputed islands, inform others of military exercises
and resolve territorial disputes peacefully. Since then, China
had rebuffed Asean’s efforts to start talks on a code of
conduct, saying it would only do so “when conditions are
ripe.”  The U.S.’s declared interest in maintaining freedom of
navigation in the waters has irked China, which prefers solving
the disputes through direct dialogue with claimants. U.S.
officials have repeatedly called for China and Asean to agree on
a code of conduct, most recently Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel in a visit to  Singapore  in early June.  ‘Enduring Presence’  Kerry’s visit to the region gives the U.S. another chance
to assure its allies that its military shift to the region is
sustainable, even as it faces as much as $500 billion in defense
budget cuts over nine years, and to tell China that what has
become known as the “ Asia  pivot” is not about containing its
strategic aspirations.  The U.S. would preserve its greater engagement in Asia,
Kerry told Asean leaders after arriving in Brunei today. “We
take our Pacific responsibilities and our partnerships
seriously, and we will continue to build an active and enduring
presence in every respect,” Kerry said. “But I want to
emphasize importantly our actions are not intended to contain or
to counterbalance any one country.”  ‘Strategic Misjudgment’  President  Benigno Aquino ’s government last week said it’s
crafting an agreement that would give the U.S. military access
to Subic Bay. The Philippines needs allies to help with security
or “bigger forces will bully us,” Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin said on June 28.  Last week, Wang said that moves by countries to rely on
“external forces” to push territorial claims are “futile and
will eventually prove to be a strategic misjudgment where the
loss will outweigh the gain.” Yesterday he took a softer tone,
while saying that China has abided by the provisions of the non-binding 2002 agreement to keep peace in the waters.  “China will continue to properly handle its specific
differences with some countries through friendly
consultations,” Wang said.  Speaking alongside him as Asean’s representative, Thai
Foreign Minister Surapong Tovichakchaikul hailed the bloc’s
“strong” relationship with China. Talks on a code of conduct
are “a process that needs time, patience and prudence,”
Surapong said.  China’s Map  Singapore Foreign Minister K. Shanmugam said that non-claimants like the city-state can’t get involved in determining
which countries own certain features, adding the talks are a
positive step.  “This has been something that many countries have been
asking for,” Shanmugam told reporters. “Let’s not get away
with the impression that, therefore, we’re all going to have an
agreement very soon. But the important thing is we’ve agreed on
a start date, and hopefully that sets the tone.”  Vietnam  and the Philippines reject China’s map of the
waters as a basis for joint development, a solution pushed by
China. China National Offshore Oil Corp. estimates the South
China Sea may hold about five times more undiscovered natural
gas than the country’s current proved reserves, according to the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Cables Cut  An oil research vessel said to be owned by Shanghai
Offshore Petroleum Co., a unit of Sinopec, entered Japan’s
exclusive economic zone near disputed islands in the  East China
Sea  in June without giving prior notice to the Japanese
government, the Sankei newspaper reported today, citing the
Japan Coast Guard. A call to Sinopec’s Beijing office by
 Bloomberg News  was unanswered before business hours.  Since 2010, China has cut the cables of survey ships
working for Vietnam, chased away an exploration vessel near the
Philippines and sent its first deep-water drilling rig to the
region. Last year, China National Offshore invited bids for
exploration blocks that Vietnam had already awarded to companies
including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Gazprom.  While core disputes over territory remain, Asean ministers
are unified on the need for a code of conduct, Indonesian
Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa said. The Philippines has
sought international arbitration to settle disputes, saying that
direct talks with China have failed to stem tensions.  “The common position is to try to resolve these issues
through dialogue,” Natalegawa told reporters yesterday. “The
code of conduct will keep things orderly so that we can have
conditions conducive for these negotiations to take place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  