-- Croatia Joins EU With History Lesson, Appeal for Peace
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z
-- 2013-07-01T14:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/croatia-joins-eu-with-history-lesson-appeal-for-peace.html
Croatia  became the 28th member of the
European Union, capping a decade of judicial and economic
overhaul to shed the remnants of communism and its wartime past.  Tens of thousands celebrated the entry of the second former
Yugoslav republic into the EU with fireworks, five-story
projections of its history and technology, concerts, dance
performances and street parties across Zagreb. European
Commission President Jose Barroso and other EU officials
gathered at the central square as Croatian and blue-and-yellow
EU flags fluttered in the evening breeze above revelers’ heads.  The Adriatic country, which emerged as an independent state
in 1991 during the bloody breakup of Yugoslavia, is looking to
EU membership to help solidify peace throughout the Balkan
region as tensions still smolder in Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Kosovo. Leaders are also counting on EU ties to lure foreign
investors to the $63 billion economy and end four years of
recession and stagnation.  “It is up to us to reach out to the countries in the
region and assist them in the fast adoption of the European
criteria,”  Prime Minister   Zoran Milanovic  told citizens in the
capital before the stroke of midnight. “There are unbreakable
bonds between us and these countries and nations. We are also
tied together by upholding together the values of solidarity and
love of freedom, which we want to imprint strongly on the
fundamental concept of the European Union.”  Infrastructure Upgrades  The country of 4.2 million, best known for its 3,600 miles
of beaches, islands and harbors, is joining the trading bloc as
Europe suffers from its longest economic contraction. As much as
10 billion euros ($13 billion) in EU funds may flow in through
2020 to upgrade communist-era railways, sewers and bridges,
diversify domestic industry and bring living standards up to
those of eastern EU members such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia
and  Poland .  The kuna, which is managed by the central bank,
strengthened 2 percent in the second quarter, the fourth-best
performance among about 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
currency traded little changed at 7.4460 per euro at 4:04 p.m.
in Zagreb, the strongest in nine months.  At midnight, EU flags were hoisted and customs posts were
removed from Croatia’s borders with EU neighbors Hungary and
Slovenia as joint border controls were put into force.  Schengen Zone  Croatia still has to fulfill more criteria to be allowed
into the bloc’s passport-free  Schengen Zone . Deputy Premier
Vesna Pusic said yesterday that Croatia has met “a lot” of
conditions to take part in the system and expects to be a member
in about two years.  While membership will not solve all of Croatia’s problems,
the country can look forward to benefits from EU structural
funds, Barroso told the Croatian public broadcaster on July 29.  “German taxpayers, or any other taxpayers, don’t need to
fear that they will have to spend money on Croatia,” Pusic said
at a press conference in Zagreb yesterday. “The only thing we
need to worry about is that we don’t absorb EU funds fully, but
that depends on us alone. Croatia is a great place for
investment.”  Croatia over the past century has been part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, the Serb-dominated Kingdom of  Yugoslavia  and
its communist incarnation ruled by Josip Broz Tito after World
War II before it was engulfed in violent ethnic strife in the
1990s.  War Legacy  On its road to the EU, Croatia had to surrender suspects to
the war-crime tribunal in The Hague, overhaul its judiciary and
eradicate political corruption that sent a former prime minister
to jail.  It now belongs to a union of sovereign states that
stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Black Sea
bordering Turkey, Ukraine and  Russia  in the east.  After completing its membership process, Croatia is turning
to help sponsor EU aspirations of its former Yugoslav partners,
including  Serbia , its chief foe during the wars of the 1990s, as
well as Montenegro, the Republic of Macedonia and the former
Serb province of  Kosovo .  The presidents of Serbia and Kosovo met their Croatian
counterpart today in Zagreb, while EU President Herman Van Rompuy held talks with the Serbian premier in Belgrade. Serbia
will begin membership talks by January, EU leaders decided last
week, after it showed “progress” in reaching a settlement with
Kosovo.  ‘European Values’  “Croatia has changed enormously over the last decades,”
EU’s Barroso said to screams and applause from the crowd.
“Croatia is also an example to others in the region. As a
European Union member state, you have made clear that you will
help others follow your path. I welcome this commitment as our
union is open to those who share our European values.”  Hours before the celebration began, civil engineer Darko
Petrak and his two young sons checked out the main square as
workers put finishing touches to blue-bunted stages and risers.  “We can’t wait to be part of the European Union,” said
Petrak, squeezing the shoulders of his 10-year-old son, Karlo.
“The times are hard, but there is hope we will do better in the
EU.”  The night’s festivities were marked by concerts of Croatian
artists, including the 2CELLOS, and folk dancers. The country
was celebrated with projected images of historical events,
science and culture including the electric coil invented by
scientist Nikola Tesla, giant hands knitting traditional lace
patterns and aerial views of ancient cities along the seacoast,
such as Dubrovnik and Split. Black-and-white clad folk dancers
wearing paper-mache animal heads trundled away from the square
in a street car.  Jelacic Square  Pictures were projected onto the Neoclassical and Art Deco
buildings of the central square dominated by the equestrian
statue of 19th-century statesman Josip Jelacic.  Some locals expressed skepticism. Law student Diana
Milosevic, 27, sat outside of a local espresso shop outlining
the pros and cons of EU membership. She said she’s concerned
that negative perceptions of Croats abroad may not easily be
overcome.  “I’m afraid we are not prepared enough, and that
competition will destroy us,” said Milosevic. “But I hope that
I will get the possibility to work abroad, that I as a Croatian
will be accepted.”  While EU membership gives citizens the right to work in
other countries, that is being phased in gradually by some older
members, similar to what happened to former East Bloc countries
that joined in 2004.  Jobless Rate  Croatia’s  unemployment  rate stood at 19.6 percent in May.
The economy has failed to grow since 2008 and rising labor costs
make it harder to attract investment into export industries.
Foreign direct investment plummeted to almost one-fifth of the
$4.2 billion registered in 2008.  Since then, the economy has shrunk by a combined 10.9
percent, according to Eurostat data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross
domestic product contracted 1.5 percent from a year earlier
between January and March, government data show.  The country counts on its seashores and vineyards to boost
tourism, which makes up about a fifth of the economy. Croatia
markets the medieval towns and emerald bays of the former Roman
province as “the Mediterranean as it once was.”  Dalmatians, Zinfandel  Croatia also promotes itself as the home of the Dalmatian
dog, Zinfandel wine and the necktie -- cravat -- first worn by
Croat mercenaries in the Middle Ages.  It’s the home country of Wimbledon winner Goran Ivanisevic,
Alpine skiing champions Janica and Ivica Kostelic, former
National Basketball Association players Drazen Petrovic and Toni Kukoc, as well as a national soccer team that won the bronze
medal in the 1998 World Cup, led by Davor Suker and Zvonimir Boban.  Mattie Cobb, a tourist from  Kentucky , chanced into the EU’s
newest member during a trip across the former Yugoslavia and to
 Venice ,  Italy . She first visited Zagreb in 1968 with a U.S.
musical group during Tito’s reign.  “We arrived last night and then we found out that this is
the day they are joining the European Union, and I said, wow,”
Cobb said as her tour group gathered at the central square.
“It’s so exciting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez in Zagreb at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  