-- Disney’s ‘Monsters University’ Back as No. 1 Weekend Film
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-07-01T21:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/disney-s-monsters-university-returns-as-no-1-weekend-movie.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Monsters
University” retained the top spot in U.S. and Canadian theaters
for a second weekend, taking in $45.6 million in sales for the
company’s Pixar studio.  “The Heat,” an R-rated action/comedy pairing  Sandra Bullock  and Melissa McCarthy as Boston cops, opened in second
with $39.1 million for Twentieth Century Fox, Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in a statement. The other new release,  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s “White House Down,” was fourth with $24.9 million,
less than the $35 million to $41.6 million forecast.  “Monsters University,” a prequel to the 2001 hit
“Monsters Inc.,” adds to the hit movies from Pixar. Disney
bought the studio for $7.01 billion in 2006 as part of a plan to
reinvigorate its animation business and focus on higher-profile
movies with brigher profit prospects. It’s since bought Marvel
Entertainment, producer of “The Avengers” and “ Iron Man ,”
and Lucasfilm Ltd., owner of “ Star Wars .”  “With Pixar, you do enough of them, but don’t flood the
market with them and you promote the brands and the
merchandising, it speaks to the success,” said  Martin Pyykkonen , an analyst with  Wedge Partners  in  Greenwood Village ,
 Colorado .  ‘Lone Ranger’  In the latest film, the young monsters Mike and Sulley
arrive at college to train for coveted jobs scaring human
children, whose screams generate the electricity that powers
their alternate society. Since opening, “Monsters University”
has taken in $170.4 million, according to Hollywood.com.  Disney will veer from its franchise formula on July 3 when
it opens “The Lone Ranger,” based on the 1950s television
series about a masked gunman who roamed the 19th century
American West righting wrongs. In the new version, Armie Hammer
plays the title character and  Johnny Depp  plays Tonto, his
Native American partner.  Also opening next week is  “Despicable Me 2,” a sequel to
the 2010 animated hit from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  In “The Heat,” Bullock plays an arrogant though by-the-book FBI agent. Problems arise when she is paired with a foul-mouthed Boston detective, played by McCarthy, to investigate a
drug lord. The movie, made for an estimated $43 million, was
forecast to take in $42.2 million by  Box Office Mojo  and $34
million by Boxoffice.com. The film had a 64 percent favorable
rating on  Rottentomatoes.com .  Odd Couple  “Bullock specializes in awkward and uptight, McCarthy in
aggressive and unfiltered. ‘The Heat’ makes the most of those
differences,” Los Angeles Times critic Betsy Sharkey  wrote  of
the movie.  “White House Down,” stars  Channing Tatum  as a police
officer who is rejected for a job protecting the U.S. president,
played by Jamie Foxx. He ends up as the president’s unofficial
bodyguard when, while taking his daughter on a White House tour,
terrorists attack.  In “World War Z,” Pitt stars as a retired United Nations
investigator who is called on to discover the origins of a virus
that can turn humans into zombies in a matter of seconds. The
film, based on Max Brooks’s novel, has taken $123.7 million
since it opened.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 7.1 percent to
$183 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com Box-Office said. Attendance is down 1.5 percent this year, while
revenue is 1.7 percent lower at $5.29 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales from June 28 to June. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  