-- Dodd-Frank Shows How Congress Can Overcome Deadlock
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-06-30T14:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/dodd-frank-shows-how-congress-can-overcome-deadlock.html
Congress is leaving town, a cause for
celebration across the land. Except that the lawmakers are going
away only for the Independence Day recess; they’ll be back.  The branch of government endowed by the Founders with the
most authority wins approval from only 10 percent of the public,
according to a  Gallup Poll  in June. No major institution ranks
as low.  The dysfunction on  Capitol Hill  is captured by one of the
best books on the process in a long time, “ Act of Congress ,” by
Robert G. Kaiser, a veteran  Washington  Post correspondent and
editor. What makes the case more compelling is that Kaiser tells
the inside story of one of the few successful legislative
ventures of recent years, the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which
overhauled the financial regulatory system after the 2008 crash.  Dodd-Frank, Kaiser writes, was an anomaly: “An
accomplishment produced by a catastrophe and by the fear
engendered by that catastrophe.”  Even under those circumstances, it only succeeded thanks to
the extraordinary skill of its two sponsors:  Barney Frank , the
Massachusetts Democrat who was then chairman of the House
Banking Committee and had a “capacious intellect” matched by few
in Congress, and  Chris Dodd , the Connecticut Democrat who headed
the Senate Banking Committee and wielded “formidable” political
skills.  Partisan Freeze  Given the magnitude of the crisis, it should have been a
bipartisan bill. Some Republicans, such as Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and even a few veteran members on the two committees,
were inclined to support it; their party leaders made clear they
would become pariahs if they did.  Voters hate this kind of politics and say they want
lawmakers to find common ground. Still, they are contemptuous of
backroom deals, and that is how, unfortunately, common ground is
found.  One of the best anecdotes in Kaiser’s book describes a one-on-one meeting between Frank and Camden Fine, president and
chief executive officer of the  Independent Community Bankers of
America . Fine agreed not to oppose the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, and, in exchange, Frank promised to lessen
regulatory fees for smaller banks; the big banks would pay more.  It was a good deal for both sides -- the kind that doesn’t
happen very often these days.  The debate was often superficial.  Frank Luntz , a Republican
media strategist, advised critics to call the measure a
“bailout.” That became the mantra; it wasn’t the reality. (In
the still unpopular rescue of  Wall Street  in 2008, which was a
bailout, the government ended up making money, but that doesn’t
fit on a bumper sticker.)  Kaiser writes that what political scientists label “the
politics of blame avoidance” is pervasive on Capitol Hill.
Lawmakers spend more time seeking to escape responsibility for
unpopular actions -- especially ones that can be used against
them in an attack commercial -- than in claiming credit for good
deeds.  The biggest problem, Kaiser complains, is that only a
couple dozen members of Congress understood the complicated
financial system that they were tasked to reform. Arguably, this
isn’t surprising in an institution that takes up hundreds of
issues, and few as complex as financial regulation. The need is
for good leaders and a desire to find common ground. In this
instance, the leaders were there; Dodd’s exquisite instincts
saved the measure. The desire for common purpose wasn’t.  Gingrich Era  The ills that afflict Congress are many. They got much
worse after  Newt Gingrich ’s 1994 Republican takeover of the
House; then the premium was on partisan polarization. Norman Ornstein and  Thomas Mann , political scientists and veteran
watchers of Congress, assert in their book “It’s Even Worse Than
It Looks” that the continuing right-wing bent of Republicans,
practicing “policy hostage taking,” dominates Congress these
days.  The way House districts are drawn -- with an eye to
creating safe seats for Democrats and Republicans -- exacerbates
this. A fair redistricting initially wouldn’t much change the
partisan composition in the House. It might change the
legislative environment.  The perpetual campaign and the changing news media are
factors. Kaiser notes that no Connecticut newspaper covered Dodd
in Washington, and the same is true of many other members.
Rather than becoming policy experts, many lawmakers vie to get
on cable television shows that have little interest in serious
discussion.  And then there’s the root cause of many maladies: money. It
dominates elections and legislative considerations. One of the
thorniest issues of  Dodd-Frank  was how to handle derivatives
trading. Agriculture Committee members wanted a piece of the
action because it would help campaign contributions from the
 agriculture sector . And as Dodd was in the final stages of
fashioning a bipartisan compromise, the Senate Republican
leaders  Mitch McConnell  and  John Cornyn  went to seek campaign
bucks in  New York . They came back with $150,000 from Wall Street
executives and the directive: no deal on Dodd-Frank.  The  Supreme Court ’s permissive decisions on special-interest money have made it very difficult to improve this
system.  Still, the architects of Dodd-Frank, both now retired, said
in interviews that their measure needn’t be an anomaly.  The newer members who have dominated these past several
sessions of Congress pay less attention to leadership, often
resulting in dysfunction, Dodd said. “Time will bring better
results,” he added.  Frank said the antidote to big money -- which “dominates in
a vacuum” -- is for voters to care and to be involved.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 