-- Yen Drops as Japanese-Manufacturer Optimism Rises; Aussie Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-01T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/dollar-gains-versus-yen-before-ism-factory-data-b0j-s-tankan.html
The yen fell to a the lowest in more
than three weeks against the dollar as the central bank’s Tankan
survey showed large manufacturers were the most optimistic in
two years, damping demand for safety.  Japan’s currency slid versus most of its major peers as
global stocks rose. The dollar briefly extended gains versus the
yen after a gauge of U.S. manufacturing rose more than forecast.
The euro appreciated after manufacturing in the currency bloc
shrank less than forecast.  Australia ’s dollar rallied from the
lowest level in almost three years.  “The Tankan survey was very strong across the board,” Dan Dorrow, head of research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “It’s just one more
piece of data in the recent uptrend, which is good news for
growth for Japan. In the last couple of weeks, the yen has been
weakening in line with good news for the Japanese economy.”  The yen lost 0.5 percent to 99.66 per dollar at 5 p.m. in
New York and reached 99.86, the weakest level since June 5 on an
intraday basis. It closed weaker than its 50-day moving average
for the first time since June 4.  Japan ’s currency declined 1
percent to 130.19 per euro and touched 130.25, the least since
June 11. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.3064.  The Australian dollar advanced versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts, rebounding from the weakest since September
2010 versus the greenback, on speculation the South Pacific
currency’s biggest quarterly decline in almost five years was
excessive and amid bets the Reserve Bank of Australia will
refrain from cutting its 2.75 percent benchmark rate tomorrow.
The Aussie touched 91.10 U.S. cents before jumping 1.1 percent
to 92.38 cents. It lost 12 percent from April through June.  Rand Falls  South Africa’s rand dropped for the first time in three
days as evidence of an economic slowdown in  China , the country’s
biggest trading partner, dimmed export prospects. A purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was
48.2, the weakest since September. Readings above 50 signal
growth. The currency weakened 0.6 percent to 9.9363 per dollar.  The yen approached 100 per dollar for the first time since
June 5 as the Tankan index of  sentiment  improved to 4 in the
second quarter, the highest since March 2011, from minus 8 in
the previous period, the central bank said. Readings above zero
mean optimists outnumber pessimists. The Nikkei-225 Stock
Average climbed 1.3 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose as much as 1.3 percent before paring gains to 0.5 percent.  Carry Trade  Tankan “goes into the thematic that people want to hear,
which is that the yen is weakening,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “The funding for the carry trade is
essentially the yen now. The tendency therefore is for dollar-yen to tend to want to move higher and people will try to find
whatever excuse they want to try to justify that move.”  In the carry trade, investors borrow in low-interest-rate
currencies to buy higher-yielding assets. Japan’s benchmark rate
is virtually zero.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index ,
based on currency-option premiums, fell to 10.95 percent, from
11.02 percent on June 28. The gauge surged 19 percent in the
second quarter. It climbed to 11.96 percent on June 24, the
highest since January 2012, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on June 19 the U.S. central bank may start
reducing bond purchases this year.  “The yen became weak because the volatility became
lower,” said Hidetoshi Honda, a currency strategist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London .  Japan’s currency has declined 9 percent this year, the
worst performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 5 percent,
and the dollar led the winners, gaining 6.1 percent.  Euro Recommendation  The euro extended a gain versus the dollar after  Thomas Stolper , the London-based chief currency strategist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., recommended investors buy the currency with an
initial target at $1.35. Stolper cited an improved growth
outlook for the euro region periphery and a strong balance-of-payments position for the area as a whole.  The 17-nation currency gained earlier versus the dollar as
Markit Economics said its gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation area rose to 48.8 last month from 48.3 in May. That was
above an  initial estimate  of 48.7 on June 20.  The dollar gained for a third day versus the yen as the
Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. manufacturing index rose
to 50.9 in June from 49 in May, the Tempe, Arizona-based group
said. A Bloomberg survey forecast an increase to 50.5.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $31 billion, compared with $29.4 billion on June 28,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $8.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 29 percent. Euro-dollar options
totaled $2.7 billion, or 8.7 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 31 percent above the average
for the past five Mondays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
3 percent below average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  