-- Draghi’s One Size Fits All Rescue Fuels Northermost Debt
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-07-01T12:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/draghi-s-one-size-fits-all-rescue-fuels-northermost-debt.html
The European Central Bank’s attempt
to resuscitate the 17-member euro economy with record-low
interest rates is fueling a debt boom in its most creditworthy
country and exposing a growing disconnect in monetary policy.  In Helsinki, about 1,500 kilometers (930 miles) northeast
of the Frankfurt offices of ECB President Mario Draghi,
household debt has surged to a record as Finns take advantage of
the lowest mortgage rates in the euro area to buy property.
Citizens of crisis-stricken countries from  Greece  to  Portugal 
are either unable to get loans or forced to pay much higher
rates.  “The ECB has cut interest rates to almost zero, and now
they see it feeding through in parts of the euro area -- in
Finland,  Germany ,  Austria  and  France  -- but not everywhere,”
said  Holger Sandte , chief European analyst at Nordea Bank AB,
the biggest bank in the Nordic region. “The reading of the ECB
is that the transmission mechanism isn’t working properly.”  Europe’s second year of recession is putting pressure on
the central bank to consider further reducing its  benchmark
rate , which is already at a record, to stimulate the $9.5
trillion economy with a population of 331 million. That
threatens to fuel imbalances, and potential property bubbles, in
countries with already low rates, while failing to pass through
to consumers and small businesses most in need of help.  The ECB’s “toolbox is largely empty,” Sandte said. It
could cut rates further or devise a lending program with the
European Investment Bank for small businesses, he said. “But if
you ask me whether these are strong, powerful instruments, I
have to say unfortunately not.”  Falling Rates  Europe’s debt crisis has already damaged  Finland ’s export-driven economy as output among its 16 peer members shrinks. In
2009 the economy slowed 8.5 percent and will only grow 0.3
percent in 2013, compared with a 0.4 percent contraction for the
euro area.  At the same time, mortgage costs for the 5.4 million Finns
living in the northernmost part of the single-currency union
have fallen to 1.5 percent on average, according to  data 
compiled by the ECB. New home loans at floating rates are 1.97
percent, the lowest in the euro area, in comparison with 5.14
percent in Cyprus, the highest, and an average of 2.87 percent
for the 17-member region.  That’s helped  home prices  in Finland advance. They gained
1.4 percent in May from the prior year and are up about 35
percent since 2000. Mortgages have grown 130 percent in the past
decade. In Spain, where home prices are 39 percent below the
2007 peak after its real estate bubble burst, lenders issued
65,914 mortgages in the first quarter, down 73 percent from the
same period five years earlier.  Spain’s Correction  “The indebtedness of Spanish homes is still relatively
large, house prices are still correcting and unemployment is
still high, so mortgage numbers are going to be low,” said
Daragh Quinn, a bank analyst at Nomura International in  Madrid .  Still, the level of effectiveness of the ECB’s efforts is a
concern to its policy makers.  “Accommodative monetary policy still feeds through slowly
and unevenly into private sector financial conditions across
euro area countries,” ECB Governing Council member Erkki Liikanen said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 19.
Differences in the transmission of policy for housing loan
interest rates are smaller than for corporate loans, he said.  In Finland, mortgages account on average for about 75
percent of a home’s value and banks still give out 100 percent
loans. For those loans, the underlying value of the property is
calculated at about 70 percent, and the rest is backed by
insurance paid for by the debtor or other collateral.  Boosted Demand  “Low rates have boosted demand and kept it strong also
throughout the changing business cycles,” said Kari Kauniskangas, chief executive officer of  YIT Oyj (YTY1V) , Finland’s
biggest residential builder. “It’s been an important factor
contributing to the good development in the Finnish housing
market.”  Nona Buchert, a realtor with ReMax Kotikorttelit Oy,
reiterated that as she showed a ground-floor apartment in a
1920s art nouveau-style building in Helsinki, listed at 428,000
euros ($558,000).  “The general idea that interest rates are low means there
is a constant supply of buyers looking for a home,” she said.  The property with wooden floors had two rooms and a white,
modern kitchen, is priced at 7,443 euros per square meter,
typical for the city-center district of Ullanlinna replete with
pastel-colored old stone apartment buildings.  Price Divergence  The lowest price paid for a two-bedroom home of 70 square
meters to 90 square meters (750 square feet to 970 square feet)
in the Ullanlinna area near the sea was 346,000 euros in the
past 12 months, while the most expensive flat sold for 892,000
euros.  In Leppaevaara, an area of buildings mostly built after
1990 that lies a 12-minute train ride away from central
Helsinki, apartments that size fetched on average 268,000 euros.
Similar ones being built by the sea in the Kalasatama district,
an old port area under redevelopment near the city center, go
for more than 420,000 euros.  “Finns aren’t showy -- they buy a home to fulfill a
need,” Kauniskangas said in an interview on June 18.  That need -- combined with low rates -- has still sent home
prices in the fastest-growing capital city area 49 percent
higher than in 2000. It’s also propelled household debt in the
only stable AAA rated euro country to a record 119 percent of
disposable income, topping the regional average of 99 percent.  The ratio will rise to 122 percent this year, the Finance
Ministry forecast on March 27.  Property Crash  Commerzbank AG analysts wrote last month that Finland, and
neighboring  Sweden , are the most likely places to see a property
crash. “We should soon see a correction in prices,” the bank
wrote in a May 17 report.  Finnish authorities are considering ways to prick potential
bubbles, including a proposal to hand the financial watchdog
powers to enforce a binding loan-to-value cap at 80 percent,
compared with its current 90 percent non-binding recommendation.  More than a third of home loans exceeded the guideline last
year, according to the Financial Supervisory Authority. The
Finnish central bank last month echoed the calls, saying the
watchdog ought to be able to cap mortgages on a case-by-case
basis.  Finland’s debt challenge isn’t just down to Draghi’s
policies as countries outside the euro area also viewed as
havens navigate similar challenges. Home prices in central
 Stockholm  are up 35 percent since early 2009 and Swedish
household lending has surged. Danes are now the most indebted
people in the world with personal debt of 267 percent of income,
compared with 94 percent in the U.S., according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Mitigating Damage  Record low interest rates are also helping limit the damage
to crisis-hit countries such as Spain, where borrowing costs on
existing floating-rate mortgages have helped affordability and
prevented a bigger surge in delinquencies. The average rate for
existing mortgages is 2.41 percent.  The differing interest rates on new loans, though, are
raising concerns among policy makers. “Prolonged periods of
diverging trends in the costs of funding within the euro area
could indicate the emergence of some friction in the
transmission of monetary policy,” the European Commission said
in a report on March 27.  “The challenge in the euro area is breaking the spiral of
weak economic activity and tight funding conditions, faced in
particular by small and medium-sized enterprises,” Liikanen
said. “The euro-area economy will gain strength gradually as
the health of the banking sector is restored, the decline in
housing prices in the crisis countries peters out and the level
of private debt is reduced.”  Still, “balance sheet adjustment is a slow process,” he
said. “The crisis cannot be resolved by monetary policy means
alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  