-- Earlier HIV Therapy May Save 3 Million Lives, Boost Cipla Sales
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-06-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/earlier-hiv-therapy-may-save-3-million-lives-boost-cipla-sales.html
People with HIV should start
treatment earlier than previously recommended, according to
World Health Organization guidelines that may prevent 3 million
deaths and boost sales for drugmakers including  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)   Commencing treatment at an earlier stage of infection would
expand the number of people eligible for therapy to 26 million
from 17 million and prevent about 3.5 million infections by
2025, the Geneva-based WHO said today in the first update to its
treatment guidelines since 2010.  The new recommendations come amid research that shows
earlier treatment helps patients and limits transmission.
Increasing the number of people treated will add about 10
percent to the $24 billion that's needed annually to fight
the epidemic now, the WHO said. That may boost sales for Mumbai,
India-based Cipla and Johannesburg-based  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings 
Ltd. (APN) , which make generics of AIDS drugs for developing nations.  The new guidelines can help “bring the epidemic to an
irreversible decline,” Meg Doherty, the coordinator of
treatment and care in the WHO’s HIV/AIDS department, told
reporters at a briefing in Geneva.  About  34 million  people were infected with HIV at the end
of 2011, making it the world’s most prevalent infectious
disease, according to the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS, or UNAIDS. The virus killed an estimated 1.7 million
people that year.  Different Guidelines  Still, the number of new infections has declined each year
since peaking in 1997 as treatment was expanded, according to
UNAIDS. About 9.7 million people were on drugs at the end of
last year, and 1.6 million people started treatment, the biggest
increase in a single year, as funding in developing nations to
fight local epidemics exceeded international donations for the
first time.  The new guidelines advise that adults and adolescents start
treatment when their number of CD4 cells -- the infection-fighting cells that HIV attacks -- drops below 500 per cubic
millimeter of blood. The WHO previously recommended starting
treatment at 350 cells per cubic millimeter, to avoid the side
effects, inconvenience and costs associated with drugs that must
be taken every day for the rest of an infected person’s life.
Healthy people have a CD4 count of between 800 and 1,200.  The U.S.  recommends  people start treatment as soon as they
are diagnosed, regardless of their CD4 count. The evidence isn’t
sufficient to support that policy at a global level, Doherty
said, though the WHO is recommending treatment regardless of CD4
count for children under 5 years, pregnant and breastfeeding
women, and people who have an uninfected partner.  Partner Protected  In a trial among 1,763 couples where only one partner was
infected, those who started treatment immediately were 96
percent less likely to transmit HIV to their partner than those
who started therapy later.  Aspen,  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  of Canonsburg,  Pennsylvania , and Cipla 
Medpro South Africa Ltd. won the biggest shares of a South African 
government contract in November to supply AIDS drugs worth 5.9 
billion rand ($586 million) over two years.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) 
of  Foster City ,  California , is the biggest seller of HIV drugs 
in wealthy countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  