-- Egypt Stocks Rise Amid Protests After June Slump; Kuwait Drops
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r
-- 2013-06-30T14:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/egypt-stocks-rise-before-protests-as-cheap-buys-lure-investors.html
Egyptian shares climbed to the
highest in almost three weeks on investor bets the steepest
monthly drop since November was overdone even as the government
faces nationwide protests.  Commercial International Bank  Egypt  SAE, the nation’s
largest publicly traded lender, jumped 3.8 percent and Orascom
Telecom Holding rose the most in a month. The EGX 30 Index
advanced 1.4 percent to 4,752.22, the strongest close since June
11 and trimming this month’s retreat to 13 percent. About 45
million shares traded compared with a one-year daily average of
almost 124 million.  This month’s drop left members of Egypt’s index trading at
1.1 times net assets compared with 1.4 times for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index. Shares fell in the run up to protests
today against Islamist President Mohamed Mursi, whose opponents
say has monopolized power and failed to revive the economy. The
army deployed last week amid clashes between pro- and anti-government crowds that killed eight and injured hundreds.  “Current prices already reflect the discounting of
political risk, which is limiting losses and helping investors
find selective opportunities,” Mohsen Adel,  fund manager  at
Cairo-based Pioneers Holding, said by phone. “Investor appetite
will remain low until there’s more clarity on whether the
protests today remain peaceful or take a violent turn.”  Bear Market  Mursi, who marks one-year in office today as the country’s
first freely-elected president, has rejected the opposition’s
demands for an early presidential vote. Tens of thousands of his
supporters have put together their own rally in Cairo, raising
concern of possible clashes with opponents. The grassroots
Tamarud, or Rebel, movement said it collected 22 million
signatures in a campaign to force an early election, a claim
dismissed by Mursi’s backers.  The EGX 30 Index on June 12 entered a so-called  bear market 
after tumbling 23 percent from a peak in September. MSCI Inc.
this month said it may review Egypt’s 12 year-old emerging-market status for a possible downgrade should the nation’s
currency shortage worsen.  The country’s stock exchange will be closed tomorrow for a
holiday. Commercial International Bank gained the most since
June 11 to 29.87 Egyptian pounds. Orascom Telecom climbed 4.3
percent, the most since May 28, to 3.92 pounds.  Kuwait’s Slump  In the Gulf Cooperation Council,  Kuwait ’s  SE Price Index (KWSEIDX) 
tumbled 1.8 percent, the most since June 2, trimming gains for
the quarter to 16 percent. The measure was the fourth-best
performer in the past three months among more than 90 benchmarks
tracked globally by Bloomberg.  “Many found the  price levels  to be opportune for some
profit taking,” said Fouad Darwish, head of brokerage at
Kuwait-based Global Investment House KSCC. Summer vacations as
well as Ramadan are approaching and political instability has
also led to a reduction in the number of transactions and
trading values, he said.  The  value of shares  traded declined to 30 million dinars
($106 million) compared with a daily average of about 42.8
million dinars in the past year.  Abu Dhabi’s benchmark index  advanced 0.3 percent today,
pushing the surge for the year to 35 percent, the third-best
performer in the period after gauges in Ghana and Dubai. Dubai’s
 DFM General Index (DFMGI)  closed little changed at 2,222.57.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  gained 1.4 percent on the first
trading day after the Abu Dhabi-based company’s merger with
 Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  took effect last week.  Shares Triple  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index lost 0.1 percent,
Qatar’s QE Index dropped 0.3 percent and Bahrain’s measure
declined less than 0.1 percent. In Oman, Muscat’s  MSM 30 Index (MSM30) 
rose less than 0.1 percent.  Sharqiyah Desalination Co. more than tripled on its first
trading day in Muscat, advancing 203 percent to 3.216 rials. The
company develops, constructs, operates and maintains water
desalination plants.  In  Israel , the TA-25 Index advanced less than 0.1 percent
to 1,190.5. The yield on the government’s benchmark 4.25 percent
bonds maturing March 2023 rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.79 percent. The yield is up five basis
points this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  