-- Merck KGaA’s Oschmann Sees U.S. as New Emerging Market
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-07-01T10:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/merck-kgaa-s-oschmann-sees-u-s-as-new-emerging-market.html
Merck KGaA (MRK) , the German drugmaker
whose U.S. unit was expropriated almost a century ago, is
turning back to that market as competitors focus on emerging
economies in  Asia  and  South America .  “For us, the U.S. is an emerging market,” Stefan Oschmann, head of pharmaceuticals, said in an interview. “We
have huge growth potential in the U.S.”  Merck KGaA is focusing on one of the world’s most
profitable drug markets as sales of its best-selling medicines
slow and as a late-stage drug pipeline dries up. The Darmstadt-based company hasn’t had a treatment approved since the go-ahead
in 2003 for the cancer drug Erbitux, which it sells under
license outside  North America . Its next market candidate won’t
be considered by regulators until 2016.  The German company’s growth in North America was curtailed
when its U.S. subsidiary was expropriated during World War I.
Since then, that business, Merck & Co., has blossomed into the
country’s second-largest drugmaker. While the two pharmaceutical
companies now aren’t related, the German drugmaker is relying on
Oschmann, who formerly was president of  emerging markets  at
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck & Co., to revamp its
drug development programs.  Beefing Up  Oschmann said Merck plans to beef up its early stage
pipeline through licensing and research alliances and is looking
for bolt-on acquisitions while reviewing assets. He was hired in
2011 following the failure of the company’s multiple sclerosis
pill cladribine. Since then, Merck has closed sites, cut and
transferred jobs and refocused research on cancer, immunology
and neurodegenerative disease.  The stock rose 1.2 percent to 118.50 euros at 12:33 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , bringing the 12-month return to 53 percent. That
compares with a 26 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index, including reinvested dividends.  The pipeline was “skewed” about 2 1/2 years ago, with
many “high-risk” programs in the third and final stage of
development, requiring big investments, Oschmann said. The
company hadn’t spent as much on earlier stages of development
nor sought licenses for many other drugs, according to the
executive.  New Products  “This is what we wanted to change,” he said. “Being
successful in the U.S. means that we have to introduce new
products.”  Merck said in May it’s more than doubling the size of its
venture capital fund MS Ventures to 100 million euros ($131
million). Oschmann traveled to  Boston  in recent weeks to meet
with biotechnology companies about the benefits of working with
his company.  The German drugmaker has slowly built back a presence in
North America, where it had pharmaceutical sales of 1.3 billion
euros last year. Still, its product offering in that market is
“weak,” as traditionally Merck KGaA has worked through
alliances there, Oschmann said. Erbitux is sold by  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  in the U.S. while the Rebif
multiple sclerosis drug is co-marketed by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   The company aims to market its own drugs in the U.S. as it
has the potential to drive its own business, Oschmann said.  ‘Not Weak’  “We’re not weak in terms of our organization there,” he
said.  Analysts’ expectations about sales when he arrived at the
family-controlled chemical and pharmaceutical company were
“overly pessimistic,” Oschmann said. Rebif has maintained
steady sales amid newer, competing therapies for MS.  “I saw that there was upside and I think we have delivered
on this so far in a very consistent way,” he said. “I also saw
that the current portfolio would have more resilience than what
most people assumed.”  Expectations for TH-302, a cancer therapy being tested in
late-stage trials for soft tissue sarcoma and pancreatic cancer,
and multiple sclerosis treatment ONO-4641 are “low,” Goldman
Sachs analysts wrote in a note June 20 when they recommended
selling the stock. Oschmann said TH-302 is “high risk and high
reward” given the diseases don’t have adequate treatments. The
company will decide by year end whether to pursue a late-stage
trial for ONO-4641 and is talking to regulatory authorities
about whether there’s an approach that “makes sense.”  Not Dead  Merck spent more than a decade developing a therapeutic
cancer vaccine called tecemotide before data from a late-stage
trial showed it failed to help lung cancer patients live longer.
Merck is still testing the vaccine in Asia and will make a
decision on whether to start another late-stage trial by year-end, pending the outcome of talks with regulatory authorities,
Oschmann said.  “We need to define a clear regulatory pathway for this,”
he said. Merck is considering targeting subgroups of patients
who may respond better to the treatment. “The message really
is, the program isn’t dead.”  Either way, Merck intends to continue working on
immunotherapies, or treatments that teach the immune system to
fight cancer. The company announced last week it’s establishing
an immuno-oncology unit to develop such treatments. Merck has an
immunotherapy candidate in early-stage testing which Oschmann
highlighted as promising. Bristol-Myers,  Roche Holding AG  and
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  are also developing immunotherapies.  “This is the battle royale in oncology,” said Oschmann,
who studied veterinary science and owns competitive horses.
“It’s going to be a very interesting race.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  