-- Merkel Blocks Milking of EU Bank in Defense of German Taxpayers
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-30T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/merkel-blocks-milking-of-eu-bank-in-defense-of-german-taxpayers.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel
opened a new front in an election-year effort to limit her
voters’ exposure to the costs of spurring the slumping European
economy: the role of the European Investment Bank.  Merkel refused to loosen the leash on the European Union’s
project-finance vehicle at a summit last week, frustrating the
aim of southern European leaders to use it more aggressively to
spur their slumping economies and attack record unemployment.  “The discussion clearly emphasized the elements of
prudence,” Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta told reporters
as leaders headed home on June 28. “I’m telling you this
because I don’t want to tell lies. I want to tell you how things
really are. On this point, I think, as I see Europe, Europe
needs a more proactive EIB.”  Merkel’s blunting of the raid on the EIB mirrors the
political battles waged among European leaders since  Greece 
kicked off the euro debt crisis in 2009. The biggest contributor
to bailouts, Merkel has from day one sought to limit her voters’
liability for rescuing the most debt-laden states.  Now, it fits in with her electoral strategy of warding off
potentially expensive surprises from Brussels. Delaying euro-zone bank supervision, sparing German taxpayers the bill for
fixing lenders elsewhere, and blocking an EU decision on tighter
car-emissions standards may also reflect that blueprint.  The German leader, seeking her third term in Sept. 22
elections, dismisses any connection between domestic politics
and policy in the 28-nation EU.  Campaign Impact  “I honestly don’t know of any decision in Europe that was
delayed or in some way stalled by the fact that we have
elections in September,” Merkel told reporters shortly after 1
a.m. on June 28. Thirteen hours later she said that Germany,
home to BMW AG,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , was behind last
week’s EU decision to delay the car-pollution rules because
“this is also about employment.”  It was a quiet triumph for Merkel that, when other crisis-related posts went to Italian or Dutch officials, Germany’s
Werner Hoyer, once her European affairs minister, was made EIB
president at the start of 2012.  The Luxembourg-based bank figured in the growth initiative
launched a year ago, when newly elected French President
Francois Hollande tried to steer crisis management away from the
austerity-first prescriptions pushed by Merkel.  EIB Pledge  EU governments pledged in June 2012 to plow an additional
10 billion euros ($13 billion) into the EIB, enabling the bank
to expand lending by 60 billion euros between 2013 and 2015.
Since the EIB only gets involved in projects that have other
sources of capital, the reckoning was that the extra lending
would sluice 180 billion euros into the economy. While the
governments delivered their 10 billion euros, the EIB has only
just gotten started with the lending.  An EIB role in spurring business and fighting youth
unemployment is something “you can imagine,” Merkel said at
the summit. “We have to work out how to do this in concrete
cases.” For his part, the EIB’s Hoyer said the bank “is
committed to support any new initiative that helps to get the
economy growing again and to bring young people into
employment.”  There was an air of deja vu to the EIB debate. Often in the
past, when money was tight the call went up for the EU’s in-house bank to open its lending spigots. In 2003, the EIB was
touted as the savior of debt-laden European phone companies.
Because the bank only lends for money-making projects, not to
bail out stricken businesses, that idea quickly ran aground.  Even then, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker,
the only current national leader who was around a decade ago,
expressed frustration at the EIB’s inability to turn vision into
reality.  ‘Third Time’  “It’s the third time in 15 years that I’m attending a
meeting where these programs are launched,” Juncker remarked at
the time. “I really hope that this time is the real one.”  Southern European leaders’ impatience now came through in a
summit statement that urged “stepping up efforts” by the EIB
to buoy the economy, which has been shrinking since the fourth
quarter of 2011. Yet language inserted into the statement by
 Germany  and allies like the Netherlands and  Finland  kept the
bank on a tight leash.  In deliberations by lower-level officials before the
summit, the German-led faction put in provisos that extra EIB
lending would respect the “principles of financial soundness
and transparency,” ruling out riskier projects that might
jeopardize the bank’s AAA rating. Also barred were further
boosting the EIB’s lending limits or an increase in the EU’s
central budget.  Balance Sought  France ’s Hollande said that even a less expansive EIB
program would aid small and midsized businesses, shorthanded as
SMEs in EU jargon. “An equilibrium must be found,” he said
after the summit. “If it loses its triple-A, its borrowing
costs go up and its lending rates to SMEs go up.”  Merkel further tightened the guidance at the summit. A
reference to the “largest possible participation by member
states” -- a backdoor way of putting Germany on the hook for
EIB loans that go bad -- was deleted. A July deadline for
designing the lending schemes vanished from the text, replaced
by the less-binding “without delay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  