-- European Stocks Hooked on Emerging Markets Stretch Values
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-07-01T15:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/europe-stocks-addicted-to-emerging-markets-stretching-valuations.html
For the first time ever, European
companies are relying on emerging markets for a third of all
revenue, stretching equity valuations as Chinese growth slows
and protests turn violent from  Turkey  to Brazil.  Led by  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG and  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,  Europe  will get
33 percent of sales from developing nations in 2013, almost
three times as much as in 1997, according to data compiled by
Morgan Stanley and Bloomberg. While U.S. enterprises make 70
percent of their revenue at home, businesses in Europe, mired in
the longest recession on record, are forecast to obtain less
than 50 percent from their own economies this year.  Even though stock-market bulls say dependence on faster-growing emerging markets will boost long-term  profit expansion ,
bears are focused on more immediate challenges. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index trades at 12.6 times estimated earnings, 11 percent
more expensive than the average of the past three years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  China ’s economy, which grew at an
average rate of 9.2 percent from 2009 through last year, is
projected to expand 7.7 percent this year, the least since 1999.  “An economic slowdown in  emerging markets  will definitely
have an impact on the revenues of European companies,” William de Vijlder, who oversees about $650 billion as chief investment
officer at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Brussels, said in
a June 27 telephone interview. “We are seeing weakness in the
macro data. Our view is that there will be more negative
surprises than positive ones from emerging markets now.”  Monthly Loss  The Stoxx 600 gained 1.7 percent last week, trimming its
first monthly loss in more than a year. The gauge has retreated
8.2 percent from an almost five-year high on May 22 after China
money-market rates reached a record and the  Federal Reserve  said
it may pare bond buying should the  U.S. economy  improve. The
index rose 1.2 percent to 288.29 at the close of trading today.  Shares of European companies most reliant on emerging
markets have led the rally since equities bottomed in March
2009. The  Stoxx 600 Personal and Household Goods Index , which
includes luxury-product producers such as Swatch and Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA, surged 155 percent, while the broader
market advanced 80 percent. A measure of food and beverage
shares, featuring SABMiller and Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle
SA (NESN) , climbed 138 percent.  Swatch generated 37 percent of its sales from China last
year, while Geneva-based Richemont got 41 percent from Asian
countries excluding  Japan , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. London-based SABMiller, the world’s second-largest
brewer, receives more than 80 percent of revenue from outside
Europe and  North America . Nestle, the biggest food maker, got
about 15 percent from Brazil, China and  Mexico .  Valuation Premium  The rally has pushed the Stoxx gauge of personal-goods
companies to 16.3 times estimated earnings, 29 percent more than
the wider market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Stoxx 600
Food & Beverage Index trades at 17.7 times projected profit, a
40 percent premium, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Certain proxies for emerging-markets growth, like the
personal and household goods sector and the food and beverages
sector, are now pricing at significant premiums,” John Bilton,
European investment strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit in  London , said in an interview on June 17.
“It’s not to say it’s the wrong theme in the long run, but
you’re paying a lot of money to access it right now.”  Since the beginning of the year, analysts have cut their
projections for combined 2013  earnings  at Stoxx 600 companies by
6.6 percent to 22.57 euros a share, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show. While that’s an increase of 58 percent from last
year, it’s still down from the 2007 peak of 27.45 euros.  Growth Forecast  Slowing growth in China, the world’s largest emerging
economy, may put a brake on revenue at European companies. The
nation’s  imports  unexpectedly fell in May and industrial output
also trailed economists’ projections. China’s  seven-day
repurchase rate  reached an all-time high of 12.45 percent on
June 20, more than triple this year’s average of 3.82 percent,
fueling concern a cash squeeze may worsen the slowdown.  China’s economy  will expand by 7.7 percent in 2013 and 7.6
percent next year, according to economists’ projections compiled
by Bloomberg. India’s  gross domestic product  will increase 5.1
percent, matching last year’s rate that was the slowest since at
least 2004, the data show. Brazil is estimated to grow 2.5
percent after a 0.9 percent advance in 2012.  The  World Bank  cut its total growth forecast for developing
nations to 5.1 percent last month, from 5.5 percent in January.  Street Protests  Brazil is witnessing its biggest street protests in two
decades, a movement that began as complaints against higher bus
fares, while Turkey’s government is facing the largest
demonstrations in 10 years. Social unrest is making it difficult
for luxury-goods makers to encourage shoppers to spend,
Ermenegildo Zegna, chief executive officer of Trivero, Italy-based Ermenegildo Zegna Group, said in an interview in Milan on
June 22.  Even as European exporters face short-term hurdles, CEOs
need to reduce their reliance with the euro-area economy in a
seventh straight quarter of contraction, according to Raiffeisen
Capital Management’s Herbert Perus. Emerging markets offer the
fastest-growing demand and diversification will pay off over
time, he said.  The  European Central Bank  forecasts the 17-member euro-zone
economy will contract by 0.6 percent this year. Revenue within
developed European markets will fall to 46 percent of all sales,
according to the Morgan Stanley study of 505 companies. That’s
down from 51 percent in 2012 and 71 percent in 1997, when the
New York-based bank began collecting data. Sales to emerging
economies were 12 percent that year.  ‘Like Europeans’  “World growth will still come out of emerging markets, if
not at the momentum we saw for the last 10 years,” Perus, who
helps oversee about $36 billion as head of equities at
Raiffeisen in Vienna, said in a phone interview on June 27.
“Consumers in emerging markets try to live like Europeans or
Americans in the long term, therefore they will still buy
European products. It’s still a very good idea for companies to
focus on that market.”  At the beginning of 2013, brokerages from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to Credit Suisse Group AG had recommended buying
European stocks with sales in emerging markets to benefit from
growth outside the euro region.  Goldman Sachs strategists led by  Peter Oppenheimer  ended
their bullish call on June 20 and instead recommended short
positions, without identifying specific stocks to bet against.
Weaker prospects for emerging markets make shares of European
companies that rely on them more vulnerable to losses,
Oppenheimer wrote.  Food Recommendation  In a short sale, speculators borrow securities to sell them
on the expectation they will be able to buy them back at a
cheaper price before returning the loan.  Credit Suisse cut its recommendation on food producers to
underweight in May, meaning investors should hold fewer of the
shares than are represented in benchmark indexes. It maintained
an overweight rating on European luxury-goods stocks.  European shares may be overvalued given the outlook for
emerging economies, according to Peter Sullivan, head of
European and U.S. equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Investors are used to looking through soft patches in
growth, but the longer they last the greater the risk that
confidence will ebb away before growth re-accelerates,”
Sullivan wrote in a June 19 report after the London-based bank
cut its economic outlook for China. “The key issue for
investors is whether this weakness is priced in. In Europe, we
believe it is not.”  SABMiller, Richemont  SABMiller is trading at 18.4 times estimated earnings, a 46
percent premium to the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average premium of 14 percent
over the past four years.  Shares of  Richemont (CFR) , the world’s second-biggest luxury-goods producer, trade at 17 times projected income. That’s 35
percent more than the Stoxx 600, compared with the 21 percent
average premium since 2009. Richemont has jumped to 83.55 Swiss
francs, more than five times its price in March 2009.  Swatch, the biggest maker of Swiss watches, has more than
quadrupled since its January 2009 low. The shares are 25 percent
more expensive than the broader index, Bloomberg data show.  In addition to luxury-goods and food companies, the oil and
gas industry will get 54 percent of revenue from emerging
economies this year, according to Morgan Stanley.  Brazil Losses  Subsea 7 SA (SUBC) , a London-based provider of oilfield services,
plunged the most in 4 1/2 years on June 27 after cutting its
earnings outlook on higher-than-estimated losses from its Guara-Lula project off the Brazilian coast. Milan-based Saipem SpA,
Italy’s largest oil and gas engineer, on June 17 reduced its
forecast for 2013 earnings by as much as 750 million euros ($975
million), citing rising costs for projects in  Algeria .  For Stewart Richardson at RMG Wealth Management LLP in
London, the slower pace of expansion in emerging economies
compounds the problems European companies are facing at home.  “The whole China slowdown story, and by extension, the
emerging markets story, is an issue for investors of European
stocks,” said Richardson, who oversees about $100 million as
chief investment officer at RMG. “When your home markets are
going through a recession, any headwinds in the global markets
make it more difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  