-- Europe ‘Shocked’ by Spiegel Report of NSA Wiretappings
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-06-30T20:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/europe-shocked-by-spiegel-report-of-nsa-wiretappings.html
European politicians greeted a
report of U.S. wiretappings of European Union buildings with
caution and concern, demanding explanations and speaking of a
possible souring of transatlantic relations.  “I am deeply worried and shocked,” European Parliament
President Martin Schulz said late yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “If the allegations prove to be true, it would be an
extremely serious matter which will have a severe impact on EU-U.S. relations.”  Schulz said he had demanded a clarification from the U.S.
after German magazine Der Spiegel said the National Security
Agency had wiretapped diplomatic mission buildings in  Washington 
and New York, infiltrated computer networks and described the
27-nation bloc as a “target.”  The German magazine, citing classified documents in the
possession of former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, also said
the NSA had wiretapped the United Nations building in New York.
The NSA was more active in watching Germany than other EU
countries, Der Spiegel reported today.  The European Commission has “immediately been in contact
with the U.S. authorities in Washington, D.C., and in Brussels
and confronted them with the press reports,”  Marlene Holzner , a
spokeswoman for the EU’s regulatory arm, said via e-mail.  Two U.S. officials familiar with American electronic
espionage programs refused to declined to comment on the
allegations in Spiegel about eavesdropping at EU and UN offices.  Routine Targets  However, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss
intelligence matters, both said that all multinational
institutions are routine targets for both technological and
human intelligence by virtually all member nations. Both said
that any such U.S. efforts are far from unique, though they
allowed that in many instances American programs are more
extensive and ambitious than those of most other countries
except  China ,  France ,  Israel , the U.K. and  Iran .  The officials said spying in an institution such as the EU
or the UN doesn’t necessarily mean spying on that institution.
In most cases, they said, it targets third countries’
communications with other members of an organization, in some
cases including U.S. allies.  For example, said one of the officials, the U.S. routinely
targets Iranian and North Korean contacts with other nations in
an effort to police the trade embargoes and criminal contacts of
those countries.  Every month about 500 million connections from  Germany  were
tapped, including phone calls, e-mails and chats, according to
Spiegel. The U.S. agency classified Germany as a “third-class”
partner and “target,” the magazine said.  ‘Utterly Inappropriate’  If the reports are correct, the U.S. approach to
intelligence-gathering is reminiscent of Cold War practices and
“utterly inappropriate,” Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger,
Germany’s minister of justice, said in a statement today.  The German Federal Prosecutor’s office has started to
gather and analyze information on the tapping programs Prism,
Tempora and Boundless Informant, the magazine said, citing a
spokeswoman for the Karlsuhe, Germany-based authority.  The federal prosecutor hasn’t decided whether to open a
formal investigation, Spiegel said. The federal prosecutor’s
office wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Former NSA and CIA director Michael Hayden defended
American spying, though he said he didn’t know what the
government is doing now as he left office five years ago.
Speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Hayden said the Fourth
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which protects Americans
from unreasonable searches “is not an international treaty.”  “Any European who wants to go out and rend their garments
with regard to international espionage should look first and
find out what their own governments are doing,” Hayden said.  White House officials traveling with President  Barack Obama 
in  Africa  referred all inquiries about the matter to the office
of the Director of National Intelligence, which didn’t
immediately reply to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  