-- FBI’s Data Mining Needs Scrutiny, Too
-- B y   R a c h e l   L e v i n s o n - W a l d m a n
-- 2013-06-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/fbi-s-data-mining-needs-scrutiny-too.html
We recently  learned  that the National
Security Agency has a database with the records of almost every
phone call made in the U.S. To address public concerns over its
surveillance activities, the agency has begun to explain how it
uses the  metadata  -- information including when calls are made,
how long they last and to whom they are placed -- it has
accumulated over the last seven years.  Although Americans deserve this explanation, they shouldn’t
delude themselves. Even if the NSA’s controversial program were
shut down tomorrow, another government agency that is busy
collecting and retaining personal data would keep humming along.
True accountability for the government’s surveillance activities
should also include an airing of -- and tighter restrictions on
-- the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s power to collect and
store substantial amounts of innocuous information about
Americans.  Since 2008, for instance, the FBI has had the authority to
conduct “assessments” -- investigations that require no
suspicion of criminal activity. In service of these  low-level
investigations , an FBI agent may use various invasive methods,
including infiltrating public meetings of groups as diverse as
the American Civil Liberties Union or Alcoholics Anonymous,
using informants, and even putting the target of the
investigation under full-time physical surveillance.  In light of this power to intrude on people’s lives, one
would hope that these assessments pay off most of the time and
that the FBI discards any superfluous information quickly when
they don’t. The numbers, however, tell a different story.  Dead Ends  From 2009 through 2011 , according to data provided by the
FBI, the bureau spent a significant amount of its limited time
and resources conducting almost 43,000 assessments related to
either counterterrorism or counterintelligence. Fewer than 5
percent of them turned up any suspicion of criminal wrongdoing.  And what does the FBI do with all of the information it has
gathered on innocent Americans? The bureau maintains it for
decades, just in case it may be useful in the future.  The  official guidelines  governing the agency’s activities
are explicit: All information it collects is kept and sometimes
shared, “regardless of whether it furthers investigative
objectives,” because it  may  “eventually serve a variety of valid
analytic purposes” -- even if that means keeping the information
in an FBI database for as long as  30 years .  The policy is similar for information gathered through
“national security letters”: the secretive legal procedure that
allows the FBI to collect specific information on Americans if
the bureau completes paperwork saying the information may be
”relevant” to a terrorism investigation. That data -- which
include many of the same kind of telephone records the NSA is
acquiring -- can also be  stored  for up to 30 years if it has
even potential investigative value.  The federal government’s use of “suspicious activity
reports” tells a similar story. Local, state and federal law-enforcement officials use them to file alerts about a wide range
of “suspicious activity.” The activity reports that are deemed
to have some connection to terrorism are widely shared
throughout the government. Yet there doesn’t even need to be
“ reasonable suspicion ” of a terrorist connection for a report to
be filed. As the Department of Homeland Security has
 acknowledged , this practically ensures that these alerts will
sweep up information about innocent Americans.  Again, one would think a suspicious-activity report that
provided no evidence of possible terrorist threats would be
discarded immediately. To the contrary, even a report without
any link to terrorism is  kept  in a widely available FBI database
for six months, in a separate classified database for five
years, and in yet another FBI database for at least 25 more
years.  Mass Storage  Many Americans were rightly surprised and angry to learn
that the NSA was sweeping up vast amounts of information on the
off chance it might be useful in the future. But the FBI is
collecting far more than just telephone metadata and keeping it
for far longer than the five-year limit the NSA has evidently
imposed on itself.  Calls for reform of the NSA should be coupled with demands
for restraints on the FBI’s power. The confirmation hearing for
James Comey, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the
bureau, would be a good place to start.  ( Rachel Levinson-Waldman  is counsel with the Liberty and
National Security program at the  Brennan Center for Justice  at
 New York  University Law School.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Rachel Levinson-Waldman at  rachel.levinson.waldman@nyu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net  