-- Fiat Boosting RCS Stake Would Extend Agnelli Family Media Reach
-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 2013-06-30T14:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/fiat-boosting-rcs-stake-would-extend-agnelli-family-media-reach.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s plan to boost its stake
in  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS)  would extend the media reach of  Italy ’s
Agnelli family, making it the largest shareholder in the
publisher of the nation’s biggest newspaper.  Led by Chairman John Elkann, a grandson of the late
Giovanni Agnelli, Fiat said June 28 it will own 20.1 percent of
Milan-based RCS following a capital increase by the company that
publishes Corriere della Sera, assuming the sale in the coming
week is fully subscribed.  Turin-based Fiat is able to boost its stake after buying
options to purchase the new stock from other shareholders, it
said in a June 28 statement. Fiat currently owns 10.5 percent of
RCS, according to the website of market regulator Consob.  Elkann, 37, has taken increasing roles in the news
business. He joined the board of Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) 
earlier this month when the company was spun off from the
billionaire’s media empire as a publishing arm. Elkann also sits
on the board of the London-based Economist Newspaper Ltd., which
publishes the Economist magazine.  Since 2005, Elkann has been on the board of RCS, and been
chairman since 2008 of Fiat’s Editrice La Stampa SpA, publisher
of the Turin-based La Stampa newspaper.  Fiat control of the Milan-based publisher could result in a
breakup of RCS in a restructuring that might involve closer
links between La Stampa and Corriere della Sera, according to
reports in Italian newspapers including La Repubblica, which
didn’t cite sources.  Under RCS’s plan to raise about 400 million euros ($520
million), shareholders can exercise their rights through July 5,
the company said in a June 13 statement.  Elkann is also pursuing an expansion overseas of his
family-controlled auto business. He’s said he aims to eventually
combine Fiat with Chrysler Group LLC, the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based company in which Fiat owns a majority stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome  at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marthe Fourcade at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net  