-- Ford Sees SUVs Filling Russia Gap, Aiding European Unit
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-06-30T22:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/ford-sees-suvs-filling-russia-gap-aiding-european-unit.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , trying to end losses
in Europe, said government aid and growing supplies of its
sport-utility vehicles in  Russia  will boost demand in one of its
most underperforming markets within the region.  Local production of the Kuga SUV, which is marketed as the
Escape in the U.S., and the smaller EcoSport will combine with
the Explorer that Ford started building in Russia in  April  to
deliver an uptick in second-half sales, said Ted Cannis, chief
executive officer of the Ford Sollers unit, without providing
specifics. Ford’s deliveries in Russia fell 18 percent this year
through May, trailing a 4.5 percent industrywide drop.  “The government may take some actions to improve industry
sales, and with our own actions of broadening the SUV portfolio
and more availability of commercial vehicles, I would expect a
significant improvement in the second-half performance,” Cannis
said by telephone. Ford Sollers is a joint venture between
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford and OAO Sollers.  CEO Alan Mulally is filling holes in Ford’s product
portfolio in a country that could soon pass  Germany  to become
Europe’s largest market. New-car sales in Russia may total 2.8
million to 3.1 million units in 2013, according to AEB
Automobile Manufacturers Committee estimates.  Achieving the upper range of that projection could propel
Russia past Germany, which totaled 3 million deliveries in 2012,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  Russian Economy  Russian President Vladimir Putin indicated the government
was preparing measures to boost the economy, including
incentives for the auto industry that could be similar to those
offered in 2008, Cannis said. The previous program boosted
demand for lower-priced cars and helped clear older, high-emission vehicles from Russian roads, he said.  Ford is overhauling its European model lineup. That
includes a redesigned Mondeo mid-size sedan by late next year,
when the company foresees the market beginning to rebound from a
six-year slump. The automaker forecasts losses in the region
will widen to about $2 billion this year from $1.75 billion in
2012.  Ford fell 1.2 percent to $15.47 at the close on June 28 in
New York. The shares have increased 19 percent this year
compared with a 13 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  