-- Fracking London Stockbroker-Belt Looms as U.K. Hunts Oil: Energy
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-07-01T15:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/fracking-london-stockbroker-belt-looms-as-u-k-hunts-oil-energy.html
The rolling country south of  London 
is called the stockbroker belt for the residents who pay 50
percent above the  U.K. average  to live in pristine villages. The
advent of shale oil under their lawns may shatter the idyll.  Two areas of Surrey and Sussex hold 700 million barrels of
recoverable shale oil, or more than a year’s supply for Britain,
the U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates. The advent
of drilling near mansions in the Wessex and Weald basins may
widen the nation’s shale-energy debate, which has focused on gas
in northwest  England , hundreds of miles from London.  “The rock in the Weald is splendid, it’s extremely good
for shale oil,” said Fivos Spathopoulos, a visiting lecturer of
petroleum geology at London’s Imperial College who studied the
basin for about seven years. “If it works, it’ll be big but we
won’t know exactly how big until we drill.”  Celtique Energie Ltd., backed by U.S. private-equity firm
Avista Capital Partners LP, is among companies seeking to pump
shale oil in a geological area that’s similar to  France ’s Paris
Basin, where fuel reserves have been found. They’re attracted by
U.K. government plans to give tax breaks to stimulate a shale
industry that can buoy domestic supply as North Sea output
dwindles and imports rise.  Celtique plans to drill a well next year at Fernhurst in
West Sussex, where the average house price tops 471,300 pounds
($722,000), property website  Zoopla  shows. While hydraulic
fracturing, the water-intensive drilling process known as
fracking, isn’t initially planned, Celtique may apply for such a
license should it find shale oil, according to a  presentation .  New Idea  “The reason why we’re excited by this position is it has
multiple objectives for both conventional and unconventional”
drilling, Chief Executive Officer Geoff Davies said in an
interview in London. “It’s a new geological idea.”  While the Weald and Wessex basins aren’t virgin territory
for drillers -- companies including  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS)  already
produce crude from conventional wells -- drilling deeper layers
of rock and exploring shale deposits may “significantly”
increase the area’s potential resources, Davies said.  The U.K. government said June 27 that shale-gas fields in
northern England are twice as large as previously estimated,
potentially big enough to meet demand for 47 years. It said
explorers have promised incentives including a 1 percent share
of production revenue to communities where shale gas is pumped.  Mirror U.S.  Proponents of fracking say the benefits could mirror the
U.S., where the exploitation of shale formations helped the
country overtake  Russia  as the biggest producer of natural gas
in 2009 and boosted crude oil output.  Yet the drilling technique, which involves blasting a
mixture of water, sand and chemicals underground to release fuel
from rock, has raised the ire of environmental groups and
residents who fear ground-water contamination.  “I have grave concerns about our water supplies,” said
Anne Hall, a former county councilor in Balcombe in West Sussex,
where driller Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. plans an exploratory well
and “No fracking” signs are widespread. “The possible impact
on surrounding towns and villages would be catastrophic.”  The concern is echoed in other villages in southeastern
England, where house prices averaged 208,479 pounds in March,
compared with a national average of 138,150 pounds across nine
counties excluding London, according to the  Land Registry .  Drilling Delay  While Cuadrilla says it isn’t initially planning to frack
at Balcombe, drilling has already been set back after lobbying
from Friends of the Earth prompted the regulator to insist on
additional permits. The company has previously fracked in the
northwest county of Lancashire, where two years ago it caused
tremors that led to an 18-month moratorium on the practice.  Cuadrilla, chaired by former BP CEO  John Browne , and
Celtique reject suggestions that drilling in the Weald will be
disruptive. The noise will be quieter than bird song, according
to London-based Celtique. Cuadrilla’s site, no bigger than a
soccer pitch, will be screened by woodland, the Lichfield,
England-based company  said .  While shale drilling in Lancashire has also faced
opposition, the need for jobs in that region, traditionally a
more industrial area, is a counterbalance to the protest,
according to Imperial College Professor Richard Selley.  “By analogy with the U.S. shale-gas experience, shale-gas
production will be a big boost to employment,” Selley, of the
Department of Earth Science and Engineering, said. “This will
be of greater benefit to Lancashire than in the Weald due to far
higher unemployment in the north of England.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  