-- Gas Exporters Defend Pricing as Courts Reject Link With Oil
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2013-07-01T17:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/gas-exporters-to-defend-pricing-system-as-courts-reject-oil-link.html
The world’s biggest natural gas
exporters vowed to defend a 40-year-old system for setting
prices irrespective of court rulings that they overcharged
customers.  “Rejecting the basic principles of long-term contracts
means not only a blow for gas producers but also serious costs,
and it would undermine  energy security  for consuming nations,”
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said today in Moscow at a
summit of the 13-member Gas Exporting Countries Forum that
groups nations from  Russia  to  Qatar . “The oil link is the
fairest and most market-oriented” way of pricing gas.  GECF members unanimously agreed to uphold long-term gas
contracts and continue to support pricing based on oil, the
group said today in a statement.  Utilities are challenging contracts with producers after
European market prices slumped below oil-linked contracts as the
debt crisis cut demand for energy. Russia’s OAO Gazprom has
earmarked as much as 200 billion rubles ($6 billion) for
potential rebates to European utilities this year. The estimate
is higher than the 114 billion rubles set aside in 2012 and
enough to meet all necessary payments, Chief Financial Officer
Andrey Kruglov said June 27 in Moscow.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, said June 27 an
arbitration court ruled it had paid Moscow-based Gazprom too
much since May 2010 and forced the Russian state-owned export
monopoly to add links to market prices in its formula.  ‘Tipping Point’  “This could well be the tipping point that ushers in a new
commercial era for European gas,”  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst
at Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London , said June 28 by e-mail. “If
so, the impact will be felt wider than  Europe , with Asian
customers looking longingly at European and U.S. hub prices, and
seeing that commercial arbitration might be one way of lessening
the burden.”  Electricite de France SA , Europe’s biggest power producer,
in April obtained lower gas prices for its Italian unit Edison
SpA through arbitration with Sonatrach of  Algeria , Europe’s
third-biggest supplier after Russia and Norway. Qatar’s Ras
Laffan Liquefied Natural Gas Co. has also lost an arbitration
case related to oil-linked pricing.  The RWE ruling “creates a precedent for the rest of Europe
and should put an end to 40 years of oil-indexation history,”
Alberto Gandolfi, an analyst at UBS AG in London, said in a June
28 note. About 85 percent of the euro area’s gas purchases rests
on oil indexation and moving to traded prices for the fuel will
save the region 12 billion euros ($15.6 billion) a year,
according to the Zurich-based bank.  ‘Big Deal’  Gazprom may compensate RWE 1 billion euros,  Der Spiegel 
reported yesterday. Alexey Miller, chief executive officer of
the exporter, declined to comment on June 28 on commercial
details of the arbitration. The ruling won’t put pressure on the
company’s European contracts, he said.  “This goes further than Gazprom,”  Jonathan Stern , founder
of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said by e-mail on
June 28. “Any seller with a long term oil-linked price contract
must now fear that the chances of an arbitral tribunal upholding
this mechanism are severely reduced, this is a very big deal for
Sonatrach as well.”  Today’s meeting, hosted by Putin at the Kremlin, was
attended by the presidents of  Bolivia , Venezuela, Iran and
 Equatorial Guinea . They were joined by energy ministers or
representatives of other members including Algeria, Egypt,
Nigeria, Oman, Qatar.  Trading Jump  Global gas trade will jump 30 percent in the six years
through 2018, led by soaring Australian exports and boosted by
North American LNG shipments at the end of the period, according
to the  International Energy Agency . That will increase pressure
on exporters to revise the system of linking long-term supply
contracts to oil as the gap between the two fuels persists.  “As LNG trade increases, the situation on the gas market
will change and it will become as global as oil trading,” Putin
said today. “Then maybe one may start thinking about other
forms of pricing.”  While most of the members spoke in favor of the oil link in
gas contracts, Qatar’s Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada said
pricing should also take into account interests of consumers.  Next-month U.K. gas, a European benchmark, was on average
$1.75 per million British thermal units cheaper than Russian
fuel at the German border in the year through May, according to
Bloomberg  calculations  based on prices from ICE Futures Europe
and the  International Monetary Fund .  OPEC Analogies  The GECF, which evolved at the start of this century, said
at a summit in November 2011 that they should cooperate to
increase prices and boost supply. The group hasn’t been as
effective as the 53-year-old Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, which meets twice a year to tweak crude-oil output
quotas with the aim of influencing prices.  “While the GECF countries are very important to the global
gas community, more major suppliers means the ability to control
price and volume is diminished,” Graham Freedman, senior
analyst for European gas and power at Wood Mackenzie Consultants
Ltd. in London, said  June 26 by e-mail. “This is similar to
OPEC, where non-OPEC production, particularly from Russia and
the U.S. is reducing the influence that OPEC has on oil
pricing.”  The GECF, which holds about 60 percent of global gas
reserves, isn’t aimed at forming a cartel, Putin said.  Nations outside the group are set to increase output at a
faster rate than most GECF members. Australian gas production
will rise 156 percent in the six years to 2018 to 141 billion
cubic meters a year, making it the world’s fourth-biggest
supplier after the U.S., Russia and Qatar, the Paris-based IEA
said June 20.  Russian Power  Meanwhile, LNG shipments from many Middle Eastern, Latin
American and Asian exporters will decline, according to the IEA.
 Angola  last month supplied its first LNG with the start of a
liquefaction plant with capacity of 5.2 million tons a year.  “I think the GECF will try to consolidate its position in
order to be prepared for the newcomers,” Tatiana Mitrova, head
of oil and gas development at the Energy Research Institute of
the Russian Academy of Sciences, said June 26 by e-mail.  Putin is seeking to assert the nation’s influence on the
global gas market by expanding exports to  Asia  and supporting
new LNG projects. He said in February he favors partial removal
of Gazprom’s monopoly on exports in a bid to raise Russia’s
share of the LNG market.  While Russia accounts for 26 percent of cross-border
pipeline trade, its LNG volumes accounted for 4.5 percent of the
total market last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review.  “GECF has no power but Russia has and will continue to
have a market power in gas,” Thierry Bros, an analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, said June 26 by e-mail.  “Gazprom (GAZP) 
is facing some challenges but also has plenty of opportunities,
such as Asian gas demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  