-- Global Bonds Dive for Second Month as Stocks Lose $2.7 Trillion
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-06-30T15:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/global-bonds-dive-for-second-month-as-stocks-lose-2-7-trillion.html
Global bonds plunged for a second
straight month in June, stocks tumbled and the dollar began to
rebound as the  Federal Reserve  set a timetable for ending the
stimulus that drove equities to record highs and debt yields to
record lows.  Emerging markets  suffered as China created a cash
squeeze and protests turned violent from Turkey to Brazil.  The $41 trillion of bonds in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market index lost an average 1.4 percent in
June. The MSCI All-Country World  index  of equities declined 3.1
percent as emerging markets erased 6.8 percent of their value.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500  fell for the first time in eight
months. The U.S.  Dollar Index  ended 0.3 percent lower after
falling as much as 3.5 percent.  U.S. central bankers could start reducing their $85 billion
of monthly bond buying as soon as this year, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19, prompting investors to recalibrate their
outlook for economic growth. Stimulus efforts around the world
have supported markets following the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  “The market had been pricing in that the Fed would
normalize rates much more slowly than it has done historically,
and clearly the market was taken aback,” Binky Chadha, the
chief global strategist for Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest
lender, said in a June 26 telephone interview. “That shock has
spilled over across all of the asset classes. Everything is
down.”  On Edge  Markets were already on edge as the  World Bank  cut its
global forecast on June 12 after emerging nations from China to
Brazil slowed more than projected, while budget cuts and
slumping investor confidence deepened Europe’s contraction.  The world economy will expand 2.2 percent, less than a
January forecast for 2.4 percent and slower than last year’s 2.3
percent, the Washington-based bank said. It lowered its
prediction for developing economies and said it sees the euro
region’s gross domestic product shrinking 0.6 percent.  Bond losses in June as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index followed a 1.53 percent drop in May, capping
the worst quarter on record with a 1.8 percent decline for the
period in data going back to 1997. Fixed-income assets have
dropped 1.27 percent this year, including reinvested interest,
on track for the first annual decline since 1999, when they lost
0.26 percent. Yields have soared to 2.06 percent from May’s
record low of 1.51 percent.  Sovereign Losses  The firm’s index of sovereign debt dropped 1.14 percent in
June. Yields on  U.S. Treasuries , German bunds and U.K. gilts due
in 10 years or more are all above year-end projections, based on
surveys of economists and strategists by  Bloomberg News .  Global corporate bonds from the neediest to the most
creditworthy borrowers fell 2.48 percent. That brought losses
for the year to 1.44 percent, prompting a slowdown in debt sales
to $911.5 billion last quarter from $1.09 trillion in the first
three months of 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Composite Bond Index (BEM) ,
which includes sovereign and corporate debt, declined 4.39
percent in June, capping its second consecutive quarterly loss.  “Our outlook is for the developed market selloff to
proceed at a far more measured pace over the remainder of the
year,” Seamus Mac Gorain, a strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in London, wrote in a June 26 report. “The position squaring in
emerging markets likely has some way to go, not least because
the degree of illiquidity in the selloff has come as a
surprise.”  Bond Bulls  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach , whose bond fund
has beaten 99 percent of rivals, said June 27 in a webcast to
investors that the “worst is over” for Treasuries as stability
returns to the stock and fixed-income markets.  Bond yields and risk spreads were too low two months ago
and “the Fed tilted over-risked investors to one side of an
overloaded and over-levered boat,”  Bill Gross , manager of the
world’s largest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in a July investment outlook  note  posted on Pimco’s
website the day before. “Stay calm and don’t panic.”  In the $4 trillion-per-day foreign exchange market, the
Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, rebounded from its lows on optimism the Fed may soon
slow the pace at which it prints money to buy bonds for its
quantitative easing stimulus.  While the index ended last month at 83.136, down from
83.375 at the end of May, it rallied from as low as 80.498 on
June 19. The measure has risen 4.2 percent this year.  Rand, Yen  The South African rand rose the most last month among the
31 most-widely traded currencies against the greenback,
appreciating 2.13 percent to 9.8806 per dollar. The yen rose
1.32 percent to 99.14 per dollar after falling to 103.74 in May,
its lowest level in four and a half years.  India’s rupee fell the most in June, depreciating 4.86
percent to 59.3900 per dollar after touching 60.7650 on June 26,
its weakest level ever. The euro rose 0.08 percent to $1.3010.  More than $2.7 trillion was wiped from global equities in
June, as 44 out of 45 benchmark stock indexes tracked by the
MSCI All-Country World index retreated. The measure, which
includes stocks in 24 developed and 21 emerging markets, slumped
2.9 percent last month, after taking into account reinvested
dividends, trimming its year-to-date gain to 6.4 percent.  The  S&P 500 ’s decline in June ended a streak of seven
monthly advances, the longest since September 2009. While the
benchmark U.S. equity gauge is still up 13 percent this year, it
tumbled 3.8 percent since reaching a record 1,669.16 on May 21.  Venting Steam  “The markets needed to vent some steam, and they did,”
Howard Ward, the chief investment officer at Rye, New York-based
Gamco Investors Inc., which oversees $36.7 billion, said by e-mail. “Bernanke’s comments were interpreted to be more hawkish
than he expected and provided a catalyst for an overdue
correction. This coincided with the spike in overnight rates in
China and investors rushed to the exits.”  The Shanghai Composite Index plunged 19.9 percent from its
February high through June 27, close to the 20 percent threshold
considered to be a  bear market  and bringing this year’s decline
to 13 percent, as Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s efforts to rein
in shadow banking stoked the worst credit crunch in at least a
decade.  The clamp-down on short-term borrowing sent the overnight
repurchase rate to a record 13.91 percent on June 20, forcing
the People’s Bank of China to provide financing to help
stabilize money markets in the world’s second-largest economy.  Turkey Tumbles  In June, the nation’s companies made up five of the top 10
biggest losers in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The gauge fell 6.8 percent in June, the most since May 2012
and its 11 percent tumble this year is the biggest for any first
half since 2008. The index is trading at the cheapest level
relative to stocks from developed economies since December 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s  Borsa Istanbul 100 Index (XU100)  lost 11 percent. Anti-government protests, sparked by anger over a planned development
in Istanbul, spread nationwide in the most serious unrest during
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s decade in power.  In Brazil, protests erupted over an increase in bus fares
and have spread across the country in the biggest demonstrations
in the South American country in two decades. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  index
fell for a sixth straight month, declining 11 percent in June.  Malaysia’s 30-member FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index was the
only benchmark measure to advance, climbing 0.2 percent, while
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average, Ireland’s ISEQ Index and
Hungary’s  BUX stock index  slipped no more than 1.2 percent.  Estimates Cut  Analysts cut their 2013 earnings estimates last month for
emerging-markets stocks by 3 percent, Bloomberg data show. They
lifted projections for profit this year by MSCI developed-market
companies 0.2 percent and 0.1 percent for the S&P 500.  “We aren’t out of the woods,”  Hayes Miller , who helps
oversee about $48 billion as the Boston-based head of  asset
allocation  in North America at Baring Asset Management Inc.,
said by phone on June 26.  “The emerging markets across the board are back to being
cheap relative to developed markets,” Miller said. “But
earnings expectations for EM continue to be downgraded fairly
rapidly, while developed markets, particularly U.S. and not so
much Europe, are seeing upgrades.”  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and
agricultural products added 0.2 percent in June, bringing losses
for the year to 5.4 percent. Silver futures plunged 12.6
percent, after dropping to $18.17 on June 28, the lowest level
since August 2010. Copper tumbled 7.6 percent and aluminum
declined 7 percent.  Gold Falls  Gold prices dropped 11 percent in June, taking the
quarterly decline to 23 percent, the most in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1920. Spot prices fell to $1,180.57 an
ounce on June 28, the lowest since August 2010, before ending
the month at $1,234.53.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse
Group AG cut their forecasts for the metal in June as investors
sold 583 tons of gold from exchange-traded products this year,
taking the holdings to a three-year low. Investors may sell an
additional 285 tons in 2013, Societe Generale SA said in a June
17 report.  Unlike some other assets, gold doesn’t generate income and
is vulnerable to higher  interest rates , Georgette Boele, a
commodities strategist at ABN Amro Group NV in Amsterdam, said
by telephone June 27. “The weaker data out of China and
concerns about emerging markets have also hurt the demand
outlook.”  West Texas Intermediate  crude oil  rose 5 percent on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange in June, snapping two months of
declines, partly as stockpiles fell at Cushing, Oklahoma, the
delivery point for WTI futures.  Natural gas tumbled almost 11 percent last month amid
rising output, the biggest decline since last August. Marketed 
U.S. gas production, which doesn’t include amounts flared or 
used to pressure wells, will rise to a record 70.01 billion cubic 
feet a day, the Energy Information Administration said in its 
June 11 Short-Term Energy Outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  