-- IPOs Double to $42 Billion Before Market Reversal Curbs Sales
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s ,   F o x   H u   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-06-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/ipos-double-to-42-billion-before-market-reversal-curbs-sales.html
Initial public offerings more than
doubled in the second quarter as companies from  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  to  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  sold businesses before a reversal in
stock markets curbed some sales.  IPOs raised $42 billion in the period, compared with $20
billion in the first quarter, led by  Banco do Brasil ’s sale of
its insurance unit for $5.7 billion, the biggest offering of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The number of
deals increased 18 percent to 239.  More than half of the IPOs in the quarter took place before
global markets capped their rallies in May, with the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  hitting a record,  Japan ’s Topix Index climbing
to almost a five-year high and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
completing its longest streak of monthly advances since 1997.
While some companies going public after markets turned were
forced to lower prices, concern about the economy isn’t likely
to diminish demand for IPOs, bankers said.  “As a big-picture theme, deals are still getting done,”
said Evan Damast, global head of equity syndicate at Morgan
Stanley in  New York . “The economic fundamentals aren’t any
different than they were a few days ago, and investors aren’t
shying away from IPOs because of choppiness in the market.”  Japan’s Suntory Holdings Ltd. proceeded with the IPO of its
non-alcoholic drinks unit last week, pricing shares near the low
end of the range, while  HD Supply Holdings Inc. (HDS)  and CDW Corp.,
two private equity-backed U.S. companies, also pushed ahead with
offerings, pricing below their original targets. Votorantim
Cimentos SA,  Brazil ’s biggest cement producer, rescheduled a
planned $3.7 billion IPO for September.  Valuation Correction  “People are essentially factoring this in as a valuation
correction, not a market correction,” said Scott Cutler, head
of global listings at NYSE Euronext, the owner of the New York
Stock Exchange. If the recent stock selloff were a big concern,
it “typically would shut an IPO window.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve said June 19 that it may start to
moderate its bond purchases, known as quantitative easing, if
the  U.S. economy  and labor market improve as forecast, prompting
the  S&P 500 ’s biggest drop since November 2011.  China ’s stocks
fell to a four-year low last week as the central bank’s pledge
to stabilize money markets failed to ease concern that elevated
funding costs will curb economic growth.  “In the near term, market volatility will stay and people
will need to come to terms with the impact of the tapering of
quantitative easing in the next 6-12 months and a rising
interest rate environment,” said Ian Long, head of China equity
capital markets at Deutsche Bank AG. “Deals will come back in
the second half as long as the markets stabilize.”  Price Swings  The magnitude of daily price moves for the S&P 500, either
up or down, rose to 0.73 percent in the second quarter from 0.48
percent in the first three months of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Price swings fell in the first quarter
from an average of 1.08 percent in the previous five years, the
biggest decline in volatility since the Great Depression.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the world’s biggest e-commerce
platform, may go public this year in New York or  Hong Kong 
raising HK$100 billion ($12.9 billion), Ernst & Young LLP said
in a report last week. In Europe, the U.K.’s Royal Mail Group
Ltd. and Milan-based clothier Moncler are planning offerings,
while Neiman Marcus Inc., the operator of the U.S. luxury
department-store chain, filed for an IPO in New York last week.  Bank of Shanghai Co. and China Everbright Bank Co. are
planning initial share sales for about $2 billion each in Hong
Kong, people familiar said earlier this year.  ‘Very Bullish’  “We remain very bullish on equity issuance for the rest of
the year,” said Joe Castle, global head of equity syndicate at
Barclays Plc in New York. “The market has been building
momentum that will play out in the back half of the year given
that the market remains stable.”  U.S. IPOs raised $13.3 billion in the three months through
June, up 57 percent from the first quarter, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. U.S. offerings would have almost doubled from a
year earlier if not for Facebook’s record $16 billion IPO in May
2012. The volume of Europe deals quadrupled to $5.8 billion from
the year-earlier period.  Companies raised more than $14 billion in  Asia  in the
quarter, compared with about $3 billion in the first three
months of the year, the least since 2009, as billion-dollar
deals from Sinopec Engineering Group Co. and China Galaxy
Securities Co. in Hong Kong offset an absence of share sales in
China. There were no IPOs in mainland China as regulators
continue to review listing rules before they allow share sales.  China Backlog  As a result, there’s a backlog of China deals, according to
Maria Pinelli, global vice chair of strategic growth markets at
Ernst & Young LLP, who forecasts there are more than 800
companies ready to go public in mainland China. IPOs may resume
in the second half, Ernst & Young said last week.  While Asia offerings rebounded in the three months through
June, China’s cash crunch will have an immediate effect on deals
in the region, according to Kenny Tang, general manager of AMTD
Financial Planning Ltd. in Hong Kong, a financial advisory unit
of Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd.  “Companies have been forced to delay or downsize their
IPOs, as the liquidity squeeze in China affects  market sentiment 
and lowers the valuations of Chinese stocks,” Tang said.  Companies delayed at least $1 billion of initial share
sales in Hong Kong in June, including Nexteer Automotive Group
Ltd., the U.S. auto-parts maker controlled by China’s biggest
aerospace company, which postponed a $325 million IPO. New World
Development Co. postponed a $700 million IPO of its hotels in
Hong Kong, people with knowledge of the matter said on June 21.  Investor Gains  Still, the IPO market provided gains to buyers during the
second quarter, as shares of newly public companies rose by an
average of about 8.2 percent, even after markets tumbled,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While “there are still some unsettled aspects of the
global economies,” according to Mark Hantho, global head of
 equity capital markets  at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, “the
one thing that’s clear is that we’re in a much better place year
over year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  