-- Ireland Preparing Plan to Tap Euro-Area Rescue Fund, Noonan Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-06-30T13:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/ireland-preparing-plan-to-tap-euro-area-rescue-fund-noonan-says.html
The Irish government is working on a
plan to recoup some of the money it plowed into failing lenders
from the euro area’s backstop fund, Finance Minister Michael Noonan said.  Euro-zone finance ministers earlier this month agreed on
the  outlines of a plan  for the 500 billion-euro ($651 billion)
European Stability Mechanism to recapitalize lenders directly.
Retroactive application of this tool, as would be the case if
Ireland applies, will be decided on a case-by-case basis.  “I would like to have the main ask designed on the Irish
side in the autumn and my conversations with the principals” of
the so-called troika that oversees euro-zone bailouts “well
under way,” Noonan said on RTE television. The troika comprises
the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the
International Monetary Fund.  Noonan first helped persuade the ECB not to block a swap of
so-called promissory notes used to rescue the now defunct Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. with 25 billion euros of long-term government
bonds held on the national central bank’s balance sheet.  The second part of Noonan’s strategy involves accessing the
ESM to refund as much as 30 billion euros the state spent on
saving other banks. Winning retroactive recapitalization would
reduce Ireland’s debt to gross domestic product, due to peak at
123.3 percent this year, and add momentum as Noonan heads back
into bond markets.  ‘Financial Engineering’  “If we go there naively and put out our hand and say give
us the money we won’t succeed,” Noonan said. “So what I have
just started to do now is to construct a piece of financial
engineering, something analogous to what we did with the
promissory note, so that what we will be looking for will
uniquely apply to Ireland, that it would use the ESM in the full
latitude of its provisions.”  Once the Irish plan is ready, Noonan said he’ll seek the
support of ECB President Mario Draghi, IMF Managing Director
Christine Lagarde and Olli Rehn, the European Union’s economic
and monetary affairs commissioner.  “My argument would be that we need this piece to ensure
that the debt is reduced, so that we never get dragged back
again into a bailout,” Noonan said.  Under rules adopted by euro-area finance chiefs in
Luxembourg on June 20, direct recapitalization of banks by the
ESM would be capped at 60 billion euros. The tool would become
available once the ECB assumes “effective” supervision of the
currency bloc’s banks.  ECB Oversight  Late next year is now the time line for the transition to
the new banking supervision regime, in part because of German
approval procedures, according to two European officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity. The new schedule contrasts with
an initial goal of moving to the system in March, later pushed
back to July.  Accessing the ESM would “get money where we could reduce
the debt and ensure then that the signal is out into the markets
that the Irish have done the job, they are positioned now with a
debt that isn’t far off the European average,” Noonan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  