-- Jefferson County Files to End Bankruptcy, Adjust Debt
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-07-01T19:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/jefferson-county-files-to-end-bankruptcy-adjust-debt.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , filed a
plan to end the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy later this
year by cutting $1.2 billion in principal payments to investors
holding defaulted sewer-related debt.  Less than $100 million of the county’s $4.2 billion in debt
will be paid with no changes to the terms of the original
lending documents. Sewer warrant holder  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
will collect 31 percent of what it is owed, while some general
obligation bondholders will lose the right to collect penalty
fees and a higher, default interest rate.  The sewer warrant reductions mark the first time U.S.
investors holding municipal debt have been forced as part of a
bankruptcy case to take losses on the principal owed to them.  “The plan solves both of the problems that prompted the
commission to file the largest Chapter 9 bankruptcy case,”
Jefferson County Commissioner  David Carrington  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. In addition to struggling with the sewer
debt, the county missed payments on general-obligation bonds
backed by taxes.  The plan is based on a settlement announced last month that
included JPMorgan, seven hedge funds and a group of bond
insurers, which together hold about $2.4 billion of the debt.
The group will split about $1.84 billion, with JPMorgan taking
the biggest cuts, collecting $375 million of the $1.22 billion
it is owed, according to the plan filed yesterday in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham, Alabama.  Sewer Fees  None of the county’s more than $3 billion in sewer-related
warrants will be fully repaid, with most, except for JPMorgan,
getting back about 80 cents on the dollar. That debt is tied to
sewer fees that haven’t been high enough to cover the interest
and principal payments.  Even some creditors being fully repaid with their normal
 interest rate  were affected by the bankruptcy. Under the
proposal, school warrant holders owed about $720 million were
classified as “impaired” because they would see minor changes
to the terms of their agreements. General obligation bondholders
owed more than $100 million would give up the right to collect
penalties and so-called post-petition interest triggered by the
county’s bankruptcy.  About $95 million in general obligation bonds are
considered unimpaired, which means they wouldn’t see any change
in their rights under the proposed plan.  18 Months  The settlement ended more than 18 months of bankruptcy
court battles between the county and its biggest creditors over
how much the jurisdiction can afford to pay on more than
$3 billion it borrowed to expand and improve the county’s sewage
system.  By filing its so-called plan of adjustment, the county
begins a process designed to end in November, when U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Thomas Bennett will hold a hearing on whether
to approve the proposal. Bennett will consider the plan after
creditors who aren’t part of the settlement have a chance to
object.  The county asked Bennett to hold a hearing Aug. 6 to
approve disclosure materials that explain the plan to creditors
who are voting on it. Should the plan win final court approval,
the county will refinance its sewer-related debt, raise sewer
rates and exit bankruptcy.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds owed about $872 million will collect more than
80 cents on the dollar, according to the agreements. The hedge
funds will also help backstop the refinancing to ensure that the
county can raise all of the money it needs.  The funds include Brigade Capital Management LLC, Claren
Road Asset Management LLC, Fundamental Advisors LP and Monarch
Capital Master Partners LP, according to court records.  Insurers, including Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co.,
will get $165 million. They claimed to be owed $315 million.  The county will also pay as much as $25 million in any
claims filed against the insurers by creditors seeking to
recover losses, according to the agreements.  Under the plan, the county will raise sewer rates
7.4 percent annually for four years. Those rates may go slightly
higher if interest rates rise before the refinancing is
completed.  Warrant holders who are owed more than $500 million aren’t
part of the deal. They will have a choice of collecting 65 cents
on every dollar they are owed, or 80 cents on the dollar if they
give up their right to collect money from the insurers.  Political Corruption  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over payments
its bankers allegedly made to people tied to county politicians
to win business.  JPMorgan, based in  New York , paid the county $75 million in
that settlement and has given up more than $657 million in swaps
claims it held.  Jefferson County supplanted Orange County,  California , as
the largest municipal bankruptcy. Orange County entered court
protection in 1994 after losing $1.7 billion on interest-rate
bets.  While its petition initially listed more debt than
Jefferson County, much of that liability was reduced in the
early weeks of the case. Thanks partly to lawsuits against the
financial firms, Orange County creditors were paid in full.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  