-- Kingdom Executive Director for Private Equity Halawani Resigns
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-06-30T15:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/kingdom-executive-director-for-private-equity-halawani-resigns.html
Ahmed Reda Halawani, who steered
private equity investment for Saudi  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal ,
has resigned from the billionaire royal’s  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM)   Halawani stepped down as a member of the board and the
investment committee “due to personal obligations and
commitments,” Kingdom Holding said in a  statement  on the Saudi
bourse. His resignation after 17 years at the company is
effective today, it said.  Halawani worked for more than 10 years as chief executive
officer of Al Azizia Commercial Investment Company, one of Saudi
Arabia’s best-known investment firms and a Kingdom subsidiary.
Previously, he worked in private sector development for the
 World Bank  and for  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , according to  Kingdom’s
website . He was one of nine board members at Kingdom.  In an interview in February, Halawani said Kingdom Holding
came up with its own investment ideas, including buying a $125
million stake in Chinese online retailer 360buy Jingdong Inc.
“We do not wait for an investment bank to come and say, ‘This
is a group of companies and we think that potentially they will
fit your strategic objectives,’” he said at the time.  Alwaleed, who owns 95 percent of Riyadh-based Kingdom, has
built a fortune of $28 billion amassing stakes in Citigroup
Inc.,  News Corp . and Apple Inc., according to  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Twitter Inc., the microblogging service,
received a $300 million investment from Kingdom in 2011.  That investment is set for growth over the next five to 10
years, Halawani said during the February interview.  Kingdom Holding is planning to build a kilometer-high (0.62
mile-high) skyscraper in the Red Sea port city of Jeddah,
seeking to surpass the Burj Khalifa in Dubai as the world’s
tallest tower. The company received shareholders’ approval in
March 2012 to sell as much as 3.75 billion riyals ($1 billion)
of bonds inside Saudi Arabia or abroad.  Kingdom shares  fell 1.3 percen t to 18.4 riyals at the 3:30
p.m. close in  Riyadh  today. The stock has declined 12 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  