-- Nico Rosberg Wins British Grand Prix Amid Spate of Tire Failures
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/nico-rosberg-of-mercedes-wins-british-grand-prix-webber-second.html
Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes won the
British Grand Prix yesterday after race leader  Sebastian Vettel 
of Red Bull dropped out of an event marred by tire blowouts.  Rosberg finished less than a second ahead of Red Bull’s
 Mark Webber , with Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  third after the 52
laps at Silverstone. It was the second win this season for
Rosberg, who triumphed at Monaco, and the third of the 28-year-old German’s Formula One career.  Rosberg, who started second on the grid, paid tribute to
his team, which is based near the racetrack.  “It’s a very special day and it’s even more special
because our factory is so close,” he told the post-race
presentation. “ We’re progressing all the time. We are really
quick in qualifying and getting quicker all the time in the
races.”  Rosberg was reprimanded by race officials after failing to
slow for yellow flags during the race, although he was allowed
to keep the victory.  The tire failures yesterday came amid track temperatures of
31 degrees Celsius (88 degrees Fahrenheit). The left-rear tires
of Mercedes’s  Lewis Hamilton , Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa ,  Toro
Rosso ’s Jean-Eric Vergne and McLaren’s Sergio Perez were blown
out. Debris littered the track after the tire explosions and the
safety car made its first appearance as pieces of rubber were
cleared up.  Gearbox Problem  Vettel’s car stopped with gearbox trouble 10 laps from the
end as he led the race. The defending three-time champion still
tops the Formula One drivers’ standings, with 132 points,
although his main rivals narrowed the gap. Alonso has 111 points,
followed by Lotus’s  Kimi Raikkonen  (98), Hamilton (89), Webber
(87) and Rosberg (82).  Hamilton was aiming for his second Silverstone victory in
front of a home audience. He led from pole, then dropped to last
place after his eighth-lap tire burst, before charging through
the field to finish fourth.  Vettel got past Rosberg at the start to go second and took
the lead after Hamilton’s mishap, keeping command until his
mechanical problem, which caused the second entrance of the
safety car.  Webber dropped down the field after a poor start before
surging to second spot by the end. He was seeking a third
Silverstone win in four years. Last week he announced he’s
quitting Formula One at the end of this season to race for
Porsche in the 24 Hours of Le Mans and other endurance races.  Raikkonen was fifth yesterday, followed by Massa,  Adrian Sutil  of Force India and Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso. Paul Di
Resta of Force India and  Nico Hulkenberg  of Sauber rounded out
the 10 scoring places.  “With Lewis, I feel sorry for all the British fans,”
Rosberg said. “It would have been great for Lewis. It’s always
a massive disappointment, but that’s racing. Sebastian stopped,
I won’t lie, I wasn’t disappointed by that one. From then on, it
was just a great race.”  The next race, the ninth in a 19-event season, is the
German Grand Prix at the Nuerburgring on July 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  