-- Nigeria Army Fighting Boko Haram May Be Abusing Rights: Watchdog
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-06-30T18:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/nigeria-army-fighting-boko-haram-may-be-abusing-rights-watchdog.html
Nigeria’s National Human Rights
Commission said it received credible allegations security forces
have been involved in human rights violations, including rape,
in their fight against the Boko Haram Islamist group.  According to the allegations, the Joint Task Force, which
is fighting the militant group, has carried out “summary
executions, torture, arbitrary detention amounting to
internment,” the government’s human rights watchdog said in a
 report  released yesterday.  “In particular, we have received persistent and credibly
attested allegations of indiscriminate disposal of dead human
remains” by JTF personnel and the northeastern Borno state
Environmental Protection Agency, the Abuja-based agency said.  Nigerian authorities have been battling Boko Haram, which
has killed thousands in gun and bomb attacks across Nigeria’s
north and Abuja, the capital, since 2009, while fighting to
establish an Islamic state in Africa’s top oil producer.  At least five wards in the town of Baga in Borno state were
“completely razed by the soldiers,” as they responded to an
April 16 attack by Boko Haram that killed a soldier, the
commission said, citing a police report. Local officials and
residents in Baga, a town near Lake Chad, say at least 185
people were killed and more than 2,000 houses were burnt town.  “Properties worth millions of naira were lost” amid the
fire which burned more than 30 vehicles, 57 motorcycles and 100
bags of beans and maize, the commission said, citing the police
report.  ‘Thresholds of Killing’  The military said only six civilians were killed, while one
soldier and 30 Boko Haram fighters died in fighting. They said
30 thatched houses were burned due to incendiaries set off by
weapons used by Boko Haram.  Defense Headquarters spokesman Chris Olukolade in Abuja
declined to comment on the report when contact today by phone
for comment by Bloomberg News.  “The impression has been created in the controversy that
has followed this incident that certain thresholds of killing
may be permissible as long as they are made to appear low
enough,” the commission said. “Tragically, Government has not
done enough to discourage this impression.”  Boko Haram, whose name means “western education is a sin”
in the local Hausa language, began its campaign to start an
Islamic state in Nigeria in 2009.  President Goodluck Jonathan declared emergency rule in
Borno and two other northeastern states on May 14, saying the
militants were taking over parts of the region.  Nigeria is  Africa ’s most populous country with more than
160 million people almost evenly divided between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  