-- Nokia Buys Siemens Stake in Joint Unit for $2.2 Billion
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-07-01T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/nokia-said-to-agree-to-buy-siemens-stake-in-nsn-networks-venture.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  agreed to buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s
share in a six-year venture for 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion), giving the Finnish company full access to the phone-equipment maker’s cashflow for a less-than-estimated price.  Nokia will pay 1.2 billion euros for Siemens’s 50 percent
stake in Nokia Siemens Networks, with the remainder as a secured
loan from Siemens due a year after the deal is completed, the
companies said today. Nokia doesn’t plan to integrate Nokia
Siemens and may still decide to seek partners, Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop said on a conference call.  The Finnish handset maker fighting to come back in the
smartphone industry jumped as much as 10 percent in Helsinki
trading. The purchase price values the venture, which became
profitable last year, at 3.4 billion euros, less than at least 5
billion euros projected by Hannu Rauhala, a Helsinki-based
analyst at Pohjola Bank. Siemens has been seeking to exit
wireless-gear manufacturing to focus on energy equipment,
healthcare and infrastructure projects. Bloomberg News reported
the accord late yesterday.  “With this transaction, Nokia buys itself a future,
whatever happens in smartphones and feature phones,” said
 Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in  London .
“Nokia Siemens has a future in the network equipment world,
with a streamlined operation and a No. 2 position in a now
concentrated and stable market.”  Shares Jump  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is providing Nokia financing for the
transaction, according to two people familiar with the matter
who asked not to be identified because the details are
confidential. Siemens was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Elop declined to comment on financing details.  Nokia rose as much as 29 cents and closed 3.7 percent
higher at 2.95 euros in Helsinki, valuing the company at 11
billion euros. Siemens gained 2.7 percent to close at 79.72
euros on the Frankfurt exchange.  Nokia Siemens’s headquarters will stay in Espoo,  Finland ,
and Rajeev Suri will continue to lead the equipment supplier.
Nokia and Munich-based Siemens expect to complete the deal in
the current quarter.  Nokia Siemens, which reported 2012 revenue of 13.8 billion
euros, is evaluating a sale of manufacturing plants in Finland,
India and  China  for as much as 600 million euros and to
outsource production, said a person familiar with the matter.
The plan is preliminary and may not result in a transaction,
the person said.  Private Equities  Nokia and Siemens abandoned talks with private-equity
buyers in 2011 over a sale of the business as the firms failed
to come up with a compelling offer. Nokia Siemens then started a
program in late 2011 to cut 17,000 jobs, or about 23 percent of
the total. Competition from Asian rivals Huawei Technologies Co.
and  ZTE Corp. (000063)  prompted Nokia Siemens and its western rivals such
as Ericsson AB and Alcatel-Lucent SA to eliminate jobs. Nortel
Networks Corp. went bankrupt in 2009.  Nokia Siemens had about 56,700 employees at the end of the
first quarter and supplies companies such as Deutsche Telekom AG
and Vodafone Group Plc. Cost cuts helped the equipment maker
more than triple operating profit excluding some items to 778
million euros last year.  Nokia Siemens is the most recent technology venture in
Europe to unravel. Sony Corp. last year completed a buyout of
its mobile-phone partnership with Ericsson AB. Ericsson and
STMicroelectronics SA this year agreed to split up their
unprofitable chipmaking venture ST-Ericsson.  Handset Challenge  Nokia said today it had net cash of 3.7 billion euros to
4.2 billion euros at the end of June, down from 4.5 billion
euros at the end of March. Nokia’s debt is at junk status with
the three main rating companies. In January, Nokia scrapped its
dividend for the first time in at least 143 years to bolster
liquidity.  “There’s a range of options that could exist for NSN over
time,” Elop said during the call.  “All of those options
remain open.”  Nokia reported in April its smallest quarterly revenue in
13 years as handset demand waned. Its first-quarter sales fell
20 percent as competition from Asian manufacturers building
phones that run Google Inc.’s Android software hurt demand for
Nokia’s basic handsets.  The cost to protect Nokia debt against non-payment for five
years with credit-default swaps rose as much as 1.6 percent to
583 basis points, suggesting a deterioration in
creditworthiness, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
insurance cost has come down by more than half from a record on
July 18.  Energy Focus  Siemens, which makes products from power turbines to high-speed trains, renewed efforts to sell its stake earlier this
year, holding talks with buyout firms about a potential
transaction, according to two people familiar with the talks.  The deal may help CEO  Peter Loescher , who this year
announced the fourth profit forecast cut in his six-year tenure,
to reach a target for matching profitability at  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   “With this transaction, we continue our efforts to
strengthen our focus on Siemens’ core areas of energy
management, industry and infrastructure as well as healthcare,”
Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said in today’s statement.  Loescher, an Austrian national who joined Siemens in 2007
from drugmaker Merck & Co. as the first CEO hired from outside
the company, started a savings program last year after
acknowledging he had been slow to react to the economic
downturn. The CEO is also under pressure after some deals that
he supervised soured and a push into environmentally friendly
energy led to spiraling costs.  Europe’s largest engineering company this year announced
the closure of its loss-making solar unit, and is also selling
water technologies, parcel automation, airport logistics and air
freight units, while its Osram Licht AG lighting unit will be
spun off.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  