-- To Save Egypt’s Economy, Move Quickly
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F r e u n d
-- 2013-06-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/to-save-egypt-s-economy-move-quickly.html
Egypt  is being convulsed by protests
for and against the rule of President Mohamed Mursi on the one-year anniversary of his accession. Beneath the political turmoil
and questions of legitimacy lie profound economic challenges
that must be met by whoever governs Egypt.  The nation’s hopes for “bread, freedom and social justice”
are being overwhelmed by the slow pace of economic change.
Instead of undertaking reforms, Egypt has been relying on its
wealthy neighbors for unconditional cash injections so that it
can import food and fuel. Qatar’s recent infusion of $3 billion
may provide temporary relief, but the unpredictability of such
measures -- which include Saudi Arabia’s promise last week of a
$500 million loan -- scares investors and postpones the
inevitable fiscal consolidation that Egypt needs to stabilize
its economy.  The need for reform is growing more urgent by the day.
Unemployment is above 13 percent, from 9 percent in 2010. The
most recent data show that one-quarter of the population is
living in poverty, and the share is rising. Foreign reserves had
plummeted from $36 billion before the revolution to about $13
billion in March of this year before funds from Qatar arrived.
The black markets for dollars and fuel are thriving.  Speeding Reform  Scrapping a political and economic system and building a
new one is never for the faint of heart, but the history of
democratic transitions shows that speed is essential. Countries
that democratize rapidly grow  faster  over the long run by about
one percentage point above their pre-transition levels. In
contrast, countries that take more than three years to adjust
suffer extended weak growth. Years of uncertainty and sometimes
unrest leave investors on the sidelines waiting for signs of
political and economic stability.  Egypt is approaching the three-year mark that separates the
rapid transitions from the rest. Its politicians need to produce
an inclusive and predictable plan for a functioning democracy
and undertake rapid economic adjustments. The costs of continued
delay will be enormous, including years of rising unemployment.
By acting quickly, countries such as  Chile ,  Poland  and South
Korea experienced average per-capita growth of about 5 percent
the decade after each of their democratic transitions began. But
consider Mexico,  Romania  and Zambia, where transition was slow
and growth averaged near zero for a decade.  The contrast between Poland and Romania is especially
striking. Poland’s economic success was facilitated by peaceful
elections and clear market-oriented reforms. By 1998, Poland
attracted 40 percent of the foreign investment in Eastern and
Central Europe. Romania’s political transition was hijacked by
the communists and accompanied by frequent demonstrations; its
economic transition, meanwhile, was delayed by popular demand
for continued state support.  The Egyptian economy is now struggling under its own
sluggish transition. Egypt and the International Monetary Fund
have been  talking  inconclusively about an assistance package for
more than a year, with no resolution in sight despite record IMF
flows to the rest of the Middle East and North Africa. A good
deal of this hesitation is, of course, political. The Egyptians
are fearful of the strings attached to an IMF program; various
IMF shareholders fret over such issues as Egypt’s increasingly
restrictive treatment of foreign nongovernmental organizations.  But that is not the whole story. Egypt really does need a
viable economic program for an IMF loan to work.  Smart Rebalancing  The right approach to Egypt’s economic problems would be to
force it to bite the economic reform bullet now by ending
wasteful expenditures, especially fuel subsidies. These cost
almost half of government revenue at a time when Egypt’s budget
 deficit  is more than 10 percent of gross domestic product and
growing, and they encourage energy consumption, especially among
wealthier Egyptians, while doing little to help the most
vulnerable. Smart budget rebalancing would cut the subsidies,
add more to the social safety net for the poor, and reduce the
fiscal deficit.  Reform can be accomplished, even in the midst of a
difficult political transition, provided social spending is
redirected to those in need and the government clearly
communicates its policy decisions. Once the poor are identified,
cash transfers or targeted subsidies can flow to them as
universal subsidies are removed.  Brazil  successfully removed fuel subsidies in the 1990s and
early 2000s, replacing them with targeted gas vouchers and cash
transfers for low-income households. The key to its success was
communication, tackling political interests sequentially (first
fuel products used by companies, then gas, next liquefied
petroleum gas and, finally, diesel) and protecting the poor.
Poland, Chile, Turkey,  Philippines  and  Kenya , among others, have
made  similar reforms . Nigeria, whose disastrous reforms last
year were implemented precipitously with unclear public
preparation, is the counter-example.  History offers another lesson: that popular regimes or
autocracies are most likely to succeed with economic reform. In
Brazil, former President Fernando Henrique Cardoso had earned
high marks for reining in hyperinflation, giving his subsidy-reform program credibility. In Poland, economic reforms
following its transition were eased by popular support for
democratic changes.  Turkey , by contrast, first tackled
electricity subsidies under a military regime in the 1980s. The
term “shock policy” (only later to be dubbed “shock therapy”)
was coined by Milton Friedman with reference to former dictator
Augusto Pinochet’s economic reforms in Chile.  This suggests two possible strategies for economic reform
in Egypt. First, Mursi could seek to renew political support by
yielding on voice and accountability, thus gaining legitimacy
for economic reform. Political reform would also ease tensions
with Western donors, as well as lure back investors and
tourists. With a serious economic plan in place, Mursi would
signal that Egypt is open for business.  Or Mursi could pursue a second approach: taking advantage
of Egypt’s history of autocracy to push through some of the
necessary economic reforms under threat of economic crisis. Aid
from the neighborhood could help finance the adjustment.  This strategy, however, is less likely to clear the way for
the $4.8 billion IMF program that has been under  discussion  for
more than a year. And an accord on that program is essential to
unlocking funds from other international financial institutions,
the European Union and the U.S., which could help to fill the
remaining external financing hole of $10 billion or more.  Although Mursi’s government is nervous about imposing new
costs on Egyptians, deferring reforms will only worsen its
economic straits and make the necessary adjustments more
painful. And the current strategy of relying on Persian Gulf
countries for financing, without a clear economic program, will
only make things worse.  (Caroline Freund is a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics and former chief economist
for the Middle East and North Africa at the World Bank.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Freund at  cfreund@piie.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 