-- Obama’s Reluctant Mideast Role Tested by Region’s Turmoil
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-06-30T23:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/obama-s-reluctant-mideast-role-tested-by-region-s-turmoil.html
With the death toll in  Syria ’s civil
war approaching 100,000, civil strife in  Libya ,  Iraq  and Lebanon
and  Egypt  now in turmoil, the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process 
is suddenly the bright spot in the Obama administration’s
Mideast policy.  While Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday his
three days of shuttle diplomacy produced “real progress,’’ a
durable peace between  Israel  and the Palestinians remains a
distant hope. Now that small step is being eclipsed by the
struggle for control of Egypt, the most populous Arab nation,
the first to sign a peace treaty with Israel, and a linchpin of
American policy in the Arab world.  Yesterday, Egyptians massed by the hundreds of thousands to
demand President Mohamed Mursi’s ouster while the Islamist
leader’s backers gathered at a dueling rally, with both sides
citing fears of a conflagration of violence after days of deadly
clashes. Thousands streamed into Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  and
elsewhere across Egypt, saying they were determined to reclaim
control of a revolution whose goals have been trampled to cement
the power of Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood supporters.  “What’s happening in Egypt is another manifestation of
what’s happening across the region -- the era of the strong,
centralized Arab state giving way to decentralization,
sectarianism, incompetent governance, and violence,” said  Aaron David Miller , a veteran U.S. Mideast envoy and now a vice
president of the Wilson Center, a  Washington  public policy
research organization.  ‘Changing Trend’  “It’s now affecting the largest, most powerful Arab state,
but it’s happening everywhere -- Syria, Libya, Iraq,” Miller
said. “It’s emblematic of this changing trend. We’re stuck in a
region we can’t fix and we can’t leave, and that’s a very bad
place for a great power to be. That leaves us drifting.”  Until Kerry threw himself into reviving the stalled
Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, the Obama administration had
engaged the region cautiously and intermittently. The U.S.
played a limited role supporting allies in the effort to oust
Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , prompting Republican charges
Obama was “leading from behind.” The White House resisted
pleas to arm Syrian rebels before reluctantly providing small
arms and ammunition, hasn’t dealt with the rising Sunni-Shiite
violence in Iraq and played up its intention to pay more
attention to the Asia-Pacific region.  The limits of American influence lie deeper than Obama’s
reluctance to commit American power in the Mideast and North
Africa. The 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq on the false premise that
dictator  Saddam Hussein  had weapons of mass destruction and the
12-year effort to remake  Afghanistan  have fed Arab suspicions
that not only is America allied with Israel, it also is hostile
to Islam.  Reluctant Engagement  Most damaging may be the perception that “America is short
of breath,” as then-Syrian foreign minister Abdel Halim Khaddam
put it 30 years ago. The U.S.’s retreats from Lebanon, Somalia,
Iraq and now Afghanistan under presidents of both parties, and
its reluctance to engage in Libya and Syria, have strengthened
that perception, said a U.S. official with decades of experience
in the region.  Rebels in Syria, reformers in Egypt and Libya and pro-democratic activists elsewhere voice the same doubts about
America’s reliability, said the official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity to critique the current administration’s
policies.  “You see a confusion in the administration’s own view on
Egypt,” said Miller. While the U.S. had to respect the results
of the election in which Mursi won 52 percent of the vote, he
said, the Egyptian leader hasn’t been willing to do much with
the opposition since then, and the U.S. hasn’t pushed or
encouraged him.  Uncertain Future  With the Obama administration reluctant to use its limited
leverage and the American-backed Egyptian military trying to
stay on the sidelines, the U.S. official said one of America’s
most important Arab allies could plunge into anarchy or find
itself under harsh Islamic rule by Mursi’s  Muslim Brotherhood .  “Events are out of control because they’re being driven by
years of anger, resentment, despair, desire for change, and
those feelings are legitimate because they’re homegrown,”
Miller said. “It goes both ways. It can lead to Islamists in
control and a lot of violence and incompetent government.”  Some members of Congress already have said they are uneasy
about the $1.3 billion in military aid the U.S. sends to Egypt,
and the turmoil now threatens even those ties with Egypt, said
Tamara Coffman Wittes, a senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , a public policy research organization in
Washington, and a former deputy assistant secretary of state for
Near East affairs.  Preserving Cooperation  “The  United States  has managed to achieve its most
important priority in its relationship with Egypt since the
revolution, which is the preservation of its security
cooperation and the preservation of Egypt’s commitment to shared
security interests, including the peace treaty with Israel,”
she said in an interview.  Still, she said, “If the political turmoil in Egypt
continues, and if Egypt cannot move onto a more stable and
democratic trajectory, I don’t know that security cooperation
will be sustainable over time.”  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood government, increasingly under
siege from its own population, might turn toward nationalist
jingoism that could undermine the Egypt-Israel peace treaty,
which in turn could threaten security cooperation with
Washington, Miller said.  ‘Unhappy End’  “We’re heading for an unhappy end in Egypt, how unhappy
isn’t clear,” said Miller. “I don’t see a happy way out of
this. The Muslim Brotherhood can’t govern, the military won’t
govern, and the opposition doesn’t know how to govern, which
means no one is in charge.”  If the protests don’t change the status quo, there may be
no quick end in sight to the administration’s Egypt challenge.  “What is very worrisome is that I don’t think the
opposition has more of a plan now than they ever had in 2011,”
said  Marina Ottaway , senior counsel at the Atlantic Council in
Washington. “They still think that if the demonstrations are
large enough, Mursi will simply resign and somehow the Muslim
Brotherhood will be put in its place. And there’s definitely a
section of the opposition that talks very openly about bringing
in the military, that the military needs to take power again,
and the military will give power to the secular groups.”  Disorganized Opposition  “The opposition hasn’t done the things it needs to do in
order to organize,” she said in an interview. “They speak to
the West, they don’t talk to people in the countryside. They
have not set up organizations.”  The opposition’s only message is its shared opposition to
the Muslim Brotherhood and Mursi,  Khaled Elgindy , a senior
fellow at the Brookings Institution, said in an interview.
“Other than that, there’s not much that binds these groups
together,” he said.  The political situation in Egypt is  “devilishly difficult
to understand, let alone to resolve,” Michele Dunne, director
of the Rafik Hariri Center for the  Middle East  at the Atlantic
Council, said in an e-mail.  “There are at least three principal political forces at
work: Islamists, secularists, and the old state, some of whom
are secularists, some of whom are observant Muslims, but none of
whom are liberals,” she said.  Neither the U.S. nor Israel want Egypt to become a failed
state, said  Dennis Ross  of the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy, a Mideast envoy and adviser for a succession of
U.S. presidents since  Ronald Reagan .  “But neither of us is going to determine Egypt’s future --
only Egyptians can do that, and today, there seems to be little
common ground for restoring stability,” Ross said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  