-- Obama to Announce Plan to Boost Africans’ Electricity Access
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-06-30T14:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/obama-to-announce-plan-to-boost-africans-access-to-electricity.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
announce an initiative to enhance access to electricity across
 Africa  by tapping the continent’s vast energy resources and
attracting international investment.  U.S. administration officials said the $7 billion venture,
dubbed Power Africa, will complement an additional $9 billion in
private funds to double access to power in sub-Saharan Africa,
where more than two-thirds of the population is without
electricity, according to the White House. Obama will unveil the
program today in a speech at the University of  Cape Town .  “We’re looking to provide support and partnership so the
lights can turn on and stay on,” said Gayle Smith, National
Security Council senior director for development and democracy.  Obama arrived in Cape Town this morning on the second leg
of a trip to Africa where he’s been promoting trade and
investment, pledging sustained U.S. engagement and underscoring
the importance of democratic values to economic growth.  The failing health of  Nelson Mandela  has weighed heavily on
the trip and Obama has spent time, especially in the South
African icon’s home country, invoking his legacy as a model for
the continent’s leaders to earn international respect and
credibility. Obama will echo that theme today on the heels of
visits to landmarks in Mandela’s life and the anti-apartheid
movement.  Signature Address  Ahead of the speech, which advisers have described as the
signature address of the trip, Obama visited Robben Island,
where Mandela spent 18 of his 27 years in prison for opposing
white-minority rule. Together as a family, the Obamas toured
sites on the Island, including Mandela’s prison cell, the B-section courtyard where Mandela organized with other inmates and
the lime quarry where 34 African National Congress leaders,
including Mandela, worked.  “The world is grateful for the heroes of Robben Island,
who remind us that no shackles or cells can match the strength
of the human spirit,” Obama wrote in a guest book, walking
silently back into the prison with first lady Michelle Obama
afterwards.  The president will deliver his remarks this evening in the
same hall where Robert F. Kennedy gave his “Ripple of Hope”
speech in 1966, shortly after Mandela was imprisoned. Obama also
plans to visit a  community center  that focuses on HIV/AIDS
prevention with Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who greeted Mandela the
day he was released from prison in 1990.  ‘The Right Things’  “The types of countries that are part of Power Africa, for
instance, are the ones who are doing the right things on
governance,” said deputy National Security Council director  Ben Rhodes . “If we’re going to get investment from international
development banks, from private-sector partners, they need to
have the predictability that comes with the rule of law and
governance.”  The venture will begin in six countries -- Ethiopia, Ghana,
Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria and Tanzania -- to add more than 10,000
megawatts of cleaner, more efficient electricity generation
capacity and will expand electricity access to at least 20
million new households and commercial entities, according to the
White House.  General Electric Co. (GE)  is among the companies that have
contributed to the $9 billion in private-sector funding for the
program’s first phase and has committed to help bring 5,000
megawatts of new energy to Tanzania and Ghana.  ‘Energy Poverty’  Smith declined to put a price tag on the total effort and
didn’t specify how much of the $7 billion in government
resources Congress would need to appropriate for the initial 5-year phase. She said the sum isn’t all straight assistance and
includes money from the U.S. Agency for International
Development, the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation , the
Export-Import Bank and other agencies.  “The program is welcome support to the continent where
energy access and energy poverty remain significant concerns,”
said Taryn Wilkins, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
in Cape Town. “Key to the success of the implementation of the
program is the support of local governments and policy
regulation. To date this has been fragmented and inconsistent
and resulted in slower development of energy infrastructure
programs.”  Today’s announcement comes amid criticism that Obama’s
engagement with sub-Saharan Africa has lagged behind that of his
predecessors  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush , creating an
opening for countries like  China  to tap the region’s resources.  Bush Legacy  Bush, who took U.S. spending on Africa to new levels, made
a six-country visit in 2008 and a three-country stop in 2011
after he left the White House. His Africa legacy includes
 PEPFAR , a $15 billion commitment to prevent and treat AIDS
infections, credited with saving or extending millions of lives
on the continent.  Clinton signed the  African Growth and Opportunity Act , a
trade agreement with countries in sub-Saharan Africa.  Obama was largely occupied in his first term with the U.S.
financial crisis, wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  and a foreign
policy pivot toward  Asia .  A year ago, he issued a policy directive on sub-Saharan
Africa calling for expanded economic growth and pressing for
stronger democratic institutions.  Tomorrow Obama will travel to Tanzania for the last stop of
his tour and to the country’s fast-growing metropolis of  Dar es
Salaam  to convene a roundtable of company executives and promote
investments in electrification projects.  First Ladies  Obama may meet his Republican predecessor while in Dar es
Salaam, who will be there at the same time for a summit to
empower Africa’s first ladies sponsored by the  George W. Bush
Institute .  Michelle Obama  will join  Laura Bush  at the event.
“There may be something,” Rhodes told reporters traveling
aboard Air Force One today.  American companies see a growing economic opportunity in
Africa. U.S. merchandise exports to the 49-country region were
$21 billion in 2011, up 23 percent from 2010, according to the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative. Imports from sub-Saharan Africa were worth $74 billion in 2011, up 14 percent
from 2010. Most of that, about $60 billion, was crude oil.  Africa has 15 percent of the world’s population yet it
accounts for only 3 percent of energy consumption, according to
a 2011 report by the  African Union  and other continental
organizations that studied power markets demand over the next
three decades.  ‘Primary Interest’  During a press conference yesterday with South African
President  Jacob Zuma , Obama said that while the U.S. doesn’t
need Africa’s energy because of its own advancements in clean
energy production, its interest is in expanding the continent’s
role in the global marketplace.  “Our primary interest when it comes to working with Africa
on energy issues has to do with how do we power Africa so that
it can be an effective market creating jobs and opportunity in
Africa,” Obama said in  Pretoria .  While he was in Johannesburg, Obama spoke by phone with
Mandela’s wife Graca Machel and met for 25 minutes with two of
Mandela’s daughters and several grandchildren at the  Nelson
Mandela Centre of Memory  in Johannesburg.  Out of deference to Mandela’s family, Obama didn’t visit
the 94-year-old leader, who is in critical condition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  