-- Onyx Seeks Suitors After Rejecting $120-a-Share Amgen Bid
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s ,   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-01T13:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/onyx-rejects-amgen-offer-of-120-share-looking-for-suitor.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) , the maker
of the cancer drug Nexavar, said it is in contact with other
possible acquirers after rejecting an unsolicited $120-a-share
cash takeover bid from  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  Onyx shares surged.  Onyx has solicited interest from at least two
pharmaceutical companies involved in oncology since Amgen’s
offer was reported after the market closed on June 28, according
to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the discussions were private. Amgen’s bid is
38 percent more than Onyx’s closing price of $86.82 that day.  “We are actively exploring the potential to combine Onyx
with another company,” Onyx Chief Executive Officer N. Anthony Coles said yesterday in a statement. The Amgen offer
“significantly undervalued” Onyx, according to the statement.
Based on shares outstanding, the offer values Onyx at about $10
billion, according to the person familiar with the proposal.  Onyx  soared  52 percent to $132.02 at 9:33 a.m. New York
time, after earlier reaching $132.98 in the biggest intraday
increase since February 2007. The move past Amgen’s offer price
suggests investors expect a higher bid, with  Phil Nadeau , an
analyst with Cowen & Co., suggesting a purchase price of at
least $130 a share is probable.  Onyx shares had gained 15 percent this year through June
28. The company rejected the bid that day, according to its
statement. Amgen rose 2.9 percent to $101.51 today, and had
gained 14 percent this year through June 28.  Rejected Offer  Coles turned down the offer when he talked with Amgen CEO
Robert Bradway at about 2 p.m. on June 28, according to a person
familiar with the details who also asked not to be identified
because the talks were private. Bradway didn’t say it was the
company’s final offer and Onyx believes there could be a new
bid, the person said.  Onyx reported $362 million in 2012  revenue , with 80 percent
coming from two drugs it sells in partnership with Germany-based
Bayer AG -- Nexavar, for liver and kidney cancer, and Stivarga
for stomach cancer. The South  San Francisco , California-based
company markets on its own the blood-cancer drug Kyprolis.  “A lot of companies want fully owned cancer assets,” said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst for ISI Group LLC in New York, in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Strategically, Onyx makes sense
for a dozen companies or maybe more, so the only issue is going
to be price. I put the probability that Onyx is taken out at
north of 90 percent.”  No Comment  Ashleigh Koss, a spokeswoman for  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen, said by telephone yesterday that the company
wouldn’t comment. Amgen has been seeking new products and
expanding its business overseas as sales decline for its anemia
drugs Aranesp and Epogen. The medicines generated about $4
billion in 2012, about 23 percent of the company’s revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Onyx’s management sees Amgen’s bid as too low based on high
premiums fetched in recent, comparable health-care deals, such
as Gilead Science Inc.’s takeover of Pharmasset Inc. announced
in 2011, said one of the people familiar with the matter. Gilead
valued Pharmasset at 94 percent more than its trailing 20-day
average share price at the time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There’s probably a presumption on Onyx’s part that the
first offer from Amgen isn’t the best offer,” said  Les
Funtleyder , health-care strategist at Poliwogg, a New York
investment firm, in a telephone interview. “Biotech valuations
have gone up quite a bit, including Amgen’s by the way, which
probably makes them more likely to spend.”  Possible Acquirers  Onyx is reaching out to possible acquirers who had
previously expressed interest “to determine whether a
combination with their company makes sense for us,” said Lori Melancon, an Onyx spokeswoman, in a telephone interview.  “Although we’ve reached out to these companies who have
previously expressed interest, that does not signify that the
company will be sold,” she said. “We could remain an
independent company.”  Melancon wouldn’t say how many companies had expressed
interest or identify them. The company has set no deadline or
time frame on making a decision, she said.  Bayer spokesman Christian Hartel declined to comment on
whether the company will bid for Onyx.  Before Amgen’s offer was reported, Onyx was the 11th-biggest U.S. biotechnology company by market value at about
$6.32 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue Comparison  By revenue, it’s the 15th-largest, trailing Amgen, Gilead,
Biogen Idec Inc. and Celgene Corp., all with annual revenues
exceeding $5 billion, as well as mid-sized companies including
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. and BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc.  Onyx’s 15 percent gain since the start of the year through
June 28 lags behind the 27 percent increase in the Nasdaq
Biotechnology Index. The stock rose 72 percent in 2012 as Onyx
won approval of Kyprolis, also known as carfilzomib, spurring
speculation the company could be acquired.  A deal valuing Onyx at $10 billion would be the fourth-largest acquisition of a biotechnology company in the last three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Since the end of
June 2010, 261 biotechnology deals were announced, with an
average disclosed size of $628.7 million and an average premium
of 45 percent, the data show.  Sanofi’s 2011 purchase of Genzyme Corp. for $20.1 billion
was the largest, followed by Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.’s
pending $15.9 billion deal for Life Technologies Corp. this year
and Gilead’s 2012 purchase of Pharmasset for $10.6 billion.  For Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company by
sales, a $10 billion acquisition of Onyx would be its second-largest ever, after its 2001 purchase of Immunex Corp. for $16.8
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Amgen’s next-largest
deal was its 2005 acquisition of Abgenix Inc. for $2.21 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  