-- Pandit to Nippon Life Buy Into India’s Banking Aspirants
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-06-30T19:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/pandit-to-nippon-life-buy-into-india-s-banking-aspirants.html
Firms from  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Holdings Inc. (8309)  to Nippon Life Insurance Co. are buying stakes in
Indian companies seeking bank licenses to tap credit growth in
Asia’s third-biggest economy.  Groups controlled by billionaires  Anil Ambani  and Kumar Mangalam Birla are among those racing to meet today’s deadline
for applications after the nation’s regulator invited new bids
for the first time in more than a decade. Nippon Life and
Sumitomo Mitsui will invest in a bank being set up by Ambani’s
 Reliance Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit is buying a stake in  JM Financial Ltd. (JM)   Foreign companies are chasing higher returns by investing
in new lenders in the South Asian nation, where the  World Bank 
estimates only 35 percent of the population has bank accounts.
Wide gaps between  interest rates  on deposits and loans will
drive up profits for new banks in  India , said Saurabh Mukherjea,
chief executive officer for institutional equities at Mumbai-based Ambit Capital Pvt Ltd.  “It’s as close as you can get to a license to print money
in a democracy,” Mukherjea said in a telephone interview. “A
bank can get deposits by paying about a 5 percent interest rate
on a savings account and lend it to businesses for as high as 15
percent, making India an immensely attractive geography.”  Spurring Credit  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is giving
banking permits to tap savings in rural areas and spur credit
flow to help revive economic growth from the slowest pace in a
decade. Successful applicants will have to fulfill a number of
requirements set by the central bank.  New lenders will have to set up one branch in every four in
villages with fewer than 10,000 people, the  Reserve Bank  of
India has said. They will need to establish a wholly owned, non-operative financial holding company and undergo a so-called fit
and proper test. Banks will have 18 months to be set up.  Pandit and long-time associate Hari Aiyar will jointly own
a 3 percent equity stake in JM Financial through an issuance of
warrants, the Mumbai-based investment firm said on May 16.  “I continue to believe in the long-term growth prospects
of India,” the former Citigroup CEO said in an e-mailed
statement when the deal was announced. Pandit’s first public
investment since Citigroup directors ousted him in October
involves him taking a leadership role in the proposed bank.  Ownership Cap  Nippon Life, Japan’s biggest life insurer, and Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust, the country’s fourth-biggest lender, will each buy
as much as 5 percent of Reliance Capital’s planned bank,
Ambani’s financial services firm said in a statement on June 26,
without specifying the sum invested.  Foreign ownership in the banks, which should have an equity
capital of at least 5 billion rupees ($84 million), will be
capped at 49 percent, according to the statement.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust is relying on “strong infrastructure
demand and an emerging middle class” to generate profits, the
Japanese bank said the same day.  Rural banking in India could be worth $24 billion in assets
by 2015 according to McKinsey & Co. Of the 600,000 habitations,
only about 36,000 have access to a local commercial bank branch,
according to central bank estimates.  “India is hugely underbanked,” Birla said in Kolkata on
June 28 . “We need much more credit creation to grow at 8
percent per year.”  Religare Enterprises Ltd. (RELG) , backed by billionaire brothers
Malvinder and  Shivinder Singh ,  Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (BJFIN) ,  Edelweiss
Financial Services Ltd. (EDEL) ,   Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL)  and  IDFC Ltd. (IDFC) 
are among other companies seeking permit to set up banks.  Not Attractive  Other potential applicants were dissuaded by the stringency
of the central bank’s rules, which also include higher capital
standards than previous applicants, restrictions on activities
of holding companies, and an obligation to sell shares within
three years of starting business.  Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Ltd., the
financing unit of India’s biggest sports utility vehicle maker,
and Piramal Enterprises Ltd. are among companies that decided
not to apply for permits.  “Rules and regulations for banking licenses have not made
it as attractive as we had thought earlier,” said billionaire
 Ajay Piramal , in an interview with Bloomberg TV India on June
27. The time to convert financial firms into banks “isn’t
enough and rules on financial inclusion could have been more
liberal.”  Bad Loans  Under the RBI’s requirements, the holding company will
first own 40 percent of the bank and then cut it to 15 percent
in 12 years. The holding company won’t be allowed to lend to
businesses owned by the founder. The bank will be unable to
invest in financial firms owned by the holding company.  New banks will need to maintain a 13 percent capital
adequacy ratio for three years, compared with the 10 percent
mandated by the regulator when it set guidelines for new lenders
in 2001.  The RBI is tightening prudential norms for the new banks as
bad loans rose to 3.4 percent of total loans as of March 31 from
2.9 percent a year earlier. The measure may rise to 3.8 percent
by the end of September, it said in a report on June 27.  Return on equity, a gauge of profitability, for Indian
banks fell to 12.8 percent in 12 months to March 31 from 13.4
percent, data compiled by RBI shows. Shares of  State Bank of
India , the nation’s biggest by assets, have slumped 18 percent
this year, compared with a 0.2 percent decline in the benchmark
S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  The $40 billion  Aditya Birla Group , which controls the
world’s biggest supplier of aluminum to car makers and runs
India’s largest cement maker, is working on setting up the bank
within six months of receiving the permit. Making profits from
the venture may take as long as ten years, said Rakesh Jain,
managing director of Aditya Birla Nuvo.  “It is an uphill task,” said Jain in an interview on June
27. “We hope the gestation period is closer to five years but
we will know the details of the landscape once we get onto it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  