-- Pawnbrokers Thrive as Poorest Aussies Bear Brunt of Slowdown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-01T06:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/pawnbrokers-thriving-as-poorest-aussies-bear-brunt-of-slowdown.html
On a sidewalk in Sydney’s Bankstown
neighborhood, where unemployment is more than double Australia’s
average, Dave Cox pulls the starter cord of an edge trimmer to
prove it works as he tries to sell it to pawnbroker  Cash
Converters International Ltd. (CCV)   “The economy is pretty crap right now,” 38-year-old truck
driver Cox, who’s between jobs, said after he offloaded the
snipper for A$30 ($28). In the past month, he sold an iPhone and
got a loan at Cash Converters, whose sales last year grew faster
than any other Australian retailer that didn’t make a major
acquisition. “It just feels bad out there.”  While a mining-investment boom has sustained Australia’s
growth and employment, many like Cox have missed out and instead
seen finances stretched by high housing costs, driving them into
the arms of pawnbrokers. Central bank efforts to plug the gap
with  record-low interest rates  are bypassing lower-income
households, which account for just 6 percent of the nation’s
home buyers, while government and opposition pledges to return
the budget to surplus mean support for the most marginalized has
declined as welfare payments stagnate.  “I’m not surprised,” Bernie Fraser, whose tenure as
Reserve Bank of  Australia  governor from 1989 to 1996 included
the last recession in 1991, said of the increasing use of
pawnbrokers. “I think that’s pretty heavily correlated with a
lot of people doing things tough, and that’s going to continue I
believe.”  Gillard Ousted  The economy switched from a strength to a liability for the
ruling Labor Party, which last week dumped Julia Gillard as
leader in favor of Kevin Rudd. The new prime minister, who
reclaimed the post after he was ousted by Gillard three years
ago, signaled economic management will be central to his bid to
reel in an almost two-year lead in polls for the opposition.  Cash Converters -- which offers pawnbroking, payday loans,
goods sales and installment loans -- recorded the fastest growth
of any Australian retailer with more than $100 million in sales
last year that didn’t see revenue boosted by a major purchase,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Revenue jumped 26 percent in
2012. In contrast, sales at the country’s largest electrical-goods retailer,  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , fell 7.6 percent.  “Part of why we’ve got that growth could well be the
economy,” said Peter Cumins, managing director at Perth-based
Cash Converters, who added that store locations are chosen for
proximity to households with stretched finances. “Certainly, we
are recession proof in that regard.”  Outlook Sours  Australia has posted the developed world’s quickest growth
rates as demand from  China  fueled a once-in-a-century mining-investment boom. That’s souring as China’s outlook deteriorates
and the Aussie dollar’s strength forces companies including Ford
Motor Co. to cut workers and close plants.  Economists at Macquarie Group Ltd., Australia’s largest
investment bank, see a 40 percent chance of recession in the
next 12 months -- defined locally as two consecutive quarters of
contraction -- even after the central bank cut rates to a
record-low 2.75 percent. Saul Eslake, chief Australia economist
for Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Melbourne , projects a 25
percent chance for 2015.  “We expect the RBA to cut further -- to as low as 1
percent in the event of a recession -- and it may need to
undertake a ‘Down Under QE,’” Eslake wrote in a June 14 note to
clients, referring to a local version of the Federal Reserve’s
quantitative-easing policy to support economic growth.  New Customers  South of Melbourne, Victoria’s state capital, some of
pawnbroker Joe Yammouni’s customers are coming to his store,
Cash Deal, on the Mornington Peninsula for the first time since
he opened in 2001.  “I’m talking your average family members who you wouldn’t
have seen before, who come in and say ‘I’m so embarrassed for
being here,’” he said. “Things are tight at the moment; they
just get unexpected bills or payments come through and they have
to use our services.”  A decline in new electronic product prices is compounding
difficulties for people selling goods for cash, said Yammouni,
41, who has worked in the industry since 1994. A A$3,000 TV that
could be resold for A$1,000 five years ago now retails for about
A$400, and as a reseller today, “you’d take whatever you could
get,” he said.  One in eight Australians and one in six children live below
the poverty line, according to a  report  last year by the
Australian Council of Social Service. The group defines the
level as 50 percent of median disposable income, a standard
measure of financial hardship in wealthy countries, it says.  Jobless Payments  That was A$358 per week for a single adult in 2010 and
A$752 for a couple with two children, the October 2012 Acoss
report showed. Australia’s unemployed receive  A$248.50 a week 
for as long as they demonstrate an active search for work, a
payment that’s been indexed to inflation for more than 30 years.  An increase beyond consumer-price growth is unlikely as
Australia’s slowdown curbs tax revenue and both major political
parties vow to return the budget to balance.  “The existing government, and even more so the incoming
government, are making it clear they’re not going to use that
fiscal-policy instrument, which is crazy really,” said Fraser,
72, who was also secretary to the Treasury from 1984 to 1989.
“Monetary policy doesn’t have any distributional
consequences.”  Investors are pricing in a 23 percent chance the RBA will
lower the benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 2.5
percent at tomorrow’s policy meeting in  Brisbane .  Uneven Benefits  While a home owner with a A$300,000 mortgage is about A$300
a month better off since the RBA started cutting rates in
November 2011, few lower-income households are benefiting. The
proportion of Australian homebuyers in the bottom 40 percent of
incomes is just 6 percent, according to the  Australian Housing
and Urban Research Institute .  Fiona Guthrie, executive director of Financial Counselling
Australia in Brisbane, Queensland’s state capital, said the use
of short-term loans is spreading. While industry rates vary,
interest charges and fees can equate to as much as 912.5 percent
annualized, according to the Melbourne-based  Consumer Action Law
Centre . That compares with about 15 percent for an unsecured
personal loan from one of the nation’s biggest banks.  “Payday loans just defer an inevitable financial crisis,”
Guthrie said. “They trap people in debt” and aren’t “a
benefit to them.”  The Australian government, responding to criticism of the
payday-loan industry, introduced a  cap  beginning today that
prevents lenders from charging more than 20 percent upfront and
4 percent a month in fees for the life of the loan.  More Loans  Cash Converters also has outlets in the U.K., Spain and
 Dubai , where it targets arriving and departing expatriates
trading second-hand goods. Its personal-loan book in Australia
increased by 25 percent in the six months through December to
A$84.2 million. Its cash-advance business rose 7.1 percent to
A$126.5 million loaned, while the number of active customers
climbed 16 percent. Store sales grew 6.5 percent.  Cash Converters  shares  jumped 4.2 percent to A$1.12 at the
close in Sydney, even as the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index slumped
1.9 percent. The stock has surged 70 percent in the past 12
months, versus about a 42 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200
Retailing Index.  Australia’s economy grew 2.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest pace in almost two years. While
 unemployment  was 5.5 percent in May, it was 10 percent or higher
in 9.6 percent of the nation’s 1,402 regions during the fourth
quarter, according to government data. The level was 14 percent
for Bankstown in Sydney’s west.  Businesses Squeezed  Mortgage arrears rose in March -- indicating lower
borrowing costs aren’t sufficient for some households -- and a
record number of the nation’s companies  went bust  in April.  Grant Russell has had “quite a lot of business people who
are literally financing their staff” by pawning personal
possessions such as family jewelry during the past 12 months at
his Cash Centre store in the outer Melbourne town of Frankston.  Russell, who also heads the Victorian Independent
Pawnbrokers Association and is a 24-year industry veteran, said
the value of items is “dropping quite rapidly,” and stores are
becoming more selective in what they’ll accept. Many are so full
of power tools from tradesmen waiting on delayed payments that
they will no longer offer credit on the equipment, he said.  The practice of hocking goods shot to prominence in the
past five years with the advent of television programs such as
“Pawn Stars,” which first aired in 2009 as the U.S. economy
struggled to emerge from the deepest recession since the 1930s.
It was followed a year later by “Hardcore Pawn,” set in
 Detroit , a city that’s battling potential bankruptcy.  ‘Weird and Wonderful’  Russell said the American programs fueled misconceptions in
Australia that people offered “weird and wonderful things” to
hock. “It’s bread and butter items that people bring in: video
games, flat-panel TVs, laptop computers, always there’s a few
power tools,” he said.  Outside Cash Converters in Bankstown, Cox said he wasn’t
surprised to learn the pawnbroker is Australia’s best-performing
retailer. A staff member told him during the sale of the edge
trimmer that the iPhone he brought in the prior week had been
sold for almost double what he was paid.  “That’s business and they do it well,” Cox said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  