-- Payroll Gains Probably Sustained in June: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-06-30T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/payroll-gains-probably-sustained-in-june-u-s-economy-preview.html
Employers in the U.S. probably
created almost as many jobs in June as in the prior month as
businesses grew more confident the economy will overcome the tax
increases and government cutbacks that have restrained growth,
economists said before reports this week.  Payrolls (NFP)  grew by 165,000 workers after rising by 175,000 in
May, according to the median forecast of 70 economists in a
Bloomberg survey ahead of July 5 figures from the Labor
Department. Other reports may show manufacturing is making
little progress, while service industries are picking up.  More jobs and the rebound in housing will probably keep
shoring up Americans’ finances and confidence, sustaining
spending even in the face of the two percentage-point increase
in the payroll tax and the $85 billion in  federal budget  cuts
that took effect earlier this year. Federal Reserve policy
makers said last month that they’ll trim bond purchases before
the end of the year if unemployment continues to fall.  “The fact that the economy is growing as well as it seems
to be, despite the heavy headwinds, is a testament to its much-improved underlying fundamentals,” said Russell Price, senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “Companies
are seeing their demand improve both from the consumer and
business side of the equation and they’re already running with
very tight labor components.”  The Labor Department’s report will also show the
unemployment rate retreated to 7.5 percent in June, matching
April’s four-year low, from 7.6 percent a month earlier,
according to the survey.  Market Reaction  Stocks and Treasuries have fallen since June 19, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank could start
reducing its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases later this
year and end the program in the mid-2014 if growth meets policy
makers’ forecasts.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounded last week after
the worst back-to-back declines since November.  The Fed has said it will maintain asset purchases until the
labor market has “improved substantially,” without defining
that term. At the June 19 press conference, Bernanke said he
expects the jobless rate to be around 7 percent when the Fed
stops its bond buying.  Household  purchases , which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rebounded last month, recovering from a decline in
May, and incomes advanced 0.5 percent, more than projected, the
Commerce Department reported last week.  Home Sales  Data from the agency also showed new-home sales reached a
five-year high in May and business investment plans improved for
a third straight month.  “People have the ability to spend money, consumer
sentiment is up, things are looking up in the U.S. economy,”
said Gregory Hayes, chief financial officer at  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)   The Hartford, Connecticut-based maker of Carrier air
conditioners and Otis elevators is benefiting from low interest
rates, which have helped boost home construction.  “We have seen very strong orders growth in the residential
business so far this year,” Hayes said at a June 13 conference.
The automatic across-the-board federal cuts known as
sequestration will probably hurt sales “a little bit,” he
said, “but frankly, the rest of the economy is growing so well
we don’t think it’s going to have a major impact on us.”  Still, manufacturing overall has been slow to reap the
benefits of growing U.S. demand as  emerging markets  such as
 China  cool and Europe struggles to emerge from a recession. The
Institute for Supply Management’s factory  index , due tomorrow,
probably rose to 50.5 in June from 49, which was the lowest
since June 2009. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between
growth and contraction.  ‘Uneven Path’  “Things are starting to pick up but it’s going to be an
uneven path toward growth,” said Thomas Simons, money market
economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.  The resulting slackening in global trade means the U.S. gap
between exports and imports was little changed in May,
economists project a July 3 report from the Commerce Department
will show. The trade  deficit  eased to $40.2 billion from $40.3
billion in April, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Services, which are less influenced by overseas demand and
account for almost 90 percent of the economy, are faring better
than factories. The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing index  probably  climbed to a three-month high of 54
in June from 53.7, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  