-- Ping Fu’s Book Isn’t Worth Joe Nocera
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-30T17:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/ping-fu-s-book-isn-t-worth-joe-nocera.html
The  New York  Times’s Joe Nocera
devoted  his latest column  to defending Ping Fu, the Chinese-American author of the  factually-challenged  memoir “ Bend Not
Break: A Life in Two Worlds .” Nocera set a curious task for
himself: Fu’s shaky relationship with the truth is so well-known
that there’s an  entire Amazon forum  devoted to debunking the
book’s alleged lies, errors, contradictions and other sins.  The problems do  appear to be many . For example, the book’s
first line claims Fu was deported from China ( her bio  on her
publisher’s website repeats as much), despite there being no
record to substantiate the claim. In January, she  told Forbes :
“We could say that was a literary interpretation. I was asked to
leave. My father helped me to find a visa to the US. I was told
not to talk about it or to file for political asylum. My
interpretation was I involuntary left  China ….If someone wants to
say this is not deportation, fine. That’s my interpretation.”  In February, she  told the Guardian  that in her draft she
hadn’t employed the word “deported,” but her co-author and
editor proposed it to “attract readers.” (The edition currently
available for preview on Amazon uses the word “expelled.”)  It’s hard to imagine Nocera devoting a column to another
alleged fabulist (where is his piece defending James Frey, the
 disgraced author  of “A Million Little Pieces”?). So why did he
devote a column to Fu?  His answer seems to be that he’s offended at how the
Chinese immigrant community in the U.S. has made something of a
hobby out of debunking Fu’s book: “Yes, Ping Fu’s book has
mistakes in it. But it is hard to see how they justify the level
of extreme, unrelenting vilification she has suffered. Her real
sin, it appears, is that she stirred a pot most Chinese would
prefer to leave alone.”  In other words, Nocera sees in Fu, and her memoir, an
imperfect voice for truths that the Chinese government, citizens
and immigrants to the U.S. prefer not to speak of: “Three
decades later, there is almost no one in China willing to delve
into the Cultural Revolution. The Chinese government does not
exactly encourage discussion of the subject. It remains a deeply
painful subject to those who lived through it.”  This would be a shaky defense of Fu if it were true. But
it’s not.  The Cultural Revolution -- painful as it was -- is widely
discussed, written about and even the subject of films in
contemporary China. There’s an ongoing conversation about the
Cultural Revolution in the social media spaces that have become
the country’s de facto town squares over the last five years. As
of Sunday evening in  Shanghai , a search for the term “Cultural
Revolution” on Sina Weibo, China’s most popular microblogging
service, brought up more than  23,371,000 results , with a new one
appearing roughly every 15 to 20 seconds. Some of those are
 photos and accounts  of victims of taken during and after the
decade-long reign of terror; some  draw comparisons  between
recent events in China and the horrors visited on the Chinese
people during the period; and  some revel  in old Cultural
Revolution artifacts and kitsch.  Likewise, Fu is hardly the first Chinese immigrant to
publish a Cultural Revolution memoir in the U.S.  Many  have
preceded her, with plenty garnering praise from within and
outside the Chinese immigrant community.  One of the most striking characteristics associated with
the Cultural Revolution microblogging -- and the wide-ranging
contemporary dialogue about the period in China and the U.S. --
is the relentless desire to recapture, reveal and understand
what really happened during that tragic decade. China’s netizens
and its emigrants want the truth of the Cultural Revolution,
just as Jews want the truth of the Holocaust, and Cambodians
want the truth of Pol Pot’s reign of terror.  Anyone who challenges such a quest through censorship,
exaggeration or fabrication is going to be the subject of, to
use Nocera’s words, “unrelenting vilification.” Deservedly so.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 