-- Putin Signs Law Banning Gay ‘Propaganda’ Among Children
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/putin-signs-law-banning-gay-propaganda-among-children.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin
signed a law fining people who “propagate” homosexuality to
children, a day after dozens of people were detained following a
gay-pride parade in St. Petersburg.  The law introduces fines of 4,000 rubles ($122) to 5,000
rubles for individuals and 10 times those figures for public
officials found guilty, according to a  copy  of the legislation
posted to a government website yesterday. Fines for individuals
who use mass media or the Internet to propagate homosexuality to
minors rise to as much as 100,000 rubles.  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin for a third term as
president last year, said in April that same-sex marriages don’t
produce children and that Russia and Europe face demographic
challenges from lower birth rates, though it’s his duty to
protect the rights of people with “non-traditional” sexual
orientations. The decision comes days after the U.S. Supreme
Court struck down a law that denied benefits to same-sex couples
and removed obstacles for gay weddings to resume in  California .  Putin violated  Russia ’s international obligations by
signing the law, which will be challenged at Russia’s
Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights,
Nikolai Alexeyev, a Russian gay-rights activist, wrote in a
statement on GayRussia.eu.  ‘Under-educated Electorate’  “By signing the law banning gay propaganda, President Putin
may have won a local battle for the votes of his under-educated
electorate,” Alexeyev wrote. “He lost the historical battle.
History will prove that he committed a mistake that future
generations won’t likely forgive.”  Opinion polls have shown limited tolerance among Russians
for homosexuality. Last year, Moscow City Court upheld the
city’s decision to ban gay-pride parades for the next 100 years.  The federal bill follows a similar ban on “propaganda”
instituted last year in St. Petersburg, which was used two days
ago in Russia’s second-largest city. The 58 people detained in
St. Petersburg included eight who were opponents of same-sex
marriages, the local Fontanka.ru news portal  reported , citing
city police. A leader of the event, Yury Gavrikov, was held
overnight and will face administrative charges on July 4, the
news service said.  The St. Petersburg law drew international outrage. American
singer Madonna faced a 333 million-ruble fine earlier this year,
later thrown out by a city court, after saying at a concert last
year that gays and lesbians should be treated with dignity and
tolerance.  Defended Record  Putin has defended Russia’s record on gay rights amid
criticism from European countries. The bill Putin signed
yesterday stigmatizes homosexuals and breaches the spirit of
Russia’s commitments, including to the European Convention on
Human Rights, Steffen Seibert, German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
chief spokesman, told reporters in Berlin last month.  “I want everyone to understand that in Russia there are no
infringements on sexual minorities’ rights,” Putin said in
Amsterdam in April. “They’re people, just like everyone else,
and they enjoy full rights and freedoms.”  The federal amendments expanded on a law that protects
children from pornography and other “harmful information.” The
bill prohibits the distribution of information intended to
promote or spread “non-traditional sexual orientations’” among
minors, or a “distorted conception of the equivalence between
traditional and non-traditional sexual relationships.”  The bill also prohibits the “obtrusive spreading of
information about non-traditional sexual relationships that may
arouse interest in such relationships.”  Russian ‘Mood’  Foreign citizens charged under the law face administrative
arrests for as long as 15 days and deportation from Russia.  The federal government wasn’t behind regional initiatives
to ban material promoting homosexuality, Putin said in April.
They “reflect the mood of Russian society,” he said.  Some 48 percent of Russians believe the government should
“definitely” prevent public displays or justifications of
homosexuality, the independent Levada Center said May 17, citing
a  poll  of 1,601 people conducted in April. The Moscow-based
polling firm found 25 percent said the state should “probably”
do so.  The same survey found 13 percent of people think
homosexuals should face prosecution, while 38 percent said they
should be “treated” for their homosexuality. Some 31 percent
said gays and lesbians should be left alone.  Pussy Riot  Putin also signed a bill yesterday implementing jail
terms of as much as three years for people convicted of
intentionally offending religious sensibilities at places of
worship. Offenses committed elsewhere are punishable by as much
as a year in jail, according to a copy of the amendments posted
to a government website.  The bill was a response to the “punk prayer” performed by
the all-female Pussy Riot group in Moscow’s Christ the Savior
Cathedral, the main place of worship of Russia’s Orthodox
Christians, in February 2012. Three women were sentenced to two
years in jail for singing an anti-Putin song while clad in short
dresses and masks. One was later freed after the term was
commuted to a suspended sentence.  Members of the group appealed their case to the European
Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg,  France , arguing that the
charges of inciting religious hatred and hooliganism violated
their rights to freedom of expression.  The Levada Center polled Russians on the Pussy Riot
incident, with 56 percent of respondents  saying  the two-year
sentences were “reasonable” and 26 percent calling them
excessive. Nine percent said the Pussy Riot members shouldn’t
have been prosecuted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  