-- Republicans Need to Pass Immigration Overhaul, Pelosi Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-06-30T15:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/republicans-need-to-pass-immigration-overhaul-pelosi-says.html
Congressional Republicans must pass
an overhaul of U.S. immigration policy if they ever hope to win
the presidency again, House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said in
an interview broadcast today on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Pelosi, a California Democrat, said she hopes Republicans
who helped pass immigration legislation in the Senate last week
can persuade their House colleagues to take up the issue. House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has said he won’t
allow debate on an immigration bill unless it has the support of
a majority of  House Republicans .  “I believe that the members of Congress, many more than
are directly affected themselves by the number of Hispanics in
their district, will do what is right for our country,” Pelosi
said in the interview. “And it’s certainly right -- for the
Republicans, if they ever want to win a presidential race.”  President  Barack Obama  secured 71 percent of the U.S.
Latino vote last year in his re-election victory over Republican
 Mitt Romney . Obama’s lopsided win with a fast-growing portion of
the electorate spurred a renewed effort by Senate Republicans to
overhaul immigration policy and create a path to legal residency
for millions of undocumented residents from Latin America.  The Senate passed legislation on a 68-32 vote June 27 that
creates a 13-year process for undocumented workers to obtain
citizenship. The bill also dedicates $46 billion toward securing
the U.S.-Mexican border, the costliest border security plan in
history, a provision added to gain Republican support.  Coalition Support  Interviewed on “Fox News Sunday,” Senators  John McCain ,
an  Arizona  Republican, and Chuck Schumer, a  New York  Democrat,
both predicted House passage of the Senate’s bill.  The two senators cited support for the legislation from
what Schumer called a “broad, deep coalition” of business,
labor, Catholic and evangelical religious leaders.  “I have never seen such widespread support,” McCain said.
The Republican party’s future is in jeopardy “if we don’t get
this issue behind us,” he said.  Representative Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican,
said on Fox that the Senate bill won’t pass in the House.  “The issue is not the broad principles of immigration
reform and humanity and the respect for the rule of law,” Gowdy
said in an interview. “Where we get ourselves into a little
difference of opinion are the details.”  Gowdy said he won’t back a bill that allows legalization of
undocumented immigrants before the border is secure, and he
won’t support a plan in which  Janet Napolitano , Obama’s homeland
security secretary,  “gets to tell us when the border is
secure.”  House Opposition  Representative Bob Goodlatte, the Virginia Republican who
leads the House Judiciary Committee, also said the Senate bill
wouldn’t pass his chamber.  “The Senate bill gives legal status to 11 million people
before it solves all the problems,” Goodlatte said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union .”  Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat who heads the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said on the CNN program that the
House Republicans are relying on “discredited proposals” that
will result in a stalemate with nothing passed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  