-- Rio Reinforces Stadium Security as Soccer Final Kicks Off
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a ,   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-30T22:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/rio-reinforces-stadium-security-as-soccer-final-kicks-off-2-.html
Rio de Janeiro  deployed 11,000
security officers to safeguard tonight’s Confederations Cup
final after more than three weeks of protests and a record drop
in President Dilma Rousseff’s popularity.  Protesters marched toward the city’s iconic Maracana
stadium this afternoon, where police used teargas to disperse a
group of about 1,000, a spokesman for Rio’s military police
said. Inside the stadium, Brazil and world champion  Spain  are
vying for the Confederation Cup in a dry run for next year’s
 World Cup . “There won’t be a Cup,” some protestors chanted.  The two-week tournament has been magnifying demands for
better public services as Brazil spends 30 billion reais ($13.4
billion) on stadiums and related projects to host the 2014
soccer event. The approval rating of Rousseff’s administration
has fallen to 30 percent from 57 percent in a June 9 poll and a
high of 65 percent in March, according to a Datafolha poll
published yesterday.  While  Brazil  has pulled millions out of poverty in the past
decade, its new middle class is demanding more, World Bank
President Jim Yong Kim said in an interview today.  “If you lift your people out of extreme poverty, it’s not
like they’re going to say ’great, now we’re all set we don’t
want anything else.”  About 200 people demanding deeper cuts in bus fares are
camping inside the municipal council building in  Belo Horizonte ,
the capital city of Minas Gerais state with 2.4 million
residents, Globo News TV said today.  Cutting Costs  Bus-fare cuts will cost Sao Paulo, the country’s biggest
city, about 200 million reais in 2013 as the metropolis finds
itself “insolvent,” Mayor Fernando Haddad said in interview
published on Folha de S.Paulo’s website today.  Any further tax incentive the federal government may need
to cut the cost of public transportation, such as tax breaks on
diesel used by buses, will have to be followed by cost cuts or a
new tax to balance public accounts, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told O Globo newspaper in an interview.  Yesterday in downtown Sao Paulo, police blocked roads for a
“March for Jesus,” Marco Feliciano, the head of the
congressional commission on human rights, posted on his Twitter
page from the event. Gay rights activists held protests in the
city June 21 against a proposal approved by the commission to
let psychologists recommend mental treatment for homosexuality.  Protest Support  Eight out of 10 Brazilians said they support the protests,
according to the Datafolha survey of 4,717 people in 196 cities
on June 27-28. Brazilians who say Rousseff’s management of the
economy is good fell to 27 percent, from 49 percent, according
to the poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 2
percentage points.  Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told the daily Folha
that Rousseff is “calm” about her drop in popularity and the
government will keep working to reverse the slide in approval
ratings. A ministry official declined to comment.  In response to the unrest, Rousseff on June 24 pledged
another 50 billion reais for urban transportation after meeting
with leaders of the protest group Passe Livre.  By Tuesday she will present Congress with a request to call
a plebiscite on measures to make Brazil’s electoral system more
representative and less susceptible to corruption. Proposals
will include issues such as campaign financing, Education
Minister Aloizio Mercadante said on June 28.  In the Datafolha survey released yesterday, 68 percent of
those surveyed said they support the plebescite proposal.  ‘Demonstrations Cup’  Rousseff, who has struggled to stay ahead of the protests
after being jeered at the tournament’s opening match June 15 in
Brasilia, didn’t include today’s soccer cup final on her
official agenda e-mailed by the presidential press office last
night.  FIFA’s Confederations Cup has been dubbed the
“Demonstrations Cup” in placards and chants as protesters
criticize money spent on stadiums in a nation where 21 percent
of the population lives below the poverty line.  Protests have taken place ahead of almost every match,
sometimes turning violent.  A group led by Odebrecht SA, Brazil’s largest builder,
offered to pay 5.5 million reais annually to Rio’s state
government to manage the near 79,000-seat Maracana, which
reopened this month after a three-year, $500 million renovation.  Eike Batista  Billionaire  Eike Batista , who holds a minority stake in the
group has also been the focus of criticism. Batista’s joint
venture with IMG Worldwide Inc. first pitched the state on
leasing the facility and then was hired to carry out the
financial viability study. Batista is also a friend of Rio
Governor Sergio Cabral, himself a target of the anti-corruption
movement that’s swept across the country.  During the closing ceremony before the game, two people
appeared from under football-shaped umbrellas and briefly
unfurled a banner that said ’‘Immediately Cancel the
Privatization of the Maracana” before being apprehended by
security.  IMX, when asked about protesters’ charges that the
privatization process lacked transparency, responded in an e-mailed statement that it had followed all laws. Consorcio
Maracana SA declined to comment, referring questions to the
state government, which said the leasing process has concluded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  