-- Romania to Cut Rate 1st Time Since March 2012, Survey Shows
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-07-01T08:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/romania-to-cut-main-rate-first-time-in-16-months-on-cpi-outlook.html
Romania will probably cut its main
 interest rate , the European Union’s second-highest, for the
first time in more than a year as the central bank projects
inflation will slow to within its target in the second half.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will trim the benchmark rate
today to a record-low 5 percent from 5.25 percent, according to
11 of 16 economists in a  Bloomberg survey . Five predict the bank
will leave the rate unchanged. The decision will be announced
after 11 a.m. in Bucharest, with Governor Mugur Isarescu to
brief reporters later in the day.  Policy makers, who last cut rates in March 2012, would join
central banks across eastern  Europe  in seeking to bolster
economic growth even as signs of a pullback in U.S. monetary
stimulus dent asset prices. Isarescu signaled in May that he’d
deliver several reductions this year as inflation eases.  “We doubt the recent market tension has convinced the
central bank to postpone the easing cycle because we haven’t
seen signs of strong foreign-exchange interventions over the
past weeks, a departure from the very active style of previous
years,” Vlad Muscalu, a Bucharest-based economist at ING Bank
 Romania , said before the rate announcement. “We judged this as
expressing a commitment for a soft-rates environment.”  Currency Gains  The leu gained 0.2 percent to 4.4549 against the euro, the
strongest level since June 26 on a closing basis, at 10:18 a.m.
in Bucharest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has lost 0.2 percent this year as investor concern that
the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce its bond-buying program
ended a domestic debt rally.  Romania halted a rate-cutting cycle more than a year ago
after a drought stoked food prices and utility bills rose
following a pledge to the  International Monetary Fund  to free
energy prices. Its main rate is second only to  Croatia ’s within
the EU after the Adriatic nation became the trading bloc’s 28th
member today.  The country’s May inflation rate was unchanged from a year
earlier at 5.3 percent, National Statistics Institute data show.
Price growth will return to the central bank’s 1.5 percent-3.5
percent target range by year-end, policy makers  predict .  “Inflation in May remains well above the target, but we
think it will decline sharply in the third quarter on lower food
inflation due to base effects,” Barclays Plc economist  Daniel Hewitt  said in a note before the decision. “The National Bank
has signaled a willingness to begin cutting rates in the third
quarter, even before reported inflation numbers have declined.”  Poland, Hungary  Romania would join Poland and  Hungary  in lowering borrowing
costs to boost growth. Poland cut its benchmark to a record 2.75
percent June 5 as the economy grapples with its worst slowdown
in four years. Hungary reduced its main rate to a record 4.25
percent on June 25 in an 11th straight quarter-point cut.  Romanian  gross domestic product  advanced 2.2 percent from a
year earlier in the first quarter, accelerating from a 1.1
percent pace in the previous three months. GDP growth this year
may exceed the government’s 1.6 percent forecast because of a
better harvest, Isarescu said in May.  “Romania will probably outperform most central and eastern
European countries in 2013, but agriculture and industry are
benefitting from short-term growth drivers,” Dan Bucsa, a
London-based economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , wrote in a research
report today. “Postponing the easing cycle would have a
negative impact on bonds and the leu, but more importantly, on
the economy” as tight monetary conditions “don’t support a
sustainable economic recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  