-- Rudd Selects Cabinet as Australia Polls Show Labor Closing Gap
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-01T04:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/rudd-s-new-look-ministry-seeks-to-unify-australia-s-riven-labor.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
announced his ministerial team, opting for less familiar names
as he seeks to distance himself from predecessor Julia Gillard
and narrow the ruling  Labor party ’s deficit in opinion polls.  Rudd also rewarded some of his supporters, with deputy
Anthony Albanese given the communications post, Joel Fitzgibbon
agriculture and powerbroker Bill Shorten adding school education
to his portfolio of workplace relations. The new ministry of 30,
sworn in today, will have 11 women.  “I have assembled today a strong economic team,” Rudd
told reporters in Newcastle. “We’ll have the largest number of
women of any cabinet in Australia’s history.”  Rudd, 55, needs to rally Labor and clarify his policy
priorities as polls taken in the wake of his return as leader
indicate he may help avert a wipeout by  Tony Abbott ’s opposition
coalition at this year’s election. The party’s talent pool has
been drained by ministerial resignations, dismissals and
reshuffles from three leadership spats since Gillard ousted Rudd
in 2010.  “The prime minister will be impressing on his team that
there can’t be any slip-ups and it needs to portray a unified
front,” said Haydon Manning, a politics professor at Flinders
University in Adelaide. “The fact that a lot of the names in
the ministry won’t be familiar to many in the public isn’t the
main concern. It’s all about getting the message across that
this can provide credible government.”  Senior Roles  Albanese’s communications portfolio will see him take over
responsibility for the broadband network and retain his
infrastructure brief, Rudd said. Brendan O’Connor was given the
employment portfolio; Kim Carr innovation, industry and science;
Catherine King regional Australia; Tony Burke immigration; Mark
Butler climate change and Richard Marles trade.  Penny Wong  will
remain as finance minister.  While Rudd hasn’t committed to Gillard’s pledge to hold an
election on Sept. 14, he must hold it this year. Governor
General Quentin Bryce swore in the ministers and parliamentary
secretaries in Canberra today.  “The new ministry isn’t even the B team, it’s the C team”
Abbott, 55, told reporters in Canberra today. “Not too many
days will pass under Kevin Rudd when people will feel nostalgic
for  Julia Gillard .”  The appointments come after polls conducted by Newspoll,
Galaxy and ReachTEL, conducted after Rudd’s June 26 removal of
Gillard, show that while Rudd’s return has boosted support for
Labor, the party would still lose the election if it were held
now.  Poll Bounce  A Newspoll published in The Australian newspaper today
shows Rudd is ahead of Abbott as preferred leader by 49 percent
to 35 percent. The poll, conducted June 28-30, has the coalition
in front of Labor by 51 percent to 49 percent on a two-party
basis, designed to gauge which party is most likely to form
government under Australia’s preferential voting system.  That two percentage-point gap is narrower than a 14
percentage-point gap a week ago. The survey of 1,149 people had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Newspoll
is 50 percent owned by News Ltd. and 50 percent by Millward
Brown Inc., a market-research company.  “Honeymoon is a good term for it,” Norman Abjorensen, a
Canberra-based political analyst at Australia National
University, said by phone yesterday, referring to Rudd’s poll
bounces. “The opposition have had a free run recently and
suddenly you have the worst possible scenario for Abbott -- Rudd
returning.”  Crean Exit  Rudd’s ouster of Gillard, 51, who subsequently announced
her retirement from politics, resulted in the resignation of
seven ministers including Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who has been
replaced by Rudd loyalist  Chris Bowen .  Former party chief  Simon Crean  today said he would quit
parliament at the election. The then-Regional Development
Minister Crean attempted in March to bring on a challenge to
Gillard, which failed when Rudd decided not to run.  Other prominent names who plan to leave parliament or have
quit include  Greg Combet ,  Stephen Smith , Joe Ludwig, Craig
Emerson, Peter Garrett and Stephen Conroy. The resignations
followed then-Attorney General Nicola Roxon and Senate leader
 Chris Evans  in February, which forced a reshuffle.  Rudd has been criticized by colleagues including Swan for
an autocratic style, raising questions over whether Labor can
rally behind him before the election. Swan last year described
him as a man of “great weakness” who demeaned party colleagues
during his tenure as prime minister from 2007-2010.  Rudd’s Challenges  Rudd said he returned to the leadership to avoid a
“catastrophic” election defeat for Labor. He faces the
challenge of uniting his party and deciding whether to support
some big-ticket policy items that Gillard struggled to sell to
voters. Those include the nation’s first levy on greenhouse-gas
emissions and a tax on mining company profits that budget
documents show may reap A$1.8 billion ($1.64 billion) less
revenue than previously forecast for the financial year ended
yesterday.  Rudd will have a chance to address the issue of asylum
seekers when he visits  Indonesia  on July 4 and 5 to meet with
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. Hundreds of illegal
migrants, often from war-torn Middle Eastern and South Asian
nations, have drowned in the waters between Indonesia and
 Australia , with sections of the community concerned those who do
arrive receive undeserved welfare payments.  Rhodes Scholar  Same-sex marriage, which Rudd now supports, is another
issue where he is seeking to create policy differences with
Abbott, saying the opposition leader should reverse his policy
and let coalition lawmakers vote in parliament according to
their views on the issue.  Abbott, a Rhodes Scholar and former amateur boxer who
studied for the priesthood, has been painted by Labor as a
social conservative with sexist views. Gillard last October
stood up in parliament and accused Abbott of “repulsive double
standards when it comes to misogyny and sexism.”  One reason Rudd may be promoting the number of women named
in his ministry is to put pressure back on Abbott, said Stephen
Stockwell, a political analyst and Griffith University professor
of journalism and communications in  Brisbane .  Others given new portfolio commitments today include Julie
Collins with housing, Sharon Bird with regional development, and
Melissa Parke with international development.  “Rudd can argue with good reason that the relatively large
number of female appointments to the ministry is merit-driven
because a lot of the senior Labor figures retiring at the next
election are men and many of the party’s talented younger people
are women,” Stockwell said. “It may also help win back some of
the female voters turned off by the way he defeated Gillard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  