-- Samsung Slides Equivalent of Sony as S4 Sales Disappoint
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-07-01T08:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/samsung-slides-equivalent-of-sony-as-galaxy-s4-sales-disappoint.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost $25.3
billion in market capitalization last month, more than the value
of competitor Sony Corp., as sales of its flagship Galaxy S4
smartphone fell short of investor expectations.  Since the handset was released April 26, the company that
sells nearly one of every three mobile phones has  plunged 10.8 
percent as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley lowered sales
forecasts and cut profit estimates. Fifteen analysts cut second-quarter net income estimates for Samsung in June, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company declined to comment on
its share price and S4 sales.  Manufacturers of high-end models in the $358 billion
mobile-phone industry are suffering as consumers hold off on
buying expensive handsets that aren’t considered innovative.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  fell 9.4 percent in the month after releasing the
iPhone 5 while  China ’s Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE (000063)  Corp.
sold smartphones costing about $100, or about an eighth the
price of the S4 in South Korea.  “Consumers find no good reason to buy the S4 since it has
no big difference with its predecessor,” said Oh Sang Woo, an
analyst at Leading Investment & Securities in Seoul. “Chinese
companies are becoming a bigger threat to Samsung than any other
players.”  The  Galaxy S4  -- with a 5-inch screen, 13-megapixel camera
and motion-detecting software -- is one of three high-end
handsets being released by Samsung this year. The device is part
of the company’s plan to win customers from Apple, which was the
top smartphone seller in the U.S. in the last quarter of 2012.  Forecasts Cut  Samsung  fell  1.2 percent to 1,326,000 won at the close in
 Seoul  trading. The Kospi index sank 0.4 percent.  Samsung said May 23 it sold 10 million units of the S4
within a month of its release -- about half the time it took the
S3 to reach that benchmark. Two weeks later, JPMorgan and Morgan
Stanley lowered their sales estimates for the year, citing
supply-chain checks.  JPMorgan cut its profit estimate for Samsung by 9 percent
while revising its sales estimate to 60 million units this year
from 80 million.  Morgan Stanley reduced its earnings estimate by 1.6 percent
and lowered sales expectations to 61 million units from 71
million, analysts led by Shawn Kim said. The world’s largest
mobile-phone manufacturer also reduced monthly orders of
components from suppliers, according to Kim.  Android, Tizen  Samsung shares declined 12.7 percent last month, the most
since May 2012.  Apple placed orders with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. for processing chips, the Wall Street Journal  reported ,
citing an unidentified company official at TSMC. The move is
part of Apple’s shift away from relying on Samsung, according to
the newspaper.  Samsung is scheduled to release second-quarter operating
profit and sales figures on July 5. Operating profit was 10
trillion won ($8.8 billion), according to the average of 33
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were 58.5
trillion won, according to the average of 37 estimates.  Samsung is looking to retain smartphone customers through a
new, open-source platform called Tizen as it seeks to reduce its
reliance on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung will release a Tizen-based phone as soon as
August, the company said in March.  Samsung introduced a lower-priced S4-mini in May to help
compete in  emerging markets  and offset a sales slowdown in the
high-end market, Oh said.  Acquisitions  The company also plans to acquire communications, health
and education businesses to bring features to handheld devices
to compete with Apple, David Eun, an executive vice president,
said last month.  “Apple is also expected to release a lower-end smartphone
for the mass market,” said Lee Jin Woo, a fund manager at KTB
Asset Management. “Given that Samsung may also have to expand
its lower-end product lineups, it’s inevitable that their
mobile-phone margin will also be squeezed, at least from the
second half of the year.”  Sony (6758) , which has a market capitalization of 2.15 trillion
yen ($21.7 billion), has more than doubled this year as the
Japanese currency weakened and as the electronics maker posted
its first profit in five years.  Huawei, ZTE  Huawei ranked No. 4 globally in smartphone shipments during
the first quarter of this year, and ZTE was No. 5, according to
Strategy Analytics. ZTE plans to sell more smartphones directly
through retailers in Europe to improve its brand awareness, He Shiyou, the company’s head of mobile phones, said in an
interview last week.  Companies including  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  are expanding into
software, mobile games and social-network applications to offset
their reliance on hardware sales. Lenovo plans to boost
smartphone shipments 72 percent to 50 million units this year
and start selling handsets in the U.S., Chief Executive Officer
 Yang Yuanqing  said in May.  “Demand for high-end smartphones generally has probably
slackened some,” Steve Myers, an analyst in  Tokyo  with JI Asia
Research Ltd., said in an e-mail. “The debut prices for the
iPhone 5 and for the S4 have been high in some markets. At the
margin, competitors’ products have improved relative to Apple
and to Samsung.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  