-- St. Petersburg to Moscow Boom Ending Spurs Etalon Stock Tumble
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2013-07-01T12:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/st-petersburg-boom-ending-spurs-etalon-tumble-russia-overnight.html
Etalon Group Ltd. (ETLN) , a St. Petersburg-based builder listed in  London , posted its biggest quarterly
drop in almost two years as Credit Suisse Group AG and VTB
Capital slashed earnings forecasts amid a housing slowdown.  Depositary receipts tumbled 14 percent last week to $3.43,
bringing the quarterly loss to 31 percent, the worst plunge
since September 2011 and the biggest among 29 multi-family
housing developers globally with a market value of at least $500
million. The stock added 1 percent by 1:10 p.m. in London,
trading at 43 percent of its average three-month volume. The
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
stocks in the U.S. climbed 2.1 percent last week, paring the
second-quarter loss to 14 percent.  Credit Suisse cut its rating on Etalon’s stock to hold and
reduced its annual earnings forecast by 43 percent on June 27,
citing “pricing and cost dynamics,” 12-month delays for some
developments and a lack of communication from company
management. Prices for new residences in  St. Petersburg ,
 Russia ’s second-largest city and Etalon’s main business area,
have edged up just 0.5 percent this year, after jumping 11
percent in 2012, 8 percent in 2011 and 5 percent in 2010,
according to property website Byulleten Nedvizhimosti.  “This market is very intolerant of poor  investor relations 
or management failing to deliver on promises,” Julian Rimmer, a
trader at CF Global Trading UK Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Longer-term, I think they have
solid prospects.”  Etalon’s press service declined to comment.  Low Valuation  Etalon is trading at 4.3 times estimated earnings for the
next 12 months, the second-lowest among the group of 29 property
developers and compared with 7.7 times for  OAO LSR Group (LSRG) ,
Russia’s biggest listed homebuilder. LSR surged 8.5 percent in
London last week, paring its quarterly drop to 3.5 percent. The
stock is down less than 0.1 percent today, its first drop in
four days.  New-home prices in Moscow were little changed in the first
five months of this year after advancing by at least 10 percent
in each of the past three years, according to Byulleten
Nedvizhimosti. The Economy Ministry estimates gross domestic
product growth will slow to 2.4 percent this year, the weakest
pace since a 7.8 percent contraction in 2009.  Etalon’s margin on earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, a measure of  profitability ,
shrank to 26 percent last year from 36 percent in 2011,
according to the company’s website. Changes in Moscow and St.
Petersburg city governments led to delays in residential
developments and issuance of permits, the company said in a Nov.
22 statement.  ‘Unclear’ Environment  The delays may shrink Etalon’s margins further, according
to Credit Suisse.  “Etalon’s business model is sensitive to political,
regulatory, macro and cost risks, creating an unclear earnings
environment,” Victoria Petrova, an analyst at Credit Suisse in
 Frankfurt , said in its report emailed June 27. “Investors need
more regular updates on projects developments.”  Petrova declined to comment beyond the report.  VTB Capital reduced its forecasts for Etalon’s Ebitda by a
cumulative 31 percent for 2013 to 2016 in a report released in
April, citing development delays.  UralSib upgraded Etalon to buy today, keeping the price
target at $5 on “attractive valuations.” UralSib also rates
LSR and its smaller competitor  PIK Group (PIKK)  as a buy.  Slowing increases in housing prices may lure more buyers to
the market, sustaining demand for Etalon’s properties, according
to Marat Ibragimov, a senior analyst with UralSib in Moscow.  Good Demand  “People are ready to cut other expenses to buy housing,”
Ibragimov said in a telephone interview today. “Demand is good.
There is a market for them. The rest is up to the companies.”  Futures on Russia’s RTS Index added 0.5 percent to 126,410.
The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, fell 3.7 percent, its fifth consecutive drop.  The Market Vectors Russia ETF rose 0.6 percent to $25.18,
paring its monthly drop to 0.5 percent and its quarterly retreat
to 9.3 percent. OAO Mechel fell 43 percent in the three months
while search-engine operator  Yandex NV (YNDX)  added 19 percent in  New
York .  Yandex’s surge quarter was the biggest since July-September
2012. Shares of Russia’s Russia’s largest Internet search engine
jumped after the company posted a 79 percent increase in first-quarter profit in April and raised its 2013 sales target because
of growth in online advertising.  Mechel ADRs  Yandex leads Google Inc. in Russian Internet searches with
more than 60 percent market share versus about 26 percent for
the U.S.-based company, according to data from Liveinternet.ru.  Mail.ru Group Ltd., Russia’s largest social-network
operator, fell 0.7 percent to $28.47 in London, its first
decline in five days. Mail.ru is reducing reliance on
advertising revenue in Russia and plans to expand against
Facebook Inc. by luring mobile users with a combination of
online communication and entertainment, Dmitry Grishin, chief
executive officer of Mail.ru, said in an interview.  American depositary receipts of  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s biggest
producer of coking coal for steelmakers, are down 58 percent
this year. The Moscow-based company announced a $100 million
stock buyback plan June 18. Mechel fell 1 percent to 96.40
rubles in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  