-- U.K. House Prices Increase as Property-Market Strength Broadens
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/u-k-house-prices-increase-as-property-market-strength-broadens.html
U.K. house prices  rose for a fifth
month in June as a shortage of properties boosted values,
according to Hometrack Ltd.  Average values in England and  Wales  increased 0.4 percent,
the same as in May, which was the biggest in six years, the
London-based property researcher said today. From a year
earlier, prices were up an annual 0.8 percent.  London  led
monthly gains with a 0.9 percent surge.  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme has helped
ease credit strains and loosened the supply of mortgages.
Hometrack said the improvement in the property market is
spreading beyond London, with 31 percent of postcodes reporting
higher prices last month, the most since September 2007.  “We expect prices to continue to increase, though at a
slower rate, as we move into the summer months,” said Richard Donnell, director of research at Hometrack. “An expansion in
supply to ease the pressure on prices looks unlikely and the
short-term direction for the market depends upon demand and
expectations over the outlook.”  First-time buyer demand is rising at a time when owners are
holding off listing their homes until they have a new house
secured, Hometrack said. Growth in property listings slowed to
1.6 percent in June from 2.8 percent in May.  Hometrack’s report adds to signs of strength in the market.
Nationwide Building Society said June 28 prices rose 0.3 percent
last month from May. Values increased 1.9 percent from a year
earlier.  Mark Carney will lead his first meeting as governor of the
central bank this week and will assess whether further aid to
the economy is needed to support the recovery. The BOE will
probably leave its bond-purchase program unchanged at the
meeting, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  