-- U.K. to Sign Kazakh Business Deals Worth 700 Million Pounds
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-30T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/u-k-to-sign-kazakh-business-deals-worth-700-million-pounds.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
arrived in  Kazakhstan  today to lead a British business
delegation expected to sign deals worth more than 700 million
pounds ($1.1 billion).  Cameron is in Kazakhstan on the last leg of a three-day
trip that included visits to  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan . He met a
delegation of more than 30 British businesses in Atyrau,
Kazakhstan’s oil hub on the Caspian Sea coast, before traveling
on to the capital Astana.  “We are in a global race for jobs and investment,”
Cameron told reporters in Atyrau. “We’re hoping to sign over
700 million pounds worth of deals. That mean jobs back at home
and also investment in this rapidly growing economy. That’s what
this is about.”  Thirteen deals with British businesses in the energy,
transport and infrastructure industries are expected to be
signed during Cameron’s visit, Kazakh Foreign Minister Erlan
Idrissov told reporters.  “Our relations have delivered great benefits for both
sides particularly in the energy sector,” Idrissov told
reporters. “But there are bigger prospects for the future.”  Kazakhstan is also part of the northern distribution
network supporting British forces in Afghanistan and has
committed to provide support through air and land for Britain’s
exit from Afghanistan. Idrissov said the future of Afghanistan
was “critical to the stability of central  Asia ” and that it
had already ratified an agreement with the U.K. on air transit,
though it did not plan to sign a deal on rail transit during
Cameron’s visit.  “A bilateral agreement on rail transit is under
negotiation,” Idrissov said. “We hope to complete it very
soon.”  Human Rights  Kazakhstan’s government, which has hired former U.K. prime
minister  Tony Blair  to advise on governance issues, has been
criticized by  Human Rights  Watch Inc., a New York-based
nonprofit advocacy group. The group asked Cameron in a letter
published on Friday to raise the issue of deteriorating human
rights with President  Nursultan Nazarbayev .  Cameron, who is scheduled to meet Nazarbayev tomorrow in
Astana, rejected the assertion that he was putting trade ahead
of human rights.  “I don’t accept that,” he said. “These are important
things for British jobs, for British investment, for the British
economy. That’s why I’ m here, that’s what I’m fighting for. But
nothing is off the agenda. Britain always stands up for human
rights wherever we are in the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Atyrau on  sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  