-- U.K. Financial Firms Seen Hiring After Eliminating 10,000 Jobs
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/u-k-financial-firms-seen-hiring-after-eliminating-10-000-jobs.html
U.K. financial firms may hire in the
third quarter after cutting a worse-than-estimated 10,000 jobs
in the three months through June, according to the  Confederation
of British Industry .  Banks, insurers and asset managers may add about 1,000
positions in the coming three months, Britain’s biggest business
lobby group and accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said
in a study published today. The same survey estimated in April
that firms would hire 2,000 jobs in the second quarter.  The reversal comes as lenders including  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  cut staff to save
costs and run down or sell unwanted assets amid tightened
regulatory capital requirements. The proportion of banks citing
legislation and new rules as a factor limiting expansion in the
year ahead “rose notably,” the CBI said.  “After allowing costs to rise in the first quarter of the
year, banks are renewing their focus on efficiency and staff
numbers are beginning to fall again,” Kevin Burrowes, a partner
at PwC, said in the report.  Britain’s four largest lenders will have eliminated about
189,000 jobs by the end of this year from their peak staffing
levels, bringing employment to a nine-year low, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CBI’s survey found 34 percent more respondents said
trading increased in the three months through June and 42
percent forecast higher sales in the next quarter.  The CBI, based in  London  and PwC surveyed 94 banks,
insurers, customer-owned lenders, investment managers and
securities firms from May 20 to June 6.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  