-- U.K.’s Spending Plans Bolster Investor Certainty, Alexander Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-06-30T23:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/u-k-s-spending-plans-boost-investor-certainty-alexander-says.html
U.K. spending plans unveiled last
week increase certainty for companies to invest, Chief Treasury
Secretary Danny Alexander said, as his Cabinet colleague Francis Maude signaled further government cuts.  It’s the “right time to set out the longer-term plans now
that we know we’ve got our deficit and our public finances
moving in the right direction,” Alexander told the BBC’s
“Andrew Marr Show” yesterday. “What I’ve announced is our
plans going out to 2020, providing precisely the sort of long-term certainty that investors in the private sector say that
they need in order to gear up to deliver the sort of
infrastructure this country needs.”  Alexander  detailed  100 billion pounds ($152 billion) worth
of  capital spending  planned for the last five years of this
decade on June 27, the day after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  set out budget cuts for the 2015 general election
year. The government has had to extend its deficit-cutting
measures to 2017-18 amid weaker-than-expected  economic growth .  “The deficit is coming down,” Alexander said yesterday.
“We have got our deficit down by a third. We have plans to
continue to get it down. We need to continue the steps to get
our borrowing down.”  He said economic forecasts “have not been as they were”
because of problems in the euro zone.  “The damage done to our country by the banking crisis has
been deeper than we thought,” Alexander said. “It is taking
longer. It is a long, hard road that we’re on, but I think we
have to stick to that road.”  Public Opinion  His comments came as polls show that while Osborne has
greater voter support for his handling of the economy than the
opposition  Labour Party , the ruling  Conservative Party  trail in
 public opinion . An ICM Research  survey  of 2,006 U.K. adults
between June 26-28 for the Sunday Telegraph and published
yesterday found that 30 percent backed Prime Minster  David Cameron  and Osborne on the economy, with Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and his shadow chancellor  Ed Balls  on 23 percent.  Still, the poll showed public sentiment toward the
prospects for Labour increased in the past month. Asked to
predict the result of the next national election rather than
which party they would back, 34 percent of respondents said
Labour would win, up two percentage points from last month. The
Conservatives were unchanged at 29 percent and the Liberal
Democrats, the junior member of Cameron’s coalition government,
were down one percentage point at 15 percent.  Spending Cuts  A separate  YouGov Plc (YOU)   poll  for the Sunday Times yesterday
found 38 percent of voters would pick Labour if an election were
held now, with 33 percent supporting the Conservatives. YouGov,
which said support for the Liberal Democrats was at 11 percent,
surveyed 1,967 voters between June 27-28.  Neither poll included a margin of error.  On June 26, Osborne set out spending cuts for the 2015
election year, announcing 11.5 billion pounds of  budget
reductions . The following day, the government announced it will
sell off 15 billion pounds of state-owned assets by 2020 to help
bring down its debt.  “Last week shows that we continue to be capable of taking
the difficult decisions on the economy,” Deputy Prime Minister
and Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  said in an e-mailed
statement. “The Liberal Democrats remain unambiguously
committed to the economic strategy; and we continue to recognise
that it is our duty to put party differences aside for the sake
of the national interest.”  More Cuts  Cabinet Minister Maude yesterday told  Sky News  there will
be more cuts to come.  “In the year to March last year, we took out over 10
billion pounds in efficiency savings,” he said. “What we’ve
done so far is identify over 5 billion pounds of similar savings
for 2015-2016, but there’s more to come. That’s why we announced
as part of the spending review we’re going to be doing this on a
continuing basis and there’s definitely more to come.”  Alexander told the  BBC  that an assessment of the U.K.’s
Trident nuclear deterrent system will show that there are
alternatives.  “The review was completed two weeks ago and submitted to
the prime minister and deputy prime minister,” he said. “While
the review doesn’t come to any conclusions, I think when we
publish the results in a few weeks’ time, people will see that
there are choices available to this country, there are
alternatives where we can -- as President Obama said in Berlin
last week -- move on from the Cold War postures of the past.”  Alexander said his Liberal Democrat colleagues will not
attend Parliament on July 5 to discuss a proposed bill allowing
a referendum on the nation’s membership of the European Union.  Promised Renegotiation  Cameron has promised a renegotiation of the U.K.’s
membership of the EU, followed by a popular vote on whether to
stay in the bloc, if his party wins the 2015 election outright.
However, he cannot introduce legislation on a referendum because
 Liberal Democrats  oppose it. Instead, Cameron’s Conservatives
have published a draft bill to guarantee a vote by the end of
2017.  Alexander said the private member’s bill, which will be
steered through Parliament by Conservative lawmaker James
Wharton, was a “parliamentary stunt,” and “we’re not going to
be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  