-- U.S. Should Show Some Ambition on Bank Leverage
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/u-s-should-show-some-ambition-on-bank-leverage.html
U.S. regulators are showing
encouraging signs of coming to a crucial understanding: If they
want the financial system to be more resilient and beneficial
for the economy, they’ll have to make sure the largest banks’
shareholders have more skin in the game.  This week, Federal Reserve officials are expected to vote
on new rules for bank capital --  shareholders’ equity  and other
forms of financing that, as opposed to debt, can absorb losses
and prevent insolvency in times of trouble. According to
 Bloomberg News , U.S. authorities  have been considering 
increasing the requirement to $6 in capital for every $100 in
assets, a “leverage ratio” of 6 percent. That’s double the
international minimum set by global regulators in  Basel ,
 Switzerland . The current U.S. minimum is 4 percent.  A higher leverage ratio would be a welcome step toward
strengthening the U.S. banking system. By  international
accounting standards , five of the country’s largest banks --
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley -- have, on average,
just $3.40 in equity for each $100 in assets. They fund the rest
of their combined $13.8 trillion in assets with borrowed money.
Such extreme leverage means that a mere 3.4 percent drop in
asset values could render them insolvent. This compares with a
typical buffer of 8.7 percent for smaller banks,  according  to
data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Risk Weights  The  leverage ratio  has the advantage of being easier to
understand, and hence to monitor, than the complex risk-weighted
 capital ratios  that regulators have favored until now. Risk-weighting lets banks use less equity and more debt to finance
supposedly safer investments -- for example, a $100,000 subprime
mortgage loan might count as $100,000 in assets for capital-adequacy purposes, while $100,000 in  government bonds  might
count as zero. It’s an easily manipulated process that commonly
shrinks big institutions’ assets by half or more. The risk
adjustments also encourage banks to favor investments with high
yields and zero weights -- a market distortion that, among other
things, contributed to the euro crisis by prompting European
banks to load up on Greek sovereign debt.  Officials at the  Federal Reserve  have  expressed concern 
about relying too much on the leverage ratio: If it is blind to
the types of assets banks hold, they’ll go ahead and load up on
the riskiest stuff possible. A bank that invested only in
subprime loans, for instance, could look the same as a bank that
put all its money in U.S. Treasury bonds. But nobody is
suggesting that risk-weighted measures be abolished. Regulators
can and should use them as a secondary constraint, to make sure
banks aren’t gaming the system.  Equally important is whether requirements for the numerator
and denominator in the leverage ratio -- capital divided by
assets -- are as demanding as they should be. On capital, FDIC
Vice Chairman Tom Hoenig has  advocated  $10 for each $100 in
assets. E conomists  Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig, as well as
 research  by the  Bank of England , have suggested that $20 per
$100 would be best for the economy. Given the immense cost of
banking crises, it would be prudent to err on the high side.  On the denominator side -- assets -- the big banks have
lobbied hard to craft the rules to their advantage. They’ve
succeeded in getting regulators to ignore a large portion of
their derivatives positions, and they have been pushing to
exclude  Treasury securities  and cash held at the Fed, according
to Bloomberg News. Such omissions can cut hundreds of billions
of dollars from the banks’ measured assets, making them appear
less levered than they really are. Again, such exceptions can
create incentives for banks to get too exposed to investments
that enjoy special treatment.  Arcane as they may seem, these details matter. A loophole
in the definition of assets and several percentage points in a
leverage ratio can make the difference between a banking system
that takes down the economy and one that guides it intact
through the next crisis. This time, regulators must get it
right.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 