-- Turkish Protests Put Istanbul’s 2020 Olympic Bid on Back Foot
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-06-30T21:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/turkish-protests-put-istanbul-s-2020-olympic-bid-on-back-foot.html
Violent clashes between police and
tens of thousands of protesters have turned Istanbul into a
riskier bet to host the 2020  Olympic Games  just as it seemed an
attractive option, sports industry consultants said.  The unrest which broke out in late May gives the other two
candidates,  Tokyo  and  Madrid , a better chance of being selected,
Marc Ganis, president of Chicago-based Sportscorp Ltd. said. The
 International Olympic Committee , or IOC, is scheduled to pick
the host on Sept. 7.  The IOC will have to weigh the prospect of social unrest in
2020 against its own mandate of seeking to take the Olympics to
new territories, Ganis said. Turkey, which straddles  Asia  and
 Europe , hasn’t staged the Games before.  “The IOC has to be worried” by the protests, Ganis said
by phone. “There’s a lot of value in Istanbul considering its
geographical position on the globe but at the same time it may
not be ready.”  Istanbul, which bid unsuccessfully for the 2000 to 2012
editions of the summer Olympics, is second-favorite after Tokyo
with all seven bookmakers listed on  oddschecker.com . Madrid is
the outsider, according to the website.  Protests against Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
erupted over what demonstrators say is his increasingly
authoritarian conduct and attempts to impose Islamic rules.
Protesters smashed and overturned police cars and municipal
vehicles, scrawling graffiti on the wreckage. Their grievances
included alleged brutality by security forces, curbs on alcohol
sales and labor unions, urban development projects that encroach
on green spaces, and a growing religious influence on education.  Protesters ‘Traitors’  Police repeatedly used tear gas and water cannons to
disperse crowds, and detained hundreds. The unrest eased after
June 15, when security forces drove protesters out of their camp
in Istanbul’s Gezi Park, though there have been sporadic clashes
since then. Demonstrators have adopted new tactics, including
staging silent vigils and holding forums in downtown parks.  Turkey’s Sports Minister Suat Kilic told state-run TRT
television on June 20 that the protests in Istanbul hadn’t
affected its chances of hosting the games, although that may
change if they continue. Kilic described protesters opposed to
the Olympic bid as “traitors.”  Mahmut Kalp, a  taxi driver  who was among protesters in
Istanbul’s Taksim Square for several days in early June, said
that Erdogan’s government has modernized Turkey but “its
success story in the last decade is being trashed” by the
government’s crackdown on demonstrators.  ‘Impossible Place’  “If this rhetoric continues, these protests will never
stop and that will make Turkey an impossible place to hold” the
Olympics, said Kalp, 34.  The IOC might see choosing Istanbul as a chance to act as
an intermediary in order to increase its own relevance,
according to Janice Forsyth, director of the  International
Center for Olympic Studies  at the  University of Western Ontario ,
 Canada .  “The IOC can’t make changes to a host country but they can
put pressure on governments to change,” Forsyth said. “If you
are hosting the Olympics, you have to open your country up to
the world.”  Merve Sarigul, a 24-year-old graphic designer staging a
silent protest in Taksim last month, said the protests were a
“very local issue” that shouldn’t preclude Istanbul staging
the games. Hosting the Olympics would help Turkey get closer to
the western world, Sarigul added.  ‘Hug It Closer’  “If the world wants to help Turkey to avoid riots like
these they should really not isolate it,” Sarigul said. “They
have to hug it closer.”  The IOC has taken risks with hosts before, picking Sochi in
 Russia  to host the 2014  Winter Games  even though it knew
security would be a concern, Forsyth said. The Olympic
organizers chose  Rio de Janeiro  for the 2016 summer games amid
crime and social issues, Ganis said.  “It’s almost as if they had their fingers crossed behind
their back” in choosing Rio, Ganis said.  More than a million people took to the streets in  Brazil  in
June to call for better health and education, with some
directing anger at spending on soccer’s Confederations Cup,
which concluded yesterday, and the 2014  World Cup .  An IOC evaluation of Istanbul’s bid published June 25
flagged issues including the risk of traffic congestion. The
report, which called security plans “adequate,” was finalized
on April 19, more than a month before the rioting broke out.  ‘Risky Option’  A proposal to recruit 20,000 private security staff could
be a challenge, the report added.  The demonstrations are likely to influence the IOC’s
voting, according to  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports
business strategy at the U.K.’s Coventry University who has
advised the  International Tennis Federation .  “Istanbul would have been a powerful choice because it’s
the nexus of Europe and Asia but now they will be thinking it’s
unstable and they don’t know what’s going to happen there,”
Chadwick said. “It has suddenly become the risky option.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .
Firat Kayakiran in Istanbul at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  