-- Wallabies Snatch Rugby Series Momentum From Devastated Lions
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-01T07:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/wallabies-snatch-rugby-series-momentum-from-devastated-lions.html
Australia  and the British and Irish
Lions went their separate ways to prepare for the deciding rugby
Test with the momentum following the Wallabies to Sydney after
their one-point victory in Melbourne kept the series alive.  While Australia arrived in the harbor city yesterday buoyed
by its win the previous night, the Lions are trying to regroup
almost 700 miles north on Queensland’s Sunshine Coast after
missing a chance to clinch their first series in 16 years.  “It’s going to take the whole squad to pull together,”
Lions lock Geoff Parling told reporters. “These things are hard
to take and you feel devastated, but you’ve got to get yourself
back up for it again. Certainly if you can’t up for the deciding
game of the tour then we’ve probably got a bit of a problem.”  The combined team led by six points with six minutes left
two days ago before Adam Ashley-Cooper crashed over for the only
try and his center partner Christian Leali’ifano, who also
kicked three penalties, converted from an angle to put Australia
one point up. Full-back Leigh Halfpenny missed a long-range
penalty in the final play that would have given the Lions an
unbeatable 2-0 lead heading into the third Test on July 6 at
Sydney’s ANZ Stadium.  It was the second straight week that the outcome was
decided by a missed goal-kick after Kurtley Beale fluffed a
last-minute penalty attempt as the Lions won the June 22 opener
in Brisbane 23-21. Just three points separated the teams in the
first two matches.  Fitting Finale  “There’s nothing in it,” Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans 
said yesterday at the team’s Melbourne hotel. “It’s probably
fitting that we’ve got a finale in Sydney because it would have
been pretty harsh for either side to have been out of the series
at this point.”  The Lions, who tour the Southern Hemisphere every four
years, had entered the best-of-three contest as the bookmakers’
favorite to win their first series since triumphing 2-1 in  South
Africa  in 1997. Local oddsmaker  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH)  now can’t
split the teams heading into the third Test, rating both a 10-11
chance to win the Tom Richards Trophy. That means a successful
$11 bet would return $10 plus the original wager.  Twelve years ago in Sydney, Australia beat the Lions 29-23
to secure a 2-1 victory after also rebounding from a loss in the
opener by winning in Melbourne.  Warburton Out  Lions captain Sam Warburton was today ruled out of the
decider and his opposing skipper may also miss the match. A scan
confirmed Warburton tore his left hamstring two days ago, the
Lions said. Australia’s  James Horwill  faces an International
Rugby Board appeal hearing tonight against his acquittal of
stamping in Brisbane.  Rather than traveling with the squad yesterday to the surf
beaches of Noosa as the Lions take a rest following nine games
in 29 days, Warburton stayed behind in Melbourne for a scan,
which showed a “significant tear.”  “I wish the team all the best and hope I can play some
part in the build up this week,” Warburton said today in a
statement. “I am confident that the boys can finish the job off
and secure the series win.”  After having three backline players stretchered off in
Brisbane, the Wallabies emerged from the second game largely
unscathed, Deans said. Scrum-half Will Genia, named as the man-of-the-match at Etihad Stadium, is managing a knee injury
through the series, the coach added.  Knee Niggle  “Once he gets out and gets going it’s not an issue,”
Deans said of Genia, who was sidelined for six months after
rupturing a knee ligament in September. “And he is managing it,
which is progress for Willy, because he doesn’t like slowing up
whether it be preparations or in game.”  A passive approach to the final quarter may have cost the
Lions the chance to clinch the series with a match to spare,
according to fly-half  Jonathan Sexton . The tourists made no
clean breaks in the match compared to four by Australia.  “At times it just felt like we were sort of wishing the
game to finish rather than going out and going after it,”
Sexton said. “We’ll have to regroup. We knew it was small
margins last week, and it was the same this week. It comes down
to taking your chances, and they took their chance at the end.”  Parling, who replaced Paul O’Connell in the Lions starting
lineup after the Irishman fractured his arm in the first Test,
said the squad was “absolutely devastated” after the loss and
that it would take a big effort to bounce back in time for the
winner-takes-all match in Sydney.  “I don’t feel like doing it at the moment, I feel like
going away in a hole and hiding away to be honest,” Parling
said on the edge of the Etihad Stadium pitch. “We’ve got to get
ourselves up for it. The series is still there for the taking.
We’ve got to make amends.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in  Melbourne  at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  