-- Wendy Davis and the Future of Abortion Rights
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-30T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/wendy-davis-s-argument-and-the-future-of-abortion-rights.html
Was Wendy Davis’s valiant  filibuster 
also in vain? After all, the  Texas  Legislature is set to
 reconvene  this week and probably move to the governor the same
measure she opposed last week, which would restrict access to
abortion.  And it’s not just Texas, where Davis is a state senator:
There are  27  other states that have already passed bills like
the one Davis opposes, which would close all but five of Texas’s
42 abortion clinics. These laws use a subterfuge of regulation
to undermine the constitutional guarantees of Roe v. Wade for
more than 60 percent of U.S. women of reproductive age.  The forces gathered to undermine abortion rights --
including many who entered state legislatures in the 2010
elections -- are impressively thorough and dangerously extreme.
Davis’s lone, passionate voice, even speaking for 10-plus hours,
was never going to prevail against such a national juggernaut.  Yet the two sides are not as unequally matched as it might
seem.  By the time Davis sat down, people opposed to the recent
restrictions on abortion rights -- represented not only by the
noisy throngs in the Texas Capitol but also some 200,000
watching Davis’s filibuster on the Internet -- staged their
first big public backlash. They demonstrated that, when pressed,
the reasonable American center can push back against the extreme
elements opposed to abortion.  Where do Americans stand on this most contentious of
issues? According to the Gallup Organization, 20 percent want
abortion to be illegal in all circumstances, 26 percent want it
always to be legal, and 52 percent believe it should be
somewhere in between -- a  spectrum  that has been constant since
Roe was decided in 1973.  In recent years, defenders of abortion rights have been
laying claim to the middle ground in part by editing their own
argument. The abortion-on-demand-without-apology message of 30
or 40 years ago has shifted to a more moderate plea to uphold
the standards of Roe -- and a more libertarian message about
keeping abortion decisions private and out of government hands.
As Davis  said after  her filibuster, “It’s big government
intruding in private lives in Texas, and Texas values don’t
cotton to that very well.”  In January, a spokeswoman for  Planned Parenthood  rather
quietly announced the organization would no longer use the term
“pro-choice,” saying it had come to seem  frivolous .  No doubt, the term also seems narrow to an organization
that wants the public to view abortion rights as part of a
spectrum of women’s needs including contraception, reproductive
health and child care. Abortions account for only 3 percent of
the  health services  that Planned Parenthood clinics provide.  We don’t blame Planned Parenthood for wanting the argument
to reflect the increasing reality that, while those who oppose
abortion rights may be extremists, those who defend them -- even
those as passionate as Wendy Davis -- are not.  There have been signs that voters are listening to the
reasonable middle. In the 2012 election, for instance, U.S.
Senate candidates in Missouri and Indiana were turned away after
making public comments questioning the need for abortion in
cases of rape.  Davis and other legislators in states dominated by social
conservatives are right to keep up the fight to protect abortion
rights. Even if they lose their battles this week or next, this
year or next, they shouldn’t be discouraged. They won’t be
standing alone for long.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 