-- Williams Faces Lisicki in Serve Battle on ‘Manic Monday’
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-30T23:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/williams-faces-lisicki-in-serve-battle-on-manic-monday-.html
After surviving “Wipeout
Wednesday,” defending champion  Serena Williams  may face her
biggest test at Wimbledon yet as she takes on a player with an
equally powerful serve.  Women’s top seed and French Open winner Williams opens
Centre Court play on what is known as “Manic Monday” at
Wimbledon -- when all 16 fourth-round matches are scheduled --
against Sabine Lisicki. The 24th-ranked German has knocked the
reigning  Roland Garros  champion out of Wimbledon in three of the
past four years.  “She always pulls an upset,” Williams, 31, said two days
ago after dropping only two games against 42-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm of Japan. “It will be a really tough match for me. I
have to get serious to play it.”  Lisicki, 23, has produced 202 aces this season, second only
to Williams, who has 292. Her powerful game got the better of
then-French Open winner Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia at
Wimbledon in 2009, China’s  Li Na  in 2011 and  Maria Sharapova  of
Russia last year.  Having got through the first week, when a record number of
top-10 players including defending men’s champion  Roger Federer ,
two-time winner  Rafael Nadal  and former women’s titlist
Sharapova exited the tournament, Williams said she is not taking
anything for granted. A record seven players retired because of
injury June 26, a day the U.K.’s Sun newspaper dubbed “Wipeout
Wednesday.”  “I feel like she’s serving massive,” Williams said of
Lisicki. “She plays some of her best tennis on grass.”  Murray, Robson  Andy Murray , the No. 2 seed from Britain, plays the second
match on Centre Court against Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny . With
Federer and Nadal out of his part of the draw, the 20th seeded
Russian is the highest ranked played left on Murray’s side.
Men’s top seed Novak Djokovic closes play on Centre Court
against 35-year-old German  Tommy Haas , who leads the Serb 2-0 on
grass. Yesterday was a traditional rest day at Wimbledon.  Over on No. 1 Court,  Laura Robson  will try to extend her
best run on the London lawns against former quarterfinalist Kaia Kanepi of Estonia. Robson, 19, is the first British woman to
reach the fourth round since 1998. On No. 1 Court, former  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch intern  Dominic Inglot  and Treat
Huey from the Philippines play U.S. twins Bob and  Mike Bryan .
The Bryan brothers are trying to win their fourth straight Grand
Slam doubles title.  Service Speeds  Lisicki reached the second week at Wimbledon after beating
former French Open champion Francesca Schiavone of Italy in the
first round and 2011 U.S. Open winner Sam Stosur of Australia in
the third round.  Lisicki’s fastest serve so far at the All England Club is
122 miles-per-hour,  one mph slower  than Williams, who is
considered by former players including three-time Wimbledon
winner  John McEnroe  to have the best serve in the history of the
women’s game.  The two have played twice before, with Williams granting
Lisicki only three games on hard courts in Stanford, California,
in 2011. Lisicki quit in tears after she twisted her ankle
during her match against the 16-time major singles champion from
the U.S. on green clay last year in Charleston, South Carolina.  “I have nothing to lose,” Lisicki said two days ago after
reaching the fourth round. “I’m probably going into that match
being the underdog, but I like that. I was in that situation
last year when everybody was saying that Sharapova was the
favorite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Wimbledon at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  