-- Wilmar to Cut Off Palm Suppliers Caught Burning in Indonesia
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n ,   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-07-01T00:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/wilmar-to-cut-off-palm-oil-suppliers-caught-burning-in-indonesia.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s largest  palm oil  trader, plans to cut ties with
Indonesian suppliers that clear land with illegal fires after
blazes engulfed  Singapore  in a record haze.  Wilmar, which bans burning on its own plantations, relies
on third parties for more than 90 percent of the crude palm oil
for its refineries.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME) , the biggest publicly traded
palm oil producer, also prohibits burning at its own plantations
and relies on other sources for supplies, buying as much as half
the commodity for its plants from others.  Palm oil refiners are being pushed to enforce their no
burning policies to suppliers after hundreds of illegal blazes
raged last month in  Indonesia , the world’s top producer of the
commodity. Unilever, buyer of 3 percent of the world’s palm oil,
said the haze is a reminder of the need to accelerate
sustainability efforts.  “We need the money to speak,” said Scott Poynton, founder
of The Forest Trust, which worked with  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Golden
Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR)  on sustainability policies. If companies
“made a no-deforestation commitment that says to these
communities, ‘you can’t burn because we won’t buy your oil,’
that’s directly money speaking to the people,” he said.  Palm oil is the world’s most-used edible oil. It’s in
Unilever’s margarine, ice cream and soap. The London- and
Rotterdam-based company made a commitment to buy sustainable
palm oil and wants all its supplies to be from certified,
traceable sources by 2020.  Burning Banned  “What the industry has realized is that they can’t be
simple bystanders in an ecosystem that gives them life in the
first place,” Unilever Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman said
June 27 in Jakarta.  While Indonesia and  Malaysia  ban burning to clear or manage
acreage, 17 timber concession and 10 palm oil plantations had
land affected by fires in Indonesia, according to June 24 data
from the non-government World Resources Institute, or WRI.
Indonesia is investigating a number of companies suspected to be
involved in illegal fires and will announce those names once the
probe is completed, Environment Minister Balthasar Kambuaya said
last week.  Wilmar deals with some of the companies identified by WRI
on the assurance they don’t burn, the company said in an e-mailed response to  Bloomberg News .  Buying Policy  “Should they be found to be involved in burning to clear
land for cultivation, we will stop doing business with them,”
Wilmar said. The company’s buying policy states suppliers must
comply with all local and national laws and regulations.  Indonesia’s disaster management agency said June 28 that in
general people start fires on peatlands to fertilize the soil
ahead of planting crops.  Kuala Lumpur-based Sime Darby said in a June 28  statement 
it had found fires on land at one of its units, though the
blazes were in an area where local communities plant crops such
as corn and sugar and not in areas planted by the company.  The company buys from palm oil growers in Indonesia that
participate in plans run by the company and that adhere to a
strict zero-burn policy. Part of its efforts to promote no
burning is to continuously educate third-party suppliers on the
benefits of complying with  RSPO principles , Sime Darby said in a
separate e-mail.  Fire and haze are common during Indonesia’s July-to-September dry season because local villages and farmers have
long favored cheaper, slash-and-burn land clearing, according to
 Wilmar . Using machinery to clear costs more than $250 a hectare,
while fires cost almost nothing, it said.  Sustainability Efforts  Wilmar, based in Singapore, as well as Sime Darby, Golden
Agri and Cargill Inc. all prohibit burning at their own
plantations. That’s in line with the Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm Oil criteria which include a commitment to avoid clearing
land with fires. The RSPO was formed in 2004 to promote
sustainability in an industry that’s been dogged by concerns
about deforestation, pollution and the environment.  “It is inconceivable that any listed plantation companies
is willing to risk open burning to clear their land, not after
years of battling the non-government organizations on issues
pertaining to deforestation, orangutans and native land
rights,”  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  said in a June 24 report.  No big plantation group would be involved today with
deforestation, Wilmar said. Many of the problems are caused by
small farmers, which makes it difficult to control, it said.  Malaysia had 183,774 small palm growers as of May, while
Indonesia has more than 2 million. The Indonesia Palm Oil
Farmers Association has a “zero burning” policy for its
members, and other crop farmers may be responsible for the
blazes, said Secretary General Asmar Arsjad.  Investor Concern  For some investors, concern about deforestation remains.
Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the  world’s largest  with assets
of $737 billion, sold investments in 23 palm producers including
Wilmar, Golden Agri and  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK) , in the first
quarter of 2012 citing concern about deforestation, according to
its  annual report  released in March.  Golden Agri, the second-biggest palm plantations operator,
is “absolutely” against burning and “would also encourage
best management practices to all stakeholders,” the company
said in an e-mail. It buys less than 10 percent of its fresh
fruit bunches from outside suppliers. Cargill gets 95 percent of
its third-party crude palm oil in Indonesia from RSPO members.  “Those suppliers have signed on to the RSPO criteria which
includes a commitment to not to use burning for land clearing,”
Cargill said by e-mail. “It is one of the reasons why we target
RSPO member for our third-party out supply.”  The number of Wilmar’s suppliers that are RSPO certified is
still small, though steadily increasing, it said.  While the haze has lessened in Singapore, it will return,
according to The Forest Trust’s Poynton.  “Singapore will choke again because globalization demands
it,” he said from Geneva. “These fires are happening to clear
the way to grow a commodity for the global supply chain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  