-- Xi Says GDP Not Officials’ Sole Focus in Signal on Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-30T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/xi-says-gdp-not-officials-sole-focus-in-signal-on-growth.html
China ’s President  Xi Jinping  said
officials shouldn’t be judged solely on their record in boosting
gross domestic product, the latest signal that policy makers are
prepared to tolerate slower economic expansion.  The Communist Party should instead place more importance on
achievements in improving people’s livelihood, social
development and environmental quality when evaluating the
performance of officials, the Xinhua News Agency reported June
29, citing Xi at a meeting on personnel management on the eve of
the 92nd anniversary of the party’s founding.  Xi’s comments follow remarks he made in May that China
won’t sacrifice the environment to ensure short-term growth, and
take place as the world’s second-largest economy undergoes its
worst cash crunch in at least a decade as the government seeks
to wring speculative lending out of the banking system.  “Xi is further legitimizing the case for slower growth,”
said  Andy Mantel , chief executive officer of Pacific Sun
Advisors, an asset manager in Hong Kong that invests in Chinese
stocks. “It is important to let local government officials know
there is less importance of non-stop economic growth. There will
be less pressure for local government officials to pump up their
economic growth forecasts.”  China needs growth of about 7 percent to double per capita
gross domestic product by 2020 from the level in 2010, PremierLi Keqiang said May 27 in Berlin after meeting with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel . That’s down from an average pace of
10.5 percent a year over the past decade, with growth driven by
surging  credit ,  government investment , and exports.  Cash Crunch  The credit crunch has increased chances that the government
will miss its 7.5 percent annual target for economic growth this
year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Xi’s comments
“reinforce our view” that there is a 30 percent chance growth
may slump below 7 percent in the third or fourth quarter, said
Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura Holdings Inc.’s chief China economist in
 Hong Kong .  China’s banking regulator, in his first public comments
since the country’s worst cash crunch in at least a decade, said
June 29 the operations of its lenders won’t be disrupted because
they’ve built up sufficient cash reserves.  Banks had about 1.5 trillion yuan ($244.4 billion) of cash
reserves as of June 28 that could be used for payment and
settlement needs, more than double what is usually required,
Shang Fulin, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said in a speech in Shanghai.  “The tight liquidity condition on the interbank market has
been easing in the last few days,” Shang said at the annual
Lujiazui financial conference. “This type of situation won’t
affect the banking sector’s smooth operations.”  Banking Reform  The cash crunch on the  interbank market  exposes
“deficiencies” in commercial banks’ liquidity management and
their business structures, Shang said. The next phase of reform
in the banking sector will focus on supporting the real economy
and risk prevention, he said.  The one-day repurchase rate touched a record 13.91 percent
on June 20 before tumbling on signs targeted injections of funds
were being used to ease the cash crunch. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index has declined 13 percent this year.  The slowing pace of economic growth in China remains within
a “reasonable” range and the economy is stable, People’s Bank
of China governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  told the same forum June 28 in
his first comments since the cash crunch. Zhou also sought to
soothe concerns of a further deceleration of growth, saying he’s
fully confident in China’s economic prospects and financial
system.  Integrity First  A recent review by the National Audit Office indicated that
total local government direct and guaranteed debt may have risen
13 percent to 12.1 trillion  yuan  by the end of 2012 from the end
of 2010, according to Moody’s Investors Service, citing its own
calculations based on data in the auditor’s report that showed a
13 percent increase in the debts of a sample of 36 local
authorities.  At the work meeting on personnel, Xi said that the
Communist Party’s organization departments should place
integrity before capability when promoting officials, and urged
that disciplinary violations and corruption be punished during
official selection procedures, according to Xinhua.  Cadres should be “true believers of Marxism,” exercise
their power carefully and resist corruption, Xi said according
to Xinhua.  “Xi’s speech includes a forward-looking recognition that
obsessive emphasis on economic growth targets is obsolete and
must now be balanced against vital environmental and social
concerns,” said William Overholt, a senior research fellow at
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  