-- Yingluck Axes Thai Commerce Minister After Moody’s Rice Critique
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-06-30T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-30/yingluck-axes-thai-commerce-minister-after-moody-s-rice-critique.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra dropped Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom from
the Cabinet following criticism that a policy to buy rice at
above-market rates jeopardized the country’s fiscal position.  The move comes about a week after Yingluck cut guaranteed
rice-purchase prices by 20 percent to stem losses the government
estimates at about 137 billion baht ($4.4 billion) for last
year. Moody’s Investors Service said on June 3 the subsidies
hamper  Thailand ’s goal of achieving a balanced budget by 2017
and are negative for the nation’s sovereign ratings.  Yingluck is aiming to bolster her government’s popularity
after polls showed a decline in support and farmers protested at
her office in Bangkok. Thailand’s finance ministry cut its 2013
economic growth forecast to as low as 4 percent on June 27 from
4.8 percent previously because of a slow recovery among trade
partners and weaker private sector spending.  Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan, a minister in the premier’s
office, will replace Boonsong. The rice policy, along with a
minimum-wage increase and incentives for car buyers, was among
the key campaign pledges from Yingluck’s party in winning a
parliamentary majority in 2011. The win was the fifth straight
victory for allies of her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was
ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas since 2008 to avoid
a jail term on charges he says are politically motivated.  In other changes,  Pracha Promnog  replaced Chalerm Yoobamrung as a deputy prime minister, with Chalerm appointed to
head the labor ministry, according to a statement published in
the Royal Gazette. Yingluck will take on the additional role as
defense minister.  Rice Spending  Varathep Rattanakorn was named as a minister in the prime
minister’s office and a deputy farm minister. Yuthasak
Sasiprapha was appointed deputy defense minister, Yanyong Phuangrach was named deputy commerce minister, Benja Louichareon
becomes deputy finance minister and Chaikasem Nitisiri takes
over as justice minister. Chaturon Chaisang will be the
education minister.  Thailand has spent 588.7 billion baht since October 2011 to
buy 40.47 million tons of unmilled rice from farmers. The
program has increased domestic demand and purchasing power by 2
percentage points and helped improve farmer income by about 115
billion baht a year, according to the government.  Yingluck’s popularity has fallen in recent months, Bangkok
University said in a survey of 1,234 people taken from June 18
to June 20. The margin backing her as prime minister over
opposition leader Abhisit Vejjajiva dropped to 8.6 percentage
points, down from 14 in November 2012, the poll showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  