-- 
Dodgers Hope to Exit Bankruptcy by Year-End After Cable Television Accord

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/l-a-dodgers-allege-major-league-baseball-cutting-team-s-access-to-funds.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers , aiming to
emerge from bankruptcy before the end of the year, intend to
seek court permission next month to sell cable-television
rights.  The Dodgers’ business plan is based on a TV-rights deal
that it says will ensure financial stability. The team will ask
a U.S. bankruptcy judge at an Aug. 16 hearing to approve
procedures for marketing and selling the media rights, it said
in a court filing yesterday.  “I would say that timeframe is aggressive but
achievable,”  Bruce Bennett , the Dodgers’ bankruptcy attorney,
said in an interview about the goal of exiting bankruptcy before
the end of the year.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy last month after Major
League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  named a monitor to
oversee the team’s day-to-day operations and rejected a proposed
television-rights deal with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  There will be “a full marketing process” of the
television rights, Bennett said. The Dodgers have sought court
permission to hire  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  as the team’s investment
banker during the bankruptcy case. Bennett said he expects
“interest from multiple bidders.”  Funding Source  The process is “designed to facilitate competition and the
emergence of a highest and best offer,” he said.  Pat Courtney, a spokesman for MLB, declined to comment on
the Dodgers plan to sell the TV rights.  MLB, meanwhile, has deprived the team of a “critical
source” of funding available to all other teams, the Dodgers
said in yesterday’s court filing. A Dodgers subsidiary was
scheduled to receive $2 million on July 13 from the Major League
Central Fund, which generates income from national telecasting
and radio broadcasting rights, according to the team.  “It’s $2 million we’re entitled to, and we’d like to have
it,” Bennett said.  The Dodgers automatically lost access to the fund because
the team filed for bankruptcy, said Courtney, baseball’s
spokesman. The Dodgers can get a waiver if the team accepts a
proposed bankruptcy loan from MLB, he said.  The Dodgers have opposed financing from MLB and are instead
seeking final approval for a loan from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
Highbridge Capital Management LLC.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 