-- 
Accounting `Red Flags' Drive Bond Spreads to Record Levels: China Credit

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-07-19T07:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/accounting-red-flags-drive-bond-spreads-to-record-levels-china-credit.html
Borrowing costs have risen to record
levels for Chinese companies marked with “red flags” by
ratings firms for unclear financial reporting and high levels of
private ownership.  The extra yield investors demand to own the bonds of  Nine
Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. (2689) , LDK Solar Co. and  Road King
Infrastructure Ltd. (1098)  instead of similar-maturity government debt
widened to all-time highs after they were named by  Fitch Ratings 
or Moody’s Investors Service for issues such as having
changeable profit margins or long-serving independent directors.  The bookkeeping of Chinese corporations has come under
scrutiny after short sellers said companies from Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. to  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  were
overstating profit margins or exaggerating asset holdings.
Spreads on the nation’s company bonds widened 23 basis points
this year to 146 basis points, compared with a two basis-point
advance for company debt in the U.S., Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  “No one knows everything about what’s really going on at
some of these companies,” said  Scott Bennett , Aberdeen Asset
Management Asia Ltd.’s Singapore-based regional head of credit.
“You have to give these borrowers some benefit of the doubt and
then draw comfort from China’s strong economic backdrop.”  Central bank policies to curb inflation in an economy that
grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier are
making it harder to borrow, increasing the risk Chinese
companies may default.  Red Flags  Moody’s warned of red flags at all 61 companies it examined
in a report last week, highlighting risky or opaque business
models, poor quality earnings and  cash flow , and concern that
the quality of financial statements is not good enough. Fitch
said yesterday about 35 Chinese companies may find capital
markets closed to them due to escalating corporate governance
concerns.  “International investor interest in Chinese companies,
driven by high levels of growth and the search for yield, is
coinciding with limited access to information at key issuing
entities,” said John Hatton, Asia-Pacific corporates group
credit officer at Fitch. Companies with a “blemished
reputation” can’t raise funds, especially if there’s an
accompanying deterioration in investor sentiment.  When reviewing a company’s corporate governance practices,
investors should be alert to concentrated private ownership and
independent directors staying on boards for longer than five
years, Fitch said in its July 18 report.  Nine Dragons  Nine Dragons, a paper products company with four factories
in mainland  China , has had the same group of independent
directors serving on its board since 2006, Fitch said.
Chairwoman Zhang Yin, China’s richest woman, boosted her stake
in the company last month.  Standard & Poor’s  also withdrew the
company’s debt ratings in June.  Nine Dragon’s debt level will peak this year, Zhang said on
June 27 after the company’s shareholders meeting that day.  The company’s 9.875 percent notes due April 2013 yield a
record 11.13 percentage points over similar-maturity government
debt, from 10.12 percentage points at the start of the year,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. Nine Dragons
hasn’t decided yet whether to comment on the Fitch report,
according to Wonderful Sky Public Relations & Financial
Consultant Co., which handles its media relations.  The yield premium on LDK Solar’s 10 percent, three-year
bonds has risen 221 basis points, or 2.21 percentage points,
since their sale in February to a record 10.18 percentage
points, RBS prices show. The company makes solar cells and was
singled out by Fitch for its volatile profit margins and long-
serving independent directors.  Director Resigns  LDK Solar, based in Jiangxi province in the middle of
China, said yesterday independent director and the chairman of
its  audit committee , Louis Tung-jung Hsieh, had resigned and
will be replaced on the board by Maurice Wai-fung Ngai, founder
and managing director of corporate service company MNCOR
Consulting Ltd., according to a statement issued late yesterday
by PR Newswire. Bing Xiang, another director, will head the
audit committee temporarily, the statement said.  Calls to the U.S.  investor relations  telephone number
listed on LDK Solar’s  website  weren’t immediately answered
outside of normal business hours.  The spread on Road King’s 9.5 percent, five-year notes sold
in September has risen to a record 945 basis points, an increase
of 183 basis points since January, BNP Paribas SA prices show.
Arien Sy, Road King’s investor relations manager, said it wasn’t
fair to compare the Hong Kong-based company, which has a “long
established history,” to companies on the mainland which are
“relatively new to the listing standard.”  Smaller Returns  Road King, which is also Hong Kong-listed, has its core
business in the “investment, development, operation and
management of toll roads and property projects” in mainland
China, according to its  website .  Company bonds in China have returned 0.05 percent this
month, compared with gains of 1.2 percent on U.S. corporate debt
and 1.1 percent on company notes sold globally, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Local currency bonds in China have gained 1.3 percent since
January compared with returns of 2.5 percent, 5.4 percent and 10
percent for local currency debt in  India ,  Russia  and  Brazil 
respectively, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  “One of the unusual things about China is that you have a
very high-rated sovereign with very bad systemic issues in terms
of clarity of regulation, rule of law and transparency of
information,” Andrew Steel, Fitch’s Singapore-based head of
corporate ratings, told Bloomberg Television yesterday.
“There’s a huge differential between the strength of the state
and the environment in which companies are operating and that
tends to make investors less cautious than they ought to be.”  ‘Too Negative’  China is rated A+ by Fitch, its fifth-highest investment
grade. The cost to insure government debt against default has
risen 25 basis points this year to 92.2 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Corporate governance practices have improved in China from
five years ago, according to Andrew Mattock, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  at Henderson Global Investors Ltd., which had 76.2
billion pounds ($122.5 billion) of assets under management as of
the end of March.  “Obviously there are going to be scattered cases of
corporate governance issues, but that shouldn’t surprise any
seasoned investor in  Asia ,” he said. “Listing rules have got
better and investor relations have got better. People are plain
too negative on the issue.”  Rate Rises  Credit-default swaps on Brazil have risen nine basis points
to 119.6 this year, while those for Russia increased 9.5 to 156.
Contracts on  State Bank  of India, seen as a proxy for the
nation, rose 47 basis points to 208.2 in 2011.  The People’s Bank of China raised rates three times this
year to cool inflation and ordered lenders to increase the level
of reserves they set aside six times. China’s inflation hit a
three-year high of 6.4 percent in June and has breached the
government’s 4 percent ceiling every month this year.  “There’s no hint at all of any letup in tightening, in
fact, we see it accelerating,” said  Paul Schulte , Hong Kong-
based global head of financial strategy at CCB International
Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest bank.
“Inflation is too high, the currency is too strong and growth
is too strong, still.”  The three-month  Shanghai  Interbank Offered Rate was 5.981
percent as of 2:20 p.m. in  Singapore , down from a record 6.46
percent on June 28.  Weakening Yuan  China’s seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of the
availability of funds in the financial system, has almost halved
to 4.6227 percent since hitting a three-year high of 9.04
percent on June 23. The yuan was little changed at 6.4688 per
dollar at 3 p.m. in Shanghai today, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.4563 on
July 14, the strongest level since China unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The yield on China’s benchmark five-year government bonds
rose five basis points to 3.6502 percent yesterday, the biggest
jump since June 22, according to National Interbank Funding
Center data.  The “preponderance” of new issues by Chinese industrial
companies has also pushed spreads wider, said Aberdeen’s
Bennett, who manages Asian credit portfolios worth about $1.5
billion.  Chinese developers have sold $10.2 billion of dollar bonds
alone in the past 12 months, compared with $1.6 billion for real
estate companies in the rest of Asia, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Aberdeen is sticking with higher quality issuers and those
with a good payment track record, Bennett said.  “With fraud as a constant risk, there’s not much else we
can rely upon except that these companies paid their debt
obligations last time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  