-- 
Afghan President Karzai’s Adviser Killed Less Than Week After Half Brother

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-07-18T09:11:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/afghan-president-karzai-s-adviser-killed-less-than-week-after-half-brother.html
A senior adviser to  Hamid Karzai  was
shot dead at home in Kabul yesterday in a second blow to the
Afghan president less than a week after the assassination of his
powerful half brother.  Two militants stormed the home of Jan Mohammed Khan, a
former governor of Uruzgan province, at about 8 p.m., killing
him as well as parliamentary lawmaker Mohammed Hashem Watanwal,
the Interior Ministry said in a statement. The gunmen held off
security forces for five hours before being shot dead,
Hashmatullah Stanekzai, spokesman for Kabul’s police chief, said
by phone. One police officer died in the encounter.  The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, which
came five days after Ahmed Wali Karzai was killed at home by a
bodyguard in the southern province of Kandahar. The death of the
president’s younger brother, who had dominated politics in
Kandahar, a Taliban stronghold, underscored the security
challenges  Afghanistan  faces as the U.S. begins withdrawing
troops. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  arrives in  India 
today for discussions that will include Afghanistan.  Khan was a member of Karzai’s Popalzai tribe and supported
the president’s 2009 election campaign in Uruzgan before being
appointed as an adviser on tribal affairs, said Ahmad Saeedi, a
political analyst and former Afghan diplomat.  “The Taliban are trying to weaken the Afghan government by
killing senior officials,” Saeedi said today by phone in Kabul.
“They are trying to put pressure on Karzai and deliver a
psychological blow.”  Killing ‘Traitors’  Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed  said by telephone from
an undisclosed location that the Islamic movement, forced from
power in Kabul by the U.S. following the September 11, 2001
attacks, was targeting “traitors in their houses.”  The Taliban, which said it had secretly recruited Ahmed
Wali’s killer, in the past has claimed responsibility for
attacks that it has been found later not to have conducted.  President  Barack Obama  last month said the U.S. will
withdraw 10,000 troops from Afghanistan, where they are fighting
the Taliban, before the end of this year and an additional
23,000 by September 2012. Other nations have announced their own
troop reduction plans.  General John Allen today took command of U.S.-led forces in
Afghanistan, replacing David Petraeus, who is retiring from the
military to become director of the Central Intelligence Agency,
the  Associated Press  reported. The change at the top came as the
48-nation International  Security Assistance  Force said in a
statement that three troops had been killed in a bombing in the
country’s east.  Security Transfer  Afghan forces yesterday were handed control of security in
the entire province of Bamiyan, the first of seven areas
scheduled to pass into local hands.  During Hamid Karzai’s near-decade as Afghanistan’s leader,
Ahmed Wali, his younger brother by four years, remained in
Kandahar, the country’s second-largest city and the political
center for the south.  A convoy carrying the governor of neighboring Helmand
province and his police chief to Karzai’s funeral was hit by a
roadside bomb. A suicide bomber detonated explosives hidden
inside his turban at a Kandahar mosque on July 14, killing four
people attending a memorial service for Ahmed Wali Karzai. At
least 13 people were wounded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  