-- 
Aguero to Replace Tevez at Manchester City, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-18T10:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/aguero-to-replace-tevez-at-manchester-city-mirror-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Aguero for City  Manchester City  plans to sign Atletico Madrid striker
 Sergio Aguero  to replace  Carlos Tevez ,  the Daily Mirror said .  Aguero is willing to take a pay cut to join the English
team, which is offering him about 160,000 pounds ($257,000) a
week, the newspaper said. He makes about 6 million pounds a year
after tax in Spain, the newspaper said.  Bendtner in Blue?  Arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner may move to Everton on
loan,  the Daily Mail said .  The 23-year-old didn’t travel with the Gunners on their
pre-season Asian tour as he marketed himself to other clubs, the
newspaper said. Benfica isn’t ready to match Arsenal’s asking
price of 11 million pounds. Everton isn’t either, but it may be
able to work out a loan for the player, the newspaper said.  Blackburn Trouble  Blackburn’s new owners have been told to cut the team’s
overdraft before spending money on new signings,  the Mirror
said.   The Venky family was planning to sign new players to
challenge for the  Champions League , Europe’s biggest club
competition, the newspaper said. The family spent 25 million
pounds for the club and have an 18 million-pound overdraft in
the form of a mortgage, the Mirror said.  Instead of bringing new players in, Blackburn may be forced
to sell captain Chris Samba, a defender, to Arsenal or
Tottenham, the newspaper said.  Chelsea First  Slobodan Rajkovic will play for Chelsea on its Asian tour,
giving supporters a first view of a defender signed six years
ago,  the Sun said.   The 22-year-old, signed for 4 million pounds in 2005,
hasn’t been able to get a work permit in the U.K., the newspaper
said.  Liverpool Sell-Off  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  will sell several midfield
players to thin out the squad,  the Guardian said .  The team has spent 47 million pounds on midfielders since
the end of last season, and may start to get rid of players
including Milan Jovanovic,  Maxi Rodriguez  and Joe Cole, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 