-- 
Thailand to Comply With Cambodian Temple DMZ Imposed by UN

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-18T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/thailand-to-comply-with-cambodian-temple-dmz-imposed-by-un.html
Thailand  will start talks with
Cambodia to withdraw troops from a disputed area surrounding an
ancient temple to comply with a demilitarized zone drawn up by a
United Nations court, Foreign Minister Kasit Piromya said.  The UN-backed International Court of Justice yesterday
 ordered  both countries to immediately withdraw military
personnel from an area surrounding Preah Vihear temple.
Cambodia, granted sovereignty over the temple by the court in
1962, had asked for measures to prevent more clashes while
judges interpret the previous ruling.  Battles between the neighbors near border temples have
killed more than two dozen people since 2008, when a Thai court
ordered a government linked to ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  to
withdraw support for  Cambodia ’s bid to list Preah Vihear as a
 World Heritage site . His allies, set to return to power next
month after winning a July 3 election, have pledged friendlier
relations with Cambodia.  “It’s a good ruling that both sides have to retreat,”
Pavin Chachavalpongpun, visiting research fellow at the
Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore , said by
phone. “The court ruling complements the changing political
situation in Thailand and should bring some stability.”  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who last month threatened
to withdraw from the World Heritage Convention over the temple
dispute, saw his Democrat party lose the election by more than
100 seats to a party led by Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra. Thailand’s 500-member Parliament is scheduled to
meet in early August to pick a new prime minister.  ‘Fair’ Decision  “We will urgently initiate negotiations with Cambodia for
the troop withdrawal,” Kasit, a member of Abhisit’s
administration, told reporters in Bangkok via phone from  The
Hague ,  Netherlands . “The decision is fair for both parties.”  The withdrawal of troops may wait until Thailand forms a
new government, Defense Minister Prawit Wongsuwan said by phone
yesterday. Both countries kept soldiers stationed near the
temple immediately after the ruling, Tawatchai Samutsakorn, a
Thai army commander who oversees the region, said by phone.  “Cambodia wants to see the conflict resolved through
peaceful means,” government spokesman Phay Siphan said by phone
yesterday from  Phnom Penh , its capital, after the ruling. He
declined to comment further on the decision.  The 1962 court decision refrained from demarcating 4.6
square kilometers of disputed land around the temple, which has
fueled the recent fighting. Abhisit’s administration has opposed
the World Heritage Committee’s consideration of Cambodia’s
management plan for the temple on grounds that it infringes Thai
sovereignty.  Indonesian Observers  The court yesterday unanimously rejected Thailand’s request
to dismiss the case and said it should not obstruct Cambodia’s
access to the temple. The ruling also said both countries should
allow observers from the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
access to the demilitarized zone, a proposal from bloc member
 Indonesia  that Thailand had previously resisted.  The court decision was “in line with the Thai government’s
demand for the withdrawal of Cambodian military personnel in the
conflicting area,” Kasit said. “We will urgently request
Indonesian observers to observe the withdrawal.”  A Thai-Cambodian committee created to demarcate their 803-
kilometer (499-mile) land border hasn’t met for two years. The
countries have yet to divide 26,993 square kilometers (10,422
square miles) in the Gulf of Thailand that may contain oil and
gas reserves.  Thailand’s $264 billion economy is more than 26 times the
size of Cambodia’s. The Cambodian army spent $191 million in
2009, compared with $4.9 billion for the military in Thailand,
according to the  Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  