-- 
Malaysia to Award Islamic ‘Mega-Bank’ License in Third Quarter

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/malaysia-to-award-islamic-mega-bank-license-in-third-quarter.html
Malaysia  will issue a license for an
Islamic “mega bank” in the third quarter of this year to help
mobilize funds for businesses around the world, the country’s
central bank governor said.  The Southeast Asian nation will also start a cross-border
clearance platform for Shariah-compliant bonds, or sukuk, around
the same time, Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz
said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday. The initiatives are
part of a plan to help fill gaps in the $1 trillion global
Islamic finance industry.  “Islamic banks need to have scale to undertake cross-
border transactions,” Zeti said. They need “top quality talent,
they have to be able to invest in technology and they have to
build up the network throughout the world. All this will be
costly unless you have scale. That’s why there’s interest to
form such a bank.”  The Islamic finance industry lacks a commercial institution
capable of handling very large deals that conform to the
religion’s ban on interest payments. Demand for services
complying with Shariah law is increasing as the wealth of the
world’s 1.6 billion Muslims rises, spurred by Asian economic
growth and crude-oil income in the  Persian Gulf .  The mega-bank will be jointly established by a consortium
of shareholders from different countries, Zeti said, without
providing names. It will be formed by institutions from  Asia  and
the  Middle East  and have a capital of at least $1 billion, she
said in October. The central bank had planned to award the
license last year.  Scaling Up  “Islamic banks need to have scale to undertake cross-
border transactions,” Zeti said yesterday. “They are coming
together and bringing a top quality team.”  Malaysia, which pioneered Shariah-compliant finance 30
years ago, plans to unveil a new finance sector master plan in
September in a bid to further cement its role, Zeti said. A
cross-border clearance platform for Islamic bonds will be
launched in the third quarter, Zeti said.  “This is to facilitate efficiency in the transaction,
otherwise foreign currency sukuk would have to be cleared out of
different time zones,” she said. “We can now have it within
our time zones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 