-- 
Allianz’s Achleitner Suggests Voluntary Swap for Greek Bonds

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-18T09:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/allianz-s-achleitner-suggests-voluntary-swap-for-greek-bonds.html
Allianz SE (ALV)  finance head  Paul Achleitner  suggested a voluntary swap of Greek bonds to enable
the country to better pay its bills.  “I’m not opposed to a restructuring of Greek debt, but it
has to be done on a voluntary basis,” Achleitner, 54, told
German newspaper  Financial Times Deutschland  in an  interview .
His comments were confirmed by Michael Matern, a spokesman for
Allianz,  Europe ’s biggest insurer.  Achleitner proposed that holders of Greek debt would get an
offer to swap their securities at 75 percent of their value for
new 10-year bonds guaranteed by the European Financial Stability
Facility. In the interview with FTD, he reiterated his proposal
to introduce a European monoline insurer for sovereign debt.  Leaders of euro-area countries are due to meet July 21 in
Brussels to discuss a second aid package for  Greece  after last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout failed to stop
the spread of the debt crisis. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
yesterday renewed her call for private investors to help rescue
debt-strapped Greece, saying it’s in their interest to get the
country “back on its feet.”  An uncontrolled default of Greece or the U.S. would be the
worst case, Achleitner said, adding that both scenarios are
considered very unlikely by Allianz.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  continued to reach out to
lawmakers in both parties this weekend in search of a deficit-
cutting deal as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the U.S. debt
ceiling looms.  Allianz, as well as  Newport Beach , California-based  Pacific
Investment Management Co. , which is part of the insurer’s asset-
management unit, won’t speculate against the euro, Achleitner
said, adding that he doesn’t expect the euro-zone to break up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  