-- 
Allstate Falls Most Since February as Lacher Steps Down Amid Lower Returns

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-18T21:08:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/allstate-s-lacher-steps-down-after-chief-wilson-cites-inadequate-returns.html
(Corrects attribution in eighth paragraph.)  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the second-largest
U.S. home and auto insurer, fell the most since February in New
York trading after Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson 
announced the departure of Joseph Lacher, president of the
company’s main businesses.  Allstate dropped $1.45, or 4.9 percent, to $28.02 at 10:02
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Lacher, who
oversaw residential and car coverage businesses, is leaving the
company, effective immediately, the Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer said in a statement today.  “This comes as a complete shock, and it’s a very
significant disappointment,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview. “They’re losing
somebody who has been held in reasonably high regard by
investors,” said Shields, who cut his rating on Allstate to
“hold” from “buy.”  Wilson last month cited inadequate returns at the
homeowners business, where Allstate competes with No. 1 State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. At the car insurance
operation, Allstate is seeking to defend market share from
Progressive Corp. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Geico unit,
which have been adding customers through  Internet sales .
Presidents at Lacher’s former operation will report to Wilson.  “Investors will interpret this as a problem at Allstate,”
said Paul Newsome, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP. “Joe was one of the more visible, well liked people at
Allstate by investors. So him leaving, for whatever reason, I
believe will be viewed negatively.”  Seeking a Fix  Allstate declined 7.6 percent this year through July 15,
compared with the 6.1 percent drop of the 24-company KBW
Insurance index. The company doesn’t comment on personnel
matters, said Maryellen Thielen, a spokeswoman for Allstate.  “Overall returns have been inadequate” in the segment
protecting houses, Allstate said June 1 in a presentation for
the company’s Investor Day.  “We believe we can fix the homeowners profitability with
basic blocking and tackling around rate adequacy, underwriting
focus and core coverage capability,” Lacher said that day.  Wilson hired Don Civgin, formerly of OfficeMax Inc., as
chief financial officer in 2008 as the company booked investment
losses at its life unit. The same year, Judith Greffin was
promoted to chief investment officer. Former American
International Group Inc. Vice Chairman Matthew Winter was named
head of the Allstate’s life insurance unit in 2009.  “Wilson is under a lot of pressure,” said  Mark Dwelle , an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets . “Investors haven’t been
pleased.”  Lacher joined Allstate in 2009 from Travelers Cos., where
he oversaw units that accounted for about 45 percent of the
company’s premiums.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  