-- 
AMR Said to Plan Record 400-Jet Order in Airbus-Boeing Split

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y ,   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-07-20T00:28:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/american-airlines-said-to-review-splitting-order-between-airbus-boeing.html
American Airlines  plans a record
order of about 400 narrow-body jets split between  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS, giving the European planemaker a toehold at the U.S.
carrier, four people familiar with the matter said.  Counting options and future purchase rights, the deal may
reach 900 planes, said two of the people, who aren’t authorized
to speak publicly. The board of American parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  will
review the proposal at a meeting that starts tonight, another
person said. The breakdown is under discussion, the people said.  The 400 planes may have a list value of about $37 billion,
based on average retail prices from which airlines negotiate
discounts. Taken together, the transaction would be the
industry’s biggest firm order ever, eclipsing  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ’s
agreement last month to buy 200 upgraded Airbus A320neos.  American has an all-Boeing fleet and hadn’t ordered Airbus
jets since 1987. Boeing’s proposal includes upgrading its 737
with new engines to counter the A320neo, three people said,
after the Chicago-based company had said for more than a year
that it favored building an all-new single-aisle aircraft.  Boeing and Airbus would help finance the acquisitions by
leasing 230 of the jets to American, in effect keeping the
aircraft on their balance sheets, according to one of the
people. Those planes eventually would be sold to leasing
companies, the person said.  Ryan Mikolasik, an outside spokesman for Fort Worth, Texas-
based American, said the third-largest U.S. airline wasn’t
discussing its plans. Boeing’s Mike Tull and Airbus’s Mary Anne Greczyn also declined to comment.  News Conference Set  American tentatively scheduled a news conference at 10 a.m.
Dallas time tomorrow at Dallas- Fort Worth  International Airport,
the carrier’s largest hub.  AMR rose 2 cents to $4.93 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite trading, snapping a string of six straight declines,
while Boeing gained 98 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $70.53. Airbus
parent European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. added 17 cents to
23.93 euros in Paris.  New planes would help American refresh a fleet that in 2010
averaged 15 years of age, tied with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  for the
oldest among the six biggest U.S. carriers. Jet fuel and labor
are the largest expenses at airlines, so savings from more-
economical aircraft would help AMR’s efforts to end two straight
annual losses.  ‘Fleet Simplification’  The trade-off is that adding Airbus planes ends American’s
strategy of holding down operating costs by flying only Boeing
jets, said  Robert Mann , owner of consultant R.W. Mann & Co. The
move also creates permanent scheduling inefficiencies, he said.  “They’ve been preaching fleet simplification for years,
and all of a sudden it doesn’t matter,” Mann said in an
interview from  Port Washington , New York. “It’s almost as if
the pricing is so attractive they think they can ignore the
complexity costs over the life of the airplanes.”  With Boeing’s proposal to upgrade the 737 with new engines,
the planemaker is following the lead of Airbus, which announced
that step last year for its A320 jet family. Boeing hasn’t said
publicly whether it would re-engine the 737, a less-expensive
option, or wait until later this decade to offer a new jet.
Boeing’s board still has to approve a new-engine plan, according
to the people familiar with that matter.  Single-Aisle Competitors  The 737 and A320 compete in the single-aisle segment that
makes up the biggest part of the global airline fleet.  New narrow-body planes would help American replace its 216
Boeing MD-80s, the most common model among the carrier’s 613
mainline jets. A workhorse on domestic routes, American’s MD-80s
average more than 20 years of age and went out of production in
1999.  American began receiving deliveries two years ago on an
order of 130 737-800s that will be completed in 2013. Those
planes are 25 percent more fuel-efficient than the MD-80s. The
airline stopped flying Airbus jets in 2009.  AMR also is recommending that directors approve the spinoff
of regional carrier American Eagle, three people familiar with
the matter said. There is no guarantee that the board will vote
on Eagle’s future, the people said.  AMR and the Eagle pilots’ union negotiated an agreement for
ownership of the smaller airline’s planes to be transferred to
American, where they can be parceled out to other airlines to
provide regional flying, according to Tony Gutierrez, chairman
of the Air Line Pilots Association unit at Eagle.  In exchange, American agreed to terms that include offering
a future job to all 3,000 current Eagle pilots, putting them in
the queue first when the larger airline is hiring, Gutierrez
said in an e-mail to members.  AMR has studied options for Eagle for more than a year. A
spinoff would allow American to hire additional regional
carriers and let Eagle fly for other major airlines.  Tim Smith ,
an American spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  