-- 
Amid FBI Probe, News Corp. U.S. Licenses Seen as Safe for Now

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-18T21:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/amid-fbi-probe-news-corp-u-s-licenses-seen-as-safe-for-now.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  remains unlikely to lose
its U.S. broadcast licenses even as the FBI investigates phone-
hacking allegations, according to analysts who caution that the
ongoing probe heightens the company’s potential risk.  The threat to News Corp.’s licenses depends on “what the
bad acts are, who did or knew of them, where they occurred, and
when the investigation concludes,”  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a
note to investors today.  “The standard for revoking a license, as a practical
matter, is very high,” Arbogast wrote. “Depending on how the
facts develop, we may be looking at an unprecedented
situation.”  The scandal at News of the World, owned by New York-based
News Corp. has convulsed the British media, political world and
the police since the July 4 revelation that reporters working
for the London tabloid hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl and deleted messages.  In two weeks, News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch  has been forced to close the newspaper
and drop his bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  The
scandal has led to 10 arrests, including that of former News of
the World editor Rebekah Brooks.  The possibility of the Federal Communications Commission
stripping News Corp.’s licenses to operate 27 U.S. television
stations remains remote at this stage,  Paul Gallant , a
Washington-based analyst with MF Global, wrote in a research
note to investors today.  9/11 Victims  At the same time, the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  probe
is “obviously a significant unknown and potential risk for News
Corp.” and the views of U.S. lawmakers “could affect whether -
- and how aggressively -- the FCC investigates News Corp.’s
local TV licenses,” Gallant wrote. News Corp. owns the Fox TV
networks.  The FBI, prodded by members of Congress, began looking into
whether News Corp. employees may have targeted the phones of
victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  U.S. Representative  Peter King , a New York Republican and
chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, asked FBI
Director Robert Mueller in a July 13 letter to investigate
whether News of the World employees tried to access voicemails
of Sept. 11 victims through bribery and illegal wiretapping.  “We’re aware of certain allegations pertaining to a
possible hacking by News Corp. personnel and we’re looking into
those charges,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New
York office, said in a phone interview last week.  ‘U.K. Process’  The FCC won’t involve itself in the U.K. probe of the
phone-hacking allegations, FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  told
reporters on July 12, before reports of the FBI probe.  “Obviously there is a process going on in the U.K., and
that is a U.K. process, and I don’t expect we will be involved
with that,” Genachowski said.  Neil Grace, an agency spokesman, declined to comment
further today, referring to Genachowski’s earlier statements.  Teri Everett, a spokeswoman for News Corp., did not
immediately respond to requests for comment. Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in
providing financial news and information.  The FCC, which has a Democratic majority, may wait until
after the 2012 election if it chooses to act, analysts said.  The agency doesn’t want to give the impression of
“censoring a network that is seen as being aligned with the
political right,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst for
Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in an interview. “That would
invite criticism from Republicans that this is a witch hunt and
abuse of power by the FCC.”  Political Pressure  Gallant said that some outside parties may petition the
agency to investigate News Corp.’s fitness to hold licenses, and
said it’s “conceivable” that the agency may consider
allegations of wrongdoing when the company’s licenses come up
for renewal.  News Corp.’s licenses for stations in the Washington, D.C.,
area will be up for renewal in June 2012, followed by stations
in  Illinois  in 2013, Gallant wrote.  News Corp.’s U.S. broadcast licenses “don’t appear to be
at serious risk based on the law and what we know, but we don’t
know everything right now,” Silva said.  “If it could be shown beyond a reasonable doubt that upper
management either knew of, orchestrated or had some substantial
role in the phone hacking, that would be a possible trigger for
the FCC to get involved,” Silva said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  