-- 
Hamptons Scene: Edward Albee, Richard Meier, Laurie Anderson

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-18T13:20:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/hamptons-scene-edward-albee-james-watson-barbara-slifka-richard-meier.html
Textile designer  Jack Lenor Larsen 
emerged from his house in  East Hampton , New York, Saturday night
sporting a blue shirt with polka dots and a white cap.  In his gardens, waiters passed basil ice cream cones and
lobster rolls. Circus performers juggled, blew bubbles and hula
hooped. The occasion was the annual fundraiser for  LongHouse
Reserve , the 16-acre art and nature retreat that Larsen founded
20 years ago, and where he makes his home.  The nonprofit organization invites the public to tour the
grounds and participate in “sound meditation” sessions during
the summer season. On this evening, most guests stuck to
cocktails and a stroll.  James Watson, co-discoverer of the double-helix structure
of DNA, walked past a  Buckminster Fuller  sphere, and then headed
to the pond to view a Dale Chihuly work -- a whimsical tangle of
blue and purple glass sticking out of a boat. Watson is a
Chihuly collector.  “We have an 18-foot-tall chandelier based on dendrites,”
Watson said, referring to a piece that hangs in his laboratory
in  Cold Spring Harbor , New York.  Architect Richard Meier sat on a bench looking through the
auction catalog, which included a lithograph he donated,
depicting one of his  designs .  “I’ve lived in East Hampton for 40 years, and I don’t know
anybody here,” Meier said. Later he encountered familiars
Robert Menschel, a senior director at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
playwright Edward Albee and theater director and playwright
Robert Wilson.  The event honored Chihuly, a college classmate of Larsen’s
who was unable to attend, and LongHouse Reserve board member
Barbara Slifka, president of the Joseph and Sylvia Slifka
Foundation.  “The garden reflects Jack’s personal taste,” said Slifka,
the sister of the late financier Alan Slifka, whose sons, Randy,
Michael and David were all present.  Garden Ballet  Before night fell,  New York City Ballet  dancers Daniel
Ulbricht, Rebecca Krohn, Erica Pereira and Amar Ramasar
performed in a clearing of the gardens.  “We’re used to dancing on a stage six to seven times
smaller than this one, so we’ll just have to jump six to seven
times higher,” Ulbricht said. He proceeded to vault to the
treetops in George Balanchine’s “Tarantella.”  Over dinner of hen, with a side of corn pudding, Nicholas Lowry of Swann Auction Galleries, his hair dyed blue in keeping
with the party’s “White Hot and Blue” theme, conducted an
auction.  An original composition by Laurie Anderson went for $4,500;
ceramic dinner service for 12 by Yoshiaki Yuki went for $19,000.  Larsen for his part cut through the party hoopla. “Do come
back,” he told the 400 guests. “I prefer it without the jazz.
That’s the way you’ll find it on any other day of the year.”  The event raised $400,000, LongHouse Reserve publicist
Bruna Martins said in an e-mail.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 