-- 
Manchester City Gives Developments Plans Behind Record Sponsor Agreement

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-18T12:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/manchester-city-gives-developments-plans-behind-record-sponsor-agreement.html
English soccer team Manchester City
today released plans for the neighborhood around its Etihad
Stadium that would form the central part of a record sponsorship
agreement.  City, a Premier League team owned by a billionaire member
of the Abu Dhabi royal family, last week signed soccer’s largest
sponsorship agreement. Abu Dhabi’s national airline, Etihad,
will pay more than 300 million pounds ($482 million) over 10
years, giving unprofitable City a boost in its bid to meet
European soccer’s rules on fiscal responsibility.  Etihad, whose name is on the team’s shirt and stadium, will
also put its logo on projects including a new training ground,
youth development center, sports science facility and a bridge
if plans are approved by local residents and lawmakers as part
of a consultation process that began today.  “Our research to date has been painstaking and our
planning comprehensive, and whilst our plans would inevitably
have a positive impact on both our young and established playing
talent, the regenerative and economic impact for the community
should not be underestimated,” City’s Chief Executive Officer
Garry Cook said in a statement.  The scale of City’s 200 million-pound program, which comes
after the club studied more than 30 sports development centers
around the world, is the largest of its kind. Owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  has already spent more than $1
billion on the club since acquiring it in September 2008.  Not Inflated  City needs to convince  UEFA , soccer’s governing body in
 Europe , that the deal with Etihad is at a market rate and not
inflated to allow it meet the new cost-control guidelines.
Etihad was founded by Abu Dhabi ruler Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed
Al Nahyan, Mansour’s half-brother. City recorded a 121.3
million-pound loss for the year ended May 31, 2010.  Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  and Liverpool’s Managing
Director  Ian Ayre  have questioned the City deal in recent days.
They said UEFA’s scrutiny of the Etihad project will determine
whether its so-called Financial Fair Play program is serious or
not. City’s contract dwarfs a 15-year, 100 million-pound shirt
and stadium contract Arsenal has with Emirates airline. The
agreement is also worth 10 million pounds a season more than the
80 million-pound, four-season contracts Manchester United and
Liverpool have with AON Corp. and Standard Chartered Plc.  City’s management says the scale of its program means it
meets fair-value criteria, and also points to the growing
visibility of the team around the world. It was the third-most
televised English  Premier League  team last season when it won
the F.A. Cup, its first major trophy since 1976, and qualified
for the  Champions League  for the first time with a third-place
finish in the league.  Derelict Site  City has been acquiring land for the proposed  Etihad  Campus
on the mostly derelict site for the past three years. Plans by
the U.K. government to regenerate the area by building a “super
casino” were scrapped several years ago.  The club says 160 construction jobs will be created by its
project, and 70 percent of the workforce and the majority of
materials, equipment and services will come from the local area.  “It would be complementary to other proposed developments
in the area, which would combine together to fulfill our vision
for east Manchester as a center for elite sport,” said Richard Leese, leader of Manchester City Council. City recently agreed
to pay the council 20 million pounds over five years after it
allowed the sale of naming rights to its publicly owned stadium. 