-- 
Corinthians Offer Manchester City Proof It Can Pay Record Fee for Tevez

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-18T14:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/mancini-says-manchester-city-agrees-tevez-sale-with-corinthians-sky-says.html
SC Corinthians Paulista , Brazil’s
biggest soccer team by sales, will use its television contracts
to convince  Manchester City  that it can pay a national record of
more than $55 million for striker  Carlos Tevez , a club executive
said.  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters in
the U.S., where City is on a pre-season tour, that an offer from
Corinthians had been reached in principle.  City last week rejected an opening 40 million euro ($56
million) offer from Corinthians. The new bid would pay City more
than that amount if Tevez is a success and off the field, Luis Paulo Rosenberg, Corinthians’ vice president for marketing, said
in a telephone interview. Vicky Kloss, a spokeswoman for City,
declined to comment on the negotiations.  Corinthians’ are willing to pay more than double the previous
Brazilian soccer transfer record, when the Sao Paolo-based team
paid  Argentina ’s Boca Juniors $20 million for Tevez in 2004. He
said he wants to leave City to be closer to his daughters, who
live in Argentina with their mother.  Tevez played for Corinthians when the club was owned by a
company controlled by his agent, Kia Joorabchian. The Iran-born
businessman masterminded Tevez’s move to  England  in 2006 when he
joined West Ham. The 27-year-old then spent two seasons at
 Manchester United  before signing for City in what U.K. media
reported was a deal worth as much as 47 million pounds ($75
million).  “We have an agreement with Corinthians but Carlos now is
still a City player,” Mancini said in an interview with  Sky
Sports News , earlier today.  Transfer Deadline  Tevez hasn’t come to a contract agreement with Corinthians.
Two days ago he missed the penalty that led to Argentina’s
elimination from the Copa America in quarterfinal shootout
against Uruguay. The transfer must be completed before  Brazil ’s
transfer window closes in two days.  “When Man City agrees with us we will agree with Tevez,”
Rosenberg said. “He will have almost what he has in England.”  Corinthians offer splits the payment for Tevez over four
years. The club will provide details of its bank receipts and
guaranteed income from its broadcast contract because about 25
percent of it will be used to pay the transfer fee, the club
official said.  Andres Sanchez, Corinthians’s president, said in a
statement today City wants the fee for the Tevez paid in less
than four years and said the player would need to accept a pay
cut.  Tevez makes 200,000 pounds a week, according to the U.K.’s
 Daily Telegraph . Corinthians will pay his salary from improved
marketing, sponsorship and pay television contracts, Rosenberg
added.  The forward scored 20  Premier Leagu e goals in the 2010-11
season to help City finish in third place and qualify for the
 Champions League  for the first time. He also captained the team
to the F.A. Cup, its first major trophy since 1976.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Oliveira in  Sao Paulo  at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  