-- 
Manulife to Sell Life Retrocession Unit to Pacific Life

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-18T20:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/manulife-financial-to-sell-retrocession-unit-to-pacific-life.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s
largest insurer, agreed to sell its life retrocession business
to Pacific Life Insurance Co.  The sale of the unit that provides insurance to reinsurance
companies will result in an after-tax gain of about C$275
million ($286.7 million), Manulife said today in a statement.
The Toronto-based insurer said the reduction in annual earnings
from the sale isn’t material.  “Although this business is profitable, it does not have a
growth profile acceptable to us,” Manulife Chief Executive
Officer Donald Guloien said today in the statement. “The
transaction releases capital which will be reinvested in higher
growth businesses or to reduce leverage.”  Manulife, which has been trying to bolster capital, said
the sale will increase its so-called minimum continuing capital
and surplus requirements ratio by about six basis points after
completion. The insurer’s MCCSR ratio was 243 percent on March
31.  The retrocession business has about 90 employees in
Toronto,  Boston , Barbados and Cologne,  Germany , Manulife said.
The unit has “net life insurance in-force” of $106 billion.  Pacific Life, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , said the
transaction is expected to be completed in the third quarter.
The deal will give Pacific Life about 41 percent share in the
North American market for individual life retrocession, the
company said in a separate statement. Pacific Life doesn’t have
publicly traded shares.  Manulife fell 42 cents, or 2.6 percent, to C$15.57 at 4
p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
declined 9.2 percent this year, compared with an 8.5 percent
drop for the six-member S&P/TSX Life & Health Insurance Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 