-- 
Maple’s TMX Bid Faces ‘Fearless’ Antitrust Watchdog Aitken

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-18T21:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/maple-bid-for-tmx-faces-fearless-antitrust-watchdog-aitken.html
Melanie Aitken, Canada’s antitrust
regulator, has developed a reputation as a “fearless” guardian
of the country’s competition rules in battles against Visa Inc.
and Air Canada that suggests she may contest the proposed sale
of the Toronto Stock Exchange to a group of banks and funds.  Since taking over as commissioner of Canada’s  Competition
Bureau  in 2009, Aitken has overseen an increase of cases in
which companies made concessions, such as selling assets, to get
mergers approved. That may mean Maple Acquisition Group Corp.,
the consortium of Canadian banks and pension funds bidding for
 TMX Group Inc. (X) , will have to accept conditions on its expansion
plans to get approval, lawyers and analysts said.  “She’s fearless and tenacious and fights hard for what she
believes in,” said Orestes Pasparakis, a lawyer with Norton
Rose OR LLP in Toronto who has faced Aitken in court.  Pasparakis said Aitken has veered the regulator toward
tackling more difficult issues. Aitken in recent months has  sued 
Visa and MasterCard Inc. over fees the credit-card companies
charge merchants for transactions. She  fined  BCE Inc.’s Bell
Canada C$10 million ($10.4 million) for what the Competition
Bureau said were misleading ads over its pricing, and sought to
block a proposed joint venture between Air Canada and its Star
Alliance partner United Continental Holdings Inc.  Aitken, 44, also has taken on Canadian real-estate agents
over online property-listing practices, reaching a settlement
with the  Canadian Real Estate Association  last September. In a
separate case this year, the bureau sued the Toronto Real Estate Board, claiming it’s restricting access to its online listing
service.  Monitoring Powers  Richard Silver, president of the Toronto real estate group,
said the suit was unnecessary because Aitken knew the board was
developing a new website that would address any competition
issues.  “What concerns me most about the whole situation is that
there doesn’t seem to be any monitoring of her powers,” Silver
said in an interview.  Aitken has been emboldened by an  overhaul  of competition
legislation in 2009 that provided her with a range of new tools,
including changes to the merger-review process that’s providing
companies incentives to seek negotiated settlements.  Under the new rules, the regulator can make a request for
supplementary information that can delay the review process for
months. That may explain the increase in negotiated settlements,
known as “consent agreements,” Stikeman Elliott LLP lawyers
Shawn Neylan and Michael Kilby said in a June  report .  Consent Agreements  Aitken obtained 10 consent agreements in her first two full
years as competition commissioner, representing more than a
third of all settlements by the Competition Bureau over the past
decade. There was only one consent agreement in the year that
preceded her promotion to full-time commissioner for a five-year
term in August 2009, according to Competition Bureau data.
Aitken, a  University of Toronto  graduate who commutes to Toronto
on weekends to see her six-year-old son Jake, joined the bureau
in 2005 after working as a partner at Bennett Jones LLP and
Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP. She declined to comment for
this story.  The risks of a prolonged delay increase the likelihood the
Maple group may also come to a settlement, said Sheridan Scott,
Aitken’s predecessor at the Ottawa-based Competition Bureau.  “I suspect this is more likely to be headed in the
direction of a consent agreement, because if you go to the
tribunal, that could be quite a lengthy process,” said Scott,
who served as competition commissioner between 2004 and 2009 and
now works at Bennett Jones.  Sell Assets  Most consent agreements recently negotiated by the bureau
have required companies to sell assets or licensing rights. Last
August, Novartis AG agreed to divest assets related to its sale
of eye-care products to allay competition concerns about its
purchase of Alcon Inc. In 2009, Calgary-based Suncor Energy Inc.
agreed to divest 104 gas stations in southern Ontario to gain
approval for its acquisition of Petro- Canada .  Maple Group has proposed to follow its C$50-a-share cash-
and-stock offer by acquiring Alpha Group, an alternative trading
system that competes with the Toronto Stock Exchange. Alpha is
owned by nine financial institutions, including the country’s
six biggest banks. Combined, TMX and Alpha control almost 84
percent of the equity market in Canada by shares traded.  Maple also plans to acquire CDS Inc., a Canadian securities
clearing house, and merge it with Canadian Derivatives Clearing
Corp., a derivates-clearing operation already owned by TMX,
according to the proposal.  Hands of Few  “You have trading, clearing and most of the order flow and
the execution in the hands of a few,” said Dan Kessous, chief
executive officer of Chi-X Canada, which has about 8 percent of
the Canadian equities trading market and competes with TMX.  The bureau can challenge mergers that “substantially”
reduce or prevent competition, according to  guidelines  posted on
its website. Among factors the bureau looks at are the merging
companies’ market shares and their ability to raise prices.  How market share is calculated could be key to the Maple
review. In markets where the product is effectively identical,
the agency may measure market share in terms of how much product
can be produced, rather than dollar or unit sales.  Maple says  it’s more appropriate to measure market share in
terms of the amount that can be produced, since there’s
unlimited capacity for stock-trading systems. Measured this way,
TMX and Alpha’s combined trading operations have much less power
over the market, the consortium said in a document prepared for
investors.  Clearing Business  The bureau  examined  possible competitive issues in the
clearing market in its review of the 2008 merger of TSX Group
Inc. and Bourse de Montreal Inc., which created TMX. The bureau
expressed concern TMX might divert clearing business from CDS to
CDCC. It concluded the existence of Alpha discouraged such a
move, since Alpha cleared its trades on CDS.  Aitken will probably impose conditions on Maple’s proposal,
which may scuttle the deal, said Geoffrey Kwan, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets . RBC advised  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
on its failed bid for TMX this year.  “It is extremely difficult to ascertain whether Maple will
be able to acquire CDS and Alpha without any conditions,” Kwan
said in a research note last week. Merging the three entities is
a “primary benefit” for shareholders from Maple’s proposal, he
said.  Heavily Regulated  Maple has said in documents accompanying its C$3.73 billion
unsolicited bid that CDS is already “heavily” regulated and
that provincial securities regulators have the authority to
regulate CDS pricing. The group has promised not to charge
competitors more for clearing and settling trades.  Peter Block, a Maple spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
group expects to clear all regulatory hurdles in the “late
fall.” The deal must also be approved by Canadian provincial
securities regulators, the  Bank of Canada , the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and U.S. competition authorities. TMX
operates an options exchange in  Boston .  It can take “several months” for a decision by the
regulator, said Stanley Wong, a Vancouver-based competition
lawyer who has advised the bureau on cases. “Then the question
will be, if the commissioner has some concerns, whether the
parties are prepared to do a deal.”  Maple Group said today it received supplemental information
requests from the Competition Bureau, indicating the bureau
needs more information to complete its review of the proposed
transactions, the group said in a statement. The request was
expected, “given the scale and scope” of the deals, Maple
Group said.  ‘Intense Interest’  Aitken has cited the Canadian Real Estate Association and
credit-card cases as evidence of the bureau’s willingness to go
to court if it can’t reach a “consensual resolution.”  “These cases have garnered intense interest from the media
and the public, raising the profile of the bureau’s work, and
letting Canadians know that we will fulfill our responsibility
fearlessly to promote and protect competition,” Aitken said in
prepared remarks of a May 3 speech in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 