-- 
ARM Chips to Be in Almost 23% of Notebooks in 2015, IHS Says

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-18T20:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/arm-chips-to-be-in-almost-23-of-notebooks-in-2015-ihs-says-1-.html
ARM Holdings Ltd.-based processors
will be in about 23 percent of all notebook computers shipped in
2015, an indication that  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s dominance of the
semiconductor market may ebb, researchers at IHS Inc. said.  “The proliferation of ARM-based notebooks is expected to
provide growth opportunities” for chipmakers that license the
company’s designs, including  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and
 Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the researcher said. Systems based on
ARM’s technology will account for only 3 percent of notebooks
globally next year, Englewood, Colorado-based IHS said.  Intel’s microprocessor technology has dominated the
personal-computer industry since its inception in 1981, with the
main alternative supplier being  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,
whose chips are based on Intel designs. Makers of mobile-phone
chips based on ARM technology have improved the capabilities of
their products, and Microsoft Corp. is enabling the next version
of Windows software to run on ARM-based chips.  Qualcomm and Texas Instruments processors will have their
biggest success in  notebook computers  that retail for less than
$700, IHS analyst Matthew Wilkins said in a statement.  “ARM is well-suited for value notebooks, where performance
isn’t a key criterion for buyers,” Wilkins said. “Value
notebook buyers are looking for basic systems that balance an
affordable price with reasonable performance. ARM processors
deliver acceptable performance at a very low cost, along with
unrivaled power efficiency.”  New Intel Designs  Intel won’t give up orders without a fight, Wilkins said.
The world’s largest chipmaker is working on new designs that
will slash the power consumption of its products.  Shares of Santa Clara, California-based Intel fell 9 cents
to $22.28 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD declined 25 cents to $6.18 on
the New York Stock Exchange.  Qualcomm, the largest maker of chips used in phones, rose
32 cents to $55.28. Texas Instruments, based in Dallas, dropped
34 cents to $30.48. Nvidia slipped 31 cents to $13.80.  ARM, based in Cambridge, England, makes money by licensing
designs and technology rather than manufacturing chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  