-- 
Asian Crisis Veteran Zeti Sees Region Surviving Dangers From U.S., Europe

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r ,   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-18T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/asian-crisis-veteran-zeti-sees-region-surviving-dangers-from-u-s-europe.html
Asia ’s rising domestic demand and
strengthened financial systems have made the region more
resilient to global shocks even as slowing U.S. growth and the
European debt crisis pose threats,  Malaysia ’s central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said.  Another global recession is unlikely and risks to growth
probably won’t materialize, Zeti said in an interview in Jakarta
late yesterday. The chance of an economic contraction is less in
Asia, said Zeti, one of the region’s longest-serving governors
who oversaw Malaysia’s monetary and currency responses to the
Asian financial crisis more than a decade ago.  “Right now, yes, there are risks but we don’t envisage
these risks to materialize,” Zeti said. “Many of us recognized
after the 1990s how vulnerable we were, when we were so export-
led. Many of us now have promoted domestic demand and this has
become more significant. We have a better chance of dealing and
managing those risks.”  Asia’s central banks have enacted the steepest increases in
borrowing costs as the region led the global recovery from the
2009 recession, with China,  India ,  South Korea , Thailand and
 Taiwan  raising rates in recent weeks. Still,  Europe ’s debt
crisis and rising U.S. joblessness have threatened demand for
exports from Asia and wiped more than $2 trillion off stocks
worldwide since the beginning of May.  Malaysia’s central bank kept its overnight policy rate
unchanged at 3 percent this month, after raising its benchmark
four times since early March 2010. It cited “heightened
uncertainties arising from global developments that have created
higher downside risks to growth” and said it will assess
carefully evolving economic conditions before deciding on
further policy moves.  ‘Normalized’ Rates  “We have what we called normalized our rates and we
normalized the rate to the level where it is now, where it is
still supportive of growth,” Zeti said. “At 3 percent, it
still remains quite low and there is still strong credit demand
and this means that it isn’t an inhibiting factor to growth. We
have to make that careful assessment because we also saw the
first half of this year, growth had slowed.”  Zeti was assistant governor responsible for economics,
reserves management, money market and foreign-exchange
operations at Malaysia’s central bank when  Thailand  devalued the
baht in July 1997, setting off a plunge in regional currencies.
She became acting governor in September 1998 after then-Prime
Minister Mahathir Mohamad ousted one of her predecessors, who
disagreed with the premier’s plans to impose  capital controls .  She continued to oversee Malaysia’s capital controls as
deputy governor after a new chief was installed before taking
the bank’s helm in May 2000. Among Asian economies tracked by
Bloomberg, only Taiwan’s Perng Fai-Nan has been central bank
governor longer.  Europe Crisis  Euro-area leaders will meet in Brussels on July 21 to
discuss the financial stability of the region, with European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterating
opposition to any Greek debt restructuring. It will be the
second summit in a month and follows the worsening of the crisis
that last week pushed  Italy  to the attention of investors.  U.S. economic growth slowed to a 1.9 percent annual pace in
the first quarter from 3.1 percent in the previous three months.
Almost 14 million unemployed workers were available for the 3
million job openings in May, evidence of how weak the labor
market remains two years after the recession ended, according to
a Labor Department report and data compiled by Bloomberg. The
jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent in June.  Asian Growth  The recovery in advanced economies is unlikely to be
“strong,” Zeti said, adding that policy-making will be
complicated by the need to tackle inflation while ensuring there
is sufficient growth to create jobs. Every country should look
at its own conditions, she said.  Asia still relies on U.S. and European demand for its goods,
even as Group of 20 nations push to rebalance the world economy
so that global growth depends more on domestic consumption.
Asian economies accounted for 35 percent of world exports in
2009, compared with 25 percent a decade earlier, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  Developing Asian economies will expand 8.4 percent this
year, compared with 2.2 percent in advanced nations, according
to IMF forecasts.  “Asia will continue to do better than the West,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics Asia Pte in
Singapore. “Even though  China  and India are navigating quite
challenging policy maneuvers now, they will do it successfully
and they will avoid a hard lending. That’s another key reason
why we believe intra-regional demand will stay quite robust.”  Malaysia’s economy will probably expand 5 percent to 6
percent this year, with growth likely to be stronger in the
second half as the impact of  Japan ’s natural disasters
dissipates, Zeti said.  “We have to evaluate the conditions and going forward, we
don’t want to have second-round effects that result in high
inflation because that will erode purchasing power and that will
eventually contribute to lower growth,” Zeti said. “It’s
important to place priority on inflation because, unattended, it
will result in damaging future growth prospects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  