-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Posts Longest Rally in 31 Years

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-18T21:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-posts-longest-rally-in-31-years.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Tops $1,600, Rises to Record in Longest Rally in 31 Years  Gold rose to a record $1,607.90 an ounce, capping the
longest rally in 31 years, as debt concerns in  Europe  and the
U.S. boosted demand for the metal as a haven.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls in  New York  as Europe, U.S. Debt Woes Damp Outlook  Copper futures fell in New York as Europe and the U.S.
failed to resolve debt woes, dimming prospects for the global
economy.  Copper May Rally to Record on Demand From China, Maike Says (1)  Copper may rally to a record $12,000 a metric ton in the
first quarter as stronger-than-expected demand from China, the
largest user, and tumbling inventories spur imports, according
to Maike Futures Co.  MINING  BHP May Spend $180 Billion on Mines, Fields, Deutsche Bank Says  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, may
spend about $180 billion on building and expanding its mines,
plants and oil fields by 2020, according to Deutsche Bank AG
analysts.  AGRICULTURE:  U.S. Corn, Soybean Conditions Fall Amid Heat, Dry Weather (1)  The condition of the U.S. corn and soybean crops declined
last week amid unseasonably dry and hot weather, the Department
of Agriculture said.  Wheat Falls as Dollar’s Gain May Reduce Demand for U.S. Exports  Wheat futures fell for the third straight session on
speculation that U.S. exports will shrink as the dollar gains
and competitors ramp up production.  Hogs Fall to Six-Week Low on Weakening Pork Demand; Cattle Drop  Hog futures dropped to the lowest price in almost six weeks
on speculation that U.S. meat demand will weaken as the economy
slows. Cattle fell to a one-week low.  Corn, Soybeans Fall as Cooler Weather, Rain May Aid U.S. Crops  Corn and soybeans fell from one-month highs on speculation
that a heat wave in the U.S. Midwest will be shorter than
expected as rains in the northern part of the main U.S. growing
region move south, reviving crops.  Coffee Slumps as Debt Crisis May Curb Demand; Sugar, Cocoa Fall  Coffee dropped to a three-week low on speculation that
escalating debt woes in the U.S. and Europe will erode demand
for commodities. Sugar and cocoa also fell.  Tropical Storm Bret Moves Into Atlantic; Dora Forms off Mexico  Bret, the second tropical storm of the  Atlantic hurricane
season , is moving northeast away from the coast of  Florida  on a
track that will take it out to sea, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said.  SHIPPING:  Commodity-Shipping Prices Decline as Supply Outpaces Demand  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-shipping
costs, dropped 1 percent to 1,340 points as a surplus of vessels
lowered rental values for the four different ship sizes tracked
by the gauge.  ECONOMIES:  Germany  Says It’s Confident EU Will Agree on Greek Debt Plan  Germany said it’s confident that European leaders will
reach agreement on funding a second Greek bailout at a July 21
summit, as investors sell Spanish and Italian bonds on concern
that the crisis is spreading.  Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Rose in July to 15 From 13 (1)  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders improved in July from a
nine-month low as executives turned less pessimistic on the
outlook for sales.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Drop Amid Debt Limit Concerns, Banks Fall on Europe  U.S. stocks fell, extending losses from last week for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid concern American lawmakers
will fail to reach a deal on the nation’s debt limit two weeks
before a deadline.  Euro Declines Before Debt Summit This Week; Franc Touches Record  The euro touched a record low versus the Swiss franc and
slid the most in almost a week against the dollar on concern
European leaders won’t take concrete steps to contain the
region’s debt crisis at a summit in three days.  VIX, VStoxx Options Gauges Rise as Europe Debt Crisis Spreads  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options rose to a three-
week high and Europe’s climbed to the highest since March amid
concern officials aren’t solving the debt crises in Europe and
American economic growth is slowing.  Oil Drops on European Debt Crisis as Euro Tumbles Most in Week  Oil fell as investors bet that Europe’s worsening debt
crisis will slow the economy and as the euro tumbled the most in
a week against the dollar.  Euro May Drop More Before Debt Accord, Komileva Says:  Tom Keene   Divergent interests between Germany, the  European Central
Bank  and private investors are delaying a solution to the euro
region’s debt crisis, according to Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co.’s  Lena Komileva .  SPORTS:  Clarke’s Win Gives  Northern Ireland  a New Reason to Party (1)  Darren Clarke’s victory in the British Open for his first
major championship means Northern Ireland can get ready for
another party.  Women’s World Cup Final Draws Best TV Rating Since 1999 Edition  The Women’s World Cup final between  Japan  and the U.S. drew
the largest big-market television rating for a tournament game
in 12 years and the second-highest in history, Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 