-- 
Asian Stocks Drop on Concerns Over U.S. Economy, Exports; Samsung Declines

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-18T10:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/asian-stocks-decline-on-u-s-economic-concern.html
Asian stocks fell for a third day
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the government is
“running out of time” in negotiating an agreement to cut the
fiscal deficit, hurting the outlook for Asian exporters.  Samsung Electronics Co.,  South Korea ’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, slipped 2.3 percent in  Seoul .  HTC Corp. (2498) , a
Taiwanese maker of smartphones, sank 4 percent after the U.S.
International Trade Commission ruled it infringed on two patents
of Apple Inc.  News Corp. (NWSA)  slumped 4.1 percent as the scandal over
phone hacking at the now defunct News of the World widened with
the arrest of former editor Rebekah Brooks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index declined 0.6
percent to 473.18 as of 6:27 p.m. in Hong Kong, with about two
stocks falling for each that rose. The measure dropped for the
first week in four last week after European finance ministers
declined to rule out a temporary default for  Greece  and as
Moody’s Investors Service put the U.S. under review for a
possible credit-rating downgrade.  “Getting the debt ceiling question resolved” is crucial
for stock markets in the region to gain traction, said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to $7 billion in Sydney at
Paradice Investment Management Pty. “There’s a lot of political
posturing going on at the moment, and you’d hope that cool heads
will prevail.”  South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 0.7 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 0.3 percent, after climbing 0.7 percent
and falling 0.7 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost
0.1 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed
after swinging between gains and losses at least 15 times.
Japanese markets were closed for a public holiday.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.7
percent today. The gauge rose 0.6 percent on July 15 in  New
York , trimming its weekly loss, even as concern that a political
impasse over raising the federal debt limit is putting the
nation’s top credit rating in jeopardy.  House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from  Ohio , told
reporters his party wouldn’t accept any tax increases as they
work with the government on a deal to lower deficits. As
negotiators near an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the $14.3
trillion U.S. debt ceiling, President Obama is pushing for a
deal that will combine closing tax loopholes for the richest
Americans and corporations with cuts to discretionary spending
by government.  A U.S. debt default would cause panic throughout the
financial system and long-term uncertainty, former Treasury
Secretary Larry Summers told  CNN .  “It seems to me an unthinkable financial risk to take,”
Summers said in an interview on today’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program. It would cause “a cascade that makes Lehman Brothers
look like a very small event.”  Apple Patents  Exporters to the U.S. declined. Samsung Electronics, which
gets 22 percent of sales from America, slipped 2.3 percent to
813,000 won in Seoul.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of computer memory chips by sales, sank 4.4
percent to 22,950 won. Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
world’s largest maker of electronics, slid 4 percent to NT$88.5
in Taipei.  HTC dropped 4 percent to NT$871. The U.S. ITC ruled on July
16 that the company infringed two of 10 Apple patents originally
asserted in a case. Asia’s second-biggest maker of smartphones
said it will appeal the ruling, which may result in the ban on
some HTC phones that run on Google Inc.’s Android operating
system.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (981) , China’s
biggest chipmaker, slumped 9.5 percent to 57 Hong Kong cents,
the most in the regional benchmark index. The company said David
Wang, who failed to win reappointment as SMIC director at a
shareholders meeting last month, resigned as chief executive
officer. Zhang Wenyi, a former Chinese government minister, was
appointed acting CEO at the Shanghai-based chipmaker.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , the Hong Kong-based real estate
developer and steelmaker, tumbled 8.5 percent to HK$16.84 after
saying the development of its $2.6 billion iron ore mine in
Australia may cost 35 percent more than expected and also be
delayed.  News Corp. Crisis  In Sydney, News Corp. declined 4.1 percent to A$14.16.
Chairman Rupert Murdoch is struggling to control the destiny of
the company he began building six decades ago after Brooks,
former editor of News of the World and a trusted deputy was
arrested, and Scotland Yard’s top official quit over ties to a
suspect in the phone-hacking probe.  Independent directors of the New York-based company have
begun questioning the company’s response to the crisis and
whether a leadership change is needed, said two people with
direct knowledge of the situation who wouldn’t speak publicly.  Santos Ltd., Australia’s third-largest oil and gas
producer, decreased 3.7 percent to A$12.74 after agreeing to buy
the shares it doesn’t own in Eastern Star Gas Ltd. for about
A$730 million ($774 million) to own the biggest gas reserves in
New South Wales state. Eastern Star surged 41 percent to 84
Australian cents.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Excluding Japan Index lost 0.6
percent this year through July 15, compared with a gain of 4.7
percent by the  S&P 500  and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at
12.2 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.2
times for the S&P 500 and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 