-- 
Tata Motors Plans to Assemble Vehicles in China, Chairman Says

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-07-18T14:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/tata-motors-plans-to-assemble-vehicles-in-china-chairman-says.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the Indian owner
of Jaguar and Land Rover, will consider assembling and selling
select vehicles in  China , the world’s largest automobiles market,
according to Chairman  Ratan Tata .  “China has become an important market for the company,”
Tata said in the company’s annual report. Tata Motors is also in
discussions with Jaguar Land Rover Plc to start developing
engines in the United Kingdom and India, he said.  China overtook the U.S. as the world’s largest auto market
in 2009 and sales this year have increased at a slower rate
after surging 32 percent to a record in 2010, as the government
phased out incentives and imposed purchase restrictions to curb
traffic congestion.  Tata Motors,  India ’s biggest maker of trucks and buses,
acquired Jaguar and the Land Rover sport-utility vehicle brand
from Ford Motor Co. in June 2008. It has since started
assembling the Land Rover Freelander models in India, the
company said in the report.  High inflation in  Asia  may lead to a decline in automobile
demand, Tata said. India’s June car sales grew at the slowest
pace in two years on rising interest rates in an economy where
80 percent of the car purchases are financed through loans.
China’s passenger-car sales climbed 6.2 percent in June,
reversing a decline in the previous month, the China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers said on July 8.  India’s wholesale price inflation accelerated 9.44 percent
in June from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said on July
14. Inflation in China has breached the government’s 4 percent
ceiling every month this year, with consumer prices rising 6.4
percent in June from a year earlier.  Shares of Tata Motors fell 1.8 percent to 1,014.8 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai today. India’s benchmark stock
index fell 0.3 percent to 18,507.04.  -- With assistance from Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi .
Editors: Thomas Kutty Abraham, Arijit Ghosh  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  