-- 
Aurelius Capital Denies Using Inside Information to Profit on WaMu Debt

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-18T18:40:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/aurelius-capital-denies-wamu-insider-trading-allegations.html
Aurelius Capital Management LP
denied using confidential information to profit on the debt of
bankrupt  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , saying it installed a
soundproof office to prevent traders from hearing sensitive
negotiations.  The hedge fund’s managing director, Dan Gropper, testified
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, that he
took phone calls in an office 30 feet away from the trading desk
while negotiating with WaMu and later spent $150,000 to
soundproof his office.  “We are absolutely compulsive about this compliance,”
Gropper said, referring to restrictions on  insider trading  in
general.  Shareholders want U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath to
reject for the second time WaMu’s reorganization plan, which
Aurelius helped negotiate with three other hedge funds.
Shareholders would get nothing under the plan. They claim
Aurelius and the other  hedge funds  used confidential
information obtained while they negotiated with WaMu to pick the
most profitable WaMu securities to buy and sell.  The former owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, WaMu is
seeking Walrath’s approval for the reorganization plan that
would pay creditors more than $7 billion.  WaMu, based in Seattle, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
WaMu’s Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 