-- 
Australia Grocers May Post Higher Sales Even as Consumer Sentiment Slumps

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-18T22:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/australia-grocers-may-post-higher-sales-as-cautious-consumer-crimps-rivals.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ,
Australia’s biggest supermarket chains, may report higher sales
because shoppers continue to buy essentials as stalling  consumer
spending  hurts clothing and electronics retailers.  Woolworths, Australia’s biggest retailer, will post fourth-
quarter grocery sales growth of 4.8 percent tomorrow, according
to the median estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Second-ranked Wesfarmers may report expansion of as much
as 6.3 percent on July 28, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The nation’s households are boosting savings and curbing
spending amid natural disasters and falling home prices while
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia maintains the highest official
 interest rates  in the developed world to deal with a commodities
boom. A slump in consumer sentiment this month, the biggest
decline since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, is prompting people to scale back purchases of
discretionary items such as clothing and electrical goods.  “People still need food and can’t put it off, so that
protects Wesfarmers and Woolworths,” said  Chris Weston , an
institutional dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “Discretionary
retail at the moment is a macroeconomic story, and it’s not a
good macro picture outside of resources right now.”  ‘Encouraging’ Trends  Supermarket operator Woolworths may report a 6.4 percent
increase in total sales in the quarter ended June, according to
Craig Woolford, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
Woolworths gets 86 percent of its A$52 billion ($55 billion)
annual sales from food, liquor and fuel in Australia and  New
Zealand .  “Overall Woolworths sales trends are likely to be
encouraging, especially given a volatile retail industry
backdrop,” Woolford, who recommends buying the stock, said in a
July 15 report.  Woolworths shares have gained 1.5 percent this year
compared with a 5.8 percent drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index. Perth-based Wesfarmers, which owns the Coles supermarket
chain as well as Bunnings home improvement outlets, has slipped
5.8 percent in the same period.  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) , Australia’s second-largest department
store chain, on July 13 cut its profit forecast amid a sales
slump, prompting a record 18 percent slide in its share price
the following day. Larger rival  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  also expects
earnings to decline.  David Jones , Myer  Profit after tax for Sydney-based David Jones will probably
fall as much as 12 percent in the fiscal second half ended this
month, compared with a May 11 forecast for a 5 percent increase,
it said July 13.  An “unprecedented” drop in demand in the quarter ending
this month may lead to an 11 percent plunge in sales, it said.  Myer on July 14 affirmed its May 11 forecast for net profit
after tax for the 12 months ending July to be as much as 5
percent lower than last year’s A$169 million ($179 million).  “It’s fairly clear households are changing what they
choose to spend their money on,” said  Stephen Roberts , a senior
economist at Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “With the
savings, household balance sheets are actually in pretty good
shape for when confidence returns.”  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , Australia’s biggest electrical
retailer, has posted five straight quarters of declining sales
from stores open at least a year. The Sydney-based chain may
post a 1.4 percent decline in annual revenue from its stores in
the 12 months ended June, according to Morgan Stanley estimates.  Sentiment Index  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised Australia’s
benchmark lending rate seven times between October 2009 and
November 2010 as he sought to control price pressures from the
nation’s biggest mining boom in a century.  Australia’s consumer sentiment index plunged 8.3 percent to
92.8 for July from a month earlier, the biggest decline since
October 2008 and the lowest level since May 2009, according to a
Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200
consumers taken July 4-9. Retail sales unexpectedly fell in May,
led by declines on clothing and footwear spending, according to
government data.  “If you happen to be a company involved in digging up
parts of  Australia  and sending them overseas, the chances are
things are looking pretty good for you right now,” Alexander Mees, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, said in a
July 13 report. “If, on the other hand, you are a company with
nothing to do with mining, it is more than likely you are
finding trading conditions challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  