-- 
Axa PE, Neoen Acquire Verbund’s Renewable Assets in France

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-07-18T15:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/axa-private-equity-neoen-buy-poweo-energy-assets-from-verbund.html
Axa SA (CS) ’s private equity unit and
French energy group Neoen agreed to buy  Poweo (ALPWO)  renewable energy
assets from  Verbund AG (VER) , Austria’s largest utility. Poweo SA
shares rose the most in three weeks.  Axa plans to hold the French wind power assets and Neoen
will control the solar power business, the Paris-based companies
said in an e-mailed statement today, without providing financial
details.  The wind and solar assets are part of Poweo’s production
unit, which Verbund agreed to buy in December. Their sale forms
part of a restructuring Poweo started before Verbund’s purchase.
Verbund also owns 46 percent of the parent company, for which it
is seeking buyers.  Verbund on July 1 said that it was in talks with potential
buyers for the Poweo stake, after reclassifying the holding as a
“non-current asset held for sale” in its first-quarter report.
Vienna-based Verbund’s talks with potential buyers weren’t “at
a stage where the characteristics of a transaction could be
disclosed,” Ines Schurin, a spokeswoman for the utility, said
at the time.  Negotiations between Verbund and Italian companies  Enel SpA (ENEL) 
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are at an early stage and a decision may be made in
several months, Le Journal du Dimanche reported June 26, without
saying where it got the information. Direct Energie is still in
talks with Verbund for a tie-up with Poweo, the Paris-based
weekly newspaper said in the same report.  Poweo rose 18 percent to 5.16 euros at close of trading in
Paris, the largest gain since June 27. Verbund advanced 1.6
percent to 28.015 euros in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  