-- 
Banks Face Tripling of Capital Levels as EU Moves on Basel III Regulations

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/banks-face-tripling-of-capital-levels-as-eu-moves-on-basel-iii.html
Banks face demands from the European
Union to more than triple the minimum levels of core capital
they must hold to stave off insolvency under proposals that some
lenders complain will hamper the region’s economic recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services chief, will
propose tomorrow a law to implement global rules approved by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  aimed at bolstering banks
resilience to shocks. Lenders will need to raise about 423
billion euros ($595.5 billion) by 2019 to comply with the EU’s
version of the Basel III rules, according to a draft of the EU
proposals obtained by Bloomberg News.  “A lot of existing capital will need to be replaced, it
will not count any longer,” said Markus Heidinger, a partner
dealing with financial regulation at law firm Wolf Theiss in
Vienna. “At best, 10 percent of the work is done. It is just
the beginning.”  Stress tests on the EU banking industry published on July
15 revealed that eight lenders have a combined 2.5 billion-euro
shortfall in the capital they need to cope with a future
financial shock. The exams encompassed part of the new Basel
rules on what instruments can count toward banks’ reserves,
prompting complaints from some lenders that they were being
asked to meet future standards ahead of time.  Germany ’s Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, known as Helaba,
pulled out of the tests two days before the publication of
results, disputing the capital rules for the exams that were set
by the European Banking Authority.  Silent Participation  “If you take the example of Helaba, they have a form of
silent partnership which right now under German rules counts as
regulatory capital, but is not accepted in the stress tests and
will not be accepted under the future EU rules,” Heidinger
said.  So-called silent participation is a form of non-voting
capital. “After the phasing-out period, it simply will not
qualify as Tier 1,” a measure of lenders’ financial strength,
said Heidinger.  Barnier’s proposals will include empowering regulators to
release a bank’s stress-test results even without the lender’s
consent. Under existing rules, they can only release data
that banks have agreed can be published.  Lenders have complained that part of the draft text,
prepared by Barnier’s staff in the European Commission, goes
beyond the capital rules agreed to internationally by the Basel
committee, including by raising the reserves that banks must
hold against some real-estate investments.  ‘Higher Risk Weighting’  “The higher risk weighting for exposures secured by
residential real estate jeopardizes retail bank’s ability to
provide loans to the real economy,” said Chris De Noose,
managing director of the European Savings Bank Group, a
Brussels-based banking association. “The financial crisis did
not provide sufficient evidence that would justify a revision of
the risk weighting of these exposures.”  The Basel accord, published in December 2010, increases the
amount of core capital lenders must hold to 7 percent of their
assets from 2 percent, with the value of these assets weighted
according to their riskiness. The Basel III agreement also
tightens the definition of what banks can count as capital.
Basel agreements must be implemented by national governments
before they can take effect.  Barnier has clashed with some governments in the 27-nation
EU over how to interpret and implement the Basel accord.
Finance ministers including  Spain ’s  Elena Salgado ,  Sweden ’s
Anders Borg and U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
have criticized plans to make it harder for national regulators
to set tougher capital rules than those agreed by Basel.  ‘Considerable Costs’  It is “imperative” that nations can decide on whether to
further reinforce requirements for lenders, as it is their
national budgets “that might bear the considerable costs” of a
banking crisis, the ministers said in a letter to Barnier in
May.  “Some jurisdictions appear determined to carry out gold-
plating” of the EU rules, said Emil Petrov, a managing director
at Nomura International Plc in  London . “The question is how
this is going to work in an environment where there is a common
European rulebook.”  The U.K. government has also argued against plans by the
commission to leave out a binding limit on lenders’ indebtedness
that was included in the Basel accord.  The indebtedness rule is  “vital”  to the regulatory
overhaul, U.K. Treasury Minister Mark Hoban said last month.  The EU version of the Basel rules will cover more than
8,000 banks in the region, Barnier told reporters on July 12.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K. and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 