-- 
Bankia Raises More Than 3 Billion Euros in IPO After Price Cut

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-19T11:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/bankia-offers-ipo-at-32-less-than-peers-amid-spain-debt-crisis.html
Bankia SA, the Spanish lender forged
from the merger of seven banks, raised more than 3 billion euros
($4.2 billion) in an initial public offering after slashing the
price as much as 26 percent.  The shares sold at 3.75 euros each, the Madrid-based lender
said in a statement sent by e-mail late yesterday. Bankia
originally planned to sell shares at 4.41 euros to 5.05 euros.
The shares are scheduled to begin trading tomorrow in Madrid.  The government has pushed Bankia and smaller rival Banca
Civica SA, also preparing an IPO, to use share sales to shore up
capital following the collapse of the country’s property boom.
Marc Garrigasait, who helps oversee 600 million euros at the
Barcelona-based asset-management firm Gesiuris SA, earlier
predicted Bankia might have to lower its price range to attract
shareholders.  “It does lift the chance that the bank may need to raise
more capital in the future,” Garrigasait said yesterday.  The deal is  Spain ’s third-largest IPO in history. The bank
originally planned to raise as much as 4.16 billion euros, or
0.46 times to 0.51 times its estimated book value, said two
people with direct knowledge of the transaction.  Based on yesterday’s cut, the new ratio is about 0.39,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio for the
average of eight listed Spanish banks was 0.68 as of July 15,
Bloomberg data show.  Deal Metrics  Demand for the retail investors’ tranche of the IPO was 104
percent of the amount offered, the bank said. Demand for the
institutional investors’ tranche covered 110 percent of the
amount offered to them, the bank said. Bankia had allocated 60
percent of the sale to retail investors and 40 percent to
institutional investors.  Five Spanish lenders failed this year’s European Union
stress tests after regulators found they didn’t have enough
capital to withstand a recession scenario. Bankia passed with a
core Tier 1 capital ratio of 5.4 percent, just above the
required 5 percent.  European bank stocks have sunk this year on concern balance
sheets will suffer from rising bond yields in Greece,  Italy  and
Spain. Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  warned that the
government, already implementing the deepest budget cuts in
three decades, may have to expand reductions planned for next
year to avoid a Greece-like collapse in its  debt market . Bankia,
led by by former International Monetary Fund head Rodrigo Rato,
has more than 280 billion euros of assets.  Civica IPO  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are managing Bankia’s IPO, along with Barclays
Plc, BNP Paribas SA and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Civica, formed from the combination of another four Spanish
savings banks, is seeking to raise as much as 844 million euros
in an IPO. The lender, also in  Madrid , is priced at 0.4 times to
0.52 times its estimated book value, according to two people
directly involved in the transaction. The bank decided to delay
the pricing date by one day until today to see the result of
Bankia’s IPO, said one of the people, who declined to be named
because the process is private.  Successful IPOs for Bankia and Civica might help ease the
pressure on Spain, which is toiling to cut the euro-region’s
third-biggest budget deficit and rebuild confidence in the
finance industry. Still, the offerings may have to be sold at
“rock bottom valuations” to succeed, said Josef Schuster,
founder of Chicago-based IPOX Schuster LLC, which oversees about
$2.5 billion.  “It takes a lot of incentives to invest in Spanish IPOs at
this juncture of debt crises in  Europe ,” Schuster said.
“Financial IPOs are feeling the most heat.”  Spanish and Italian borrowing costs yesterday climbed to
the highest since the start of the single currency. Moody’s
Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating last week to junk
and  Fitch Ratings  reduced  Greece ’s credit rating by three levels
to the agency’s lowest grade for any country in the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  