-- 
Barclays Settles Part of Lawsuit by Ex-Bond Trader Burnell’s Hedge Fund

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-18T15:51:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/barclays-settles-part-of-lawsuit-by-ex-bond-trader-burnell-s-nylon-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  settled part of an
ongoing legal battle with a hedge fund set up by one of its
former bond and derivative traders, which shut after the
bank withdrew its money.  Nylon Capital LLP, founded by former Barclays proprietary
trader Alan Burnell, had sought 10.6 million pounds
($17 million) from London-based Barclays for expenses it said it
was owed following the closure of its flagship fund in 2010.
Barclays asked for a ruling that it didn’t have to return any of
the profits made on its initial investment in the fund.  In a ruling handed down today, a U.K. judge said the two
sides had “reached agreement.”  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for  Barclays Capital , said the two
sides “resolved this matter to their mutual satisfaction” and
declined to comment further. Neil Bennett, a spokesman for the
hedge fund, said the process was ongoing and declined to comment
further.  Nylon Capital has made another claim for damages against
Barclays over the closure of its fund at the London Court of
 International Arbitration . In a company filing in May, Nylon
Capital said the arbitration court had found Barclays breached
its contractual obligations when it “prematurely redeemed its
investment.” A hearing to assess damages hasn’t yet been set,
it said.  Burnell, former European head of  government bonds  and fixed
income derivatives at investment bank Barclays Capital, founded
Nylon Capital in 2004. Barclays provided 250 million pounds of
 seed capital  and took a minority stake in the partnership
managing the funds, court documents show.  When Barclays withdrew its money in 2009, Nylon Capital
liquidated its assets and returned the remaining cash to
investors.  The case is: Barclays Bank Plc v. Nylon Capital LLP, Case
no. 10-00897,  High Court  of Justice, Chancery Division (London)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  