-- 
Blondie Keeps Cool as Beth Ditto Strips, Scissor Sisters Boogie

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-07-18T07:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/blondie-keeps-cool-as-beth-ditto-strips-scissor-sisters-boogie.html
The Scissor Sisters went for the
Technicolor rubber look. Beth Ditto stripped to her underwear.
Debbie Harry dressed in cool black. The audience danced in
Wellington boots as showers and swamps of mud failed to damp the
party atmosphere.  The three-day Lovebox Festival in  Victoria Park , east
 London , has grown from the 2002 event started by U.K. electronic
duo  Groove Armada . Friday was tinged with alternative bands such
as the pedestrian, if popular,  Wombats . On Saturday,  Snoop Dogg 
played through his “ Doggystyle ” album. The smartest fans saved
their energies for Sunday.  Marc Almond  mixed glamour and sleaze, crooning torch songs
and wearing a gold lame jacket.  Beth Ditto’s  show was chaotic. Eschewing the music of her
group the Gossip, she sang over an electronic beat and even
covered Dolly Parton’s “Jolene.” She changed from a green cape
to a figure-hugging dress before stripping down further.  The members of Blondie were elegantly scrawny in leather
jackets. Harry sported a choker chain saying “Bitch.” If the
look was sharp, the music was not. The hits were played: “Call
Me,” “Atomic,” “Heart of Glass,” even the awkward reggae “The
Tide Is High.” Exceptionally poor sound obliterated the disco
tension that had propelled  Harry’s  band to stardom.  The Scissor Sisters show was a riot of color, charisma and
choruses. Singers Jake Shears and Ana Matronic boogied across
the stage in colorful rubber outfits, belting out modern disco
such as “ Fire With Fire ” and “Take Your Mama.”  Robyn demonstrated why she has been chosen to support both
Madonna and Katy Perry. Dressed in swirling Alexander McQueen
leggings, the petite  Swede  twirled and danced in front of two
keyboard players and two drummers. “With Every Heartbeat”
shimmered with electronic pop bliss.  Last night closed with  2 Many DJs . The Belgian duo mixed
thumping techno tracks with everything from the Clash to MGMT,
never letting the energy flag. It was music for dancing and the
euphoric crowd did just that -- a perfect ending to one of the
best parties in London.  Rating: ***.  Information:  http://www.lovebox.net   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 