-- 
Body Bombs May Challenge Terrorists as Much as U.S. Air Security

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o   a n d   J u d y   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-07-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/body-bombs-may-challenge-terrorists-as-much-as-u-s-air-security.html
Body bombs, the latest terrorist
threat flagged by U.S. officials, may prove to be as difficult
for would-be attackers to use with the desired effect as they
are for airport screeners to detect.  Prompted by new intelligence, the  U.S. Transportation
Security Administration  has alerted airlines and its
counterparts in other nations to the potential risk of implanted
explosives, a U.S. security official said in a July 12 e-mail.  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, a Yemen-based terror
group, has been looking at how to develop body bombs stitched
into a terrorist’s belly, breasts or buttocks, though destroying
a plane in the air that way “would be a really, really tough
thing to do,”  Seth Jones , a senior political scientist for the
 RAND Corp. , a  Santa Monica , California-based policy research
organization, said in an interview.  Jones served until March in the Special Operations Command
at the U.S. Defense Department in Arlington, Virginia.  For such an attack to succeed, “a lot of things need to
line up,”  Tom Blank , former TSA acting deputy administrator,
said in an interview. Blank is vice chairman of  Wexler & Walker ,
a Washington-based policy consultancy.  Al Qaeda, Surgery  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula evaded security with
bombs concealed in toner cartridges in 2010 and in an attacker’s
underwear on Christmas in 2009.  Each plot failed, as intelligence helped uncover the
printer equipment smuggled aboard two cargo flights from  Yemen ,
and a failed detonation alerted fellow passengers who subdued
the would-be bomber aboard a Detroit-bound jet originating in
Amsterdam.  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has had help from people
with surgical backgrounds, Jones said.  Ayman al-Zawahiri , who
stepped into al-Qaeda’s top spot after U.S. commandos killed
 Osama bin Laden  in June, is a surgeon.  The Transportation Security Agency  notified  passengers on
its website July 6 to expect heightened security measures for
arrivals in the U.S. from other countries, also because of the
possible use of body bombs, the security official said. In its
statement, the agency said added precautionary measures may
include “interaction with passengers,” pat-downs and “the use
of enhanced tools and technologies.”  X-Ray Detection  There were no indications of an imminent threat, said the
U.S. official, who asked not to be identified discussing private
briefings for airlines and security agencies.  Existing TSA screening technology and methods won’t detect
explosive implants, Representative John Mica, the Florida
Republican who is chairman of the House transportation
committee, said July 14 in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington office.  TSA should beef up personnel in other countries “where the
threat is coming from,” Mica said.  X-rays would be necessary to reveal contraband below the
skin, said  Michael Jackson , a former deputy secretary of the
Transportation and Homeland Security departments who is now
president of Firebreak Partners LLC, a security consulting firm
in McLean, Virginia.  “That approach would likely require greater  radiation
exposure  than would be considered acceptable on a routine
basis,” Jackson said.  Syringes as Weapons  A surgeon could insert a plastic explosive like C-4, inside
a silicone bag attached to wires, into the breasts of a female
operative under local anesthetic and a sedative “in a hotel
room,”  Timothy A. Miller , chief of the plastic and
reconstructive surgery division at the Geffen School of Medicine
at University of California Los Angeles, said in an interview.  Each wire, sharpened to a point, could be threaded under
the skin to a spot near the surface of the flank, Miller said.
The attacker could press to make the wires cut through the skin
and place the ends together to produce an electrical charge,
setting off the bomb.  Another approach may be to fill breast or gluteal implants
with separate fluids that are stable on their own and explosive
when combined, said Stephen Baker, program director of the
plastic-surgery department at  Washington ’s Georgetown University
Hospital. An attacker could draw the liquids out with a syringe
to mix them together, Baker said in an interview.  The abdomen could also be a good receptacle for bomb
materials, according to  Martin A. Makary , a specialist in
advanced laparoscopy and gastro-intestinal tumors at the Johns
Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore. A chemical detonator
could be injected on board, Makary said in an interview.  Muffled Impact  “If you have the rudimentary skill, you could be taught”
procedures for embedding a bomb in a person, Miller said. “It
would be much easier than learning how to fly a plane,” as
hijackers of four airliners did in the 2001 attacks that
destroyed  New York ’s World Trade Center and damaged the
Pentagon, killing about 3,000 people.  The only effective way to stop syringes from being brought
on board for use as detonators would be to ban carry-on luggage,
said Blank, the former TSA official. Diabetics are allowed to
carry an “unlimited number of unused syringes” onto flights
when accompanied by insulin or similar medications, according to
the  TSA website .  Hard as they may be to discover, bomb implants have one
disadvantage for terrorists. They probably wouldn’t cause a big
enough explosion to bring down a plane, the surgeons and
consultants said.  The same tissues and skin that conceal the implant would
muffle the impact, said Cathal Flynn, a San Diego-based
consultant who headed security for the  Federal Aviation
Administration  during President  Bill Clinton ’s administration.  “It would certainly do damage to people nearby,” Flynn
said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Pasternak in Washington at 
 jpasternak1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  