-- 
BofA Needs $50 Billion Cushion as Mortgage Expenses Swell

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-07-18T20:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/bofa-mortgage-settlements-magnify-capital-strain-as-50-billion-gap-looms.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  may have to
build its capital cushion by $50 billion and renege again on
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ’s pledge to raise the
firm’s dividend as mortgage losses drain funds.  Expenses tied to soured home loans may total $20.4 billion
in the second quarter, pulling the bank further from capital
ratios demanded under new international standards, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company  said  June 29. The gap
may equal 2.75 percent of risk-weighted assets starting in 2013
-- at about $18 billion for each percentage point -- crimping
Moynihan’s ability to raise dividends and repurchase shares.  “They are likely to be in capital-building mode for longer
than previously anticipated,”  Jason Goldberg , a Barclays
Capital analyst, said in an interview. For now, he said, “I’m
hard-pressed to see meaningful capital redeployment.”  Moynihan, 51, has booked about $30 billion in settlements
and writedowns to clean up mortgage liabilities at the biggest
 U.S. bank  since succeeding  Kenneth D. Lewis  last year. As the
costs mounted, Bank of America’s stock declined 27 percent this
year, the worst showing in the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The
company reports second-quarter results tomorrow and has told
investors to brace for a loss of as much as $9.1 billion.  “The charges have had the effect of reducing mortgage
uncertainty but have pushed dividend increases further into the
future,” Richard Staite, an analyst with Atlantic Equities LLC,
said in a June 30 note. Staite and Goldberg both estimate that
Bank of America needs to raise $50 billion to comply with the
new  capital requirements , designed to build a buffer against
losses and avert a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  Basel Rules  Under rules prepared by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, Moynihan has to achieve a 9.5 percent ratio of
capital to risk-weighted assets between 2013 and 2019. That’s
based on a 7 percent minimum and a 2.5 percent surcharge imposed
by regulators on the largest companies whose collapse would pose
a threat to the banking system.  Moynihan’s task was complicated after he underestimated how
big the capital surcharge would be. The bank counted on 1
percentage point, an assumption based upon “fairly senior
information saying that was a reasonable number to use,”
Moynihan said in a June 1 conference. The 2.5 percent announced
last month means an extra $27 billion burden.  Gradual Increase  “It’s phased in over time, so there’s time to meet the
requirement,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America
spokesman. “On the dividend, we know we have some work to do
relative to the capital plan, and when we complete that work
we’ll resubmit it to the  Federal Reserve .”  Bank of America fell 28 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $9.72 in
4 p.m.  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. That’s the
lowest since May 2009, when the company still held $45 billion
in U.S. bailout funds to help it survive the global financial
crisis.  Moynihan has previously had to revise guidance about the
bank’s dividend after the Fed rejected what he called a
“modest” increase requested for later this year. His deals to
settle disputes over defective mortgages, including an $8.5
billion accord last month, means the CEO may have to adjust
another promise to investors -- a larger dividend boost by 2013.  In March, Moynihan said that all $42 billion of projected
earnings in 2013 and 2014 would be returned to shareholders.
Bank of America was “committed” to raising its 1-cent dividend
to a higher level equal to 30 percent of earnings, he said.  “We go from being a company which gets its capital in
shape in 2011 and 2012 and pays a modest dividend to a company
which has significant capital generation from there on out,”
Moynihan said at the March 8 conference. The result would be a
total of $12 billion in payouts during those two years, he said.  Mortgage Disputes  That plan may be stymied as Moynihan writes checks to
settle disputes inherited from the 2008 takeover of subprime
lender Countrywide Financial Corp., whose lax underwriting led
to soaring defaults on mortgages and claims from investors who
bought or insured them. He announced a $3 billion accord with
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  in January, a $1.6 billion deal with
bond insurer Assured Guaranty Ltd. in April and the $8.5 billion
settlement with institutional investors last month.  With the costs climbing, Bank of America last month cut its
2013 forecast of its  capital ratios  under the new rules to 6.75
percent to 7 percent, from 8 percent in April. That estimate is
based on the premise that the rules are fully enforced in 2013.  Executives and analysts expect the rules will be phased in
over several years, making it less likely that Bank of America
will be left short on capital and be forced to sell new shares.
The added time would allow the bank to reach its goals by
retaining earnings or getting rid of riskier assets that require
a lender to hold more capital to cushion losses.  China Construction Stake  The bank is weighing the sale of at least part of its $21
billion stake in China Construction Bank Corp., three people
briefed on the plans said last month. The sale would
simultaneously raise cash and reduce assets that are penalized
under the capital rules.  Bank of America, which under Basel rules may be labeled a
systemically important financial institution, or SIFI, expects
to have  $1.8 trillion  in risk-weighted assets by 2013 and said
it intends to reduce that figure to ease capital needs. To meet
the 9.5 percent standard, the bank would have to hold about $171
billion in capital. That compares with $122 billion for the 6.75
percent ratio.  The bank will “take a hard look at our balance sheet and
the businesses that we were in if, with the SIFI, you were up at
9.5 percent,” former Chief Financial Officer  Charles Noski  said
in March. He was replaced by  Bruce Thompson  last month.  Earnings Signal  The bank’s lower capital goal for 2013 may signal the
company expects to earn less than it did just a few months
earlier as the  U.S. economy  slows, said Goldberg, who has the
equivalent of a “hold” recommendation. Chris Kotowski, an
Oppenheimer & Co. analyst, didn’t rule out a share sale in his
June 30 research note.  “Bank of America’s capital position relative to peers
creates dilution risk,” wrote Kotowski, who has a “market
perform” recommendation on the lender. “While we aren’t
certain that an equity raise will actually happen, the risk is
certainly there.”  The lender may have to hoard cash until 2016 to reach the
9.5 percent capital goal, about three years behind rivals
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Kotowski
said, even while those firms raise payouts and buy back shares.  Mortgage Costs  Moynihan has said at least twice this year that the firm
won’t need to issue common stock to meet the new capital
threshold. Regulatory capital under existing international rules
has steadily improved in the past two years, the company said
last month.  The lender still faces more mortgage-related costs that may
sap capital. The five largest servicers may pay more than $20
billion to settle probes by the U.S. Department of Justice and
50 state attorneys general over shoddy mortgage servicing
practices, said two people briefed on the matter.  Bank of America may also have another $5 billion in costs
tied to repurchase demands from institutional investors and
could face other expenses related to securities and fraud
allegations on soured Countrywide loans, the company said.
Further, if U.S. home prices decline beyond internal company
estimates, the bank may need to set aside more for bad mortgages
purchased by Fannie Mae, executives have said.  “Will the charges this quarter for all these mortgage
settlements kind of be the end of it?,” said  Anton Schutz , the
president of Mendon Capital Advisors Corp., an asset manager
that specializes in the stocks of financial-services companies
and owns Bank of America shares. “If it is, they can build
capital really quickly. There’s the constant fear that they need
to raise capital, which I disagree with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 