-- 
Bond Rally Not Over to Payden as Inflation Slows: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-18T22:42:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/bond-rally-not-over-to-payden-as-inflation-slows-mexico-credit.html
Slowing Mexican inflation is a
signal to Payden & Rygel and Bulltick Capital Markets that the
four-month rally in benchmark  government bonds  isn’t over.  Yields on government peso-denominated notes due in 2024
have dropped 32 basis points in the past month to 6.98 percent,
near a seven-month low. Yields have declined 100 basis points
from an 11-month high of 7.98 on March 3. In  Brazil , yields on
similar-maturity government debt have climbed 20 basis points,
or 0.2 percentage point, in the past month while those on
Colombian debt rose 1 basis point.  Inflation is hovering near a five-year low in Mexico, a
contrast to the six-year high in Brazil, allowing central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens to keep benchmark rates at a record
low and providing room for more bond price gains, said Arthur Hovsepian, an emerging-markets strategist with Payden & Rygel,
which oversees $55 billion. He predicts yields on  Mexico ’s bonds
due 2024 may fall another 50 basis points by year-end.  “The big picture reason is that within the emerging-market
universe, Mexico has continued to show a relatively benign
inflation outlook,” Hovsepian said in a telephone interview
from  Los Angeles . “The inflation picture has been very
supportive for bonds.”  Yields on 28-day interbank rate futures due in March, known
as TIIE, declined 7 basis points this month to 5.04 percent,
indicating traders are betting the central bank will wait until
that month to increase the key 4.5 percent rate. As recently as
April 4, they predicted an increase at this month’s meeting,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Low Risk’  Central bankers held the rate at 4.5 percent on June 8 for
a 20th straight meeting, citing the “favorable evolution” of
inflation and the moderate pace of expansion in  Latin America ’s
second-biggest economy.  Inflation was 3.28 percent in the 12 months through June,
less than half the 6.71 percent rate in Brazil, the region’s
biggest economy, and below the 3.6 percent rate in the U.S. A
14-percent rally in the peso over the past two years is driving
down import costs while prices on foods from tomatoes to bananas
tumbled in the past two months. Annual inflation touched a five-
year low of 3.04 percent in March.  “The data has been speaking very specifically about the
very low risk of inflation going forward, and the markets are
finally buying it,” Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income
research at Bulltick, a Miami-based brokerage that focuses on
Latin America, said in a telephone interview. “There’s still
room for further compression.”  Bernal forecasts benchmark bond yields may fall to about
6.5 percent by December, mirroring Payden & Rygel’s call.  CPI-Linked Bonds  Mexico’s economy will expand 4.4 percent this year after
growing 5.4 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in a decade,
according to the median forecast of 21 analysts in a survey
distributed July 5 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. Annual
inflation will quicken to 3.6 percent by year end, according to
the survey.  While fixed-rate bonds have rallied, they’ve underperformed
inflation-linked debt for the past three months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on bonds tied to the  consumer
price index  due in 2012 dropped 132 basis points since April 15
to 0.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG is buying the inflation-linked
securities as a bet consumer price increases will pick up,
Fernando Buendia, chief investment officer for private banking
in Mexico at Credit Suisse, said in a July 13 interview at
Bloomberg’s Mexico City office.  European Crisis  Concern that the debt crisis is spreading in Europe may
erode demand for emerging-market securities including Mexican
debt, crimping the rally in the fixed-rate bonds, said Aryam Vazquez, a New York-based economist at Wells Fargo & Co. Fitch
Ratings downgraded  Greece  by three levels this week to the
lowest rating for any country, following the two biggest ratings
companies and saying a default is a “real possibility.”  “The school for further compression right now is
limited,” Vazquez said in a telephone interview. “The
sovereign risk threats remain very much at play in  Europe  and
the threat of a default in Greece is alive and well.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 1 basis point
to 143, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 3 basis points to 118, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Slowing Growth  Slowing growth in the U.S., the buyer of 80 percent of
Mexican exports, suggests inflation will remain tame in the
Latin American country, said Payden & Rygel’s Hovsepian. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment decreased in July to 63.8, the lowest reading
since March 2009, from 71.5 the prior month.  “Monetary policy-wise a soft patch in the U.S. would argue
for a prolonged pause by the central bank of Mexico and that
should, if anything, be supportive of rates,” Hovsepian said.
“Most of the foreign investor base will still lean towards
having” Mexican bond positions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  