-- 
Borders Faces Liquidation as Najafi Won’t Bid for Bankrupt Bookstore Chain

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/borders-faces-liquidation-as-najafi-won-t-bid-for-bankrupt-bookstore-chain.html
Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
bookstore chain, faces a sale to liquidators after Najafi Cos.
declined to bid.  “We will not, reluctantly,” be making a bid, said Chief
Executive Officer Jahm Najafi in an e-mail.  Najafi had made an offer that would have kept some of the
retailer’s remaining 400 stores open, which Borders wanted to
use as the leading bid in a July 19 auction. That fell apart
last week after Najafi declined to abandon the option to
liquidate stores.  Liquidators led by Hilco Merchant Resources and Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC were made the opening bidders for
the auction. The deadline for bids passed yesterday without any
offers.  Mary Davis , a spokeswoman for Borders, declined to comment.  Borders is still required to get final approval of any
transaction from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan .
On July 14, Glenn approved a procedure to auction Borders’
assets that made a group of liquidators, rather than Najafi’s BB
Brands, the so-called stalking-horse bidder. Such bids, which
provide protections for interested parties who do work valuing
assets, become default purchase agreements if no other bids are
made.  Ruling  Glenn’s ruling last week came after a last-minute reversal
for Borders, the second-largest bookstore chain behind Barnes &
Noble. After negotiating all night before the hearing, creditors
and Najafi failed to reach an agreement that would have forced
the Phoenix-based firm to keep the company operating as a going
concern, Borders’ lawyers said.  Najafi didn’t intend to liquidate the company, and couldn’t
remove the clause because it was still trying to bargain with
publishers, who have refused to return to normal financial terms,
a person familiar with the negotiations said, speaking on
condition of anonymity.  Borders has throughout its Chapter 11 case pursued a
“dual-track process” so it could proceed with a sale to
liquidators if it isn’t acquired as a going concern, according
to court filings. The liquidators include Hilco and  Gordon
Brothers .  Borders, founded 40 years ago as a single used-book store,
had 642 stores in February when it sought court protection. It
closed 237 stores during the Chapter 11 case, leaving 405
operating.  The book chain, which once operated more than 1,000 stores,
lost business as customers switched to e-readers such as
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Barnes & Noble
invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  