-- 
Borders Faces Objections From Creditors, Kobo to Liquidation

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-20T00:36:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/borders-landlords-and-creditors-kobo-object-to-bankruptcy-liquidation.html
Borders Group Inc. faces objections
as it heads to liquidation from creditors, landlords and e-book
maker Kobo Inc., which called the sale process “hurried and
confused.”  Borders will wind down its remaining 399 stores starting
July 22 after it couldn’t reach an agreement with an earlier
bidder, Najafi Cos., about an offer to keep the company running.
The company won’t hold an auction as there have been no
proposals to keep the company operating, it said in a statement
yesterday.  “We were all working hard towards a different outcome, but
the headwinds we have been facing for quite some time, including
the rapidly changing book industry, eReader revolution, and
turbulent economy, have brought us to where we are now,” said
Borders Group President Mike Edwards in a statement.  Liquidators led by Hilco Merchant Resources and  Gordon
Brothers  Retail Partners LLC, who were the opening bidders for
the planned auction, will now buy the chain’s assets and
liquidate them, subject to bankruptcy court approval. The
deadline for bids passed yesterday without any offers.  Borders has about 10,700 employees, and a phased rollout
will close its stores by September. The company said it will
complete the wind-down under Chapter 11 and expects to be able
to pay its business partners.  Business Contracts  The sale to liquidators, still subject to bankruptcy court
approval, leaves no one to assume the company’s business
contracts, creditors said in objections filed in  Manhattan 
bankruptcy court yesterday.  “The debtors are proposing a hurried and confusing sale
process that leaves parties such as Kobo uninformed as to
precisely what will be sold or how the debtors intend to
proceed,” lawyers for Kobo wrote.  Kobo, a Toronto-based maker of electronic books, said it
should have the right of first refusal for any transfer of
Borders’ 11 percent stake in its equity, and Borders’ shouldn’t
be allowed to sell information that Kobo has licensed to
Borders.  The new sales motion isn’t consistent with Borders’ past
practices and violates “critical landlords rights and
protections” under leases, said lawyers for  Macerich Co. (MAC)  and
other landlords.  Responding to landlords’ objections that they should be
given seven days advance written notice of a store closing sale,
Borders said in a filing today that all sales will start on July
22 and landlords had been on notice about that date since June
30. No further notice should be required, the filing said.  Texas Objections  The Texas comptroller objected to Borders’ motion to
liquidate because it doesn’t contain a requirement that the
liquidators of Borders pay federal and state tax. In the
bankruptcy of Ultimate Acquisition Partners in  Delaware , about
$2 million of  sales tax  collected under Gordon Brothers’ and
Hilco’s watch went unpaid, lawyers for the Texas authority
wrote.  The book chain, which once operated more than 1,000 stores,
lost business as customers switched to e-readers such as
Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle, introduced in 2007. Barnes & Noble
invested in its own Nook device to attract customers.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  