-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Fall as Debt Crisis Spurs Growth Concern

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-07-18T22:41:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-debt-crisis-spurs-growth-concern.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell on speculation the European debt
crisis will weaken global growth global and allow the central
bank to temper increases in benchmark borrowing costs.  Yields on interest-rate futures contract due in January, the
most actively-traded today in  Sao Paulo , fell one basis point to
12.47 percent. Yields on the contracts due in January 2013 fell
three basis points to 12.64 percent.  Global growth concerns overshadowed a central bank survey
that showed economists covering the Brazilian economy raised
their 12-month inflation forecast for a fifth straight week. The
MSCI All-Country World Index slid 1.2 percent and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index extended losses from last week, falling 0.8
percent. The euro depreciated as much as 1.4 percent to 1.13737
per franc, and the cost of insuring European sovereign debt rose
to records.  “Given what’s going on with the  S&P 500  and the euro
falling, the chances of a negative exogenous shock that would
eventually bring down interest rates in Brazil clearly are
rising,” said  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in  New York . “Rates wouldn’t have to rise as much
as economists expect.”  European leaders plan to meet for the second time in a
month on July 21 to revamp their debt-crisis-fighting strategy,
aiming to break a deadlock that has spooked investors and
prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to warn of contagion.
Germany said it’s confident that officials will reach agreement
on funding a second bailout for Greece while European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated opposition to any
Greek debt restructuring.  Inflation Forecasts  Brazilian consumer prices will rise 5.37 percent over the
next 12 months, according to the median estimate in a July 15
 central bank survey  of about 100 economists published today. The
figure was up from 5.29 percent the previous week.  Economists held their predictions for 2011 and 2012
inflation unchanged. Prices, as measured by the IPCA index, will
rise 6.31 percent this year and 5.20 percent in 2012, the survey
found.  Policy makers increased  interest rates  for a fourth
consecutive meeting last month, raising the benchmark lending
rate a quarter-point to 12.25 percent.  Economists expect a further quarter-point increase this
week and another in August, the survey found, unchanged from
last week’s forecast.  The real was unchanged 1.5745 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  