-- 
Tropical Storm Bret Moves Toward Open Atlantic as Dora Forms Off Mexico

-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-18T21:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/bret-near-bahamas-becomes-atlantic-s-second-tropical-storm-of-2011-season.html
Bret, the second tropical storm of
the  Atlantic hurricane season , is moving northeast away from the
coast of  Florida  on a track that will take it out to sea, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  In the eastern Pacific, Tropical Storm Dora formed today
about 400 miles (644 kilometers) south-southeast of Salina Cruz,
 Mexico , the center said. Forecast maps show the storm remaining
offshore while gathering hurricane strength.  Dora may become a hurricane by late tomorrow, the center
said in an advisory issued before 5 p.m. New York time. Maximum
sustained winds are near 45 miles (75 kilometers) per hour
“with higher gusts,” the center said.  Bret was about 130 miles north of Great Abaco Island in the
Bahamas, with sustained winds of 65 miles (100 kilometers) per
hour, the Miami-based center said today in an  advisory  shortly
after 5 p.m. New York time. Storm-force winds extend outward as
far as 50 miles (85 kilometers) from the core, the center said.  Bret was moving north-northeast at about 7 miles (11
kilometers) per hour. The system is expected to pick up strength
and speed and turn to the northeast on a course that will take
it between  North Carolina  and  Bermuda , into the Atlantic.  The government of the Bahamas has discontinued tropical
storm warnings for Grand Bahama Island and the Abaco islands.
High surf and 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 centimeters) of rain may
occur in the northwest Bahamas, the center said.  A disturbance becomes tropical when it develops cyclonic
activity and becomes a named storm when sustained winds reach 39
mph. A storm reaches hurricane status when winds hit 74 mph.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlotte Porter in New York at 
 Cporter11@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  