-- 
Builders Push ‘Green’ Homes to Stand Out in Foreclosure-Filled U.S. Market

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-07-18T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/builders-push-green-to-stand-out-in-foreclosure-filled-market.html
In the 20 years Ron Betenbough’s
company has been building homes in west  Texas , he’s always been
willing to compete on price. Now, in a market crowded with cheap
properties, he’s also touting environmentally friendly
construction and energy-saving features.  Betenbough Homes has been promoting all its houses as
“green” since November, after winning certification under an
industry-run program, Betenbough said in a telephone interview.
The company didn’t raise prices, absorbing added costs of less
than $500 on each of its units, which list for as low as
$110,000 in some subdivisions.  “We chalked it up to marketing,” said Betenbough, 70, who
founded the Lubbock, Texas-based company with his son, Rick.  As the housing slump enters its sixth year, small companies
such as Betenbough and giants such as PulteGroup Inc., the
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, are using green marketing
as a weapon in the battle for buyers who have their pick of low-
priced existing properties, including foreclosures. Builders are
touting a confusing array of potentially profit-pinching
environmental standards that have yet to prove effective in
swaying consumers.  To label its homes green, Betenbough Homes added a few
features, such as low-flow toilets, and paid for inspections,
allowing it to get the “bronze” level of  certification  from
the  National Association of Home Builders , the lowest of the
Washington-based group’s four green ratings. The company had
previously adopted design elements including energy-efficient
windows, to block out heat and dust, and prefabricated roof
trusses, which save money and create less waste.  Pragmatic Approach  Buyers in west Texas, where home sales are stronger and
energy costs are lower than in many other parts of the U.S.,
aren’t willing to pay a lot extra for a green home, according to
Betenbough, who says he’s more of a pragmatist than an
environmentalist.  “If I can do something that does increase the cost and the
buyer can recover the money in two years, I’m game,” said
Betenbough, who has sold about 250 green homes. “If it takes 10
years, you’ve lost me. Most people don’t live in a home that
long.”  Sales of green homes accounted for 16 percent of the $100
billion homebuilding industry last year, up from 2 percent in
2006, according to information-services provider McGraw-Hill
Construction in  New York . The increase in part reflects
builders’ expectations that states will continue to adopt
stricter energy codes for construction, said Clayton Traylor,
policy director for Leading Builders of America, an industry
lobbying group in Washington.  This Old House  The green trend also is an attempt to set new construction
apart from previously owned homes on the market.  “Our competition isn’t other homebuilders, it’s resale,”
said Steve Ruffner, president of the Southern California
division of Los Angeles-based KB Home, which focuses on first-
time buyers. “We are very focused on showing why buying new is
saving money in a consumer’s overall cost.”  Builders are trying to lure buyers away from existing homes
as foreclosed properties drag down prices. More than 4 million
properties have been repossessed since 2006, according to
RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine, California-based data seller. A
 Standard & Poor’s  index of 12 publicly traded homebuilders has
tumbled 76 percent since new-home sales crested in July 2005,
compared with the gain of 6.6 percent by the  S&P 500 .  The median price of a new home in May fell 3.4 percent to
$222,600 from a year earlier, and is down 15 percent from the
March 2007 high, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.
Sales have fallen 77 percent since July 2005.  A Limited Advantage  The median price of an existing home dropped 4.6 percent in
May to $166,500, and has lost 28 percent from the high in July
2006, data from National Association of Realtors show. Sales are
off 34 percent from their September 2005 record.  “I don’t know that  energy efficiency  is enough of an
edge,” said  Vicki Bryan , a New York-based analyst who covers
homebuilders and other industries for debt-research firm Gimme
Credit LLC. “The first decision a buyer is going to make is to
buy at all, not because you have a green product.”  To earn the Environmental Protection Agency’s  Energy Star 
certification, a home needs to be at least 20 percent more
efficient than the benchmark for a standard new home, according
to Jonathan Passe, acting manager for the program’s residential
unit in  Washington . About 1.2 million homes have gotten the
Energy Star label, and a quarter of single-family homes built
last year qualified.  Single Standard Needed  Passe said there are dozens of green-labeling programs.
Energy Star looks mostly at energy efficiency, though new
guidelines for 2012 will include requirements on  air quality .  Homes can be certified at various grades, from “bronze”
to “emerald,” through the National Association of Home
Builders, or “certified” to “platinum” through the U.S.
Green Building Council, the Washington-based nonprofit that
developed the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design
standards. The levels in both systems are based on scores in
categories that include water efficiency, indoor environmental
quality and energy usage.  Builders could reduce confusion surrounding the multiple
standards by developing a single national metric similar to the
miles-per-gallon sticker on cars, allowing buyers to easily
compare both new and existing homes, according to Sean Penrith,
executive director of the Earth Advantage Institute, a Portland,
Oregon-based nonprofit that works with the industry to help
implement sustainable-building practices.  The group, which offers its own green-certification
programs, recently introduced the “energy performance score,”
which displays the energy usage and carbon emissions of a house.  Extra 3%  “We in the industry expect homeowners to become building
scientists to understand what the performance elements of a home
are,” Penrith said. “What’s really needed is a simple way to
compare one high-performance home to another.”  Top green ratings often go to high-end custom homes because
the technology is expensive, said Michelle Desiderio, director
of green-building programs for the Upper Marlboro, Maryland-
based National Association of Home Builders Research Center,
which has certified 2,500 houses and 52 multifamily buildings
since starting more than two years ago.  Going green adds about 3 percent to building costs, which
aren’t always passed on to customers, according to Allison
Bailes, president of Energy Vanguard LLC, a Decatur, Georgia-
based training, consulting and design firm.  Michael G. Smith, an analyst for JMP Securities LLC in  San
Francisco , said builders that appeal to first-time buyers often
can’t invest enough money in green features to make a
significant difference in energy savings without eating into
profit margins. A company such as  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , which
caters to move-up buyers, has more flexibility to spend on green
options, he said.  ‘Net Zero’ Homes  “In general you have to invest in technology to
differentiate them,” Smith said. “It can’t just be marketing
and an Energy Star seal.”  Most of Meritage’s houses are 35 percent more energy
efficient than a typical new home, and in the 25 communities
where solar panels are standard, the differential is about 75
percent, said C.R. Herro, vice president of environmental
affairs at the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company.  The company has sold about a half dozen “net zero” homes,
designed to generate as much power as a typical household would
use, since their April introduction, he said. While the homes
cost an additional $10,000 to $20,000, tax incentives help
defray the difference.  Appraisal Issue  KB Home (KBH)  also plans to introduce net zero houses as an
option in some markets. In its 10 solar communities, homeowners
may save 30 percent on energy over a standard new home.  At Meritage’s Lyon’s Gate project in Gilbert,  Arizona , the
annual energy bill was $720 for a 1,640-square-foot (152-square-
meter) home. That’s 60 percent less than a standard new home of
a similar size, according to an analysis by the Salt River
Project, which supplies power to customers in the Phoenix area.  “We can charge a little bit more and still be competitive
with other new homes and used homes,” said Brent Anderson, a
Meritage spokesman. “But a homebuyer has a fairly small
threshold.”  Builders say sales of green homes are being hindered
because appraisers don’t always account for energy-saving
features, making it more difficult for borrowers to qualify for
loans. The  Sensible Accounting to Value Energy Act , a bill
supported by groups including the Leading Builders of America
that has yet to be introduced in Congress, would require
providers of any government-backed mortgage to take borrowers’
expected energy savings into account. That would allow buyers of
eco-friendly homes to afford higher prices.  Data Scarce  David Weekley Homes, one of the biggest closely held
builders, is subsidizing some of the additional costs because
mortgage appraisers don’t give full credit for the average
$3,000 it spends on green features, according to Mike Humphrey,
the company’s vice president of operations.  If the homes were appraised at a higher value, the Houston-
based company wouldn’t have to take a hit to its margins, he
said.  Studies on the strength of the green-home market are
limited because few multiple listing services across the country
collect information about energy efficiency. An exception is in
the Portland area, where homes with green certifications sold 18
days faster on average and for 3 percent to 5 percent more than
comparable houses, according to a 2009 study by the Earth
Advantage Institute.  Model Customer  Jennifer Fong is the kind of buyer builders are targeting
with their green efforts.  The 31-year-old dentist, who doesn’t own a television and
keeps her thermostat at 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27 degrees
Celsius), moved into the PulteGroup-built Villa Trieste in  Las
Vegas  in 2009. The Bloomfield, Michigan-based company has built
about 120,000 Energy Star homes in the U.S., and has 24 solar
communities, including Villa Trieste, which was designed to cut
energy use by 65 percent.  Fong is competing for bragging rights for the lowest annual
electric bill in her Las Vegas community, where rooftop solar
panels are standard on all 185 homes. Her monthly bills have
never been more than $45, and her 1,775-square-foot house even
generates a surplus of power in some months. Her June bill was
$8.40, which covered the minimum service fee and taxes.  “I did consider buying a foreclosure,” said Fong, who
paid $275,000 for the house. “But I liked the home anyway and
with the added green features, it made it that much better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  