-- 
Bundesbank Says Germany’s Medium-Term Economic Outlook ‘Still Favorable’

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-07-18T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/bundesbank-says-germany-s-medium-term-economic-outlook-still-favorable-.html
The Bundesbank said the economic
outlook for  Germany  remains “favorable” as stronger domestic
demand compensates for a slowdown in export growth.  “The medium-term economic outlook can still be considered
favorable” even as “signs of an economic slowdown are
beginning to show,” the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said in its
monthly report today. “The economic growth drivers are shifting
increasingly to the domestic side. While exports haven’t
provided strong impulses lately, available indicators show
domestic demand revived.”  Declining unemployment is boosting German consumption even
as the euro area is buffeted by the sovereign debt crisis and
demand from emerging markets such as  China  slows. The Bundesbank
has forecast Europe’s largest economy will expand 3.1 percent
this year and 1.8 percent in 2012. Germany “is now in a
position that most advanced countries only dream about,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said last week.  The Bundesbank said data showing a 2.5 percent decline in
retail sales in May are “without validity” as the statistical
series has “significant weaknesses.” Other indicators suggest
private consumption will further strengthen, the report said.  Consumer sentiment will rise for the first time in four
months in July, Nuremberg-based market research company GfK
predicted on June 28. “Good general conditions” have become
“more influential than detrimental factors, such as the state
of affairs in Greece,” it said.  The Bundesbank voiced concern about planned tax reductions,
saying they seem “inappropriate” as long as they’re not
flanked by spending cuts or revenue increases.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her fellow coalition
party leaders, Philipp Roesler and  Horst Seehofer , this month
agreed on tax relief for middle-income households and cuts to
social-insurance contributions from Jan. 1, 2013, without
providing further details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  