-- 
HTC, Hitachi, Pernod Ricard, Hilton: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-18T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/htc-hitachi-pernod-ricard-wendy-s-arby-s-hilton-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taoyuan Hisen,
Taiwan-based handset maker, denied a Commercial Times report  VIA
Technologies Inc. (2388)  is considering selling patents to the company.  Via Technologies Inc., of Taipei Hsien,  Taiwan , is a maker
of chips used for personal computers and other electronic
devices.  HTC made a statement to the Taiwan stock exchange July 15
in which it denied the report.  The Commercial Times didn’t say where it got the
information about the alleged sale.  HannStar, Hitachi Displays Extend Patent Licensing Agreement  HannStar Display Corp. (6116)  and Hitachi Displays Ltd. expanded
and extended an existing patent licensing agreement, Taipei-
based HannStar said in an exchange filing July 15 without
providing details.  Teva, Amgen Resolve Filgrastim-Related Patent Dispute  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  acknowledged it has
infringed to patents held by Amgen Inc. and won’t sell its
generic version of Amgen’s Neupogen in the U.S. until after Nov.
10, 2013.  Teva was planning to introduce to the U.S. market a
biosimilar form of the genetically engineered compound
filgrastim, used to treat the low white blood count found in
severe infections. Teva’s generic version -- Neutroval -- is
already sold in  Europe  under the brand name TevaGrastim.  Neupogen  had $1.29 billion in global sales in 2009, or 8.8
percent of Amgen’s revenue  The stipulation ended a patent case that began in federal
court in Philadelphia in November 2009. Then Teva, the world’s
largest maker of generic drugs, filed suit, seeking a court
declaration that either it didn’t infringe Amgen’s patents
5,582,823 and 5,580,755, or that the patents were invalid.  In the July 15 stipulation, Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva
agreed that the Amgen patents are valid and enforceable, and
that bringing its Neutroval into the country would infringe both
patents. The Israeli company also agreed not to sell Neugranin,
a related product, until November 2012 or until it obtains a
court ruling that this product doesn’t infringe the two patents.  Both parties agreed pay their own litigation expenses and
attorney fees.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. V.  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,
2:09-cv-05675-SD, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pernod Ricard’s Chivas Among Fakes Seized by Chinese Authorities  Pernod Ricard SA’s Chivas Regal was one of the brands of
counterfeit alcohol seized in a three-day raid conducted in 12
Chinese provinces,  China ’s Xinhua news service  reported .  The police confiscated 22,000 bottles of fake products,
arrested 84 suspects and closed down 79 production areas where
the counterfeit alcohol was produced, according to Xinhua.  In a second case, raw materials with a value of 4 billion
Chinese yuan ($619 million) used to make the fake brands were
discovered in raids, the news service reported.  The raids are part of a campaign aimed at both agricultural
materials used in the production of fake products, and
counterfeit alcoholic beverages, drugs and high-end merchandise,
Xinhua reported.  Wendy’s Sued Over ‘You Can’t Fake Fresh’ Advertising Campaign  Wendy’s/Arby’s Restaurants LLC’s Wendy’s International unit
was sued for trademark infringement by a Naples, Florida-based
seafood restaurant chain.  Phelan Holdings Inc., which does business as Pincher’s
Crab Shack, accused Atlanta-based Wendy’s of infringing the
“You can’t fake fresh” trademark. According to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Phelan registered the
trademark in February 2010.  Wendy’s has been using the phrase in an ad campaign. Phelan
also objects to Wendy’s use of “You can’t fake real” in its
advertising, saying it is simply the “progeny of infringing
acts” related to the unauthorized use of “you can’t fake
fresh.”  Phelan claims the public is confused by the Wendy’s ads and
is likely to assume, falsely, that a connection or sponsorship
exists between the two entities. It claims its mark is tarnished
by its association with the fast-food chain.  The company asked the court to bar further use of the two
phrases by Wendy’s, and for awards of money damages, profits
derived from the alleged infringement, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Wendy’s didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Phelan is represented by Jennifer W. Whitelaw of the
Whitelaw Legal Group of Naples,  Florida .  The case is Phelan Holdings Inc. v. Wendy’s International
Inc, 2:11-cv-00392-CEH-DNF, U.S. District Court, Central
District of Florida, (Naples).  Asia Pacific Unit’s ‘Radler’ Registration Affirmed in N.Z.  Asia Pacific Breweries’ DB Breweries unit’s registration of
“radler” as a  New Zealand  trademark was sustained by that
country’s  Intellectual Property  Office, New Zealand’s
Marlborough Express newspaper  reported .  A group of beer drinkers had opposed the 2003 registration,
saying the term is generic for a type of light beer, according
to the newspaper.  Geoff Griggs, president of the Society of Beer Advocates,
called the ruling “outrageous” and said the office should have
done more research to learn “radler” is a term that dates back
to the 1920s, according to the Express.  Other varieties of radler-type beer imported from other
countries will now have to have the word on the label covered
with a sticker, Griggs said and the Express reported.  Hilton Loses Indian Trademark Dispute; ‘Hilltone’ Mark Permitted  Hilton International Corp. lost a trademark battle in  India 
over its exclusive right to the “Hilton” trademark, India’s
Economic Times  reported .  India’s  Supreme Court  dismissed Hilton’s challenge to a
ruling by the Jodhpur branch of the Rajasthan High Court, which
said an Indian company could continue to operate under its
“ Hilltone ” name, according to the Economic Times.  The high court said it had “no reason to interfere” in
the dispute, the Economic Times reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Cuts Belgian Newspaper Content From Its Search Sites  Google Inc. (GOOG)  dropped some Belgian newspaper content from its
search engine results following an appeals court ruling in May
that blocked it from publishing links to local newspapers on its
online news service.  French- and German-language newspapers published in  Belgium 
are no longer featured on Google’s search engine and news pages,
Bill Echikson, a Google spokesman said in an interview July 15.
The decision follows the May 5 ruling by the Court of Appeal in
Brussels to uphold a 2007 order forcing Google to remove links
and snippets of articles from Google.com and Google.be. The case
was brought on behalf of the newspapers by copyright-management
group Copiepresse.  “In keeping with the recent court decision, we are
removing Copiepresse’s material from our index,” said Echikson.
“We regret having to do so, but we remain open to working in
collaboration with Copiepresse members in the future.”  Google, the owner of the world’s most-used search engine,
faced a 25,000 euro ($35,400) daily fine for any delay in
implementing the judgment. Copiepresse and the newspapers have a
second lawsuit pending in the Belgian courts in which they seek
as much as 49.1 million euros in damages for the period in which
their content was visible on Google News.  “That’s a far-reaching step, probably further than what
was asked for,” said Flip Petillion, a Brussels-based partner
with Crowell & Moring LLP, who isn’t involved with the case.
“The question is: to what extent were the newspapers hurt by
what Google did and to what extent are they hurt by the
situation now?”  The Belgian newspapers argued that Google News doesn’t
generate enough traffic to their sites to make it attractive for
them to be included. Google News had stopped referencing them
before today. Until now, only Google’s main search site listed
the newspapers, such as La Libre Belgique and Le Soir, the most-
read French-language daily in Brussels.  “It’s a useless and even offensive procedure because
Google is very well aware that Copiepresse didn’t attack the
functioning of its search engine,” Philippe Nothomb, head of
legal affairs of Rossel et Cie., which owns Le Soir, said in an
e-mail.  La Libre in a statement posted on its website July 15 said
Google’s decision brings with it “numerous problems for the
user.”  “We’re doing everything possible so that it doesn’t
prevent you from continuing to read our information via other
channels,” said the La Libre statement.  Le Soir in a similar statement on its site said Google is
“boycotting” the newspaper.  Instead of following the May decision, which forces Google
to take off any content from the Belgian francophone papers from
its servers, Google “is now pushing the button much further and
deprives” some newspapers “purely and simply of any
referencing on its search engine,” said Le Soir.  Serbia  Adopts Anti-Piracy Law to Protect Intellectual Property  Serbia tightened rules on making and trading CDs and DVDs
to reduce piracy and improve its chances of joining the European
Union and the  World Trade Organization .  Lawmakers in Belgrade adopted the government-proposed bill
July 14 that introduces special licenses for those who produce,
import or sell CDs and DVDs. It also requires manufacturers’
codes on the products to make contraband detection easier.  The new regulations are among conditions that Serbia must
meet for eventual membership in the two international bodies,
Science and Education Minister Zarko Obradovic said.  Under the new law, Serbia will also step up customs control
of CD and DVD imports as it seeks to reduce software and content
piracy.  Software piracy rate in Serbia was 74 percent in the first
half of the year, according to a survey published last week by
the local office of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The use of pirated programs
was the highest here in the region after Albania and Montenegro,
it said.  Haldopi Says It’s Inundated With Copyright Enforcement Requests  Haldopi , the French agency implementing that country’s
three-strikes copyright-enforcement program, is swamped with
complaints from content owners, the TechEye.net website
 reported .  The agency has received more than 18 million complaints and
has sent out 470,000 warnings to alleged infringers, according
to TechEye.net  Haldopi said only seven percent of those to whom notices
are sent have responded upon receipt of the first notice, and
most people who do respond call the agency seeking technical
information, the website reported.  To date, only around 10 Internet users in France have
received a “third-strike” complaint and face possible
penalties, according to TechEye.net.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 