-- 
HTC Shares Fall as Buyback Fails to Counter Impact of Apple Patent Ruling

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-07-18T12:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/htc-shares-fall-in-taipei-after-itc-ruling-on-apple-patents.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  fell in Taipei trading
after the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled its Android-
based mobile phones infringed two  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents.  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of smartphones declined 4
percent, the most since July 13, to NT$871 at the 1:30 p.m.
close in Taipei, while the benchmark Taiex index lost 0.4
percent.  Today’s trading was the first chance the market had to
react to the July 15 ruling, which HTC says it will appeal and
is subject to review by the full commission. HTC has its own
patent complaint against Apple at the commission, which could
ban imports of some HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system if the decision is upheld.  “We expect HTC’s share price to be volatile in the next 12
to 18 months due to these lawsuits,” said Daniel Chang, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Taipei. “Longer term, the
cost of Android phones is likely to rise gradually and impact
either market share or margin.”  In its complaint, Cupertino, California-based Apple had
accused HTC of violating 10 patents involving how operating
systems work on mobile phones. Administrative Law Judge Carl Charneski found it infringed two of them.  “While this is not the best outcome, the ITC ruling should
still beat the market’s expectations,” Chialin Lu, a Samsung
Securities Co. analyst, wrote in a report today. “The two
violated patents are less critical and are seemingly unrelated
to the usage of multi-touch and the core of the Android
operating systems.” Lu kept a “buy” rating on the stock.  Share Buyback  HTC, based in Taoyuan, northern  Taiwan , will purchase as
many as 20 million of its own shares by Sept. 17, it said July
16, a day after the patent ruling was announced.  Half of the repurchased shares will be transferred to
employees, and the remainder canceled. The company will also pay
a 2010 cash dividend of NT$37 per share, and 50 shares for each
1,000 currently held, on July 20.  The share buyback could “provide near-term support,”
Chang wrote in a report. He has a “neutral” view on HTC.  HTC agreed on July 6 to buy S3 Graphics Co. for $300
million after the maker of video-game graphics chips won an
infringement ruling at the trade agency against Apple. The
findings in HTC’s patent complaint against Apple at the
commission are scheduled to be released Sept. 16.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade complaints
that has become the venue of choice for resolving patent
disputes. Nokia Oyj, which had been targeted in the same ITC
complaint, reached a settlement with Apple last month.  Mountain
View , California-based Google wasn’t a party in the case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  