-- 
California Lawmakers Back Flower Growers’ Push for Hub Combating Colombia

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-18T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/california-lawmakers-back-flower-growers-push-for-transport-hub.html
California’s U.S. senators and more
than half of its congressional delegation backed a request from
the state’s flower growers for $15 million to build a transport
hub that would help counter Colombian competition.  The Obama administration should include the creation of a
flower distribution center in the bill for a free-trade
agreement with Colombia, the top source of imported cut flowers
sold in the U.S., the lawmakers said in a July 14 letter to U.S.
Trade Representative Ron Kirk. The letter was signed by
Democratic Senators Dianne Feinstein and  Barbara Boxer  and 29 of
the state’s 53 representatives, including Republican Darrell Issa and Democrat Mike Thompson.  Hauling California irises, lilies and tulips from one
central site would fill large trucks more efficiently, reducing
growers’ costs by 20 percent to 40 percent, according to the
California Cut Flower Commission.  Such a cooperative shipping system “is the only chance
this workforce of over 10,000 has to stay alive,” the lawmakers
said in the letter.  California flower growers have lost $89 million since 1991,
when a trade-preferences program gave Colombian roses duty-free
access to the U.S., the lawmakers said. The state accounts for
three-quarters of U.S. cut-flower production.  The U.S. is the principal market for Colombian fresh-cut
flowers, accounting for 81 percent of the $727 million in stems
 Colombia  exported in 2005, according to a report from the U.S.
International Trade Commission completed in December 2006. U.S.
domestic growers account for less than 20 percent of the flower
market compared with 64 percent in 1993, according to the
commission.  Ratification Lag  President  Barack Obama  reworked the free-trade pact with
Colombia signed in 2006 under his predecessor,  George W. Bush ,
in response to Democratic concerns that the South American
nation wasn’t doing enough to protect worker rights.  The administration has been pushing to get that deal and
agreements with  South Korea  and Panama approved by Congress
before an August recess.  American producers of wheat, pork and corn say they support
free trade with Colombia, and say the lack of ratification has
helped competitors in  Argentina ,  Brazil  and  Canada . The trade
pact would boost U.S. exports to Colombia by as much as $1.1
billion a year, according to the trade commission.  Colombia’s flowers rank fifth in the country’s exports to
the U.S., after oil, minerals, gold and coffee, according to
Commerce Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  