-- 
Cameron Cuts Length of African Trip Again to Handle Phone-Hacking Scandal

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-18T16:24:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/cameron-shortens-african-trip-again-to-deal-with-hacking-scandal.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
cut even more time off a trip to  Africa  to deal with the
deepening phone-hacking scandal at  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp.
after two senior police officers resigned.  Cameron will return to London from  Nigeria  tomorrow night
rather than the following morning so he can prepare for a
statement to Parliament on July 20, his spokesman, Steve Field,
told reporters in Johannesburg today. Murdoch, his son James and
former News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks
give evidence to lawmakers tomorrow about wrongdoing at the now
defunct News of the World newspaper.  Metropolitan Police  Assistant Commissioner John Yates
followed the head of the force, Paul Stephenson, in resigning
today. The prime minister was again forced to defend his
decision to hire  Andy Coulson , the former editor of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World newspaper, as his communications chief.
Coulson, who quit that job in January this year, was arrested 10
days ago as police widened the phone-hacking probe.  “The situation in the police service is really quite
different from the situation in government,” Cameron told
reporters in Pretoria at a joint press conference with South
African President  Jacob Zuma  today. “The issues around them
have had a marked bearing on public confidence into the police
inquiry and indeed the police themselves.”  Vacation Delayed  Parliament’s summer vacation is being delayed by a day so
lawmakers can discuss the phone-hacking crisis. Cameron’s Africa
trip, which started yesterday, had already been cut to two days
from four.  “We were able to rearrange our visits and can do most of
the things we were planning to do,” Field said. “He will go
back and prepare the statement to Parliament the following
morning.”  Cameron canceled a trip to a power station scheduled for
tomorrow afternoon. He will meet Nigerian President  Goodluck
Jonathan , make a speech and visit a vaccination clinic.  Stephenson quit yesterday as head of the  London  police,
citing “accusations” about his force’s decision to hire Neil Wallis, a former deputy editor of the News of the World who was
arrested last week, to give public-relations advice.  In a statement, Stephenson raised the question of why it
was wrong for him to have worked with Wallis, yet right for
Cameron to have hired Coulson, Wallis’s former boss, as his head
of communications.  Praise for Coulson  The prime minister said there were no questions about the
work Coulson had done for him between 2007 and this year.
Coulson resigned from the News of the World at the start of 2007
after one of his reporters was jailed for phone-hacking
following an initial police probe. He has always denied any
knowledge of illegal activities at the paper.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said Cameron should
“absolutely not” consider resigning over his appointment of
Coulson.  “I don’t think that this is about the prime minister’s
position,” Clegg told reporters in London today.  Since the July 4 revelation that reporters working for the
News of the World hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl and deleted messages, what Cameron called a
“firestorm” has swept through the British media, the political
world and the police.  In two weeks, the scandal has forced Murdoch to shut down
the News of the World and abandon his bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and has led to the resignations of
Brooks, another former News of the World editor, and  Les Hinton ,
CEO of Dow Jones and previously chairman of News International
for 12 years.  Nine Hours  Brooks was questioned by police for nine hours yesterday,
two days after she stepped down as head of the News
International unit that publishes New York-based News Corp.’s
U.K. titles. Police said in an e-mailed statement that her
arrest was part of their probe into phone hacking and an
investigation into whether officers were paid for information.  Brooks’s lawyer said today she will still appear before
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee tomorrow and is
willing to answer questions.  “She’s not guilty of any criminal offense,” Stephen Parkinson told a televised news conference. Her arrest has
caused “enormous reputational damage” and police will need to
explain their reasoning as they put no allegations to her and
showed her no documents connecting her to any crime, he said.  Shares Drop  News Corp. dropped as much as 4.3 percent, or 67 cents, and
was down 3.9 percent at $15.03 at 11:10 a.m. in  New York  after
two people familiar with the matter said independent directors
are questioning whether a leadership change is needed because of
the phone-hacking scandal.  Stephenson put pressure back on Cameron in his resignation
statement by saying he had been unable to advise the prime
minister in advance that Wallis was going to be arrested, with
the attendant bad publicity for the police, because of Cameron’s
closeness to Coulson.  “I did not want to compromise the prime minister in any
way by revealing or discussing a potential suspect who clearly
had a close relationship with Mr. Coulson,” Stephenson said. He
directly contrasted his force’s decision to hire Wallis in 2009
with Cameron’s decision to take on Coulson.  “Unlike Mr. Coulson, Mr. Wallis had not resigned from News
of the World or, to the best of my knowledge been in any way
associated with the original phone-hacking investigation,”
Stephenson said.  Second Resignation  Stephenson is the second successive head of the
Metropolitan Police, Britain’s biggest force, to resign. His
predecessor, Ian Blair, quit in October 2008 after failing to
get the backing of London’s newly elected mayor,  Boris Johnson .
Blair had been criticized for his handling of the 2005 fatal
shooting of an innocent Brazilian man suspected of planning a
suicide attack.  Yates, the U.K.’s top anti-terrorism policeman, announced
his resignation in a statement e-mailed today by the
Metropolitan Police. It means the London force is losing two top
officers a year before the capital hosts the  Olympic Games .  Yates, who announced in 2009 there were no grounds for a
further probe into phone-hacking, was criticized by lawmakers at
a hearing last week and has been asked to appear before
Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee again tomorrow alongside
Stephenson.  ‘Big Statement’  Cameron told an audience at the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange 
that when Parliament meets on July 20 he will “make a big
statement updating what we’re doing around this judicial
inquiry” into the police investigation into phone-hacking and
media regulation.  “The relationship between politicians and the media hasn’t
been right,” Cameron said. He said he was “making sure that
Britain gets to the bottom of what has been a terrible episode
in terms of what newspapers have done hacking into private data,
and also some very big questions about potential police
corruption, and we need to get to the bottom of those.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  Pretoria ,  South Africa , at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 