-- 
Cameron Defends Coulson Link After Police Chief Resigns

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-18T13:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/cameron-defends-link-with-coulson-as-hacking-scandal-truncates-africa-trip.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended his links to former News of the World editor  Andy Coulson  after Britain’s top police officer resigned amid the
phone-hacking scandal at the Rupert Murdoch newspaper.  Cameron cut short a visit to Africa in a bid to take
control of the crisis that led to Coulson’s arrest 10 days ago
and questions about the premier’s dealings with Murdoch’s News
Corp. Cameron will be in  Nigeria  tomorrow while Murdoch, his son
James and former News International Chief Executive Officer
Rebekah Brooks give evidence to lawmakers about wrongdoing at
the now defunct News of the World.  Metropolitan Police  Commissioner Paul Stephenson quit
yesterday, citing “accusations” about his force’s decision to
hire Neil Wallis, a former deputy editor of the newspaper who
was arrested last week, to give public-relations advice. In a
statement, Stephenson raised the question of why it was wrong
for him to have worked with Wallis, yet right for Cameron to
have hired Coulson, Wallis’s former boss, as his head of
communications. Another senior Met officer, Assistant
Commissioner John Yates, resigned today.  “The situation in the police service is really quite
different from the situation in government,” Cameron told
reporters in  Pretoria  at a joint press conference with South
African President  Jacob Zuma  today. “The issues around them
have had a marked bearing on public confidence into the police
inquiry and indeed the police themselves.”  Praise for Coulson  The prime minister said there were no questions about the
work Coulson had done for him between 2007 and January of this
year, when he quit as Cameron’s head of communications. Coulson
resigned from the News of the World at the start of 2007 after
one of his reporters was jailed for phone-hacking following an
initial police probe. He has always denied any knowledge of
illegal activities at the paper.  Since the July 4 revelation that reporters working for the
News of the World hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl and deleted messages, what Cameron called a
“firestorm” has swept through the British media, the political
world and the police.  In two weeks, the scandal has forced Murdoch to shut down
the News of the World and abandon his bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and has led to the resignations of
Brooks, another former News of the World editor, and  Les Hinton ,
CEO of Dow Jones and previously chairman of News International
for 12 years.  Brooks Arrest  Brooks was questioned by police for nine hours yesterday,
two days after she stepped down as head of the News
International unit that publishes New York-based News Corp.’s
U.K. titles. Police said in an e-mailed statement that her
arrest was part of their probe into phone hacking and an
investigation into whether officers were paid for information.  Brooks’s lawyer said today she will still appear before
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee tomorrow and is
willing to answer questions.  “She’s not guilty of any criminal offense,” Stephen
Parkinson told a televised news conference. Her arrest has
caused “enormous reputational damage” and police will need to
explain their reasoning as they put no allegations to her and
showed her no documents connecting her to any crime, he said.  News Corp. (NWSA)  dropped 3.6 percent to $15.08 at 9:34 a.m. in
 New York  after two people familiar with the matter said
independent directors are questioning whether a leadership
change is needed because of the phone-hacking scandal.  ‘Close Relationship’  Stephenson put pressure back on Cameron in his resignation
statement by saying he had been unable to advise the prime
minister in advance that Wallis was going to be arrested, with
the attendant bad publicity for the police, because of Cameron’s
closeness to Coulson.  “I did not want to compromise the prime minister in any
way by revealing or discussing a potential suspect who clearly
had a close relationship with Mr. Coulson,” Stephenson said. He
directly contrasted his force’s decision to hire Wallis in 2009
with Cameron’s decision to take on Coulson.  “Unlike Mr. Coulson, Mr. Wallis had not resigned from News
of the World or, to the best of my knowledge been in any way
associated with the original phone-hacking investigation,”
Stephenson said.  Second Resignation  Stephenson is the second successive head of the
Metropolitan Police, Britain’s biggest police force, to resign.
His predecessor, Ian Blair, quit in October 2008 after failing
to get the backing of  London ’s newly elected mayor,  Boris Johnson . Blair had been criticized for his handling of the 2005
fatal shooting of an innocent Brazilian man suspected of
planning a suicide attack.  Yates, the U.K.’s top anti-terrorism policeman, announced
his resignation in a statement e-mailed today by the
Metropolitan Police. It means the London force is losing two top
officers a year before the capital hosts the  Olympic Games .  Yates, who announced in 2009 there were no grounds for a
further probe into phone-hacking, was criticized by lawmakers at
a hearing last week and has been asked to appear before
Parliament’s Home Affairs Committee again tomorrow alongside
Stephenson.  ‘Big Statement’  Parliament will delay the start of its summer vacation this
week to discuss the scandal on July 20. Cameron told an audience
at the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  that he will “make a big
statement updating what we’re doing around this judicial
inquiry” into the police investigation into phone-hacking and
media regulation.  “The relationship between politicians and the media hasn’t
been right,” Cameron said. He said he was “making sure that
Britain gets to the bottom of what has been a terrible episode
in terms of what newspapers have done hacking into private data,
and also some very big questions about potential police
corruption, and we need to get to the bottom of those.”  Cameron defended his decision to go overseas as the phone-
hacking scandal unfolds, saying he is able to keep up with
events at home.  “It’s right for a British prime minister to be out there
with British businesses trying to drum up export support and
growth that would be good for both our countries,” he said in
Pretoria. “Just because you’re traveling to  Africa  doesn’t mean
you suddenly lose contact with your office.” He said the
government was “pressing ahead on all fronts” in dealing with
the crisis.  Cameron’s trip to Africa was planned to last four days and
include visits to  Rwanda  and South Sudan, both now scrubbed from
the itinerary, according to people familiar with the plans.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in Pretoria,  South Africa , at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling4
 at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 