-- 
Canadian Currency Weakens Along With Global Equities, Raw Materials

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-18T21:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/canadian-currency-weakens-versus-havens-along-with-equities-raw-materials.html
Canada ’s dollar depreciated against
its U.S. counterpart as concern European leaders may be unable
to resolve the region’s debt crisis diminished demand for
commodities and higher-yielding assets.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is commonly called, fell
against a majority of its 16 most-traded counterparts as global
stocks dropped and  raw materials  including crude oil and copper
fell. Foreign investors bought C$15.4 billion ($16 billion) of
Canadian stocks, bonds and money market securities in May, their
biggest net purchase in a year, led by federal government bonds,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.  “The driver continues to be Europe, we’re seeing equities
are down, oil is down and the loonie is correlated to those
things quite heavily,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange in Toronto. “Things don’t bode
too well for the loonie.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.7 percent to 95.97 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in  New York , compared with 95.32 cents
on July 15. It appreciated 1 percent last week. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.042.  Euro-area government leaders will hold a special summit on
July 21, stepping up efforts to stem the contagion from Greece.
Leaders are at odds with one another and with the  European
Central Bank  over demands by Germany and Finland that private
investors bear some of the burden for a second Greek bailout.  Dollar Rally  Crude oil for August delivery decreased 1.1 percent to
$96.15 a barrel in New York. Oil is Canada’s biggest export.
Copper futures fell 0.2 percent.  The dollar has rallied the past two years as international
purchases of Canadian bonds have set records, including C$96.1
billion in 2010, as investors favored the securities of
governments with lower debt burdens. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  says Canada will be able to eliminate its deficit as
soon as the fiscal year that starts in April 2014, ahead of
other Group of Seven nations. The currency has risen 4 percent
versus the greenback this year.  “The loonie is this little gem in this  currency market ,”
Madhavji said. “The economy is sound, job growth is sound,
inflation is relatively intact, and we’re thinking the Bank of
Canada will raise rates sooner rather than later in the U.S and
that all bodes well for the loonie.”  All 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
Bank of Canada will leave its policy rate at 1 percent when
officials meet in Ottawa tomorrow. The rate has stood at 1
percent since September.  Yields on Canada’s 10-year  government bonds  were little
changed at 2.87 percent. The price of a 3.25 percent security
due in June 2021 rose four cents to C$103.27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net 
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  