-- 
Canada May International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-18T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/canada-may-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for May
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities strengthened
in May to reach $15.4 billion, led by investment in
federal government debt instruments. Meanwhile, Canadian
investors acquired $6.0 billion of foreign stocks while
removing $2.5 billion of foreign debt instruments from
their holdings.  Non-resident investors favour Canadian federal government
debt instruments  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian bonds increased
further in May to $11.1 billion. Foreign activity in the
Canadian  bond market  was almost all in bonds issued by
governments and their enterprises. Federal government
bonds accounted for nearly half of the inflow over the
month, while the remaining balance was almost equally
split between provincial government bonds and federal
government enterprise bonds. In contrast, foreign
investors reduced their holdings of Canadian private
corporate bonds for the first time since August 2009.  On a geographical basis, US investors again accounted
for most of the investment in Canadian bonds in May.
However, the largest increases came from investors in the
United Kingdom and  Asia . In May, overall net new issues of
federal  government bonds  reached their highest level in
nearly two years and long-term interest rates were down by
19 basis points.  Non-residents also invested $3.3 billion in the
Canadian money market in May, following a $3.0 billion
foreign acquisition in April. Foreign investment again
focused on Canadian Treasury bills as Canadian short-term
interest rates remained above their US counterparts by the
largest amount since November 2008. In addition, foreign
investors increased their holdings of Canadian corporate
paper in May, mostly instruments issued by banks.  Foreign acquisition of Canadian stocks on the secondary
market slows  Non-residents acquired Canadian stocks for the 10th
consecutive month in May, adding $1.0 billion to their
holdings. Foreign purchases on the secondary market
accounted for almost all the inflows over the month. This
was however the lowest amount of Canadian stocks acquired
by foreign investors on the secondary market since
November 2010. Non-residents favoured shares of Canadian
energy and resources firms and sold technology shares.
Canadian equity prices declined for a third consecutive
month in May, following eight months of increases.  Canadians further reduce their holdings of US government
debt instruments  Canadian investors removed $2.4 billion from their
holdings of foreign bonds in May, on par with the activity
recorded in March and April. Divestment in all three
months focused on US government bonds and gradually
targeted longer term-to-maturity bonds. This was partially
offset by the largest Canadian investment in maple bonds
so far in 2011.  Residents reduced their holdings of foreign money
market instruments by $128 million. This third consecutive
monthly divestment was led by another reduction in
Canadian holdings of US Treasury bills. In May, US short-
term  interest rates  fell to their lowest level since
December 2008.  Canadian investors increase their holdings of foreign
stocks  Canadians added $6.0 billion of foreign stocks to their
portfolios in May, the largest acquisition since April
2007. Purchases in May targeted the US stock market and,
to a lesser extent, the Japanese market. In May, major
world equity markets posted losses. Residents have
acquired $9.1 billion of foreign stocks so far in 2011, on
par with the amount acquired during the same period in
2010. However, this year's acquisition is almost entirely
comprised of US shares, as opposed to an equal amount of
US and non-US foreign shares in 2010.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  