-- 
Potash Group’s ‘Cupboard Is Bare’ for India, Mosaic Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-19T20:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/canpotex-s-potash-cupboard-is-bare-mosaic-s-prokopanko-says.html
Canpotex Ltd., the export arm of
 North America ’s largest potash producers, has no spare supply to
sell to  India  this quarter and won’t resume negotiations with
Indian buyers until “late” in the period, said  Mosaic Co. (MOS) 
Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko.  Canpotex’s “cupboard is bare,” Prokopanko said yesterday
in a telephone interview from Mosaic headquarters in Plymouth,
 Minnesota . “There’s nothing to talk about until we have a
better assessment of what’s going to be available.”  Talks between Canpotex and Indian importers ended in late
June when Canpotex agreed to deliver 630,000 metric tons to
 China  in the second half, Prokopanko said.  The Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd., a group
representing 55 million farmers, said in May it might halt
purchases of the crop nutrient unless Canpotex and other
suppliers agreed to a 10 percent discount from the spot price
and other conditions. Canpotex is the marketing arm of North
America’s three largest producers: Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc., Mosaic and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)   “Both the Indians and the Chinese understood -- we were
perfectly clear -- that there would likely be enough tons only
to serve one or the other of their requirements,” Prokopanko
said. “This isn’t a matter of price discussion. This is a
matter of supply.”  ‘Producer Strength’  Prokopanko’s statement that Canpotex’s negotiations with
India won’t resume until later this year is inconsistent with
prior indications from other producers that an agreement may be
signed this month, Horst Hueniken, a Toronto-based analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus, said in a note today.  “We interpret this shift in timing as a sign of producer
strength,” Hueniken said.  The producers of the form of potassium had expected
negotiations with Indian importers and distributors to be
completed by June, according to comments in April from Potash
Corp. CEO Bill Doyle.  India bought 6.4 million metric tons of potash in the year
ended March 31, according to the Fertiliser Association of
India.  Canpotex and Belarusian Potash Corp., a marketing
organization controlled by Russia’s OAO  Uralkali (URKA)  and Belarusian
producer Belaruskali, account for 57 percent of global potash
exports, according to figures from Uralkali in a December 2010
slide presentation.  Potash Supply  North American potash supply will remain tight because of
steady demand and the effects of maintenance shutdowns and other
supply disruptions as producers bring on line recent mine-
capacity expansions, Prokopanko said in the interview.  Mosaic said yesterday in a statement its earnings in the
three months through May rose to $1.45 a share from 89 cents a
year earlier, topping the $1.39 average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Fiscal fourth-quarter sales climbed 54
percent to $2.86 billion, beating the average estimate of $2.61
billion.  Mosaic advanced $2.03, or 3.1 percent, to $68.49 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have dropped 10 percent this year. Potash Corp. rose 3 percent
to $60.51 and Agrium climbed 2.6 percent to $90.33.  Potash helps plants to survive in dry conditions,
strengthens their roots and curbs the growth of some crop
diseases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 