-- 
Charlie Sheen Will Return to Television in Lionsgate’s ‘Anger Management’

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-18T20:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/charlie-sheen-will-return-to-television-in-lionsgate-s-anger-management-.html
     July 18 (Bloomberg) -- Charlie Sheen  is returning to
television in  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s “Anger
Management,” a sitcom based on the 2003 feature film of the
same name.  Sheen, fired from CBS’s “Two and a Half Men” in March,
will retain a “significant” ownership stake in the new series,
Vancouver-based Lions Gate said in a statement.  “Anger Management” will pair Sheen with filmmaker Joe
Roth, according to the statement. They previously worked
together on movies “Major League” and “Young Guns.” The
series is loosely based on the film from Revolution Studios in
which a mild-mannered, non-confrontational man is ordered to
attend group anger management sessions led by a therapist in
need of help himself, Lions Gate said.  “Who better than Charlie Sheen to tackle ‘Anger
Management,’” Roth said in the statement.  Mort Marcus and Ira Bernstein, co-presidents of Lions
Gate’s Debmar-Mercury, will distribute the series.  Sheen was fired from “Two and a Half Men,” the most-
watched comedy in primetime, by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
television studio after the actor denounced Chuck Lorre, the
show’s creator, in a series of interviews.  Warner Bros. Television hired Ashton Kutcher to replace
Sheen on the show, which will return to  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s TV network
starting in September.  The film “Anger Management” stars  Adam Sandler , Jack
Nicholson and Marisa Tomei, according to the Internet Movie
Database.  Lions Gate, which is run from Santa Monica, California,
fell 23 cents, or about 3 percent, to $6.81 at 4:01 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The company, which
also produces “Mad Men” for AMC Networks Inc.’s AMC, has
climbed 4.6 percent this year.  --. Editors: Niamh Ring, James Callan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  