-- 
China’s New Home Prices Quicken in Shanghai, Beijing

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-18T04:12:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/china-june-new-home-prices-rise-in-67-cities-quicken-in-shanghai-beijing.html
New  home prices  rose in 67 Chinese
cities in June, with growth in Beijing and Shanghai accelerating
for the first time since the government stepped up efforts this
year to curb growth.  In Beijing new home prices rose 2.2 percent last month from
a year earlier, compared with 2.1 percent in May, while in
Shanghai they climbed 2.2 percent, compared with 1.4 percent
growth the previous month, the statistics bureau said on its
website today.  China’s cabinet said last week it will expand measures to
rein in residential prices to smaller cities after limiting home
purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing and Shanghai.
The government is intensifying real-estate restrictions
nationwide after developers posted gains in first-half sales and
housing transactions climbed 31 percent last month, even as
 China  increased down payments on some mortgages this year.  “China has negative  interest rates  right now with high
inflation, so it’s not surprising that people are back to
higher-yielding assets such as real estate,” said Liu Li-Gang,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. The government’s housing restrictions “simply have
limited effect in controlling home prices.”  China’s June inflation hit a three-year high of 6.4 percent
and has breached the government’s 4 percent ceiling every month
this year. The central bank raised interest rates five times
since October, including the July 6 decision to increase the
one-year deposit rate to 3.5 percent.  Guangzhou, Chongqing  Home prices in the southern business hub of Guangzhou rose
5.4 percent in June from a year ago, compared with 5.1 percent
in May. Prices in the western city of Chongqing jumped 5.8
percent, compared with 5.3 percent in May, according to the
statistics bureau. More than half of the 70 cities the
government tracks matched the gains in May or posted faster
growth, the data showed.  Urumqi, the capital of western Xinjiang province, posted
the biggest gain at 9.2 percent in June, while the southern
tourism city of Sanya in Hainan island had the biggest decline
of 2 percent last month.  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest developer, reported
this month that sales in the first six months rose 79 percent to
65.7 billion yuan ($10.2 billion), while  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd. (3333)  said on July 11 that sales more than doubled to 42.3
billion yuan.  Shown All Cards  “The government has shown all the cards it has on the
 property market ,” Yao Wei, an economist at Societe Generale SA
in Hong Kong, said ahead of the data, referring to all possible
measures by the government. “They just haven’t played the cards
well.”  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.4 percent to the lowest since June 29 at
the 11:30 a.m. local time break, the most among the five
industry groups on the benchmark gauge.  The new tightening measures last week are a “wake-up
call” for developers that policy relaxation in the second half
this year was likely to be wishful thinking, Credit Suisse Group
AG said in a July 15 report.  “China is still largely a policy driven market,” Jinsong
Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit Suisse, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television ahead of the data. “The
government is still confident it can maneuver it. I do see the
market continue to weaken, but we’re not pricing in any hard
landing.”  Existing Homes  Existing home prices in Beijing rose 1.4 percent last month
from a year ago, while in  Shanghai  they jumped 2.4 percent.  “The data explains why the government plans to extend
real-estate curbs from these two cities to other parts of the
country, and suggests a further slowdown in the property
sector,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in an e-mailed statement. “A
slowdown in this sector would help further reduce economic
growth.”  China plans to draw up a list of smaller cities that will
be required to limit home purchases by families, China Business
reported today, citing an unidentified person close to the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  More home purchase restrictions will force developers to cut
supplies and push up home prices again, said ANZ’s Liu.  Against Government’s Will  “This will go against the government’s will to control
home prices,” he said.  Housing transactions in June increased to 499.2 billion
yuan, compared with 380.9 billion yuan the previous month, based
on first-half data from the statistics bureau on June 13. Sales
in the first half climbed 22 percent to 2.1 trillion yuan from a
year earlier, according to the data.  Chinese developers’ outlook was cut on June 15 to
“negative” from “stable” by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
tighter credit and further government curbs may lead to rating
downgrades in the next year.  Cheung Kong   Still, private data showed the country’s housing market
remained robust. Home prices rose for a 10th month in June,
SouFun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real-estate website,
reported on July 1.  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the developer controlled by
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , said on July 14 it is
“proper and adequate” for China to impose measures to cool its
property market. Rising home prices run the risk of becoming a
social problem, Executive Director Justin Chiu said in Shanghai,
where he unveiled three new projects.  “We do hope prices will remain stable, otherwise the
government will take more action,” Chiu told reporters. “As a
property developer, we don’t want prices to rise too quickly
either and want prices to be stable.”  China started reporting data for 70 cities it monitors on a
monthly basis this year, after reporting an index for average
home prices nationwide.  --Bonnie Cao, with assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing and
Susan Li in  Hong Kong . Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  