-- 
China Merchants Bank Plans Share Offering to Raise as Much as $5.4 Billion

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-07-19T05:57:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/china-merchants-bank-plans-share-offering-to-raise-as-much-as-5-4-billion.html
China  Merchants Bank Co., trading at
the highest valuation among the nation’s Hong Kong-listed
lenders, plans to raise as much as 35 billion yuan ($5.4 billion)
in a rights offer in China and Hong Kong.  The country’s sixth-largest lender will offer 2.2 shares
for every 10 held by investors, according to an exchange  filing 
yesterday. The stock, which declined 0.2 percent to HK$18.10 by
the midday break in Hong Kong, trades at 2.09 times its book
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with the 1.69 average for its five larger domestic rivals.  Merchants Bank is bolstering capital as China joins U.S.
and European regulators in tightening requirements to curb risks
after governments were forced to bail out lenders following the
global credit crisis. Local lenders are also raising funds to
meet credit demand in China, where new loans in June rose from a
year ago even as policy makers raised borrowing costs.  “China  Merchants Bank ’s rights offer is to help it meet
the  capital requirements  and to support the bank in extending
loans,” Wan Li, a Shanghai-based banking analyst at BoCom
International Holdings Co., said by telephone today. She rates
the stock as a “long-term buy.”  Stricter Rules  China’s banking regulator said in May that the nation’s
systemically important banks will be required to meet a minimum
capital adequacy ratio of 11.5 percent by the end of 2013. Banks
had an overall capital adequacy ratio of 11.8 percent at the end
of March, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said on its
website on May 13.  Merchants Bank’s “core capital adequacy ratio is
substantially lower than the new regulatory minimum,” the lender
said in a Chinese-language statement e-mailed yesterday. Its
capital adequacy ratio was 10.9 percent, according to the filing.  The Shenzhen-based lender plans to set the sale price at a
later date. Share sales are the “only viable option” as the
bank’s outstanding subordinated debt has already exceeded the
limit set by the regulatory commission, it said.  “Short-term doubts over the bank’s capital-raising plan
have been removed,” said Timothy Li, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International (H.K.) Ltd. who has a
“hold” rating on Merchants Bank. “It’s clear now how much it
plans to raise and how.”  China Minsheng Banking Corp., based in Beijing, said in May
that shareholders approved a plan to raise as much as $4.5
billion by selling shares and convertible bonds. Rival China
Everbright Bank Co. is planning an equity offering in  Hong Kong 
that may raise about $6 billion, while Bank of Beijing Co. has
said it plans a $1.8 billion private placement of new shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  