-- 
China Raised Holdings of Treasuries as Federal Reserve Wound Down Buying

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-18T21:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/china-raised-holdings-of-treasuries-as-federal-reserve-wound-down-buying.html
China  boosted its holdings of U.S.
government debt to $1.16 trillion in May as the  trade surplus 
between the countries reached a six-month high and the Asian
nation’s currency reserves climbed to a record.  Note and bonds rose by $8.2 billion, or 0.7 percent, to a
record $1.157 trillion, while China reduced its holdings of
bills by $900 million to $3 billion, according to the Treasury
Department data released yesterday. China, the largest foreign
lender to the U.S., bought more as the  Federal Reserve  prepared
to complete $600 billion in purchases in June.  The increase in purchases came as China’s trade surplus
with the U.S. rose to $25 billion in May, the most since
November, after falling to a 12-month low of $18.1 billion in
March, the Commerce Department said July 12. China’s currency
reserves rose to $3.2 trillion in June, up 5 percent from March,
according to China’s National Bureau of Statistics.  “As they generate dollars, they ultimately have to invest
them in something,” said Larry Dyer, a U.S. interest rate
strategist with HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , about China’s
Treasuries buying. “The size of the Treasury market makes it
one of the few things that can absorb their flows without having
a significant price reaction.”  Peak Holdings  China’s holding of Treasuries peaked in October at $1.175
trillion as Treasury yields rallied toward record lows when
investors speculated on the size of the Fed’s purchase program,
which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. had forecast at $2 trillion.  The build-up in longer-term holdings and the contraction of
shorter-term assets reflects a shift in China’s Treasury
holdings to emphasize longer-term assets after it raised its
position in bills, which are the most-liquid and also lowest-
yielding government securities, to $210.4 billion in May 2009.  Since its total holdings peaked in October, China has added
$27.4 billion of longer-term notes and bonds to its portfolio
while reducing the T-bills on its books by $42.9 billion.  “They still want to be in the most liquid market out
there,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP in New York. “There’s a natural need and interest
for these guys to buy the U.S.”  U.K. Buys  Treasury purchases from the U.K. rose by $13.5 billion,
lifting holdings there to $346.5 billion, Treasury data show.
That increase in U.K. buying may also reflect rising demand for
the debt from China, as investors from the world’s most populous
nation execute trades through the U.K.  The Treasury’s initial reports on international purchases
are based on the location where the transaction occurs, while
subsequent revisions are based on location of the beneficial
owner.  Overall foreign demand for Treasuries rose at the fastest
pace this year, increasing by 0.6 percent to $4.51 trillion, the
25th consecutive month of gains, according to Treasury
Department data. China, the largest foreign holder of
Treasuries, bought $7.3 of  U.S. government debt , and increased
its longer-term holdings to $1.16 trillion, while  Japan , the
second largest overseas lender, boosted its position by 0.6
percent to $912.4 billion.  Investors continued to buy Treasuries as yields fell amid
signs of slackening U.S. economic growth and as the European
sovereign debt crisis worsened. President  Barack Obama  and
Republicans in Congress showed no signs of being able to reach
an agreement to curb the growth of  U.S. debt  and reduce
spending, as the U.S. is poised to run its third budget deficit
of more than $1 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  