-- 
Hanlong Seeks to Acquire Rest of Sundance Resources For About $1.3 Billion

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-07-18T07:38:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/china-s-hanlong-makes-a-1-2-billion-bid-for-rest-of-sundance.html
Sichuan Hanlong Group offered A$1.2
billion ($1.3 billion) in cash for the rest of Sundance
Resources Ltd. to gain control of the Australian company’s iron
ore project in West Africa.  Hanlong, which owns 18.6 percent of Sundance, offered 50
cents a share for the Perth-based company, valuing it at A$1.4
billion, Sundance said today in a statement. The offer is priced
25 percent higher than Sundance’s close on July 15.  Buying Sundance will give Hanlong control of the $4.7
billion Mbalam iron ore mine, port and railroad project that
straddles the border of Cameroon and Republic of Congo. The
Chengdu-based company said last year it will invest as much as
A$5 billion in resource assets to feed surging demand for
commodities in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  “It’s a trend that we’ve seen and it’s now well developed
over the last couple of years,” said  David Lennox , a mining
analyst at Fat Prophets. “They believe their country requires
considerable resources going forward just to maintain stable
growth for many years to come.”  Sundance climbed as much as 23 percent to 49 cents at the
4:10 p.m. Sydney time close. Sundance is being advised by UBS AG,
Clayton Utz and Citic Securities Co. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and  Mallesons Stephen Jaques  have been appointed by
Hanlong as financial and legal advisers, Hanlong said in a
separate statement.  No Action  Sundance advised shareholders to take no action, saying the
bid undervalues the company and that the board “intends to
engage in discussions with Hanlong about the terms of its
proposal,” according to the statement.  The bid follows Hanlong’s A$143 million offer for
Australian uranium developer Bannerman Resources Ltd. on July 11.
Hanlong also owns a 53.82 percent stake in Australian molybdenum
prospector  Moly Mines Ltd. (MOL) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The offer is priced at 47 percent more than Sundance’s
weighted average share price over the past 20 trading days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
average premium of 26 percent for takeovers of iron ore
companies worth more than $1 billion over the past five years.  Typical Premium  “We’ll need to be able to see what the offer works out
over time but” a typical premium associated with takeover bids
is probably around 30 percent to 40 percent, Peter Rudd, mining
and resources manager at Armytage Private Ltd. in Melbourne said
by phone.  There have been $6.9 billion worth of bids for iron ore
producers this year, excluding the Sundance offer, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the most since 2008 when
deals worth $8.4 billion were announced.  Sundance, which is also seeking partners to help fund the
project, said it will continue talks with potential partners,
the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  