-- 
Christie Agrees to Restore State Aid to Cash-Strapped Cities in New Jersey

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-07-18T20:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/christie-agrees-to-restore-state-aid-to-cash-strapped-cities-in-new-jersey.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he will restore his $139 million cut in aid to cash-
strapped cities as long as lawmakers agree to more oversight of
the program.  Christie, a first-term Republican, slashed so-called
transitional aid to $10 million from $149 million in the budget
he signed for the fiscal year that began July 1. The move led
Moody’s Investors Service to put under review the credit rating
of six cities that relied on the money to balance their budgets.  The governor, during his first press conference since
returning from a two-week vacation, said he will sign a measure
restoring the funding only if the state Department of Community
Affairs gets more power over it. The money would come from the
state’s rainy-day account, and would be granted in a
supplemental funding measure, Christie said.  “I think that what the people of New Jersey expect is that
we’re going to help struggling cities during struggling times
like the ones we’re in,” Christie said in Trenton today. “But
we have to do it in a way that is responsible.”  Democrats, who control the Legislature, failed on July 12
to muster enough votes to reverse Christie’s aid cut to
distressed cities, including Camden and  Newark .  “He made a major mistake, and I’m glad he’s willing to fix
this one; he’s got a lot more to do,” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  told reporters in Trenton. “You can’t take any more
money away from those communities the way he has.”  ‘Oversight Mechanism’  Christie initially included the money in the $29.4 billion
budget he proposed in February. He said he struck it from the
spending measure lawmakers sent to him last month after
Democrats struck some language, which he said reduced oversight.  “I always wanted to give this money to the cities that
need it, that’s why I put it in my budget in the first place,”
Christie said. “But I am not going to give this money away
without the appropriate funding and oversight mechanism.”  Sweeney, from West Deptford, said he hasn’t polled the 24
members of his party in the Senate to gauge support for
Christie’s plan, though he said he’s willing to negotiate over
restoration of that money. The lawmaker said he won’t support
the plan if any funding for oversight comes out of the $149
million in aid and said he’s open to increasing it if needed to
fund any new expenses.  Willing to Review  “Assembly leadership is of course willing to review the
governor’s proposal, but we also will want to see the money go
directly to cities, not into building a new layer of bureaucracy
that obliterates local autonomy,” Speaker Sheila Oliver, a
Democrat from  East Orange , said in a statement.  Christie and Democrats during the budget fight had debated
how much cash New Jersey had in its rainy-day fund. Sweeney had
said the state had $640 million, while Treasurer Andrew Sidamon- Eristoff said it was $365 million and was too low to draw down.  Christie said the reserve will be about $225 million after
the urban aid is restored. He said his administration will hold
monthly budget meetings and correct spending as needed to keep
the budget balanced and prevent any further drawing of the fund.  Rainy Day  “I’m not thrilled about the number, but we had to do the
things we did,” he said. “All this stuff from Democrats about
how we had all this money lying around simply isn’t true.”  The state’s budget for fiscal year 2011 included an opening
fund of $501 million.  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for Sidamon-
Eristoff, declined to provide prior rainy-day fund levels.  The governor, 48, cut almost $1 billion in additional
spending that lawmakers added to his original budget plan when
he signed it June 30 and pared it to $29.7 billion. He also took
out $50 million in additional funding for police in high-crime
communities, after-school programs and welfare.  He also said today that he’d restore $537,000 in funding he
had cut from Wynona’s House, a shelter for physically and
sexually abused children in Newark, from the Department of
Children and Families budget.  The state will begin accepting applications from cities
seeking the transitional aid even before the state has a law in
place outlining the procedures, Christie said.  William Dressel, executive director of the New Jersey
League of Municipalities, said “ fast action is needed” on the
restoration to help cities struggling to craft balanced budgets.  “Massive municipal program and personnel cutbacks could
deny our fellow citizens access to vital life-sustaining and
life-enhancing services,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  