-- 
Chrysler Beating Ford in Canada as No. 1 Light Truckmaker: Cars

-- B y   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/chrysler-beating-ford-in-canada-as-no-1-light-truckmaker-cars.html
Chrysler Group LLC, benefiting from
demand for its fuel-efficient crossover sport-utility vehicles,
overtook  Ford Motor Co. (F)  as the biggest seller of light trucks in
Canada this year.  Sales of light trucks, a category that includes pickups,
minivans and SUVs, grew twice as fast as total auto deliveries
in Canada in the first half, helped by growth in construction
jobs. Chrysler led deliveries last month for the first time
since January, winning by a wide enough margin to snatch the
crown for year-to-date sales.  Purchases of Chrysler’s Dodge Journey model, which guzzles
less gasoline than a traditional truck-based SUV, increased more
than Ford’s Escape or  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Equinox.
Those gains put Chrysler within less than 4,000 total deliveries
of becoming the overall No. 2 automaker in  Canada , where a
growing economy is expected to lead to a 2.6 percent increase in
sales this year industrywide, according to  Scotia Capital  Inc.  “People who are getting jobs are opting for practical
vehicles such as a crossover” to get better mileage than a
traditional SUV, said Carlos Gomes, an economist at Scotia
Capital. “You have the construction sector holding up very well,
and that is positive for the pickup segment.”  In total vehicle sales, Chrysler gained 1.6 percentage
points of market share to 15 percent in the first half of 2011
from a year earlier, according to DesRosiers Automotive
Consultants Inc. GM lost 0.2 points to 15.5 percent, and Ford
led with 17.4 percent of the Canadian market. Ford eclipsed GM
as Canada’s top-seller last year for the first time in decades.  Jobs, Housing  Canada sales may climb 40,000 this year to 1.59 million,
about 60,000 fewer than the nation’s 2007 pre-recession peak,
said Gomes. The  unemployment rate  fell to 7.4 percent in May,
its lowest level since January 2009, and June saw the most
housing starts in 11 months.  A 30 percent rise in  oil prices  in the past year may spur
demand in Canada’s oil-producing regions. The unemployment rate
is 5.6 percent in the western province of  Alberta , according to
its website.  “When the oil price is going up, everybody knows they have
a job,” said Dan Rewucki, owner of Tower Chrysler in Calgary.  High fuel prices led many consumers to gravitate toward
compact cars and car-based SUVs, commonly called crossovers, for
their fuel efficiency, Gomes said. Gasoline sold in Canada at an
average price of C$1.22 a liter ($4.82 per gallon) on July 8.  Light-truck sales in the first half grew more than twice as
fast as Canada’s industry average of 2.7 percent over the same
period last year. The category has made up about 85 percent of
Chrysler’s sales since the beginning of 2010.  ‘Bleeding’ to Utilities  As SUVs’  fuel efficiency  improves, buyers are “bleeding
from the midsize car segments over to compact utilities or
minivans,” said Ryan Robinson, director of automotive practice
for  J.D. Power  and Associates Canada in Toronto. “If you’re
going to offer similar kinds of fuel economy with greater space,
that’s obviously going to attract people.”  Chrysler’s Dodge Journey sales increased more than 50
percent to 16,069 in Canada. GM’s  Chevrolet  Equinox sales rose
31 percent to 12,175, and Ford boosted Escape sales 5 percent to
23,183. DesRosiers labeled those models “intermediate SUVs” in
a July 11 report and said the segment grew 21 percent.  There were only a few Journeys on the lot of Steve Dennis’
Chrysler dealership in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on July 7.  “I probably did undershoot the market,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I won’t make the mistake of running out
again.”  Best June  Dodge Grand Caravan minivans, Ram pickups and Jeep Wrangler
SUVs, as well as the Journey, reported best-ever June sales in
Canada. “This is the best retail June sales month since 2005,”
Dave Buckingham, Chrysler Canada’s chief operating officer, said
in a July 4 statement. Its 23.2 percent of the light-truck
market is better than any yearly total since 2002, Jordan
Wasylyk, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Light-trucks surpassed passenger cars in 2010 sales for the
first time in more than a decade and composed 55 percent of the
market in the first half of this year.  Passenger cars outsold light trucks in the U.S. in the
first half of 2011 with 51 percent of the world’s second-largest
automobile market this year, unchanged from a year earlier.  Crossovers were the largest segment of the U.S. auto market
in the first half of 2011, accounting for more than one-sixth of
sales, according to Autodata Corp. Pickup sales grew slower than
GM expected, causing its inventory to swell to 122 days’ worth,
Bloomberg News reported July 5.  A sour  U.S. economy  may stymie sales growth in Canada, said
Michael Hatch, chief economist for the Canadian Automobile
Dealers Association.  “There are a lot of sectors and industries here that rely
on U.S. demand,” he said.  Compact Market  Dennis, the dealer in Winnipeg, said he is looking forward
to selling the  Fiat 500 , Chrysler Group’s only subcompact car.
Dodge and Chrysler brand passenger cars accounted for 15 percent
of sales at his dealership so far this year.  Ford reported the most June sales in 22 years with a 32
percent increase in passenger cars, and GM’s Chevrolet Cruze
outsold every category of vehicles in the automaker’s lineup
except for full-size pickups and small SUVs.  Compact cars were the top-selling segment at 23 percent in
2010, compared to 15 percent in the U.S., according to
DesRosiers and Autodata. Increasing supply of the Honda Motor
Co.’s Civic and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Corolla, after production
was hindered by  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake, should further
boost sales of compact cars, J.D. Power’s Robinson said.  “In the Canadian market, you need a strong lineup at the
smaller end,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Armstrong in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  