-- 
Cisco Will Cut 6,500 Workers, Record $1.3 Billion in Costs

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-18T23:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/cisco-plans-to-cut-about-6-500-jobs-take-pretax-charge-up-to-1-3-billion.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest
networking-equipment maker, plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs,
or 9 percent of its full-time workforce, to help trim $1 billion
in annual costs and step up profit growth.  The cuts include 2,100 employees who took a voluntary
early-retirement program, Cisco said today in a statement. As
part of the move, the company expects to record pretax
restructuring expenses of $1.3 billion. About $750 million will
come in the fiscal fourth quarter and the remainder will be
booked in fiscal 2012. Cisco also said it will sell a
manufacturing plant in  Mexico , transferring 5,000 workers.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has been
eliminating jobs and abandoning less-profitable businesses amid
slowing sales gains. The company has lost market share in its
main switching and routing units to Juniper Networks Inc. and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , and its forays into consumer products, such
as the Flip video camera, faltered.  “Cisco recognizes that it’s in an increased competitive
environment and it needs to lower its costs,” said Alkesh Shah,
an analyst at Evercore Partners in  New York . “These actions are
taking them to a lower-cost model.” Shah rates the stock an
“overweight” with a price target of $24.  Cisco slipped 16 cents to $15.44 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 24 percent
this year.  Juarez Plant  Cisco, based in  San Jose ,  California , said it will sell the
television set-top box plant in Juarez, Mexico, to Foxconn
Technology Group. Cisco acquired the site when it took over
Scientific-Atlanta Inc. in 2006. No job losses are expected from
the sale, Cisco said.  The job cuts will come from across the company and aren’t
concentrated in a single unit, said Karen Tillman, a company
spokeswoman, in an interview. She declined to provide a
geographic breakdown of the reduction. The company said affected
workers in the U.S.,  Canada  and other countries it didn’t name
will be notified the first week of August. Other workers may be
notified later.  Chambers is exiting some of the dozens of new businesses
Cisco entered in the past decade as he aims to shore up the
switching and router businesses that made up more than half of
the company’s revenue last year.  Losing Share  Cisco’s share of worldwide switching revenue dropped 5.8
percentage points to 68.5 percent in the first quarter of 2011
from a year earlier, according to a May report from Dell’Oro
Group, a  Redwood City , California-based researcher. Hewlett-
Packard gained switching share in that period. In global router
sales, Cisco lost 6.4 percentage points to 54.2 percent of the
market, while Juniper gained, Dell’Oro said.  Fired workers will receive six months of severance pay and
four months of job search assistance, Tillman said.  Today’s cuts are in addition to the 550 employees the
company fired when it closed its Flip video-camera unit in May
as part of a reorganization of the consumer business. Two people
familiar with the company’s plans said last week that Cisco was
planning to shed as many as 10,000 workers.  The company also intends to ramp up demand with an updated
version of its flagship Catalyst 6500 switch, announced last
week at the Cisco Live conference in  Las Vegas . The new switches
are designed to be faster and more secure, and accommodate as
many as 10,000 mobile devices from a single machine.  Cisco’s revenue is projected to rise 7 percent this year to
$43 billion, less than the 11 percent growth posted in 2010,
according to the average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Analysts have an average target price of $20.48 for the
stock, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  