-- 
Clinton in India for Talks on Regional Security, Nuclear Trade

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-19T05:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/clinton-arrives-in-india-for-talks-on-security-trade.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today holds talks on broadening India’s regional role,
its reconciliation process with arch-rival  Pakistan  and using
stronger economic ties to foster stability.  Clinton, who arrived in  New Delhi  last night, will attend
the second round of the U.S.-India Strategic Dialogue, focusing
on issues including counterterrorism, defense cooperation and
climate change.  Her visit comes as the U.S. starts withdrawing troops from
Afghanistan this month, with a view to ending combat operations
by 2014. Peace talks between India and Pakistan, crucial to U.S.
hopes for  South Asian  stability, are set to take place at the
foreign minister level at the end of this month. The government
in New Delhi hasn’t accused Pakistani-based groups of carrying
out the July 13 bombings in Mumbai, unlike past attacks.  “The U.S. realizes India has an important role to play in
stabilizing  Afghanistan ,” said Harinder Sekhon, a senior fellow
at the New Delhi-based Observer Research Foundation, who
specializes in U.S.-India relations. “There’s now a communality
of interests and ideas on how to stabilize Afghanistan.”  Spikes in tension with India risk prompting Pakistan to
shift troops from the fight against the Taliban and allied
militants, some of which target U.S. troops in Afghanistan, to
reinforce the Indian border, say analysts such as Imtiaz Gul,
chairman of the Islamabad-based Center for Research and Security
Studies.  Trade Deficit  Clinton and the senior delegation traveling with her will
also visit the southern city of Chennai to discuss trade,
investment and the U.S.-India relationship.  The U.S. exported $19.25 billion in goods to India in 2010,
up 17 percent from $16.44 billion in 2009, and imported $29.53
billion in goods, up 40 percent from $21.17 billion a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. As a result, the
U.S. trade deficit for goods widened to about $10.3 billion.  The issue of defense-related trade will likely come up. In
April, the U.S. said it was “deeply disappointed” when India’s
Defense Ministry chose to favor the purchase European warplanes,
rather than jets made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  or  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
even after lobbying by President Barack Obama. The contract is
worth as much as $11 billion.  India has replaced  China  as the world’s top weapons
importer, according to a study by the  Stockholm International
Peace Research Institute , as it aims to modernize its armed
forces and defend against security threats from Pakistan and
China. India has border disputes with both nuclear-armed
neighbors.  Nuclear Power  Clinton will address a civilian aspect of nuclear power and
ask Indian leaders to help remove legal barriers in India to U.S.
companies that produce nuclear equipment, such as Westinghouse
Electric Corp., a unit of Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502)   India, the world’s second-largest market for new reactors,
with five under construction, passed a law last year to hold
atomic-power equipment suppliers partly liable for damages from
accidents, even in the case of operator error.  Clinton’s visit comes after the July 13 bombings killed at
least 19 people in  Mumbai , India’s financial capital. It was the
worst terrorist attack since militants laid siege to the city in
2008, leaving 166 people dead.  India blamed militants based in Pakistan for the 2008
attack, which led to the collapse of a five-year peace effort.
So far, the Indian government has refrained from suggesting a
Pakistani link to the July 13 bombings. Blasts in 2008 and last
year were claimed by domestic extremists calling themselves the
Indian Mujahideen.  Encouraging Trade  Clinton sees the economic links as a way to deepen
bilateral ties, according to a State Department official who
briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity. She plans to
emphasize the use of trade and investment between  India  and
Pakistan as a route for the two nations to build trust so that
they can gradually move toward greater security cooperation,
according to the official.  The two countries have fought three wars since they
separated at independence from Britain in 1947.  Clinton’s stop in India is the third in a trip around the
world. She has visited Turkey and  Greece  and, after India, will
continue to  Indonesia ,  Hong Kong  and China. 