-- 
Icahn Boosts Clorox Offer to $10.7 Billion After Rejection

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 
2011-07-20T20:28:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/clorox-says-icahn-s-10-2-billion-bid-is-neither-credible-nor-adequate-.html
Carl Icahn  raised his offer for
 Clorox Co. (CLX)  to $80 a share, valuing the maker of the namesake
bleach at about $10.7 billion, after his earlier bid was
rejected.  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP)  and affiliates will put $5.2 billion,
including their Clorox shares, in escrow to demonstrate the
credibility of the offer, Icahn said today in a filing. Clorox
rejected his earlier bid this week, saying it undervalued the
company and financing wasn’t certain. Clorox said today in a
statement it will review the higher proposal “in due course.”  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.4 percent stake,
told Bloomberg Television today that he may break up the company
if his bid is successful. Icahn offered to acquire Clorox last
week for about $10.2 billion, or $76.50 a share, and urged
directors to seek offers from strategic buyers including  Procter
& Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)   “If we buy it, we might split it up and possibly keep one
of the divisions,” Icahn said in the interview with Bloomberg’s
“Street Smart with  Carol Massar  and Matt Miller,” declining to
specify which unit he would retain.  Clorox, based in Oakland, California, rose $1.77, or 2.4
percent, to $74.34 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have gained 8.6 percent since July
14, the day before Icahn made his bid. The company’s products
include Glad trash bags, Fresh Step cat litter, Burt’s Bees
skin-care products, Kingsford charcoal and Green Works natural
cleansers.  ‘Reprehensible’ Plan  Icahn boosted his offer today and set money aside in an
effort to end questions about whether he was serious and had
proper financing, he said. Clorox is “cheap” at $80 and a good
deal for strategic buyers, Icahn added. Clorox directors’
decision to institute a shareholder rights plan following his
initial offer was “reprehensible,” he said.  “Icahn’s got a history of being a bulldog and staying in
there,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St.
Louis, said today in a telephone interview. Russo recommends
holding Clorox shares.  Icahn included in his first proposal a letter from
Jefferies & Co. that stated the investment bank was “highly
confident” it could help him raise $7.8 billion in debt
financing to partially fund the takeover. He said today that
there is no “legitimate question” that those funds could be
raised.  Rights Plan  Clorox adopted a shareholder rights plan that would allow
current investors to purchase additional shares if an entity
acquired more than 10 percent of the company in a transaction
not approved by the board.  “By turning down our offer and the possibility of higher
ones, you are asking shareholders to take meaningful risk
without giving them the opportunity to decide which option they
would prefer,” Icahn said in a letter to Clorox included in
today’s filing.  In his previous filing July 15, Icahn invited Clorox to
seek competing bids from  Unilever NV (UNA) ,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) ,
 Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  and Henkel AG, as well.  “An acquisition of Clorox would give Unilever a leading
brand portfolio in cleaning and household products on the U.S.
market and the potential for international expansion,”  Richard
Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam, said in a
note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 