-- 
Colombian Stocks: Canacol Falls; Ecopetrol, Rubiales Rise

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-18T21:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/colombian-stocks-canacol-falls-ecopetrol-rubiales-rise.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Bogota trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4 p.m. New York time.  The IGBC Index rose 0.4 percent to 13,189.13, while the
Colcap Index gained 0.3 percent to 1,589.30.  Canacol Energy Ltd. (CNEC)  , the Calgary-based  oil
company  with fields in  South America , fell 1.8 percent to 1,670
pesos, the lowest level since it began trading a year ago.
Canadian stocks fell, led by financial and energy companies, as
bank stress tests failed to reassure investors the European debt
crisis will be contained and oil futures dropped.  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  , Colombia’s biggest oil company,
rose 1.5 percent to 3,630 pesos, after saying it will offer up
to 3 trillion pesos ($1.7 billion) worth of shares in an
offering to begin July 27.  Chief Executive Officer  Javier Gutierrez  said the company
seeks to sell about a 2 percent stake, less than the 9.9 percent
stake allowed by law, according to an interview with the daily
Portafolio. The company plans to sell an additional stake in an
offering for foreign investors, Gutierrez told the daily.  “There was a lot of speculation as to the amount of the
offering, so Gutierrez has reassured the market,” said Juan David Pineros, an analyst at Interbolsa SA. “And the offering
is much less than the market was expecting.”  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PREC)  , the Toronto-based
oil producer that operates fields in Colombia, rose 1.1 percent,
the most in two weeks, to 44,000 pesos after the company found
indications of oil after drilling at its Torodoi-1X well in
eastern Colombia, according to a regulatory filing.  An oil discovery in Rubiales’s Arauca block would help the
company diversify production with oil of a different quality and
location than the company’s main fields called Rubiales and
Quifa in central Colombia, Pineros said in an e-mailed report
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  