-- 
Copper May Drop as U.S. Debt, China Price Concerns Dim Outlook

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-18T07:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/copper-may-drop-as-u-s-debt-china-price-concerns-dim-outlook.html
Copper may decline after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said the government is “running out of
time” to cut the fiscal deficit and on speculation China may
take more steps to curb property prices after home costs gained.  The metal for three-month delivery was little changed at
$9,661 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange at 3:19 p.m.
 Shanghai  time, erasing gains of as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  “Concerns over the U.S. debt ceiling and European debt
crisis are curbing the advance of copper, even as industry
participants expect Chinese demand to return in the second
half,” said Li Ye, an analyst at Jiuheng Futures Co.  As negotiators near an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
$14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling, President Obama is pushing for
a deal that will combine closing tax loopholes for the richest
Americans and corporations with cuts to discretionary spending
by government. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican from
 Ohio , told reporters his party wouldn’t accept any tax increases
as they work with President Obama on a deal to lower deficits.  A U.S. debt default would cause panic throughout the
financial system and long-term uncertainty, former Treasury
Secretary  Larry Summers  told  CNN .  European leaders are holding a special summit this week as
they seek to contain the region’s debt crisis, after eight of
the region’s banks failed stress tests and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated the ECB won’t accept as
collateral bonds from a nation that defaults.  China Home Prices  Metals prices are being “negatively impacted” by signs of
economic slowdown in the U.S., countries sharing the euro and
 China , Citigroup Inc. said in a report. Global purchasing
managers indexes, both for manufacturing and non-manufacturing,
show a “synchronized slowdown,” Citigroup analyst Jon Bergtheil wrote in a report today.  Concern the crisis is spreading pushed the euro lower
against the dollar, with the Dollar Index gaining as much as 0.7
percent to 75.613.  New home prices rose in 67 Chinese cities in June, with
growth in Beijing and Shanghai accelerating, the statistics
bureau said today. China’s cabinet said last week it will expand
measures to rein in residential prices to smaller cities after
limiting home purchases in metropolitan areas including Beijing
and Shanghai.  China’s consumer price may increase by about 6.5 percent in
July, Reuters reported today, citing Chen Dongqi, deputy head of
the National Development and Reform Commission’s macroeconomic
research institute.  Wagers Jump  Still, copper may rally to a record $12,000 a ton in the
first quarter of next year as stronger-than-expected demand from
China, the largest user, and tumbling inventories spur imports,
said Ren Gang, head of research department at Maike Futures Co.
Copper for September delivery on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
closed 0.3 percent higher at 71,840 yuan ($11,107) a ton.  Managed-money funds held net-long positions, or wagers on
rising prices in copper, totaling 27,030 futures and options
contracts as of July 12, jumping 23 percent from 21,901 a week
earlier and the highest since April, the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said on July 15.  Aluminum in  London  gained 0.2 percent to $2,498 a ton, zinc
rose 0.6 percent to $2,391 a ton and lead added 0.6 percent to
$2,725 a ton. Nickel fell 0.3 percent $24,073 a ton, and tin
shed 0.2 percent to $27,160 a ton.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  