-- 
News Corp., Credit Suisse, JPMorgan, BP in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-18T12:24:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/credit-suisse-news-corp-airport-scanners-wells-fargo-in-court-news.html
The head of Scotland Yard resigned
yesterday, hours after former News of the World editor Rebekah
Brooks was arrested as the scandal over phone hacking at the
now-defunct  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid widened.  Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson stepped
down because of “accusations” about police links to  News
Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K. unit and its hiring of a former journalist at the
tabloid as a consultant. Brooks, 43, met with police for
questioning yesterday, two days after she stepped down as head
of the unit, News International.  The revelations of phone hacking -- including breaking into
the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl -- have already seen
News Corp. shutter the 168-year-old News of the World. Brooks,
along with News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch, and his son
James, deputy chief operating officer, are scheduled to testify
at a U.K. Parliamentary committee hearing tomorrow.  “Over the next 24 to 36 hours, her lawyers will be in
discussions with the committee about whether it will still be
appropriate for her to attend,” David Wilson, a spokesman for
Brooks, said in a phone interview yesterday. “She has nothing
to hide, and she was very happy to give evidence, but today’s
actions have changed the ballpark.”  Brooks voluntarily went to a London police station by
appointment yesterday, Wilson said. Police said in an e-mail
that the arrest was on suspicion of corruption and conspiring to
intercept communications. She was released on bail around
midnight, police said.  Brooks was the 10th person, including at least eight with
links to News of the World, detained by police in the
investigation. She resigned July 15 as chief executive officer
of News International, which publishes New York-based News
Corp.’s U.K. titles. Brooks edited the News of the World and
then the Sun before being promoted to CEO of News International
in 2009.  A News Corp. spokeswoman, who declined to be identified,
reiterated yesterday the company’s intention to fully cooperate
with the police.  Lawyers and lawmakers said Brooks’s arrest casts doubt on
her appearance at the hearing in front of the Culture, Media and
Sport Committee, the panel investigating phone hacking by the
News of the World, which published its last edition July 10. She
had agreed last week to attend before resigning.  “This makes me wonder whether this is some ruse to avoid
answering questions on Tuesday,” Chris Bryant, an opposition
Labour lawmaker, told Sky News yesterday. “I don’t want to
over-stress that argument, but it is unusual to be arrested on a
Sunday by appointment.”  Niri Shan, a lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP, said Brooks’s
ability to answer questions will be limited.  Last week, the FBI began a probe whether employees tried to
hack into the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.  “We’re aware of certain allegations pertaining to a
possible hacking by News Corp. personnel and we’re looking into
those charges,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s  New York  office, said in a phone
interview July 14.  For more of this story, click here.  For more about the FBI probe, click here.  Legal Reviews  Credit Suisse Is a Target of U.S. Private-Banking Tax Probe  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-biggest Swiss bank, is a
target of an investigation by the Department of Justice over
former cross-border private banking services to U.S. customers.  “Subject to our Swiss legal obligations, we will continue
to cooperate with the U.S. authorities in an effort to resolve
these matters,” the Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement July 15. The bank, which was informed of the probe
July 14, has already been responding to requests for
information, including subpoenas, from the Department of
Justice, it said.  Four bankers who worked at Credit Suisse were charged with
conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade taxes through
secret bank accounts, according to an indictment from earlier
this year. In the fall of 2008, when the bank began closing its
cross-border business with U.S. clients, it had “thousands” of
accounts with $3 billion in assets not declared to the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service, according to the indictment.  Credit Suisse said July 15 “it has been reported that the
U.S. authorities are conducting a broader industry inquiry.”
The Swiss government is in talks with authorities in the U.S. to
resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by U.S. citizens in
Swiss bank accounts, a government official said last month.  “Currently it is difficult to say whether this will lead
to a legal case and a fine against Credit Suisse,”  Teresa
Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel with a “hold” rating said in a
note. “We expect Switzerland and the U.S. to continue
negotiations.”  Daniel Saameli, a spokesman for Switzerland’s finance
ministry, said the government “acknowledges the developments,”
while declining to comment further.  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BP Well Partner Must Take Claims to Arbitration, Judge Rules  BP Plc (BP/)  can halt litigation with minority business partner
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  so the companies can arbitrate
liability over costs of last year’s oil-well blowout in the  Gulf
of Mexico , a judge said.  Anadarko sued BP, asking a federal judge in New Orleans to
declare it isn’t responsible for damages and cleanup costs
created by the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The
Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, which owned 25 percent of the
Macondo well, said BP’s conduct caused the blowout and the
spill.  BP asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to stall the
lawsuit, contending that a partnership agreement required the
companies to first attempt arbitration to resolve disputes.
Barbier sent the claim to arbitration July 15.  “Anadarko has not met its burden to overcome the
presumption in favor of arbitration,” Barbier said in his
ruling. “Accordingly, Anadarko’s claim against BP must be
stayed pursuant to the arbitration clause” in the joint
operating agreement between the parties, he said.  The July 15 decision “does nothing to diminish our
claims,”  John Christiansen , Anadarko’s spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “It simply addresses the venue in which they may be
resolved.”  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on Barbier’s order regarding Anadarko.  “Anadarko has blatantly disregarded its responsibilities
to the residents of the Gulf Coast by failing to pay its fair
share of the costs relating to the accident and resulting
spill,” Dean said in an e-mail July 15. “BP remains focused on
ensuring that Anadarko lives up to its obligations.”  The case is part of In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-
2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  Swiss Banks Said to Be Near Settlement in German Tax Dispute  Swiss banks may initially pay at least 4 billion Swiss
francs ($4.9 billion) to settle a dispute over tax evasion by
wealthy German clients, two people familiar with the matter
said.  The payment would be part of a larger sum covering the
failure by customers to disclose undeclared money over the past
10 years, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations between Switzerland and  Germany  are private and
no final agreement has been reached.  The outlay for the past is part of Swiss talks with Germany
and the U.K. over a proposed withholding tax on clients with
offshore bank accounts. While part, or all, of the amount would
later be “reimbursed” to the banks from taxes paid by their
clients, according to the Swiss finance ministry, the settlement
may trigger outflows by Europeans who question the value of
cross-border accounts as secrecy crumbles.  “I expect major withdrawals by clients from Germany and
the U.K. as they are disgruntled by the retroactive effect of
the agreement,” said Daniel Fischer, the founder of Zurich-
based AFP Fischer & Partner, which specializes in banking law.
“Clients are so angry that Swiss banks may not be able to
recoup the full upfront payment.”  While the size of the initial payment and the formula used
to determine back taxes owed by German and British clients
haven’t been disclosed, Switzerland has reached a solution on a
“political level,” Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf
told NZZ am Sonntag on July 3.  The agreement may be announced after the Swiss government’s
summer recess, said Mario Tuor, a spokesman for Switzerland’s
State Secretariat for International Financial Matters. Germany’s
finance ministry declined to comment because the negotiations
are still continuing.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, will analyze the treaty
when it’s announced, said spokesman Dominique Gerster.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , which agreed in April to pay German
authorities 50 million euros ($71 million) to end a separate
investigation over undeclared client assets, declined to
comment.  Marc Dosch , spokesman for Credit Suisse Group AG,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, also declined to comment.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Fund Manager Can’t Argue Regulator Corruption at Trial  A former hedge-fund manager charged with threatening to
kill U.S. regulators can’t argue at his trial set to begin this
week that his alleged targets were corrupt, a judge ruled.  Even if officials at the regulatory agencies were corrupt,
“it does not justify a threat, if in fact one was made, to kill
any one of these individuals,” U.S. District Judge Denis R.
Hurley said at a hearing July 15 in Central Islip, New York.  Vincent P. McCrudden, 50, is accused of threatening the
lives of 47 current and former officials, including Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  McCrudden, who was also a commodities trader, has been held
without bail since he was arrested Jan. 13 returning from
Singapore. He is charged with threatening the regulators,
including those at the National Futures Association and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc., in profanity-
filled e-mails and, after the CFTC sued him in December, in Web
postings.  McCrudden has said he’s being persecuted for fighting back
against unfair regulatory actions that destroyed his career.  His trial is set to begin with opening statements today.  Prosecutors Christopher C. Caffarone and James McMahon
sought to preclude evidence of alleged corruption at the
agencies or of vendettas against McCrudden by their employees,
saying there was no connection between the crimes he’s charged
with and “the vague beliefs of unidentified members of an
undefined group.”  McCrudden’s lawyer, Bruce A. Barket, said in a court filing
that the information would put his client’s comments in the
context of an ongoing public debate about the financial-
regulation system.  The government charged that, after the CFTC accused
McCrudden in the lawsuit of illegally starting his Hybrid Fund
II LP in 2008 without registering it, he posted an “execution”
list on his company  website .  “Go buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our
country from these criminals,” he wrote on the site. “I will
be the first one to lead by example.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Rabobank Sues OppenheimerFunds Over $1.8 Billion in Loans  Rabobank, Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank and
four other lenders sued OppenheimerFunds Inc. in New York state
court to rescind $1.8 billion in loans to a special-purpose
entity.  The plaintiffs said the entity created by OppenheimerFunds
invested in the Abacus collateralized debt obligation and other
securities allegedly in violation of diversification and
performance criteria in their lending agreements, according to a
complaint filed in Manhattan.  OppenheimerFunds caused its Harbourview Asset Management
Corp., which managed the entity, to issue notices to lenders in
2006 and 2007 that falsely certified that loan conditions were
being met, the complaint says.  Samuel Wang, a spokesman for OppenheimerFunds, didn’t
return a voice-mail message left after hours. OppenheimerFunds
is a unit of Springfield, Massachusetts-based Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co.  The case is TSL (USA) v. OppenheimerFunds, 651938/2011,
Supreme Court, New York (Manhattan).  Apollo’s Trilegiant Unit Sued Over Charges for Consumer Clubs  Apollo Global Management LLC’s Trilegiant unit was sued by
an Arizona man over claims it conspired to defraud consumers
with charges for product loyalty services and membership clubs.  Juan M. Restrepo said in a complaint in federal court in
Tucson, Arizona, that he was unaware that Trilegiant charged
$10.99 to his Chase MasterCard account each month from May 2007
through to May 2011. Restrepo noticed the monthly charges in
April and claims he never authorized the charges, according to
the complaint filed July 13.  “The charges were virtually unnoticeable because it was
embedded in all other ordinary charges that normally escape
close scrutiny of the ordinary consumer,” according to the
complaint, which seeks to represent other customers in a class
action, or group lawsuit. Chase Bank USA is also a defendant in
the case.  The companies are accused in the lawsuit of racketeering,
violating electronic communications privacy laws, violating
unfair trade laws and unjustly enriching themselves. Restrepo is
seeking a court order barring the companies from continuing the
alleged scheme plus unspecified damages.  Mike Bush, a spokesman for Trilegiant, didn’t return a call
seeking comment after regular business hours July 14.  Tom Kelly, a spokesman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , declined
to comment. New York-based JPMorgan is the parent of Chase Bank
USA.  The case is Restrepo v. Chase Bank USA NA, 11-cv-00423,
U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UBS Data Disclosure on 255 U.S. Clients Was Legal, Court Says  UBS AG’s disclosure of account data on 255 clients to the
U.S. authorities, ordered by the Swiss financial regulator in
2009, was “lawful,” the Swiss Federal Supreme Court ruled.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma,
“proceeded on the assumption that if this data hadn’t been
disclosed, the U.S. Department of Justice would have filed an
indictment against UBS, which would arguably have caused the
bank’s ruin and consequently have had serious repercussions for
the Swiss economy,” the Lausanne-based court said July 15 in an
e-mailed statement.  The court reversed a ruling in January 2010 by the Federal
Administrative Court, which handled a complaint from UBS
clients. The administrative court ruled that the regulator
exceeded its authority in telling UBS, Switzerland’s biggest
bank, to hand over data to the U.S. as part of a deferred
prosecution agreement. The Department of Justice accused UBS of
conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping Americans hide
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service.  While the emergency-action provisions in the Swiss Banking
Act don’t provide “sufficient legal grounds for encroaching on
banking secrecy,” government authorities, including Finma, may
take steps to “avert serious imminent risks” even in the
absence of a specific legal foundation, the court said.  Airport Body Scanners Improperly Adopted by U.S., Court Says  Airport body scanners using advanced imaging technology
were improperly adopted by the U.S. as a primary passenger-
screening tool, a federal appeals court ruled, while allowing
their use to continue.  The U.S. Transportation Security Administration should have
sought public comment before deciding that the scanners, first
deployed in 2007, would be used “everywhere for primary
screening,” the court said July 15.  “Due to the obvious need for the TSA to continue its
airport security operations without interruption, we remand the
rule to the TSA but do not vacate it,” the court said in its
ruling.  By the end of 2010, the TSA was operating 486 scanners in
78 airports with plans to add 500 more scanners by the end of
this year, according to the court.  Greg Soule, a spokesman for the TSA, didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v. U.S.
Department of Homeland Security, 10-1157, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia ( Washington ).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Wells Fargo $125 Million Settlement Makes Docket Most Popular  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which agreed July 6 to pay $125 million
to settle accusations by investors that the bank misled them
about the risks of mortgage-backed securities it sold, had the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  The plaintiffs in the consolidated group case, or class
action, include the General Retirement System of Detroit, New
Orleans Employees’ Retirement System and other public pensions,
according to the proposed settlement filed in federal court in
San Jose, California.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, and several
investment banks that underwrote the securities were sued in
2009 over alleged violations of securities laws in connection
with sales of $36 billion in mortgage pass-through certificates
in 2005 and 2006.  The bank and the underwriters deny wrongdoing, according to
the proposed accord, which is subject to a judge’s approval.  “The proposed settlement agreement is a negotiated
resolution as to all named defendants and is intended to avoid
the distraction and expense of litigation,” Ancel Martinez, a
Wells Fargo spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The bank still faces claims in state courts in California,
Illinois and Indiana filed by individual investors and federal
home loan banks seeking to rescind billions of dollars of
mortgage-backed securities purchases.  “It’s a very favorable outcome and will be significant for
investors,” David Stickney, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview.  The case is In re Wells Fargo Mortgage-Backed Certificates
Litigation, 09-1376, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  