-- 
Oil Gains in New York as U.S. Supplies, China Demand Counter Europe Debt

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-19T06:58:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/crude-oil-trades-near-two-day-low-in-new-york-on-europe-u-s-debt-concern.html
Oil climbed in New York as signs of
shrinking crude stockpiles in the U.S. and rising demand in
 China  countered speculation that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
temper fuel consumption.  Futures advanced as much as 0.5 percent before a report
tomorrow that may show U.S. inventories dropped a seventh week.
Prices also rose after China said its apparent fuel consumption
rose 7.2 percent in the first half. Crude slipped yesterday amid
concern Europe’s leaders will be unable to agree on steps to
ensure the region’s financial stability at a summit this week.  “It’s summer drive-time, inventories are coming back a bit
and people are suggesting that the economy is not going to
falter,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
 New York  will average $100 a barrel this year. “The market’s
not decided as to what the consequences are to oil yet” from
the debt situation, he said.  Crude for August delivery gained as much as 45 cents to
$96.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $96.31 at 2:48 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday declined $1.31 to $95.93, the lowest since
July 14. The more actively traded September future climbed 38
cents to $96.63.  Brent oil for September settlement rose as much as 55
cents, or 0.5 percent, to $116.60 a barrel on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Prices are 54 percent higher the past year.  Crude Stockpiles  An Energy Department report may show U.S. crude supplies
fell 1.5 million barrels for a seventh week in the seven days
ended July 15, according to the median of 10 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline inventories probably slid
100,000 barrels from 211.7 million, the survey shows.  European Union government chiefs plan to meet for the
second time in a month on July 21, aiming to break a deadlock
over a new Greek rescue that has spooked investors. Spanish and
Italian bonds yields surged yesterday, piling pressure on
officials to end the turmoil. Spain and  Greece  will sell as much
as 5.75 billion euros ($8.1 billion) of bills today.  Oil’s climb in New York may stall along the 50-day moving
average, at $97.50 a barrel today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Front-month futures last settled above this indicator
on May 5. A breach of technical resistance usually means prices
will continue to rise.  IEA Release  Futures have risen 5.9 percent in New York since the
 International Energy Agency  announced a release of strategic
stockpiles June 23. IEA member nations are likely to decide
against offering more oil after last month’s release failed to
curb prices and Middle East output rose, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. The IEA will say on about July 23 whether
they will continue emergency sales to make up for supply choked
off by the Libyan conflict.  Oil is advancing as the first tropical storms of the
Atlantic Hurricane season form. Bret, the second such system, is
moving northeast away from the coast of  Florida  on a track that
will take it out to sea, the U.S. National Hurricane Center
said. In the eastern Pacific, Tropical Storm Dora formed
yesterday about 400 miles (644 kilometers) south-southeast of
Salina Cruz,  Mexico , the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  