-- 
Cuban Can’t Claim ‘Unclean Hands’ in SEC Insider Trading Case, Judge Says

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-07-18T22:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/cuban-can-t-claim-unclean-hands-in-sec-insider-trading-case-judge-says.html
Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of
the  Dallas  Mavericks, can’t argue the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s insider-trading case against him is mostly
barred because the agency investigated him in an improper
manner, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater granted the SEC’s
request to remove Cuban’s so-called unclean hands defense in a
decision today.  The defense is available “only in strictly limited
circumstances” including when misconduct “results in prejudice
to the defense of the enforcement action that rises to a
constitutional level and is established through a direct nexus
between the misconduct and the constitutional injury,” which
Cuban hasn’t shown, Fitzwater wrote in his ruling.  The SEC sued Cuban in 2008, accusing him of trading on
confidential information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com
Inc., a Canadian Internet search company, just before it
announced a private placement of shares.  “This was a minor legal skirmish over whether we could
bring this affirmative defense,” Lyle Roberts, a lawyer for
Cuban at Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in  Washington , said in a phone
interview.  Roberts said Cuban had brought a sanctions motion over the
SEC’s conduct that could be renewed further along in the
litigation.  Fair Opportunity  Cuban argued in a Feb. 4 court filing that, in its
investigation of him, the agency “engaged in egregious acts of
misconduct” and conducted the probe “in an unfair, biased and
improper manner.”  Cuban said the SEC was determined to bring an action
regardless of what evidence it uncovered and it didn’t give him
a fair opportunity to argue against such an action, which is
typically allowed.  The SEC discouraged a key witness’s lawyer “from making
the witness available to speak with Mr. Cuban’s counsel” and it
threatened the witness with perjury, according to Cuban’s court
papers.  Fitzwater said Cuban failed to allege facts that prejudiced
his case to the level required for an unclean-hands defense.  For example, he said, Cuban didn’t allege that making the
witness unavailable “resulted in any prejudice in his defense
of this enforcement action much less prejudice that rises to a
constitutional level.”  Public Interest  Similarly, Cuban didn’t allege he wasn’t able to get
truthful evidence from the witness despite the perjury
allegation.  The SEC argued the unclean-hands defense can’t be asserted
against a government entity suing in the public interest and
that the agency’s investigation wasn’t prejudicial against him.  Fitzwater said an unclean-hands defense isn’t barred “as a
matter of law” in an SEC enforcement action.  In the case, Cuban argues he had no legal obligation not to
sell his Mamma.com stock after Guy Faure, then the company’s
chief executive officer, told him of the impending private
 offering  of below-market shares in a 2004 telephone call. Cuban
sold ahead of the deal, which diluted the company’s shares by
8.5 percent.  The SEC claims Cuban agreed with Faure at the beginning of
their call to keep the information confidential and told Faure
after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m screwed. I
can’t sell.”  Fitzwater, the judge, threw out the case in July 2009,
ruling that Cuban didn’t agree not to trade on the information,
only to keep it confidential.  ‘Plausible Basis’  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  New Orleans  overturned
Fitzwater’s decision in September, finding the SEC’s allegations
“provide more than a plausible basis to find that the
understanding between the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to
trade.”  The appeals judges stopped short of saying that a
confidentiality agreement implicitly contains a duty not to
trade and said the final outcome of the case depends on the
evidence to be gathered.  Cuban avoided $750,000 in losses by ordering the sale of
his 6.3 percent stake in the Montreal-based company now called
 Copernic Inc.  within hours of talking to Faure, the SEC alleged.
The stock fell 8.5 percent on June 30, 2004, the first trading
day after the private placement was announced, and 15 percent
the day after Cuban’s sales were disclosed in a regulatory
filing made public July 2, according to Bloomberg data.  Made Fortune  Cuban owns the HDNet high-definition television channel and
the Landmark Theater chain. He made his fortune through the sale
of Broadcast.com, the multimedia Web service he co-founded and
that Yahoo! Inc. bought for $4.7 billion in 1999.  The next year, Cuban purchased the Mavericks from Ross Perot Jr. for $280 million, a record at the time for a National
Basketball Association team.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Texas 
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 