-- 
Cushing Crude Stockpiles Decline 2.5%, Satellite Survey Shows

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-07-18T14:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/cushing-crude-stockpiles-decline-2-5-satellite-survey-shows.html
Crude oil inventories in Cushing,
Oklahoma, fell 2.5 percent on July 14 from July 9, according to
data compiled by DigitalGlobe Inc.  Stockpiles held in floating-roof tanks at the hub dropped
898,000 barrels to 35.7 million barrels, satellite images taken
by the Longmont, Colorado-based company show. The  Department of
Energy  said July 13 that Cushing inventories including floating
and fixed tanks were 37.6 million barrels.  Cushing is the physical delivery point for New York
Mercantile Exchange oil futures contracts and the largest crude-
trading and storage hub in the U.S. Inventories have risen 0.4
percent this year, buoyed by rising domestic production. The hub
has  working storage  capacity of 48 million barrels, the
department said on May 31.  The  DigitalGlobe  estimate is based on images of all 223
operational floating-top tanks at Cushing, the satellite company
said. There are also 116 fixed tanks at the hub.  Cushing’s floating-roof tanks are used mostly to store
crude oil, according to  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, who estimates that 90 percent of the
storage volume in the hub is floating tanks. Fixed-roof tanks
are for storing petroleum products with lower vapor pressures,
such as jet fuel and distillate, he said.  Some fixed-roof tanks in Cushing may have been retrofitted
to with internal floating roofs and be used to store crude oil,
according to Lipow. Heavier crudes can also be kept in fixed-
roof tanks.  Data Releases  DigitalGlobe data is released twice each week at 10:30 a.m.
New York time on Mondays and Fridays. For the Friday release,
the information is collected from the previous Saturday through
Wednesday. For the Monday release, it’s from the previous
Thursday or Friday.  When clouds obscure the satellite view, data is used from
the last day in which there was a full collection. In the past
week, that was July 14. The highest percent of collection data
will be used when cloud cover obscures images during a
collection period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  