-- 
Darfur’s Main Rebel Group Joined Clash Against Sudanese Army in Oil State

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-19T12:05:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/darfur-rebels-joined-clash-against-sudan-army-in-oil-state-1-.html
Sudanese rebels from the western
region of Darfur fought alongside fighters aligned with South
 Sudan ’s army against Sudanese government forces in the state of
Southern Kordofan, a spokesman for the insurgents said.  Clashes in Sudan’s only oil-producing state this month
marked the first time the Justice and Equality Movement,
Darfur’s biggest rebel group, and insurgents in Southern
Kordofan fought together, JEM spokesman Gibreel Adam Bilal said
by phone from Doha, Qatar. The area borders newly independent
South Sudan.  “The government has been attacking our brothers in Southern
Kordofan for over a month,” Bilal said. “We couldn’t just stand
and watch with our hands tied.”  Fighting in Southern Kordofan has forced more than 73,000
people to flee their homes since June 5, the  United Nations 
said. Clashes and air strikes by the Sudanese army there
continued after the south was declared independent on July 9,
the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said
on July 12.  About 150 Sudan army soldiers were killed in battles, and
others were captured, El Taher El Feki, the chairman of JEM’s
legislative council, said by phone today. While El Feki didn’t
have casualties from the rebel side, he said three JEM fighters
were captured by the army.  ‘No Proof’  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said “there is no
proof” that JEM participated in the clashes and denied that
government soldiers were killed in the fighting.  “Things are now calm in the state,” Khaled said today by
phone from Khartoum, the capital.  A wider war may erupt in Sudan if clashes in Southern
Kordofan aren’t resolved, Malik Agar, governor of Sudan’s border
Blue Nile state and the head of the northern branch of South
Sudan’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement, said July 3.
Rebel groups from across the country may join together to fight
the government in Khartoum, he said.  Authorities in South Sudan said fighting in Southern
Kordofan broke out when the Sudanese army tried to disarm
residents of the state, such as members of the Nuba ethnic
group, who fought with the south’s army in its two-decade civil
war against the north.  President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum accused
those units from South Sudan’s army of starting the violence.  Last week JEM and other Darfur rebel groups boycotted a
peace deal signed in Doha by al-Bashir’s government and the
Liberation and Justice Movement, a splinter group.  Al-Bashir has been indicted by the  International Criminal
Court  for responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur.
He denies the charges.  Southern Kordofan accounts for about 115,000 barrels a day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 