-- 
Darren Clarke Can’t Get Used to Winning British Open Trophy at 20th Try

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-18T10:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/darren-clarke-can-t-get-used-to-winning-british-open-at-20th-try.html
A beaming Darren Clarke looked at
the Claret Jug given to the  British Open  champion on the table
next to him. He still couldn’t believe it’s his.  Clarke ended his 20-year quest to win golf’s oldest major
championship yesterday with a three-shot victory over Dustin Johnson and  Phil Mickelson  at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,
England. It was the first major title for the 42-year-old
Northern Irishman.  “It still hasn’t sunk in yet,” Clarke told reporters this
morning. “I looked at the trophy all night and sort of semi-
figured out it was mine. Nice to be, as you say, Open
champion.”  Clarke’s wait for his first Open win was the longest in
history, eclipsing the previous mark of 15 years set by Nick Price in 1994. He’s the oldest Open champion since 44-year-old
Roberto De Vicenzo of  Argentina  in 1967, and the oldest to
capture a major since American Ben Crenshaw won the  Masters
Tournament  at 43 in 1995.  Known to enjoy a pint of Guinness and a cigar, Clarke
admitted he’s yet to get to sleep after celebrating the victory.
Popular with his peers and fans, he’d received 294
congratulatory messages but had a hard time reading them.  “The writing is far too small to look at them in this
state,” he laughed, adding he had heard from several major
winners who said “Welcome to the club.”  Two messages he did take came from his sons Tyrone and
Conor, who watched his victory back home in  Northern Ireland .
Their mother, Heather, died of  breast cancer  in 2006.  Endorsement Deals  Clarke spoke with both his boys, and while Tyrone was proud
and couldn’t wait to tell everyone his dad was Open champion,
Conor had a different question.  “He wanted to know what he could spend all the money on,”
Clarke said.  Clarke earned 900,000 pounds ($1.45 million), plus a 2
million-pound bonus from sponsor Dunlop Sports, for the win.
Though winning the Open may lead to lucrative endorsement deals,
being the champion has a much bigger perk in his eyes.  “I’ll be fortunate that it will benefit me hugely
financially but it’s more to have my name on there,” he said,
nodding toward the trophy. “But what’s more important is when I
get home maybe later today and I have my boys, to have the
trophy in their hands and look at their dad’s name on the
trophy. That’s even more important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,  England , through
the London sports desk at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 