-- 
Derivatives Sold to Governments Get Dodd-Frank Disclosure: One Year Later

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/derivatives-sold-to-governments-get-dodd-frank-disclosure-one-year-later.html
Martha Haines says she was powerless
at the Securities and Exchange Commission to prevent banks from
selling derivatives to state and local governments that cost
taxpayers billions of dollars -- mostly in penalty fees to  Wall
Street  -- during the worst financial crisis since the 1929 Crash.  “We could see this trouble developing,” says the 59-year-
old Haines, who led the SEC’s Municipal Securities office from
2001 until she retired in June. “Yet we had no authority to
address it.”  A year after passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, regulators at
three government agencies belatedly are preparing to impose
rules on the business of selling derivatives to borrowers
financing on behalf of taxpayers. While the law won’t prevent
the use of derivatives, it marks the biggest change to the
public finance market since tax laws were overhauled in 1986,
said Lynnette Hotchkiss, executive director of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board.  Dodd-Frank “does provide layers of protection that didn’t
previously exist,” she said in an interview.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulations
implementing the law, the most significant financial legislation
since the  Glass-Steagall Act  of 1933, would force derivatives
dealers to disclose prevailing market rates when contracts are
signed to prevent overcharging, an all-too-common flaw of
derivative contracts sold to municipalities.  Best Interests  The CFTC  draft rules  require banks that pitch such deals to
act in governments’ best interests, and that municipalities be
aware of the risks and be capable of bearing them. The law also
regulates advisers who pitch governments on such opaque
financings.  The SEC and MSRB also are requiring that  municipal
financial advisers  act in their clients’ best interests. Dodd-
Frank also gave the MSRB authority to draw up rules aimed at
protecting municipalities.  States, municipalities and institutions such as Harvard
University paid more than $4 billion in fees to banks when the
derivatives, sold as a way to minimize risk, exploded as the
housing market’s collapse cascaded through financial markets.
Jefferson County,  Alabama , was pushed toward bankruptcy as it
and other governments were saddled with soaring costs tied to
interest-rate swaps just as the longest recession since World
War II tipped their budgets into the red.  Distressed Institutions  “There are wounded and dead public institutions around the
country that are in distress -- jobs have been lost, unions have
been undercut -- because they have not understood one of the
trickiest transactions in the investment handbook,” said
 Michael Greenberger , a former trading and markets director at
the CFTC who teaches law at the University of  Maryland . “They
need regulatory protection.”  A derivative is a financial contract whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, currencies or commodities, or linked to
events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.
Municipalities frequently bought derivatives known as interest-
rate swaps to reap promised savings when they sold floating-rate
securities. The strategy turned into a money-loser when credit
markets collapsed in 2008.  The new rules won’t keep states and localities from
entering such deals. Nor will they make the risks and terms, now
buried in bond documents or annual reports, more apparent to
taxpayers. Dodd-Frank actually postponed consideration of
whether to impose tougher disclosure rules on municipalities.  Curbing Abuses  Instead, the proposed regulations are aimed at curbing Wall
Street’s worst abuses in the $601 trillion unregulated
 derivatives market . Bank lobbyists have pressed the CFTC to
alter the proposed rules, including the disclosures aimed at
their fees, saying they go beyond what was intended by Congress.  “The proposed rules would include requirements that go
well beyond Dodd-Frank,” Kenneth Bentsen, a vice president of
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, and
Robert Pickel, executive vice chairman of the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association , said in a Feb. 17 letter to
regulators.  Pennsylvania  Auditor Jack Wagner says they don’t go far
enough. He was among state lawmakers who voted unanimously in
2003 to authorize municipal derivatives. By 2009, as financial
losses mounted, he called for the Legislature to ban them.  ‘Impossible to Measure’  “The rules certainly are a start, but they are far from
addressing the issues and problems we have seen with interest-
rate swaps,” Wagner said in an interview. “It’s impossible to
measure the risk.”  As much as $300 billion a year of interest-rate swaps were
sold during the market’s peak, the  MSRB  estimated based on
figures from investment banks.  The swaps were mostly bought by governments that sold
variable-rate securities. Banks gave them adjustable-rate
payments in return for fixed payments, helping borrowers guard
against rising interest costs and providing lower expenses than
fixed-rate bonds.  The deals unraveled when banks began hoarding cash after
credit dried up in 2008 and bond insurers that backed variable-
rate bonds lost their top ratings. The interest rates
municipalities had to pay banks soared to as much as 20 percent
because of penalties built into the contracts. As central banks
reduced lending rates, payments municipalities received plunged,
adding financial burdens instead of eliminating them.  Shift in Confidence  Wall Street’s risk-taking appetite fueled the market for
municipal derivatives, which has since shrunk to about a 10th
the size, said  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap
Financial Group LLC in South Orange,  New Jersey , which advises
on such deals.  “Nobody believed risks would ever be realized, and
everybody was overconfident,” he said. “It’s gone from super-
confident to totally under-confident.”  During the height of activity, lack of disclosure
requirements meant Wall Street could charge municipalities fees
that have since proved predatory. Banks led by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  charged Jefferson County $120 million for swaps tied to $3.2
billion of bonds. That was as much as $100 million more than was
justified, according to Porter, White & Co., an adviser brought
in to analyze the deals.  Jefferson County Swaps  JPMorgan bankers also used the Jefferson County swaps to
funnel payments to friends of local commissioners to land the
deals, according to the SEC. The transactions left Alabama
Governor Robert Bentley working to head off the biggest-ever
municipal bankruptcy.  In 2003, JPMorgan Chase convinced the Butler, Pennsylvania,
school district to enter into an option on an interest-rate swap
in return for a $730,000 payment. That was half what the
district later found it to be worth, according to a lawsuit
filed against the bank.  When JPMorgan moved to exercise the option in 2008, Butler
paid $5.2 million to back out. Its lawsuit foundered when a
judge ruled such trades were exempt from securities-fraud laws.  Butler’s school superintendent didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, which shut
its municipal derivatives unit in 2008, declined to comment.  Harvard University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , paid $497.6
million in 2008 to end $1.1 billion of interest-rate swaps with
JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and separately agreed to
close another $764 million of the agreements at a cost of $425
million. JPMorgan was the lead banker when the school sold bonds
whose proceeds were used to make the termination payments.  Concern Over Duplication  Among  concerns expressed  by financial-industry lobbyists,
banks, public officials and trade groups over the new rules is
what they say are duplicating regulations that may limit their
ability to trade.  “Everybody’s really confused, frankly, by all this and
what it’s going to mean,” said  William Daly , a lobbyist for the
Bond Dealers of America, a Washington-based trade group for
municipal debt underwriters. “I can’t predict what the business
will look like when the regulations are all done.”  Under  proposed CFTC rules , banks that pitch derivatives
could be considered advisers. That would put them in a fiduciary
role that banks and public officials say could prevent financial
companies from executing swap trades with customers.  “Most or all dealers now active in executing over-the-
counter swaps with state and local governments would need to
stop providing these products,” Susan Gaffney, the Washington
lobbyist for the Government Finance Officers Association, said
in a Feb. 22 letter to the CFTC.  That may not be a bad thing, said Greenberger, the former
CFTC director of trading.  “Billions of dollars have been lost,” he said.
“Municipalities are better off not dealing in swaps because
they have been catastrophic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  