-- 
Deutsche Bank Starts Dim Sum Bond Index as Volumes Rise

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-07-18T08:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/deutsche-bank-starts-dim-sum-bond-index-as-trading-volumes-rise.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the third-largest
underwriter of yuan-denominated debt sales in Hong Kong, started
an index tracking the bonds as trading volumes surge.  The Deutsche Bank Offshore Renminbi Bond Index Tracker will
include dim sum bonds and certificates of deposit with minimum
maturities of 12 months and issue sizes of at least 1 billion
yuan ($155 million), according to a statement released today.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , the biggest underwriter of the securities,
started an index tracking dim sum bonds in March.  Dim sum bonds may suffer a second monthly loss this year
amid scrutiny of Chinese corporate accounting, concerns over the
euro zone debt crisis and reduced expectations for yuan
appreciation. The securities handed investors a 0.14 percent
loss so far in July, extending the 0.85 percent decline in June,
according to the Deutsche Bank Index.  “The corporate governance and macro concerns are going to
have short-term impacts on the market,” said Vishal Goenka,
head of local currency credit trading for Asia at Deutsche Bank
in a briefing in  Hong Kong . “We know there are new funds
dedicated to the offshore yuan bond market. We expect the yield
will be coming down again.”  Record Sales  This year’s sales of yuan-denominated bonds have more than
doubled from a year earlier to 85.3 billion yuan, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Thirty-two banks have arranged dim
sum bond deal at least once this year, compared with 15 banks in
2010, data shows.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Unilever are among the
overseas companies that have raised funds through dim sum bond
sales this year.  “The interest to issue offshore yuan bonds is still there
and very visible,” said Goenka. “We expect more and more
international issuers and may see companies from  Brazil ,  India 
and  Indonesia  coming to the markets.”  The Deutsche Bank index is available to institutional
investors in dollars, offshore yuan and Hong Kong dollars,
Deutsche Bank said. The gauge is the first dim sum bond index
that investors can buy and sell, the bank said. Monthly trading
volumes of dim sum bonds will reach 3 billion yuan in July, from
200 million yuan in January, Deutsche Bank estimated.  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  