-- 
Dodd-Frank Risk Panel Delays Create ‘Guessing Game’ Among Financial Firms

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-07-18T18:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/dodd-frank-risk-panel-delays-create-guessing-game-among-financial-firms.html
A team of regulators charged with
preventing another financial crisis is fending off criticism
it’s moving too slowly to identify the firms whose failure could
pose a threat to the economy.  The year-old Financial Stability Oversight Council planned
to start designating systemically important non-bank financial
companies, such as insurers, as early as the middle of this
year. The council met today without setting the criteria it will
use to decide which firms could threaten to bring down the
financial system, as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  almost
did in 2008.  The delays make it harder for financial firms to plan,
fueling complaints that the industry is being hamstrung by
regulatory uncertainty. Companies that could be deemed
systemically important may have to wait several months to find
out if they will need to raise capital or reduce leverage to
comply with the council’s findings.  “Industries need to know what their cost of capital will
be,” said Douglas Landy, a partner at  Allen & Overy LLP , who
once worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . “Will they
be regulated? You can’t have it be a guessing game.”  Extra Scrutiny  The council, known as FSOC, completed a rule today
determining when derivatives clearinghouses require extra
scrutiny because of their importance to the financial system. It
also released a study evaluating treatment of secured creditors
when banks are shut down.  “We have an obligation together to do the most careful,
best job we can to make sure we put in place reforms that are
going to endure for generations and leave us with a more
resilient, more stable system,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the council’s chairman, said at today’s meeting.  The FSOC, which also includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the chairmen of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, was created by the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law signed by President  Barack Obama  on July
21, 2010.  “After one year, it’s already clear that the Dodd-Frank
act is reshaping the regulatory landscape -- filling gaps,
reducing systemic risk and helping to restore confidence in the
financial system,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said at the FSOC
meeting.  JPMorgan, Citigroup  Under Dodd-Frank, bank-holding companies with more than $50
billion in assets, which include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , are automatically considered
systemically important. One of the tasks of the oversight
council is to determine which non-banks, such as private-equity
firms, money managers, hedge funds or insurers, need the same
designation and will be subject to additional oversight by the
Fed.  The FSOC is also working without a full lineup of 10 voting
members because Obama administration nominees haven’t been
confirmed by the Senate. The Office of Financial Research, a
data-collection and research unit created by Dodd-Frank to help
the council, doesn’t have a director and as of last week had
only 24 of the 60 employees scheduled to be on board by
September.  The research office will gather information that can be
used by the FSOC to force firms to raise capital, increase
liquidity and sell assets deemed too concentrated in any segment
of the economy.  ‘Not Fully Functioning’  The FSOC “was supposed to be the centerpiece of Dodd-Frank
and is not fully functioning,” said Jaret Seiberg, a financial
services policy analyst at MF Global’s  Washington  Research
Group. “A year into Dodd-Frank, our expectations were the FSOC
would be running on all six cylinders, and it’s just not
there.”  Plans to designate systemically risky firms were set back
by at least several months when lawmakers and industry
executives complained that proposed criteria were too vague -- a
criticism Bernanke and other regulators didn’t dispute.  “What you need is clarity so people inside the box or
outside the box understand why they are inside or outside,”
Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican and chairman
of a House Financial Services Committee panel, said in an
interview. A January proposal listing criteria for designating
non-bank financial companies “just restated” the language in
Dodd-Frank without adding detail on how the council would make
decisions, he said.  Size, Leverage  Richard Spillenkothen, a former director of banking and
supervision for the Fed, suggested that the council should tie
some of the proposed criteria -- including size, concentration,
interconnectedness and leverage -- to specific measurements.  The FSOC hasn’t “put any numbers to those metrics,”
Spillenkothen said. He suggested a revision with “some numeric
of what we are talking about, without making it exclusively
formulaic.”  The collapse of AIG’s financial-products unit in 2008 was
an impetus for Dodd-Frank and the FSOC’s creation. Collateral
payments to banks that had bought protection from AIG through
credit-default swaps led to a $182 billion taxpayer-funded
bailout that gave the government a majority stake in the
insurer.  Industry Groups  Industry groups, including the  Investment Company
Institute , which lobbies for the mutual fund industry, and the
Managed Funds Association, representing  hedge funds , have
pressed regulators to avoid being designated systemically
important.  In addition to releasing preliminary rules for designating
clearinghouses, the FSOC has conducted studies on the Volcker
rule, which restricts banks from trading solely for their own
profit; and concentration limits, or market-share size of the
largest banks.  The  FSOC ’s work on systemic risk shouldn’t be done too
quickly because it must be thorough, said Kim Olson, a principal
at  Deloitte & Touche LLP .  “The idea is to get it right,” she said. “There are
different things that can make you systemic, so how do you
capture that and capture that in a balanced manner? These
definitions, these concepts, don’t come in precisely formed
definitions.”  Data Collection  The financial research office, set up to help the FSOC
decide on systemic-risk designations, risks duplicating data-
collection efforts at other regulators.  The Fed created the Large Institution Supervision
Coordinating Committee last year to support the central bank in
its systemic research, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
formed the Committee on Systemic Resolutions to advise it on the
systemic activities of banks.  The Office of Financial Research has been “way too slow,”
said Allan Mendelowitz, a former regulator of the  Federal Home
Loan Banks  and one of the original creators of the idea for a
research division. The Treasury, which houses the office, is
“ambivalent” because it doesn’t want the office contradicting
its own views, he said.  Acting Leaders  FSOC is also tackling the issues with only half of the 10
voting members having been confirmed to their jobs. The FDIC,
the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency  all have acting leaders that have yet to
be approved by the Senate.  Former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray , introduced
today as Obama’s pick to lead the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, will also need Senate confirmation. Retired Treasury
official Roy Woodall is awaiting confirmation for an FSOC seat
designated for an insurance specialist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  