-- 
Grabiner, Lawyer Leading News Corp. Probe, Will ‘Call It as He Sees It’

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/leader-of-news-corp-s-internal-probe-to-call-it-as-he-sees-it-.html
Anthony Grabiner, the man who will
lead  News Corp .’s internal probe into phone hacking, is a
veteran lawyer who has represented Liverpool Football Club, the
U.K. Treasury and hedge fund GLG Partners Inc.  Grabiner, appointed to serve as an independent director on
the management standards committee investigating wrongdoing by
News Corp. employees, can be relied upon to act independently
said  Christian Purslow , former managing director of Liverpool.  “He will call it as he sees it,” Purslow said in an
interview yesterday.  The 66-year-old Grabiner, a member of the U.K. Parliament’s
House of Lords, will work with  Simon Greenberg , corporate
affairs director at New Corp.’s News International unit, and
General Manager Will Lewis to investigate the extent of phone
hacking, payments to police and other related issues at the
company.  Efstathios Michael, a lawyer at U.K firm Slaughter and May
who has worked with Grabiner, said he was well equipped to deal
with the vast quantity of evidence that will be involved in the
inquiry.  “He has good instincts and a nose for sniffing out which
bits of evidence will require further consideration,” Michael
said.  The barrister also isn’t likely to be phased by intense
media scrutiny, he said.  Grabiner was photographed punching the air in celebration
outside court after winning the Liverpool case. He represented
Liverpool’s board against former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George
Gillett  in the fight over the sale of the team.  Arcadia, Next  He was appointed chairman of retailer Arcadia Group Plc in
2002, a position he still holds. Grabiner is also a former board
member of U.K. clothing chain Next Plc.  News Corp., which is facing a police investigation and an
independent inquiry commissioned by the U.K. government, took
out full-page advertisements in British newspapers over the
weekend to apologize for phone hacking at its News of the World
newspaper.  Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch  , his son James, and former
News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks  will appear
before a U.K parliament committee today to answer questions
about the scandal.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  