-- 
Techtronic Gains on Talks It May Sell Unit That Makes Hoover

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-07-18T10:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/techtronic-gains-says-it-may-sell-hoover-unit.html
Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , owner of
vacuum cleaner brands Hoover and Dirt Devil, rose in Hong Kong
trading after saying it has held talks to discuss the possible
sale of its floor-care business.  Techtronic rose 2.6 percent to HK$8.60 at the 4 p.m. close
in Hong Kong. Shares had earlier surged as much as 7.9 percent,
the biggest intraday gain since Nov. 19.  The company has held “very preliminary discussions with a
number of potentially interested parties” on selling the
business that includes vacuum cleaners and carpet washers,
Techtronic said in a filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange
yesterday. The division accounted for 29.5 percent of total
sales last year, according to its 2010 annual report.  “The potential disposal is short-term positive to
Techtronic on improved financials, but neutral on long-term
valuation due to the weaker growth outlook,” Kenny Lau, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a note to clients.
He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Techtronic’s executive director, Frank Chi-Chung Chan,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  The Wall Street Journal reported July 16 that Hong Kong-
based Techtronic is seeking US$900 million for its floor-care
business in  North America .  Techtronic bought Hoover Co. from Whirlpool in 2007 for
$107 million. Hoover and floor-care brands Dirt Devil and Royal
are managed by subsidiary TTI Floor Care North America. U.K.-
based brand Vax was acquired by Techtronic in 1999, its first
venture into the floor-care business.  Its power-equipment business, which sells drills, chain
saw, and mowers, contributed 71 percent of Techtronic’s sales
last year.  “The company is undervalued,” said Bertram Lai, head of
research at CIMB-GK Securities in Hong Kong. “For power tools,
we see higher growth and better margins going forward” while
the floor-care business is more mature, he said.  The company is trading at a lower price-earnings ratio than
its competitor Stanley Black & Decker Inc. even though it has
been gaining market share in the power-tool segment, Lai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  