-- 
Edwards Valve Works for Inoperable Patients, FDA Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-07-18T15:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/edwards-valve-works-for-inoperable-patients-fda-says-correct-.html
(Corrects survival percentage in eighth paragraph.)  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s less-
invasive  heart valve  works for patients with severe aortic valve
narrowing who are too sick for chest-opening surgery, U.S.
regulators said, while raising concerns of stroke risk.  The Food and Drug Administration staff said that twice the
percentage of patients who received the so-called transcatheter
valve suffered a stroke compared with those treated with other
therapies in a report released today. A panel of outside
advisers is set to meet July 20 to discuss the  Irvine ,
California-company’s application for its valve called  Sapien .  The Sapien device can be implanted by a catheter threaded
through the leg or ribs rather than conventional chest-cracking
surgery. The valve has been available in  Europe  since 2007.
Transcatheter sales for Edwards totaled $206 million last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was a significant increase in the neurological
event risk in the Sapien arm compared to control,” FDA said in
the document.  Edwards shares fell 27 cents, or less than 1 percent, to
$88.67, at 9:53 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The FDA will ask the advisers to weigh the risk-benefit
ratio of the valve when they meet this week.  In the clinical trial of the Sapien, about 8 percent, or 14
inoperable patients, who received the valve experienced stroke
after one year compared with almost 4 percent of the patients
who were treated with other therapy, such as balloon aortic
valvuloplasty, according to an October  report  in the New England
Journal of Medicine.  Valve Narrowing  Sixty-nine percent of patients who received the valve lived
after one year compared with 49 percent in the standard-therapy
group.  The global transcatheter valve market may reach $6 billion
by 2020, Spencer Nam, managing director at Madison Williams and
Co., wrote in a note to clients June 21. Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)   began  a clinical trial in the U.S. of a rival
valve in December.  About 300,000 people in the U.S. suffer from severe aortic
stenosis, which is a narrowing of the valve, according to
Edwards. Two-thirds undergo standard chest-cracking surgery to
replace the valve, while the rest may be too high risk for
surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  