-- 
Egyptian Stocks Drop After Cabinet Change Fails to End Protests

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-18T14:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/egyptian-stocks-drop-after-cabinet-change-fails-to-end-protests.html
Egyptian shares fell for the first
time in four days after a Cabinet reshuffle failed to meet
protesters’ demands for faster political and economic changes.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , the nation’s largest
publicly traded builder, lost the most in almost a week.
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , also known as CIB,
retreated 2.3 percent. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  retreated 1.7
percent to 5,174.82 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The measure
climbed 3.3 percent yesterday, the most since March 27.  “We’re seeing profit taking after yesterday’s strong gains
and the Cabinet reshuffle is triggering some question marks, as
the Ministers of Interior and Justice kept their jobs,” said
Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales at Cairo-based
Mega Investments Securities.  Prime Minister Essam Sharaf made changes to his Cabinet in
response to protesters who have held a sit-in in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square since July 8. The changes didn’t include the Ministers of
Justice and Interior, the two responsible for speedy prosecution
of Mubarak-Era officials and restructuring of the police force.
The sit-in is the longest since the one that lasted 18 days and
culminated in the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11.  The Cabinet changes included the Ministries of Finance,
 Foreign Affairs , Trade and Industry, Higher Education, Health,
Communications, Agriculture, Antiquities and Local Development.  Orascom Construction declined 2 percent to 266.56 pounds.
CIB, the country’s biggest publicly traded lender, had the
biggest decline since July 12, falling to 27.13 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Dubai at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  