-- 
Egypt Economy May Miss Growth Target, Stoking Social Unrest: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   R i n a t   G a y n u l l i n
-- 
2011-07-19T14:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/egypt-gdp-may-miss-growth-target-stoking-unrest-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s economy may fail to meet the
government’s growth target, a Bloomberg survey showed,
threatening the country’s recovery from an uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  this year.  Economic growth may slow to 1.6 percent in the fiscal year
that started this month as private investment falters, according
to the median estimate of 10 economists. Egypt’s government is
predicting an acceleration to 3.2 percent from the previous
fiscal year’s 2.6 percent. Prior governments had said 7 percent
is needed to keep joblessness from rising.  “The biggest danger is unemployment because it could lead
to social unrest,” said  Mona Mansour , co-head of research at
Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital, who is forecasting a
growth rate of 1.8 percent. “For investors to come there has to
be security and political stability.”  Slower growth and a widening  budget deficit  may also
imperil Egypt’s credit rating, Mansour said, at a time when
renewed protests are prompting investors to demand more money
for the risk. The extra yield investors demand to hold Egyptian
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 of a
percentage point, last week to 323, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s Global Emerging-Market Index. Middle Eastern debt yields
on average rose 1 basis point to 349, the data show.  Rising Unemployment  Fitch Ratings  cut Egypt’s credit rating one level, to BB,
on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels below investment grade. Moody’s
Investors Service said in June the “political environment” was
the main source of uncertainty in the most-populous Arab
country. It lowered its rating of Egypt twice this year to Ba3,
three levels below investment grade.  Egypt’s default risk surged 12 basis points last week, the
third-highest rise in the Middle East and North Africa after
Dubai and  Morocco , to 333, according to data provider CMA. They
were 337 at 2:20 p.m. in  London  according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a government or company fails to adhere to debt
agreements.  Mubarak was toppled as protests against police repression,
corruption and high food prices turned into demands for an end
to his three-decade-rule. Joblessness rose three percentage
points to 11.9 percent in the first three months of 2011, while
the rate among people aged between 25 and 29 was 23.5 percent,
according to the state-run statistics agency. The economy
contracted 4.2 percent in the same period.  ‘Ambitious Targets’  The budget foresees an 18.7 percent increase in revenue to
349.7 billion pounds ($58.7 billion) and a 14.7 percent rise in
spending to 490.6 billion pounds. Both targets are
“ambitious,” said  Simon Williams , chief Middle East and North
Africa economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai.  “Given the likely rate of economic growth, controlling
spending in this kind of environment will prove challenging,”
Williams said in a telephone interview on July 17.  The government forecasts a budget deficit equal to 8.6
percent of gross domestic product. The budget foresees a 22.6
percent increase in public-sector wages to 117.5 billion pounds.  Egypt’s Ministry of Finance announced plans to increase
sales of local-currency debt by 7 percent in the first quarter
of the fiscal year after turning down a $3 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund . Yields on treasury bills have
declined from their highest levels since 2008 after the  central
bank  on June 30 canceled the first auction in the year because
investors demanded rates that were too high.  Egyptian Consumers  The ministry sold 2 billion pounds of three-month
securities on July 17 at an average yield of 11.839 percent, 10
basis points lower than at a sale of similar-maturity notes last
week, according to Central Bank of Egypt data on Bloomberg. The
yield on 3.5 billion pounds of nine-month securities dropped six
basis points to 12.757 percent from last week.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond
maturing in April 2020 fell four basis points today to 5.69
percent. The yield climbed 49 basis points this year, while the
average yield on  Middle East  sovereign bonds fell 19 basis
points to 5 percent on July 18, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index.  To be sure, some economists, such as Alia Moubayed of the
London-based  Barclays Capital , say domestic consumption may
sustain economic expansion this fiscal year. “It doesn’t look
like consumption will be severely hit moving forward,” she said
in an e-mailed answer to questions on July 15, forecasting a
growth rate of 3.4 percent. “It should improve as private
consumption resumes on the back of higher wages.”  ‘Biggest Challenge’  International companies are betting on Egyptian consumers.
Electrolux AB, the world’s second-largest appliance maker,
agreed this month to buy a controlling stake in Olympic Group
Financial Investment Company, in a transaction that values the
Egyptian maker of products ranging from heaters to washing
machines at $410 million.  Greece ’s Piraeus Bank SA said on July
15 Standard Chartered Plc is interested in buying its Egyptian
business.  A slow transition of power from the Supreme Council of the
Armed Forces that succeeded Mubarak and dissolved the
constitution may pose “the biggest challenge” for the economy,
Williams of HSBC said. The council said on July 13 it will delay
parliamentary elections, originally due in September, to the
following month or November.  “To get growth, fiscal dynamism and investments going in a
straight line we need clarity on the near-term political
outlook,” Williams said. “Without that, we are treading water
at best and taking on water at worst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .
Rinat Gaynullin in Moscow at 
 rgaynullin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  