-- 
Temple-Inland Rejects International Paper’s Offer

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-24T21:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/temple-inland-rejects-international-paper-s-tender-offer-1-.html
(Corrects sequence of events in second paragraph of story
published on July 18.)  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN) , a producer of
cardboard shipping boxes, said its board of directors voted
unanimously to reject  International Paper Co. (IP) ’s hostile $3.31
billion tender offer.  The $30.60-a-share cash bid “grossly undervalues” the
company, Austin, Texas-based Temple-Inland said today in a
statement. The rejection comes six days after International
Paper, the world’s largest pulp and paper maker, took its offer
directly to Temple-Inland’s shareholders.  “Temple-Inland’s accelerating growth of earnings and
return on investment will result in superior value to Temple-
Inland’s stockholders as compared to the price being offered by
IP,” the company said in the statement.  International Paper Chief Executive Officer John Faraci
said in June the deal would increase International Paper’s share
of the North American corrugated-packaging market to about 37
percent from 27 percent.  Faraci and Temple-Inland CEO Doyle Simons met on May 26 in
Austin and on June 23 in  Washington , according to a filing today
by Temple-Inland.  “We believe Temple’s Board has unrealistic price
expectations and they continue to be unwilling to engage in
meaningful negotiations or discussions,” Tom Ryan, a spokesman
for  Memphis , Tennessee-based International Paper, said today in
an e-mail.  Temple-Inland fell 58 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $30.85 as
of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Poison Pill  To fend off the bid, Temple-Inland has adopted a so-called
poison pill takeover defense that limits any person or group
from acquiring more than 10 percent of its stock. The company
also has a staggered board, meaning it could take more than a
year for International Paper to gain control through proxy
fights.  Evercore Partners Inc., UBS AG and law firm Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP are advising International Paper. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz are
advising Temple-Inland.  In January, Norcross, Georgia-based Rock-Tenn Co. agreed to
buy Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. for $4.5 billion
to become  North America ’s second-biggest containerboard
producer, after International Paper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 