-- 
Theolia in Talks to Win Allies for 300 Million Euro Venture

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-07-18T16:46:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/theolia-iwb-in-venture-to-spend-300-million-euros-on-wind-farms.html
Theolia SA (TEO) , a French renewable power
company, is in talks with candidates to join a venture with  IWB
Industrielle Werke Basel  that will invest more than 300 million
euros ($422 million) in wind farms, with deals expected in 2011.  “We will come out with our partners” before the end of
the year, Theolia Chief Executive Officer Fady Khallouf said in
a phone interview today while on a business trip in Germany.
Theolia is in “very deep negotiations currently,” he said.  Theolia Utilities Investment Co., a vehicle for utilities
and other power companies, will have 100 million euros of equity
investment and raise the rest through debt for wind projects in
France,  Germany  and  Italy , Theolia said in a separate  statement .  IWB Industrielle Werke Basel, based in the city, is taking
30 percent and Theolia an initial 70 percent, to be cut to 40
percent as it finds companies willing to join, Khallouf said.  “We’re an independent company not relying on an industrial
group with a strong balance sheet, so either we go to the market
and raise the capital needed or we have to find other
solutions,” he said, adding that the money will be invested
over three to five years.  New investments in clean energy may have risen threefold in
the five years to 2012 as the U.S. and  Europe  curb emissions,
John Llewellyn, a Nomura Securities Co. policy adviser, said
this month. Spending may rise to $450 billion in 2012 from $150
billion in 2007, he said. Investors should spend across sectors
including manufacturing, targeting low carbon emitters, he said.  Moroccan Tender  European nations are striving to boost renewable sources as
they pursue the twin goals of curbing  carbon emissions  and
replacing aging fossil-fuel power plants.  The Theolia venture will buy wind farms from its Aix-En-
Provence-based parent, which will be paid to manage their
development and operation, according to the statement.  Theolia expects to open bidding in autumn for a turbine
supplier on the first 100-megawatt phase of a wind farm it’s
developing in  Morocco  with the nation’s state-owned utility,
Khallouf said. It will then seek banks for financing, he said.  “We’ve already had declarations coming from local and
international banks willing to provide financing and strong
interest also from multilateral institutions,” he said,
declining to elaborate. The first phase of the project in
Tetouan, near the city of Tangier, should enter service before
June 2014, Khallouf said. The company aims to open bidding next
year for the second phase, of 200 megawatts, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 