-- 
Tepco Rushes to Cover Fukushima Nuclear Plant as Typhoon Ma-On Nears Japan

-- B y   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-07-18T09:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/tepco-rushes-to-cover-fukushima-nuclear-plant-as-typhoon-ma-on-nears-japan.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co. is rushing
to install a cover over a building at its crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant to shield it from wind and rain as
Typhoon Ma-on approaches Japan’s coast from the south.  Work on the cover for the turbine building of the No. 3
reactor started at about 8:30 a.m. today, Junichi Matsumoto, a
general manager at the utility known as Tepco, said at briefing
in Tokyo. The transfer of tainted water for storage in a barge
docked next to the plant was halted, spokesman Satoshi Watanabe
said by telephone.  The eye of Ma-on, which is categorized as “extremely
strong,” was about 420 kilometers (260 miles) southeast of the
city of Kagoshima at 4 p.m. today, or 1,200 kilometers from the
Fukushima plant, according to the website of the  Japan 
Meteorological Agency.  The storm was moving north at 25 kilometers per hour with
winds blowing at 157 kph. Ma-on is forecast to continuing
heading north and may cross coast of the southwestern island of
Kyushu after 6 a.m. tomorrow. A  forecast track  from the U.S.
Navy Joint Typhoon Warning Center indicates the storm may pass
over the Fukushima plant by July 21.  The Japanese weather agency issued  warnings  for floods and
high waves along the southern coast from Okinawa to Tokyo.  Last year, the eyes of two storms passed within 300
kilometers of Tohoku, as the area where the plants are located
is known, data from the weather agency show.  Milestone Reached  Tepco shares rose 2.6 percent on July 15 and are down 78
percent since the day before the disaster. Japan’s markets are
closed today for a national holiday.  The utility is on schedule to contain radioactive emissions
from its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which suffered three reactor
meltdowns after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  said on July 16 during a visit to the area.
Tepco will announce tomorrow that it has completed the first
phase of its plan to resolve the crisis, he said.  Tepco has achieved its phase one goal of keeping the
reactors cool and reducing the amount of radiation being emitted
by mid July, Kan said while visiting a sports center near the
Fukushima plant where workers rest.  Much of the work has been focused on decontaminating highly
radiated water that flooded basements and trenches around the
damaged reactors as Tepco doused the units to keep them cool.  Efforts Impeded  Water overflowed from damaged reactors, impeding efforts to
bring the situation under control. A decontamination unit
started work last month, though its operation has been
intermittently halted due to leaks and other malfunctions.  Tepco’s so-called road map for resolving the crisis was
released on April 17 and envisages bringing the plant to a safe
status within nine months. The second phase involves bringing
the reactors to a state known as cold shutdown, where the fuel’s
temperature is held below 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit).  Because the fuel assemblies have melted down, Tepco and the
government will tomorrow outline new criteria for bringing the
reactors into a safe state, Goshi Hosono, Kan’s minister for
dealing with the Fukushima crisis, said July 12.  “I received an announcement from Minister Hosono that step
one can be achieved pretty much as planned,” Kan said July 16.
“I told him that I want to make every effort to achieve step
two ahead of schedule.”  At the plant, a worker from a subcontractor was injured
today after falling from a pole while working on connecting
cables near an entrance gate, Matsumoto said at Tepco’s
briefing. The male worker in his 40s is conscious though unable
to walk on his own, he said.  Power Supply  Japan’s government will meet to discuss power demand and
supply as early as tomorrow after Kansai Electric Power Co. shut
a reactor at one of its nuclear stations, the Sankei newspaper
reported, without citing anyone.  Mandatory power savings have been imposed in some areas of
Japan after the earthquake and tsunami knocked out capacity and
caused the reactor meltdowns at Fukushima. Other reactors closed
down safely after the disaster or have been idled for scheduled
maintenance, exacerbating shortages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  