-- 
Hertz Agrees to Buy Donlen While Pursuing Dollar Thrifty

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/hertz-agrees-to-buy-donlen-while-pursuing-dollar-thrifty.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , awaiting
regulatory approval to acquire   Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. (DTG) ,  said it agreed to buy Donlen Corp. for $250 million to
expand its car-, truck- and equipment-leasing services.  The transaction also includes the assumption of about $680
million of Donlen’s debt outstanding, for a total value of about
$930 million, a Hertz statement issued yesterday said.  Hertz will continue to pursue Dollar Thrifty as it seeks
regulatory approval to acquire Donlen, Richard Broome, a Hertz
spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Hertz, the
largest publicly traded rental-car company, offered to buy
Dollar Thrifty in May.  The deal “doesn’t seem like it would in any way effect”
Hertz’s ability to acquire  Dollar Thrifty , Fred Lowrance, an
analyst for Avondale Partners LLC, wrote in an e-mail.  Hertz said on July 11 it extended the expiration date of
its $70.97-a-share offer for Dollar Thrifty by one month to Aug.
5, giving U.S. regulators more time to decide whether to allow a
merger.  Hertz, which made an offer now valued at $2.05 billion for
Dollar Thrifty on May 9, said 1.01 million Dollar Thrifty shares
have been tendered through the offer, which began May 24 and was
scheduled to expire July 8.  Hertz had about $1.37 billion in cash and cash equivalents
on March 31, according to its first-quarter earnings report.  ‘Capable of Handling’  “We’re certainly financially capable of handling both
acquisitions,” Broome said. “Donlen’s easily digestible for us
and won’t affect our pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in any way.”  Donlen, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , leases and manages
more than 144,000 vehicles in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico ,
according to the statement. It’s primarily a vehicle-financing
and fleet-management business, Hertz said in the statement.  Acquiring Donlen gives Hertz “immediate leadership” in
long-term “vehicle and equipment leasing and fleet management
for corporate clients,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora,
said in the release. “The integration of Donlen gives Hertz a
yearly and multi year offering that complements our hourly,
daily and monthly car sharing and car rental options.”  The deal has been approved by the boards of both companies
and Donlen’s stockholders and may be completed during the third
quarter, Hertz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Detroit at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  