-- 
Etisalat Second-Quarter Net Drops 15% as Expenses Rise; Misses Estimates

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-07-18T07:28:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/etisalat-second-quarter-net-drops-15-as-expenses-rise-misses-estimates.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,
the  United Arab Emirates ’s biggest phone company, reported
second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates, as
expenses increased.  Net income fell to 1.59 billion dirhams ($434 million), or
20 fils a share, from 1.87 billion dirhams, or 24 fils, from a
year earlier, the company known as Etisalat said in a  statement 
to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. The median estimate of three
analysts was for a profit of 1.86 billion dirhams, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The decline in profits at Etisalat most likely reflects
the mounting competitive pressures that the company is facing in
its home market,” said Matthew Reed, a Dubai-based analyst at
Informa Telecoms & Media. Political unrest in  Egypt  may also
affect operations at Etisalat Misr, the company’s biggest
consolidated unit outside the Emirates by revenue, Reed said.  Etisalat has lost domestic market share to Du, also known
as  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , after that
company ended Etisalat’s monopoly in 2007. The company earlier
this year also ended talks to buy a majority stake in Zain,
 Kuwait ’s largest phone company, citing political unrest and
disagreement among shareholders.  Operating expenses in the second quarter rose to 4.99
billion dirhams from 4.64 billion dirhams a year earlier, the
company said. Etisalat had 7.5 million mobile subscribers, 1.1
million fixed-line clients and 1.4 million  Internet users  in the
U.A.E. at the end of June.  The shares declined 1.4 percent to 10.9 dirhams at 10:57 in
 Abu Dhabi , giving the company a market value of 87 billion
dirhams. The stock has gained 0.9 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase by Du.  Etisalat’s board recommended a dividend of 25 fils for the
first half, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  