-- 
EU Extends 85% Tariff on Chinese Screws and Bolts to Malaysia

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-18T16:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/eu-extends-85-tariff-on-chinese-screws-and-bolts-to-malaysia.html
The European Union extended to
 Malaysia  an 85 percent tariff on screws and bolts from  China ,
saying Chinese exporters used the country to evade the levy and
undercut EU producers.  The EU said Chinese exporters of iron and steel fasteners
shipped them to the 27-nation bloc via Malaysia. The EU imposes
duties as high as 85 percent on imports of fasteners that
originate in China, a decision that prompted a complaint from
the Chinese government. The duty rate depends on the Chinese
exporter.  The 85-percent import tax “was circumvented by trans-
shipment from Malaysia,” the EU said in a decision today in
Brussels that ends a nine-month investigation. The fasteners,
used for everything from automotive parts to furniture, are made
in  Europe  by companies such as  Italy ’s Fontana Luigi SpA.  The EU imposed the trade protection in January 2009 for
five years to punish Chinese exporters including Gem-Year
Industrial Co. for selling the fasteners in Europe below cost, a
practice known as dumping. The duties apply to EU imports that
were worth about 575 million euros ($807 million) in 2007.  China filed a complaint over the import taxes at the  World
Trade Organization  in mid-2009. In December 2010, the WTO ruled
against aspects of the European duties and gave the EU specific
remedies. Last week, the Geneva-based global trade arbiter
rejected an appeal that the EU had filed of the December ruling.  Today’s EU decision extending the 85 percent anti-dumping
duty to Malaysia will take effect after being published in the
Official Journal by July 28. The decision exempts eight
Malaysian exporters including Chin Well Fasteners Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Leon Mangasarian at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net  