-- 
EU Stress Tests, IRS Reporting Rules, Airport Body Scanners: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-18T11:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/eu-stress-tests-irs-reporting-rules-airport-body-scanners-compliance.html
Eight banks failed the European
Union stress tests after regulators said July 15 they had a
combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion),
less than predicted by analysts and investors.  Greece ’s  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and  Agricultural Bank of
Greece (ATE)  SA,  Austria ’s  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Spain ’s
 Banco Pastor SA (PAS) ,  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM) , Banco Grupo
Caja3, CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim failed. As many as 16 more
lenders will need to bolster capital after scraping through, the
European Banking Authority said. All banks examined in  Italy ,
 Germany ,  France , the U.K. and Ireland passed.  Analysts have criticized the EBA’s attempt to bolster
confidence in the industry by excluding a Greek default. Last
year’s tests by the EBA’s predecessor were also attacked for not
being tough enough: banks then were shown to need only 3.5
billion euros more capital, a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Investors expected as many as 15 banks to fail and
raise 29 billion euros after the latest assessments, according
to a survey by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last month.  “It feels the same as last year,” said Richard Barfield,
a director at accounting firm PwC in  London . Investors “are
more interested in the disclosure of the sovereign exposures in
the detailed analysis.”  The criteria include a review of how the 90 lenders tested
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets and
trading losses on sovereign debt not held to maturity.  “We’re aware the treatment of sovereign exposures is very
contentious,” Andrea Enria, EBA chairman, told reporters July
15 at a press conference in London.  The failures were found to have insufficient reserves to
maintain a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 5 percent in the event
of an economic slowdown, the European Banking Authority said.  A further 16 banks, including seven in Spain, barely passed
with a core Tier capital 1 ratio of between 5 percent and 6
percent. Those lenders included  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,
 Espirito Santo Financial Group SA (ESF) , Germany’s HSH Nordbank AG and
Norddeutsche Landesbank.  About 20 banks would have failed had they not raised
capital through April, the EBA said. The capital shortfall would
have totaled 26.8 billion euros without the additional money,
the regulator said. In all, European lenders raised 50 billion
euros of capital from January to April, according to Enria.  “For those banks that have not met the threshold, and for
those that have but still demonstrate substantial weaknesses, we
expect them to take all the necessary steps to reinforce their
capital positions,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, and Olli Rehn, the economic and monetary affairs
commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement July 15.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Trader Extradited From  Peru  on Fraud Charges, U.S. Says  A former foreign-exchange trader, Jeffery Lowrance, was
extradited from Peru on charges he swindled about 400 U.S.
investors, leading to losses of at least $5 million, according
to federal prosecutors in  Chicago .  “Lowrance and others at his direction fraudulently
solicited investments by making material misrepresentations,”
including the profitability of foreign exchange trading by one
of his businesses, First Capital Savings & Loan Ltd., according
to a statement July 15 by U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in
Chicago citing an August 2010 indictment.  A U.S. citizen, Lowrence, 50, allegedly obtained $25
million from about 400 American investors, losing at least $5
million of their money, Fitzgerald said.  He pleaded not guilty July 15 to charges of mail fraud,
 wire fraud  and  money laundering  before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Michael T. Mason in Chicago, answering charges first filed by
prosecutors in 2009.  Arrested earlier this year in  Lima , he is being held in
U.S. custody pending the outcome of a detention hearing set for
July 25, Fitzgerald said. He had been living in Peru
intermittently since 2004 and continuously since 2009, the
prosecutor said.  Mary Higgins Judge of the Federal Public Defender’s office
in Chicago is representing Lowrance. She declined to discuss the
matter, saying she was still familiarizing herself with the
case.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Lowrance, 09cr578, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  Indian Point Must Review Response Plans, Regulators Say  The Indian Point nuclear reactor cannot be relicensed
without completing an analysis of its accident mitigation
measures, regulators said.  The  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  must require  Entergy
Corp. (ETR) , the Buchanan, New York-based power plant’s owner, to
adopt cost-effective upgrades to improve its responses to a
severe accident or provide a good reason why it won’t,  New York 
State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said July 15 in an
statement. The ruling was issued by the Atomic Safety and
Licensing Board, agreeing with Schneiderman that Indian Point
must comply with the NRC’s environmental review procedures.  CEZ Czech Power Utility Faces Formal EU Antitrust Probe  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic ’s largest power producer, faces
a formal investigation by European Union antitrust regulators
for hindering rivals.  The European Commission said CEZ may have abused its
dominant position on the Czech  electricity market  to prevent
competitors from entering the market after liberalization.  “The commission has concerns that CEZ’s behavior, in
particular the hoarding of capacity in the transmission network,
may have resulted in preventing the entry of competitors into
the Czech wholesale electricity market,” it said in a statement
July 15.  Regulators are trying to make it easier for European gas
and power companies without their own transmission networks to
compete in the EU’s energy market. Earlier EU probes led RWE AG
to sell its gas-transmission network and E.ON AG to shed its
 power grid  in Germany.  CEZ is convinced the EU investigation won’t find any
wrongdoing, Eva Novakova, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. She said CEZ is cooperating with regulators
and will supply further evidence to exonerate itself.  State-run CEZ and its coal-mining subsidiary  Severoceske
Doly AS  were among companies raided by EU officials in November
2009, the companies said at the time.  Regulators alleged CEZ tried to influence wholesale
electricity prices in the Czech Republic and may have blocked
rivals from building  power plants  and securing supplies of
lignite, a fuel used to generate power, the company said.  Under EU rules, companies can be fined as much as 10
percent of annual sales for antitrust violations.  Ameris Bancorp (ABCB)  Buys Georgia Lenders as Failures Climb to 55  Ameris Bancorp, the Moultrie, Georgia-based lender with
$2.97 billion in assets, bought two banks seized by regulators
in its home state as this year’s tally of U.S. failures climbed
to 55.  Ameris purchased the deposits and operations of High Trust
Bank and One Georgia Bank, the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. 
said July 15 on its website. Florida officials also closed First
Peoples Bank of Port Saint Lucie and an Arizona regulator seized
Summit Bank in Prescott. The four failures drained about $129
million from the FDIC deposit-insurance fund.  Regulators have shuttered more than 370 lenders since the
start of 2008 as commercial and residential real estate loans
soured, putting pressure on banks.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  IRS Delays Offshore Reporting Rule Without Touching Policy  The  Internal Revenue Service  is giving more time to
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Aegon NV (AGN)  and other banks based outside of
the U.S. to implement a controversial tax reporting rule.  In  guidance  issued July 14 on the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act, the IRS didn’t address some of the central
questions that have caused financial institutions to fight the
proposal. For instance, one of the rule’s most complex
provisions -- a requirement to withhold 30 percent from payments
that might have indirectly originated in the U.S. -- remains in
the proposal.  The later timeline for implementing the rule is helpful,
said Ellen McCarthy, a managing director of government affairs
at the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , a
 Washington  trade group of banks and securities firms. The
industry is still anxious to resolve some of the proposal’s
thorniest issues, she said.  “This gives us the sense that Treasury and the IRS have
taken into account comments that the industry has given,” she
said. “There are still things to work out.”  The IRS is expected to address policy specifics in
additional guidance that will be released by the end of the
year.  The agency is finalizing the rule to comply with a law
Congress adopted last year. Last week’s delay reflects the
difficult position the IRS finds itself in as it implements a
law that Congress enacted to hunt down tax cheats while
acknowledging opposition from overseas banks and governments.  The “notice is a reflection of our serious commitment to
implementation of the statute, but also a serious commitment to
listen to the implementation challenges of affected foreign
financial institutions,” IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman said in
a statement.  The new timeline gives offshore banks until June 30, 2013,
to enter into an agreement with the IRS that would shield them
from some withholding requirements. Institutions won’t have to
report on their efforts to track down their U.S. clients until
2014.  Banks won’t be required to make 30 percent withholdings on
non-compliant U.S. customers until Jan. 1, 2014. Other
withholdings on gross proceeds and income that might be
indirectly sourced to the U.S. won’t start until Jan. 1, 2015.  Financial institutions have balked at the proposal, telling
the IRS it’s too difficult to siphon their U.S. customers from
their other clients. Konrad Hummler, the managing partner of
Wegelin & Co.,  Switzerland ’s oldest bank, said in January the
law would turn U.S. citizens into “pariahs” once the
regulations take effect.  Last week’s decision “relieves some of the time pressure
associated with implementing the most difficult parts” of the
legislation by 2013, Terry Campbell, president of the Canadian
Bankers Association said in a statement. “But the overall
legislation is still highly problematic and places a significant
burden on banks and their customers around the world. ‘’  For more, click here.  FSA Rejects Delaying Overhaul of Financial-Advice Industry  Britain’s financial regulator said it will press ahead with
an overhaul of the investment-advice industry, rejecting calls
from lawmakers who say the plans will cost jobs.  The industry has already begun the changes and 82 percent
of advisers will stay in the trade, the Financial Services
Authority said in an e-mailed statement.  In a report published July 15, Parliament’s  Treasury
Committee  urged the regulator to delay implementing the retail
distribution review until 2014 to allow financial advisers more
time to comply with the new rules.  The FSA said it needed to overhaul the sector after mis-
selling of financial products eroded consumer trust and
“damaged the reputation of the retail investment market.” Mis-
sold personal pension and endowment policies alone have led to
almost 15 billion pounds ($24 billion) having been paid in
compensation, the FSA said.  Dodd-Frank Panel’s Delays Create Financial ‘Guessing Game’  A team of regulators charged with preventing another
financial crisis meets today amid criticism it’s moving too
slowly to identify the firms whose failure may pose a threat to
the economy.  The year-old  Financial Stability Oversight Council  planned
to start designating systemically important non-bank financial
companies, such as insurers, as early as the middle of this
year. The council has yet to set the criteria it will use to
decide which firms could threaten to bring down the financial
system, as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  almost did in 2008.  The delays make it harder for financial firms to plan,
fueling complaints that the industry is being hamstrung by
regulatory uncertainty. The council, which includes Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and is led by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , was created by the Dodd-Frank
financial overhaul law.  Under Dodd-Frank, bank-holding companies with more than $50
billion in assets, which include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Citigroup
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., are automatically considered
systemically important. One of the tasks of the oversight
council, known as FSOC, is to determine which non-banks, such as
private-equity firms, money managers,  hedge funds  or insurers,
need the same designation and will be subject to additional
oversight by the Fed.  The FSOC is also working without a full lineup of 10 voting
members because Obama administration nominees haven’t been
confirmed by the Senate.  For more, click here.  Courts  UBS Data Disclosure on 255 U.S. Clients Was Legal, Court Says  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s disclosure of account data on 255 clients to the
U.S. authorities, ordered by the Swiss financial regulator in
2009, was “lawful,” the Swiss Federal Supreme Court ruled.  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority, or Finma,
“proceeded on the assumption that if this data hadn’t been
disclosed, the  U.S. Department of Justice  would have filed an
indictment against UBS, which would arguably have caused the
bank’s ruin and consequently have had serious repercussions for
the Swiss economy,” the Lausanne-based court said July 15 in an
e-mailed statement.  The court reversed a ruling in January 2010 by the Federal
Administrative Court, which handled a complaint from UBS
clients. The administrative court ruled that the regulator
exceeded its authority in telling UBS, Switzerland’s biggest
bank, to hand over data to the U.S. as part of a deferred
prosecution agreement. The  Department of Justice  accused UBS of
conspiring to defraud the U.S. by helping Americans hide
accounts from the Internal Revenue Service.  While the emergency-action provisions in the Swiss Banking
Act don’t provide “sufficient legal grounds for encroaching on
banking secrecy,” government authorities, including Finma, may
take steps to “avert serious imminent risks” even in the
absence of a specific legal foundation, the court said.  “Since Finma had compelling reasons to believe that not
relinquishing the customer data to the U.S. Department of
Justice would have seriously impaired Switzerland’s financial
markets and have led to serious repercussions for the Swiss
economy, the action taken by it was shown to be lawful,” the
court’s statement said.  Fund Manager Can’t Argue Regulator Corruption at Threat Trial  A former hedge-fund manager charged with threatening to
kill U.S. regulators can’t argue that his prosecution stems from
alleged corruption at the agencies during his trial set to begin
next week, a judge ruled.  Vincent P. McCrudden, 50, is accused of threatening the
lives of 47 current and former officials, including Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  McCrudden, who was also a commodities trader, has been held
without bail since he was arrested Jan. 13 returning from
 Singapore . He is charged with threatening the regulators,
including those at the  National Futures Association  and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc., in profanity-
filled e-mails and, after the CFTC sued him in December, in Web
postings.  His trial is set to begin today.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Central Islip ).  WaMu Fight Over Bankruptcy Exit,  Insider Trading  Extended  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , former owner of the biggest  U.S.
bank  to fail, may need four more days of testimony before a
judge can rule on claims of insider trading that threaten to
disrupt the company’s plan to exit bankruptcy, lawyers said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath agreed to end court
early in the day on July 15 before starting again today so the
lead lawyer defending hedge fund Aurelius Capital Management LP
from the insider trading allegations can attend. That delay and
the slow pace of questioning witnesses means the hearing may
stretch into July 21, WaMu bankruptcy attorney Brian Rosen said
in court on July 15.  Walrath had originally scheduled three days this week for
WaMu’s bankruptcy-exit hearing, the second time she has held a
trial on the proposal, with multiple witnesses, dozens of
lawyers and thousands of pages of evidence.  In that first trial last year, Walrath approved the main
settlement that the bankruptcy exit plan is based on. She is now
being asked to approve the plan itself, which would distribute
more than $7 billion to WaMu’s creditors.  The current court fight involves the value of the
reinsurance company that will be the only part of WaMu to
survive bankruptcy, and whether Aurelius and three other hedge
funds used confidential information to trade in the company’s
debt.  Shareholders would get nothing under a reorganization plan
that was negotiated with JPMorgan Chase & Co., the four hedge
funds and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The shareholders
have asked Walrath to again reject the reorganization plan,
arguing it is tainted by the allegations of insider trading.  Aurelius and the other hedge funds, Centerbridge Partners
LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset Management LP,
all deny that they engaged in insider trading. They have argued
in court papers and in hearings that the information they used
to buy and sell WaMu’s debt was either publicly available or
wasn’t “material,” and therefore its use was legal.  The dispute over the insider-trading allegations will be
the final issue in the hearing.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Airport Body Scans Can Continue While U.S. Seeks Comments  The  United States  improperly adopted the use of airport
body scanners as a primary screening tool a federal appeals
court ruled. In the ruling released July 15, a three-judge panel
in Washington also allowed their use to continue.  In his opinion, U.S. Circuit Judge Douglas Ginsburg said
the  U.S. Transportation Security Administration  should have
sought public comment before deciding that the scanners, first
deployed in 2007, would be used “everywhere for primary
screening.”  The devices were developed at the direction of Congress,
which in 2004 ordered the TSA to give “high priority” to
finding new technology for airport screening that could detect
chemical, biological and radiological weapons. Privacy advocates
objected to the scanners as excessively intrusive and said the
TSA failed to follow correct procedure in implementing their
widespread use.  “Due to the obvious need for the TSA to continue its
airport security operations without interruption, we remand the
rule to the TSA but do not vacate it,” Ginsburg wrote. The
court said that passengers who don’t want a body scan will
receive a “patdown” from security agents.  Greg Soule, a TSA spokesman, said the agency is reviewing
the opinion.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v. U.S.
Department of  Homeland Security , 10-1157,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Obama to Pick Former  Ohio  Attorney General for Consumer Post  President  Barack Obama  said he will nominate former Ohio
Attorney General  Richard Cordray  to lead the  Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau , which opens this week amid continuing
political fights about its scope.  Cordray, currently the assistant director for enforcement
at the bureau, will be introduced at the presidential residence
today as Obama’s choice, the White House said in a statement.  After losing his bid for re-election in November, Cordray
was recruited by  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University
professor who developed the idea for the new agency and was
appointed by Obama last fall to set it up.  Warren’s prospects for becoming director of the bureau
suffered a setback last year when Christopher Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat then in charge of the Senate Banking
Committee, said she couldn’t win confirmation.  Instead, Obama named Warren assistant to the president and
special adviser to the Treasury secretary. Warren, who is
currently on leave, will return to Harvard in the fall,
according to a person briefed on her plans.  Cordray previously served as Ohio’s treasurer and a state
representative. He was a law clerk to the U.S. Supreme Court
Justices Byron White and  Anthony Kennedy .  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 