-- 
Stocks, Oil Drop on Debt Concern; Gold in Longest Run Since 1980

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-18T20:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/euro-weakens-asia-stocks-decline-on-debt-crisis-concerns-as-silver-rises.html
Stocks fell around the world,
extending last week’s drop, and oil declined amid concern
officials are no closer to solving the debt crises in  Europe  and
the U.S. Gold extended its longest rally since 1980.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.8 percent to
1,305.44 at 4 p.m. in New York and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
sank 1.8 percent, extending its slide from its 2011 high to
almost 10 percent. The euro recovered losses after reaching an
all-time low versus the Swiss franc, while costs to insure
European sovereign debt climbed to a record. Gold topped $1,600
an ounce for the first time. Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 20
basis points and Spain’s surged 25 points. Oil fell 1.4 percent.  A gauge of European bank shares slumped to a two-year low
and financial stocks led losses in the  S&P 500  as concern about
Europe’s debt crisis grew. President Barack Obama is trying to
get lawmakers to agree to a deficit-cutting deal as the Aug. 2
deadline for raising the debt ceiling nears. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. cut its forecasts for U.S. economic growth after reports
last week showed  consumer confidence  deteriorated and New York-
area manufacturing unexpectedly shrank.  “Anything that adds to the cloudiness of the future makes
it more difficult to invest,” said Stephen Wood, the New York-
based chief market strategist for Russell Investments, which
manages about $161 billion.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 extended last week’s 2.1 percent slide and fell
below its lowest closing level since June 28 as all of its 10
main industry groups retreated. Bank of America Corp., Boeing
Co., Travelers Cos. and Alcoa Inc. tumbled at least 2 percent to
lead losses in 29 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average .  News Corp. (NWSA)  slumped 4.3 percent after two people
familiar with the matter said independent directors are
questioning whether a leadership change is needed following a
phone-hacking scandal.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  was little changed after the world’s
second-biggest oilfield-services provider reported profit jumped
54 percent. . More than 100 other S&P 500 companies will post
earnings this week, including Goldman Sachs, Coca-Cola Co. and
Apple Inc.  Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Associates LP said he expects
“another very difficult period” for financial markets next
year or in early 2013 as governments struggle to reduce their
debt, the  New Yorker  reported, citing an interview with the
founder of the world’s biggest hedge fund by assets. The U.S.
will eventually print more money to devalue its currency, which
would hurt its bond markets, Dalio said, according to the New
Yorker. Countries in the euro zone don’t have that option and
will undergo “classic depressions,” he told the magazine.  Treasury Demand  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose less than one
basis point to 2.92 percent after decreasing four points
earlier. Two-year Treasury yields were little changed at 0.36
percent.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets rose in May from a month earlier as China and  Japan  added
to their holdings of government securities, the Treasury
Department reported. Net buying of long-term equities, notes and
bonds totaled $23.6 billion during the month, compared with
$30.6 billion in April. Including short-term securities such as
stock swaps, foreigners sold a net $67.5 billion compared with
net buying of $66.6 billion the previous month.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities is a gauge
of confidence in U.S. economic policy, and today’s report
suggests America continues to offer safety from the economic
crisis in Europe even with the White House and Congress at odds
over raising the Treasury’s borrowing authority.  Growth Forecasts  Goldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan Hatzius cut his forecast
for U.S. economic growth to 1.5 percent in the second quarter
and 2.5 percent in the third quarter, down from 2 percent and
3.25 percent respectively. Hatzius, in a report received after
markets closed on July 15, cited lower-than-estimated economic
data including a drop in the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan consumer sentiment index to “territory normally
associated with recession.” The gauge decreased in July to
63.8, the weakest level since March 2009.  U.S. equities have been under pressure amid growing concern
American lawmakers will fail to reach an agreement to raise the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit. A default by the U.S. would
cause more panic than the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers told  CNN 
in an interview broadcast yesterday. Lehman Brothers’s
bankruptcy prompted the biggest collapse of global financial
markets since the Great Depression, driving the S&P 500 down 46
percent between September 2008 and March 2009.  Deficit Feud  House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican from  Ohio , said
his party wouldn’t accept any tax increases as he worked on a
deal to lower the deficit. Obama is pushing to close tax
loopholes for the richest Americans and corporations and cut
discretionary spending by the government.  Among European bank stocks,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
second-biggest bank, dropped 6.5 percent,  Germany ’s Commerzbank
AG slid 4.6 percent, and France’s Societe Generale SA sank 5.5
percent. European leaders are holding a special summit this week
as they seek to contain the debt crisis, after eight of the
region’s banks failed stress tests.  European Central Bank 
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated the ECB won’t accept
bonds from a defaulting nation as collateral.  “The problems in Europe are a reminder that they haven’t
gone away and they can flare up,” said Jordan Irving, who helps
oversee $150 million as managing director at Irving Magee
Investment Management LLC in Philadelphia. “If European banks
are in trouble, you know U.S. banks also have exposure to the
same problems over there. The concern is how much exposure do
the U.S. banks really have to the European problems.”  Volatility  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure of the cost of insuring against
losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, rose 10 percent to 31, the
highest closing level in four months. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, which is known as the Vix and tracks
the cost of using options to protect against declines in the S&P
500, jumped 7.3 percent to an almost one-month high of 20.95.  Gold for August delivery climbed for a 10th day, rising 0.8
percent to $1,602.40 an ounce, and gold for immediate delivery
increased for an 11th day. September silver gained for a fourth
day, climbing 3.3 percent to $40.342, the highest settlement
price since May 3.  Gold Streak  The last time gold rallied this many straight days was when
the U.S. was in the final month of a recession in July 1980,
according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, and
inflation was at 13.1 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Rising consumer prices have prompted at least two
dozen nations and the European Central Bank to raise  interest
rates  this year. The metal touched a then-record $850 in January
1980.  Metals accounted for the only six gains among the 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, which sank 0.9
percent. Oil for August delivery slipped 1.4 percent to $95.93 a
barrel in New York. Cotton and coffee fell more than 2.1 percent
for the biggest declines.  The euro weakened 0.4 percent to $1.4105 and depreciated
0.5 percent against the yen to snap a three-day gain. The dollar
was up against 13 of 16 counterparts, rising more than 1.1
percent against the South African rand and Swedish krona.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds rose 26 basis points to
332 basis points, or 3.32 percentage points. The Spanish-German
spread increased 29 basis points to 367. Yields on Portuguese
and Greek notes also surged.  Credit-default swaps on Greece, Ireland,  Italy , Portugal
and France rose to records, helping drive the Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of 15 governments 10.1 basis points higher
to 307.65 basis points.  Eastern Europe  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps jumped 3.6 basis
points to 214.04. The risk of euro-area contagion is rising for
eastern Europe, Morgan Stanley said, recommending underweight
positions in central and eastern European currencies relative to
other emerging markets.  The BUX Index fell 3.7 percent in Budapest and the forint
weakened against all 16 major peers, reaching a record low
against the franc. Sixty-three percent of Hungarian household
mortgages were denominated in foreign currencies as of April 30,
with over 100,000 mortgages overdue, according to central bank
data.  Poland’s WIG20 Index slid 2.6 percent. Franc-denominated
home loans represent 53 percent of all mortgages outstanding,
according to the financial market regulator’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  