-- 
European Insurer Rules to Boost Volatility, Allianz, Zurich Say

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-07-18T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/european-insurer-rules-to-boost-volatility-allianz-zurich-say.html
European rules being introduced in
2013 will make the insurance industry’s capital more volatile,
according to  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Zurich Financial Services AG. (ZURN)   Allianz’s solvency ratio, a measure of financial strength,
could fluctuate as much as 40 percentage points in a worst-case
scenario as the new regime requires a market-based valuation for
long-term guarantees offered to customers, Oliver Baete, chief
financial officer of  Europe ’s biggest insurer, told reporters in
Munich today.  “It’s unavoidable that solvency ratios will be more
volatile under the new regime,” Zurich CFO Dieter Wemmer said
at the same event. “Long-term life insurance products are not
adequately reflected in the new framework.”  The Solvency II rules, being adopted by Allianz and other
European insurers, are designed to strengthen reserves to
protect policyholders against a decline in investment markets.
Zurich,  Switzerland ’s largest insurer, is already subject to the
Swiss solvency test, a similar framework introduced in January.  “We need a regulatory regime that stays as close as
possible to what was tested in the recent quantitative impact
study, otherwise we’ll get a system that we haven’t tested in
real life,” Wemmer said. Solvency II was tested from August to
November in a fifth quantitative impact study, named QIS5.  The only alternative would be another test, “which would
mean a delay of the introduction of Solvency II,” said Baete.  The new rules, designed to help the industry withstand
future financial crises by better aligning their capital with
the risks they take on, are being developed by the European
Commission and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions
Authority, or Eiopa, along with local regulators.  “We have to find a solution for the remaining open points
during this summer to make Solvency II a working regime from its
introduction in 2013,” Wemmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  