-- 
European Stocks Drop for Third Straight Day as Banks Face Need for Capital

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-18T16:22:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/european-stock-futures-retreat-after-bank-stress-tests-philips-may-move.html
European stocks sank to a seven-
month low, extending the drop from this year’s high to almost 10
percent, after results from bank stress tests failed to allay
concern that the region’s sovereign debt crisis is spreading.  A measure of banks in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated
the most in 11 months as analysts said lenders may have to raise
as much as 80 billion euros ($112 billion) of additional
capital.  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  and Kuehne & Nagel International AG slid
more than 4 percent after reporting earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.8 percent to 262.1 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London  as the cost of insuring against default on
European government debt climbed to a record. The benchmark
gauge for European equities has fallen to the lowest level since
Nov. 30, bringing the drop from this year’s high in February to
9.98 percent. Strategists define a 10 percent decline from the
most recent peak as a correction.  The European Banking Authority said after the close of
trading on July 15 that 8 out of the 90 banks had failed the
stress tests. Regulators didn’t include the impact of a Greek
default in the assessments even though credit-default swaps
indicate investors see an almost 90 percent chance of one.  “The fact that they can’t put in a sovereign-debt scenario
does make it difficult to take these results seriously,” said
Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management
in London. “They just at the moment want to get information out
there.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European market, except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 Index slid 2
percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and Germany’s DAX Index
each retreated 1.6 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB tumbled 3.1 percent
to the lowest in two years.  The cost of insuring against default on bonds sold by
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and France rose to records,
according to traders of credit-default swaps. Italy’s 10-year
bond yield exceeded 6 percent, approaching the 7 percent mark
that prompted Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek bailouts.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , a measure of the cost of protecting
against losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 10 percent to
31, the highest since March 16.  European leaders plan to meet for the second time in a
month on July 21 to revamp their debt-crisis-fighting strategy,
aiming to break a deadlock that has spooked investors and
prompted the  International Monetary Fund  to warn of contagion.
Germany said it’s confident that officials will reach agreement
on funding a second bailout for Greece while European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated opposition to any
Greek debt restructuring.  Banks Fall  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender, slid 3.5
percent to 35.87 euros while Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  sank 6.4
percent to 1.13 euros.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest
bank by assets, lost 7 percent to 207.65 pence and  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  plummeted 7.3 percent to 29.5 euro cents.  JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by Kia Abouhossein wrote in
a report after the stress-test results were published that as
many as 20 banks may need to boost capital.  “We remain worried about the secondary effect of the
sovereign crisis into funding,” the JPMorgan analysts said.
“Funding is the key concern, and without stress liquidity
assumptions, the picture remains incomplete -- especially in
current market conditions.”  Additional Capital  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA in
London said UniCredit, Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, Credit
Agricole SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Banco Santander SA and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among banks that may have to raise a
combined total of about 62 billion euros in additional capital.
All the banks passed the EBA’s tests.  Atlas Copco tumbled 8.1 percent to 149.7 kronor after the
world’s largest maker of air compressors reported second-quarter
net income of 2.98 billion kronor ($450 million). That missed
the average analyst average estimate of 3.2 billion, according
to a survey compiled by Bloomberg.  Kuehne & Nagel lost 4.2 percent to 113 Swiss francs after
the 120-year-old shipping company reported second-quarter net
income of 158 million francs ($194 million), trailing the
average analyst estimate of 163 million francs.  A gauge of auto-industry shares had the third-biggest drop
among industry groups in the Stoxx 600, after banks and
insurers.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury
cars, slid 3.3 percent to 51.50 euros.  Inchcape Plc (INCH)  lost 8.2
percent to 373.8 pence after Societe Generale cut the operator
of  car dealerships  to “sell” from “buy.”  Safran Sinks  Safran SA (SAF)  retreated 4.8 percent to 27.22 euros after
Deutsche Bank lowered its recommendation for the defense company
to “hold” from “buy.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week
removed the shares from its European “analyst focus” list.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  slipped 3.3 percent to 54.65 francs after Chief
Executive Officer Markus Akermann warned profitability may
suffer “some pressure” as the cost of raw materials rises in
local currencies. Akermann was speaking in an interview with
Finanz & Wirtschaft.  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  dropped 7.2 percent to 2 euros as the Italian
diary company’s weighting on the FTSE MIB shrank at the close of
trading on July 15. Separately, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc.
said the company may reduce its full-year earnings forecast when
it reports first-half results on July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  