-- 
Euro Falls Toward One-Week Low Before Europe Leaders Meet on Debt Crisis

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-07-19T06:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/euro-near-week-low-before-debt-summit-swiss-franc-approaches-record-high.html
The euro fell toward its lowest
level in a week against the dollar on concern European leaders
will be unable to agree on steps to contain the region’s debt
crisis at a summit this week.  The yen headed for a one-week high versus the euro before
 Spain  and  Greece  sell as much as 5.75 billion euros ($8.1
billion) of bills today.  Australia ’s dollar pared earlier gains
after minutes of the July policy meeting showed the  Reserve Bank 
has scope to extend an interest-rate pause because risks posed
by Europe’s debt crisis and a slower-than-forecast domestic
recovery eased inflation concerns.  “These sovereign issues continue to move from one
stumbling block to the next,” said  Richard Grace , chief
currency strategist and head of international economics in
Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . “The euro is probably
going to head back down and test $1.40 again.”  The euro declined to $1.4081 at 6:53 a.m. in  London  from
$1.4112 in New York yesterday, when it reached $1.4014, the
least since July 13. It slid to 111.29 yen from 111.55 in  New
York , where it touched 110.66, also the lowest level since July
13. The dollar fetched 79.03 yen from 79.04.  Euro-area leaders will meet in Brussels on July 21 to
discuss the “financial stability” of the region, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in an e-mailed statement
July 15. The second meeting of European leaders in a month
follows a worsening of the crisis that drove bond yields to
euro-era records for Europe’s most debt-laden nations.  Nowotny Comment  European Central Bank member Ewald Nowotny said in an
interview with CNBC that it’s the central bank’s responsibility
to decide whether or not to accept Greek debt as collateral in
case rating agencies slap the country with a default rating.  Yields on Spanish and Greek bonds hit euro-era records
yesterday. Spanish 10-year yields rose 25 basis points to 6.32
percent, taking the spread over German bunds to 367 basis points.
Greek two-year yields surged 291 basis points to 36 percent.
Italy’s 10-year yield increased 21 basis points to 5.97 percent.  “ Europe ’s debt problem is getting very serious,” said
Kengo Suzuki, manager of the foreign bond department in Tokyo at
Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest listed
bank. “We can’t really expect concrete measures to come out
from the summit. That will likely continue weighing on the euro
and accelerating flows into safe haven currencies.”  Spain will auction 4.5 billion euros in one-year and 18-
month bills today, while Greece will sell 1.25 billion euros of
three-month bills.  RBA Minutes  Gains in the Australian dollar were tempered after the
minutes of the central bank’s July meeting said there was “more
time” to assess inflation pressures in the South Pacific nation.  The Australian dollar fetched $1.0621 from $1.0607
yesterday, after rising to as much as $1.0651.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the official cash rate
unchanged since November 2010. At 4.75 percent, the rate is the
highest among the world’s developed economies.  “The big thing in the minutes is they dropped the
reference to need for tighter policy at some stage,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit
Agricole SA in  Hong Kong . That’s “obviously playing negatively
for the Aussie dollar.”  U.S. Housing  Demand for safe haven currencies such as the yen was
limited before a report today forecast to show housing starts in
the U.S. probably rose in June for a second month.  Construction began on 575,000 houses at an annual rate, up
2.7 percent from May, according to the median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Purchases of previously
owned homes, which make up about 95 percent of the market,
climbed 1.9 percent in June from May’s six-month low to a 4.9
million annual rate, according to the median projection of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a National
Association of Realtors’ report tomorrow.  “There’s enough on the economic calendar to provide
potential reasons for the market to move out of this risk-averse
phase that we’re in at the moment,” said  Tim Waterer , a foreign
exchange dealer at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Currencies like the
euro and Aussie have found some support.”  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said he will
continue to watch markets carefully, spurring speculation
officials may consider selling yen if it extends this month’s
1.9 percent gain versus the greenback. The yen’s recent moves
have been one-sided, he said. Noda said he can’t comment on
foreign-exchange levels or on intervention.  The yen climbed to 78.47 per dollar on July 14, the
strongest since March 17, as concern Europe’s debt crisis is
spreading boosted demand for refuge assets. Group of Seven
nations jointly sold Japan’s currency on March 18 after the yen
surged to a postwar record of 76.25 per dollar the previous day,
threatening the nation’s recovery from the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at   myui1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  