-- 
Euro May Drop More Before Sovereign-Debt Accord, Komileva Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-07-18T18:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/euro-may-slump-more-before-debt-accord-on-greece-komileva-says-tom-keene.html
Divergent interests between Germany,
the  European Central Bank  and private investors are delaying a
solution to the euro region’s debt crisis, according to  Brown
Brothers  Harriman & Co.’s  Lena Komileva .  “It looks like the euro will have to get weaker and
peripheral bond spreads will have to spike higher before
politicians are forced to agree on a new deal for  Greece ,”
Komileva, head of Group of 10 strategy at Brown Brothers in
London, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “It just seems like there is
too much indecision with European policy makers repeatedly
missing their self-imposed deadlines to take decisive,
fundamental action on Greece.”  The 17-nation currency weakened 0.6 percent to $1.4061
against the dollar as Italian and Spanish bond yields surged to
euro-era records before a summit of leaders this week on the
region’s financial stability. The euro dropped on July 12 to
$1.3837, the lowest level since March.  Germany  said it’s confident that European leaders will
reach agreement on funding a second Greek bailout at the July 21
summit, as investors sell Spanish and Italian bonds on concern
that the crisis is spreading.  “We must master this challenge,” Steffen Seibert,
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said in Berlin
today. “The way the chancellor sees it, the specific meeting
this Thursday is about agreeing precisely on the main points of
a new program for Greece, with all relevant details.”  Record Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields rose as much as 27 basis
points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 6.027 percent today, the
highest level since 1997 and surpassing last week’s 6.016
percent peak. Spanish 10-year yields increased as much as 30
basis points to 6.368 percent, also the highest since 1997. In
 London , credit-default swaps on Germany jumped five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 65, the highest since March
2009, CMA prices showed.  “For Germany, guaranteeing all government costs at a time
when the crisis is spreading particularly to Spain and  Italy 
will raise Germany’s borrowing costs down the line while
removing incentives for indebted governments to get themselves
in order,” Komileva said. “For the ECB, the risk of insuring
Greek assets in the scenario of selective default will turn the
central bank into a bad bank which will undermine the euro,
politicize the ECB’s activities and undermine its
independence.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told the Financial Times
Deutschland in an interview that the central bank will not
accept bonds from a nation that defaults as collateral. Trichet
has repeatedly said the central bank has done its part and the
burden of a solution should fall on governments.  “For the markets, they actually do want to see Greece’s
credit position improve, but they’re also arguing that we do
need to see some form of debt write-off that reduces Greece’s
debt burden to a more manageable level,” Komileva said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  