-- 
Europe’s Debt-Crisis Policies Are ‘Absolutely Crazy,’ Sen Says

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/europe-s-debt-crisis-policies-are-absolutely-crazy-sen-says.html
European Union policies to try to
protect the euro region from a possible sovereign debt default
are “absolutely crazy,” according to Amartya Sen, the first
Indian to win the  Nobel Prize  for economics.  Enabling Greece to sell its products at prices determined
by the euro will only be achieved by huge spending cuts that
will make the lives of Greeks “pretty unbearable,” Sen, 77,
said in an interview in Edinburgh yesterday.  “This whole idea of inflicting huge amounts of local
sacrifice in order to generate a surplus to pay back foreign
creditors to keep the euro intact is an absolutely crazy
economic policy,” Sen said. “The later it ends, those
countries technically defaulting like Greece, Portugal or Spain
will end up with a much bigger debt than they need have if they
had been liberated from their euro chains a bit earlier.”  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  last month won
parliamentary approval for a new 78 billion-euro ($109.5
billion) five-year package of budget cuts and state asset sales
to secure further international aid. European leaders will meet
in Brussels later this week to finalize a second bailout for
Greece as its debt crisis threatens contagion across the region.  European officials suffer from “economic confusion”
because they don’t accept that exchange rate adjustments should
be part of any solution to such crises, said Sen, professor of
economics and philosophy at  Harvard University .  China,  India   Sen was in the Scottish capital attending a conference
organised by Edinburgh University to mark the tercentenary of
the birth of Scottish philosopher David Hume.  Economies of countries like  China , India and Brazil won’t
be much affected by the debt crisis because of their focus on
economic growth, said Sen, who won the Nobel Prize in 1998 for
his work on  welfare economics .  “I find it odd that the mistakes that the Chinese, the
Indians and the Brazilians are not making are being made by
these allegedly much more advanced countries like  Japan ,  Europe 
and America,” Sen said “The fact of the matter is their
economic thinking is far less sound than what you are getting
from China, India and Brazil right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 