-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Climbs to Record Above $1,600

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-07-18T08:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/europe-commodity-day-ahead-gold-climbs-to-record-above-1-600.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Climbs to Record Above $1,600 on U.S.,  Europe  Debt Concerns  Gold rose to a record above $1,600 an ounce as debt
concerns in Europe and the U.S. boosted demand for the metal as
a protection of wealth. Bullion in euros and pounds rose to all-
time highs and silver topped $40 an ounce.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Pork Prices Peaking as Corn Bust Spurs Expansions in Hog Herds  The biggest slump in corn in three years may mean the end
of record pork prices as cheaper feed spurs farmers to expand
hog herds for the first time since 2007.  Copper May Extend Rally to Record on China Demand, Maike Says  Copper may rally to a record $12,000 a metric ton in the
first quarter as stronger-than-expected demand from  China , the
largest user, and tumbling inventories spur imports, according
to Maike Futures Co.  Posco’s India Steel Mill Agreement Said to Exclude Ore Exports  Posco, the world’s third-largest steelmaker, may be barred
from exporting any iron ore from its proposed $12 billion Indian
mine and steel project, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  El Nino Food-Price Risk Spurs Asia Currency Gains: Chart of Day  El Nino weather conditions may spur a surge in food prices,
forcing policy makers in  South Korea  and  Taiwan  to allow
currency appreciation to curb imported inflation, Barclays Plc
said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Gains for Second Day as Trichet Comments Lift Confidence  Copper advanced for a second day on expectations of higher
Chinese demand and after European Central Bank President Jean-
Claude Trichet said Europe can surmount its sovereign debt
crisis by showing the will and determination to do so.  MINING:  China’s Hanlong Makes A$1.2 Billion Bid for Rest of Sundance (1)  China’s Sichuan Hanlong Group offered A$1.2 billion ($1.3
billion) in cash for the shares of Sundance Resources Ltd. it
doesn’t own to gain control of a $4.7 billion  iron ore  project
in West Africa.  Fortescue Says It May Seek to Sell $1 Billion of Bonds in 2012  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. may seek to raise at least $1
billion selling bonds in the quarter ending March 31 next year,
spokeswoman Elizabeth Gosch said by phone from Perth today.  Zhaojin Mining Gets Approval to Resume Production in Shandong  Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. received approval from Zhaoyuan
city government to resume production at its mines in Shandong
province, China, after they were inspected, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  CST Mining Says Glencore Agrees to Pay $475 Million for Unit  CST Mining Group Ltd. said Glencore International AG agreed
to pay $475 million for CST Resources Ltd., a CST unit that owns
70 percent of Peruvian miner Marcobre S.A.C., according to
statement from CST to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.
Marcobre owns the Mina Justa Project, it said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Investors Boost Bullish Commodity Bets as Gold Demand Gains (1)  Funds boosted bets on rising commodity prices by the most
in almost a year as traders added gold amid escalating debt
crises in the U.S. and Europe.  Tanzania Gold Exports $1.7 Bln in Year, Bank of Tanzania Says  Gold exports from Tanzania amounted to $1.7 billion in the
year ending May compared with $1.4 billion the previous year,
the Bank of Tanzania said in an e- mailed report.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Drops for Third Day as Egypt Buys Cheaper Russian Wheat  Wheat futures declined for a third straight day on
speculation demand for U.S. supplies may wane as importers
switch to cheaper exports from  Russia .  Soybean Imports by China May Fall for First Time Since 2004 (1)  China’s soybean imports, the world’s biggest, may decline
this year for the first time since 2004 as processors use more
domestic crops and lower hog numbers decrease demand for feed, a
state-owned researcher said.  China Removes Edible-Oil Price Limits, Evening News Cites NDRC  China removed price limits on edible oils, the Quanzhou
Evening News reported yesterday, citing an unidentified official
from the National Development and Reform Commission’s price
department.  Canola Production in  Australia  Seen Surging to 15-Year High (1)  Canola production in Australia, the third-largest exporter,
may jump 21 percent to the highest level in 15 years after rains
in Victoria and  Western Australia  boosted yield prospects,
according to an industry group.  Rice Exports From  Vietnam  Climb to 4.1 Million Tons, Group Says  Vietnam, the world’s second-largest rice exporter, shipped
4.1 million metric tons from the start of the year to July 14,
the Vietnam Food Association said.  SHIPPING:  Capesizes at Anchor Climb to 139 From 125, Global Ports Says  The number of capesize ships anchored worldwide rose to 139
last week from 125 a week earlier, Truro, England-based Global
Ports said in a report.  ECONOMIES:  Contagion in Three Forms Now Has Grip on Europe:  Simon Johnson   There are three types of contagion in a financial crisis,
when the potential collapse of a firm, bank or country threatens
to spiral out of control. The European Union today has all three.  China’s New Home Prices Quicken in  Shanghai , Beijing (1)  New home prices rose in 67 Chinese cities in June, with
growth in Beijing and Shanghai accelerating for the first time
since the government stepped up efforts this year to curb growth.  Obama Pushes for Debt Deal While Dismissing Republican Plan (1)  While President  Barack Obama  publicly presses congressional
leaders for a multitrillion- dollar agreement in deficit-cutting
talks he said are “running out of time,” aides privately are
negotiating the framework of a possible compromise.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro, Asia Stocks Drop on European Crisis Concerns; Silver Rises  The euro fell the most in a week against the dollar, Asian
shares slumped for a third day while bond risk climbed amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening.  Asian Stocks Decline on U.S. Economic Concern; Samsung Falls  Asian stocks fell for a third day after U.S. President
Barack Obama said the government is “running out of time” in
negotiating an agreement to cut the fiscal deficit, hurting the
outlook for Asian exporters.  Brent Oil Falls on Europe Debt Crisis;  New York  Crude Fluctuates  Brent crude  declined in  London  as investors bet that
Europe’s worsening debt crisis may slow the economy and crimp
fuel demand. Futures in New York swung between gains and losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  