-- 
Father of New York Bomb-Plotter Najibullah Zazi Hid Evidence, U.S. Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-07-18T20:55:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/father-of-new-york-bomb-plotter-najibullah-zazi-hid-evidence-u-s-says.html
An Afghan living in  Colorado  hid
evidence of his son’s failed plot to bomb  New York City ’s
subways, obstructing a “frantic” effort to stop the attack in
2009, lawyers for the U.S. said as a trial started in New York.  In opening arguments in  Brooklyn  Federal Court, lawyers for
Mohammed Wali Zazi, 55, said he didn’t know of his son’s plans,
and was the victim of family members who sought to obscure their
own role in the plot.  Zazi has pleaded not guilty to two counts of obstruction of
justice and one count of conspiracy to obstruct justice. His
son, Najibullah Zazi, pleaded guilty in February 2010 to
supporting al-Qaeda and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction. The plot, which he called a “martyrdom operation”
was planned for around the 2009 anniversary of the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks.  Zazi stood in the way of the FBI’s investigation into his
son in by destroying chemicals and goggles and lying about
communications with an imam in Queens, Andrew Goldsmith, a
lawyer for the U.S. told the jury today.  “In September 2009, as the FBI was frantically trying to
stop a  New York  City attack, that man decided to stand in the
FBI’s way,” Goldsmith said. He told the jury they would see
“Najibullah Zazi’s bomb-making recipe and hear evidence about
chemicals found in the drains of Mohammed Zazi’s house.”  Former Taxi Driver  Zazi, a former New York City taxi driver who worked hard to
live the American dream and support his children, took his own
son to the FBI upon learning of an investigation, and was the
victim of other family members who turned against him, said
Justine Harris, a lawyer for Zazi.  “This is a painful story of a family put under intense
pressure,” she said. Naqib Jaji, Zazi’s brother-in-law who
lived with Najibullah in Denver at the house where he had bomb-
making chemicals, and Amanullah Zazi, the elder Zazi’s nephew,
“turned on Mr. Zazi,” in order to keep themselves out of jail,
Harris said.  Amanullah Zazi testified that he went to Naqib’s apartment
to participate in a cover-up of bomb-making equipment, acting
under the orders of the elder Zazi. After arranging to meet
other family members by using “pick up the medicine” as a code
phrase for destroying bomb-making chemicals, Amanullah said he
watched two other family members dispose of chemicals from the
garage in an upstairs bathroom as a bleach smell filled the
home. When he couldn’t break a measuring cup that had been used
with the chemicals, he suggested it be used for laundry
detergent.  Equipment Disposal  Amanullah said it was his idea to dispose of some of the
equipment in a dumpster by putting it in a book bag, driving
around and shopping to distract anyone monitoring them from the
disposal. He also said he helped connect Najibullah for
“training” in Waziristan, despite what he had earlier told
authorities.  Zarien Ahmedzay, charged as a co-conspirator, pleaded
guilty to his role in the foiled subway plot in April 2010.
Ahmedzay said he and co-defendants received weapons training in
the Waziristan region of  Pakistan . A third man, Adis Medunjanin,
pleaded not guilty in August 2010 to participating in the subway
plot.  The case is U.S. v. Zazi, 1:10-cr-60, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  