-- 
Football Brain-Injury Data May Show Evidence of Sport’s Long-Term Risks

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-07-19T14:10:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/football-brain-injury-data-may-show-evidence-of-sport-s-long-term-risks.html
Football players may be cognitively
impaired at a younger age, a study showed, adding evidence to
the theory that the head trauma viewed as a natural part of the
game may have long-term harm.  The study, presented today by  Christopher Randolph  of
Loyola University in  Chicago , found that athletes who play
American football showed symptoms of mild brain dysfunction at
an earlier age than nonplaying peers. In addition, there was
more illness among the retired athletes than in those who were
about the same age.  “You don’t play football without getting a concussion,”
said Cornelius Bennett, a former linebacker for the  Buffalo
Bills  and head of the retired National Football League Players’
Association. “We’re taught in football that if you can’t play,
you lose your job, and if you don’t report concussions, you have
a better chance of keeping your job.”  The NFL has pledged $1 million to Boston University’s
 Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy  to research how
to prevent and treat brain injuries. Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
told the league’s 32 clubs that players with concussion symptoms
can’t play or practice until cleared by a neurologist and in
February imposed a protocol on team doctors and trainers to
assess players who may have sustained concussions during games.  Former Player Deaths  Earlier this month, John Mackey, who was ranked by  Sports
Illustrated  as the third-best tight end in NFL history, died
after being diagnosed with dementia. Traumatic  brain damage  was
found in autopsies of Andre Waters, a former Philadelphia Eagles
defensive back who killed himself in November 2006 at the age of
44, and former Chicago Bears safety Dave Duerson, who killed
himself in February at age 50.  The research, released yesterday, was presented today at
the  Alzheimer’s Association International Conference  in Paris
and compares football players with similar non-football players
in two groups. One group is 41 healthy control NFL players,
matched with 41 retirees of the same age, education, sex and
race; the other is 81 non-players who were older than the
retired players and whose memory was impaired with a condition
called  mild cognitive impairment  or MCI.  The NFL retirees showed development of cognitive symptoms
similar to the non-players with MCI, an intermediate state
between normal thought and dementia-related decline. Usually
patients experiencing MCI get  Alzheimer’s disease , the most
common form of dementia, although MCI can lead to other forms of
dementia and some patients never get worse.  In addition, a survey of 513 retired players and their
wives found that about 35 percent of players had responses
suggesting MCI. The average age of those players was 61.  Confused With Alzheimer’s  The patients may have a kind of dementia called chronic
traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, a condition that is sometimes
confused with Alzheimer’s, which disrupts memory and mental
functioning. CTE, like Alzheimer’s, is definitively diagnosed
after death by looking for an abnormal variation of a protein
that clumps in certain areas of the brain, said  Christopher
Nowinski , co-director of the Boston University brain center and
a former Harvard University football player.  “Earlier surveys this group did were surveys, this is the
first to confirm a diagnosis and to evaluate a group in the
lab,” said Nowinski. “It’s even stronger evidence that former
football players are suffering from cognitive impairment at a
higher level than the population.”  Knowing the course of disease progression and what kinds of
physiological changes occur in former players can help with
prevention and treatment, said Nowinski, who was a professional
wrestler before head injuries ended his career.  While Bennett, the head of the former players’ group, has
had six concussions listed officially in his medical records, he
is sure he’s had more, he said. Bennett plans to donate his
brain to Nowinski’s group when he dies, although he hasn’t
finished filling out his paperwork, he said.  “I have an 11-year-old son, and if the lack of information
and negligence continues, you aren’t going to have moms let
their little boys play football,” Bennett said. “This
threatens football.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 