-- 
Ex-Commodities Trader Vincent McCrudden Pleads Guilty in Death-Threat Case

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J a n o n   F i s h e r
-- 
2011-07-18T17:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/former-commodities-trader-mccrudden-will-plead-guilty-in-death-threat-case.html
Former commodities trader Vincent P. McCrudden, accused of threatening to kill financial regulators,
pleaded guilty today.  McCrudden pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission of
threats to injure, before opening arguments were scheduled to
begin in his trial in federal court in Central Islip,  New York .
The charges carry a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. His
sentencing was scheduled for Dec. 5.  McCrudden, 50, who also ran his own  hedge funds , was
accused of threatening the lives of 47 current and former
officials, including Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  McCrudden has been held without bail since he was arrested
Jan. 13 returning from Singapore. He was charged with
threatening the regulators in profanity-filled e-mails and,
after the CFTC sued him in December, Web postings. McCrudden had
said he was being persecuted for fighting back against unfair
regulatory actions that destroyed his career.  “On Dec. 10, 2010, I was notified that I was being civilly
sued by the CFTC for $58 million,” McCrudden told U.S. District
Judge Denis R. Hurley. “It upset me. I had started to post some
things on the site that hadn’t been there before.”  Singapore  Location  McCrudden wrote in a Sept. 30 e-mail to Daniel A. Driscoll,
chief operating officer of the National Futures Association,
that he had hired people to kill him. “It wasn’t ever a
question of ‘if’ I was going to kill you, it was just a question
of when,” McCrudden wrote, according to prosecutors in the
office of U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in  Brooklyn , New York.  The e-mail was sent in CFTC Chairman Gensler’s name. Its
language and origin in Singapore pointed to McCrudden, the
government said. McCrudden moved from  Long Beach , New York, to
the Southeast Asian country in September because his fiancée had
gotten a position there. He previously denied sending the e-
mail.  Prosecutors charged that, after the CFTC accused him in the
lawsuit of illegally starting his Hybrid Fund II LP in 2008
without registering it, he posted an “execution” list on his
company  website .  “Go buy a gun, and let’s get to work in taking back our
country from these criminals,” he wrote on the site, according
to prosecutors. “I will be the first one to lead by example.”  ‘Provocative’ List  In March, the CFTC said McCrudden never responded to its
lawsuit and asked Hurley, who is presiding over both the CFTC
suit and the criminal case, for a default judgment.  The government estimated that federal guidelines call for a
sentencing range for McCrudden of 27 to 33 months in prison,
Hurley said.  In court today, McCrudden said the execution list was meant
to be “provocative.”  “I had no intent to injury or bodily harm anybody,” he
said. He apologized to his victims and to his family.  “I apologize to Mr. Driscoll and his family for any
apprehension that it may have caused them,” he said, referring
to the Sept. 30 e-mail.  On July 16, the government filed a court document stating
it discovered just the day before that in October McCrudden had
created a “ National Futures Association ” Facebook group
offering 250,000 euros ($351,175) to any group “with proof of
killing” any on a list of people, including Driscoll and NFA
Chief Executive Officer Dan Roth.  Internet Line  The posting was sent from a computer address that “was
assigned to a hard-wired Internet line dedicated exclusively to
the defendant’s room at the Treetops Hotel in Singapore,”
Assistant U.S. Attorneys Christopher C. Caffarone and James
McMahon wrote.  The Facebook posting played a role in McCrudden’s decision
over the weekend to plead guilty, McCrudden’s lawyer, Bruce
Barket, said after the hearing.  “I’m not sure there was any one factor,” Barket said.
“Vince just realized it would be a better thing for him to
admit what he did.”  The jury for his trial had been picked July 11.  “The government’s case against this defendant is in a
state of collapse,” Barket wrote in a filing as recently as
July 14 asking for the jury to be disbanded and the trial
delayed. He said further investigation cast more doubt that
McCrudden wrote the e-mail to Driscoll.  Legal Entanglements  McCrudden pleaded guilty because “he could not bear the
pain and suffering that his family was going through,” his
sister Mary Eisenstein said after the hearing.  “This defendant crossed the line when he directly
threatened to kill public officials who were working to keep our
financial markets fair and open, and invited others to join
him,” U.S. Attorney Lynch said in an e-mailed statement. “He
thought he could hide in the shadows of the Internet and
disseminate his threats and instructions. He was wrong.”  McCrudden’s legal and regulatory entanglements began in
2000, when he was criminally charged with masking shortfalls in
statements to his hedge-fund investors. The government alleged
he included in his results money he expected to get from a
lawsuit after  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating the
copper market.  In 2003, a federal jury in Central Islip acquitted
McCrudden of 15 counts of mail fraud.  The National Futures Association in 2005  denied  his
registration application because of the alleged overstatements
that resulted in that earlier criminal case. The CFTC and a
federal appeals court upheld that decision.  Broker-Dealer  In October 2009, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority Inc.  ruled  that McCrudden induced  Hedge Fund Capital
Partners LLC , a New York broker-dealer where he had worked, to
file a form saying he left voluntarily when he was fired, which
McCrudden denied. The National Adjudicatory Council, which hears
appeals of Finra decisions,  upheld  that finding.  “I love my father and I support whatever he does 100
percent,” Briana McCrudden, 19, said outside the courtroom
after the plea.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York ( Central Islip ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. District Court in Central Islip, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Janon Fisher in U.S. District Court in Central Islip at
 Janonfisher@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 