-- 
Franc Rises to World’s Most Expensive Currency as Taylor Sees Euro Parity

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-18T15:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/franc-rises-to-world-s-most-expensive-currency-as-taylor-sees-euro-parity.html
Even after making the Swiss franc
the most over-valued major currency, traders are betting on more
strength as the European Union’s sovereign-debt crisis begins to
infect bigger economies.  The franc rose to a record today against the dollar, euro
and pound as bond yields in Italy and  Spain  surged to euro-
lifetime highs. The cost to hedge a drop in the euro versus the
franc climbed to the most since January 2009, signaling concern
the EU may fail to contain a crisis that has already forced
Greece, Portugal and Ireland to seek financial bailouts.  While the  Swiss National Bank  highlighted its ability last
week to resume sales of the currency to stem gains that threaten
overseas sales at companies including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , traders are
pushing the franc higher. Strategists boosted their fourth-
quarter median forecasts for the franc against the dollar by the
most of 51 pairs tracked by Bloomberg.  “The Swiss franc looks like it will go to par with the
euro,” said  John Taylor , founder of FX Concepts LLC in New
York, the world’s largest currency hedge fund. “The EU is not
working on a real solution, just patches that only work for a
certain amount of time. The franc will have the problem in the
long run of money flowing into the country.”  Taylor, whose firm manages $8 billion, said he has trades
that would profit from gains in the franc against the euro.  Trade, Unemployment  The franc is a favorite of traders because Switzerland has
a current-account surplus, the broadest measures of trade,
meaning it doesn’t need to rely on foreign capital to fund a
trade deficit like the U.S. The nation’s 3 percent unemployment
rate compares with 9.9 percent in the 17-member  euro zone , and
the economy is benefitting from its proximity to  Germany , which
buys about 20 percent of Swiss exports.  “The franc will remain a strong currency for a very long
time because the credit crisis in  Europe  isn’t going away
anytime soon,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “We are in a
global crisis of growth and in that environment balance sheets
that are clean are appealing. That’s the case with
Switzerland.”  The franc strengthened to a record 1.1374 per euro today
and was at 1.14819 as of 10:53 a.m. in New York. It advanced to
an all-time high of 80.33 centimes per dollar. It surged to
1.2979 per pound after Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
ratings of  Portugal  and Ireland to below investment grade and
 Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece further into junk.  Correlation Indexes  It’s the best-performing currency against nine developed-
market peers in the past year, rising 17 percent, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. Australia’s dollar is
next best, advancing 10 percent.  Because of its trade ties, investors in the franc can
participate in German growth without being penalized by the euro
region’s weakest members. Switzerland’s economy may expand by
2.4 percent this year, compared with 3.4 percent for Germany,
Bloomberg surveys of economists show. A separate poll shows that
the euro zone may grow 2 percent.  The franc’s strength has helped contain inflation, enabling
the SNB to keep its benchmark interest rate near zero. The
 European Central Bank  raised its main rate twice this year, to
1.50 percent. Swiss consumer prices increased 0.6 percent in
June, compared with 2.7 percent in the euro area.  Boosting Forecasts  Foreign-exchange strategists are raising their estimates
for the franc more than any other currency, boosting their
forecasts for the currency against the dollar by 9.1 percent
since April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The median of 38 fourth-quarter estimates is for the franc
to end the year at 1.26 francs per euro, from a prediction of
1.34 at the end of April, a separate survey shows.  Geoff Kendrick, head of European currency strategy at
Nomura International Plc in London, raised his forecasts for the
franc this month, partly because Swiss banks are increasing
their assets denominated in the local currency. Nomura predicts
the euro will buy 1.2 francs by year-end, from a prior estimate
of 1.4 francs. An appreciation to 1.10 over the next three
months “sounds reasonable and likely,” Kendrick said.  “It’s definitely possible that we could see parity reached
this year if the euro crisis continues,” he said.  Purchasing Power Parity  Gains have left the franc 38 percent too strong against the
euro, based on an index developed by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris that uses relative
costs of goods and services. It’s also the most overvalued
currency against the dollar, at 46 percent.  “The franc is generally underweight in our portfolios
because of its overvaluation,” said Thanos Papasavvas, head of
currency management at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London,
which oversees about $95 billion. “The valuation of the Swiss
franc does not match economic fundamentals.”  The currency may face resistance from the SNB after Vice
President Thomas Jordan said on July 13 in Zurich that policy
makers are “monitoring the euro-franc  exchange rate  very
closely” and would have “the possibility to act” if there was
a threat of deflation, or a general decline in consumer prices.  While the SNB intervened in foreign-exchange markets in the
15 months through mid-June 2010, the franc continued to
appreciate.  Company Pain  Zurich-based ABB, the world’s largest maker of power-
transmission gear, said in an e-mailed statement on July 8 that
the strong franc is causing a “headache.” Basel-based Lonza
Group AG, the biggest maker of drug ingredients, said on June 30
it expects a “negative currency effect” of about 60 million to
70 million Swiss francs ($87 million).  The threat of central-bank intervention may not be enough
to deter buyers, said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan.  “There’s broad-based demand for the Swiss franc that’s
unlikely to diminish unless  risk aversion  significantly eases,”
said Mialich, who expects the franc to end the year at 82
centimes per dollar.  Italian 10-year bond yields reached 6.02 percent on July
12, with Spanish yields climbing to 6.31 percent the same day,
amid concern the debt crisis was spreading to  Italy , whose
economy is almost three times the gross domestic product of
Ireland, Greece and Portugal combined.  Mario Draghi , scheduled
to replace ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Nov. 1, said
July 13 that the crisis had entered a “new phase.”  More Franc Strength  The premium for one-month options to sell the euro against
the franc, versus those allowing for purchases, surged today to
the most since January 2009. The risk reversal rate increased to
a 2.73 percentage-point premium for euro puts, up from 1.65 at
the beginning of July. A  put option  grants the right, but not
the obligation, to sell a currency.  While currency options suggest franc gains may be
stretched, “our platform that measures investor spot positions
in the currency suggests that franc strength could continue,”
said Caio Natividade, the London-based head of foreign-exchange
derivative strategy for Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest
currency trader, according to Euromoney Institutional Investor
Plc. “Investors’ aversion to risk is rising given the euro-zone
peripheral-debt concerns, and that will enable the currency to
keep appreciating.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  