-- 
France’s Baroin ‘Confident’ EU Leaders Can Reassure Markets

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-18T21:58:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/france-s-baroin-confident-eu-leaders-can-reassure-markets-1-.html
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said he’s “confident” European Union leaders can agree
on an aid package for Greece this week that won’t trigger a
default and will address investors’ concerns on the debt crisis.  “We are working hard for a solution that would allow
avoiding a selective default or a  credit event ,” Baroin told
reporters in Washington before meeting with officials including
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . “Investors need to be
reassured” and will be, he said regarding the July 21 summit.  EU leaders plan to meet this week for the second time in a
month to agree on a new aid package for Greece and revamp their
strategy to fight the debt crisis as it spread to the heart of
 Europe . Investors are already selling Spanish and Italian bonds
amid divisions between officials on how to involve the private
sector in a Greek bailout, which could link to a default.  Politicians are exploring ideas from bond buybacks to a
temporary default. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated opposition to any Greek debt restructuring in
comments released yesterday.  ‘Going Well’  Baroin backed the ECB, saying France would not support a
solution leading to a selective default. He said that talks with
his European counterparts are “going well.”  Europeans officials are also doing some technical work to
see how the European rescue fund could purchase bonds in the
secondary markets, he said.  Baroin’s visit to  Washington , which will last less then
than 12 hours, also includes a meeting with Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and a working dinner with Christine Lagarde, his predecessor as finance minister and now the
managing director of the International Monetary Fund.  Asked whether Europeans have assurances from the IMF that
the lender will contribute to the next Greek program, Baroin
said EU officials first need to offer a response to the crisis.
The Europeans will then hold discussions with the IMF on the
basis of an agreement that has the fund shoulder a third of
costs of bailouts in the region, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  