-- 
Biggest Banks Face Capital Surcharge as High as 2.5%, FSB Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/fsb-says-banks-to-face-capital-surcharges-of-up-to-2-5-1-.html
Global regulators have backed Basel
plans that would force banks judged too big to fail to hold as
much as 2.5 percentage points in additional capital, as part of
efforts to prevent them from collapsing and causing another
financial crisis.  The Financial Stability Board said that the extra
requirements are necessary because of the threat such lenders
would pose to the global economy if they failed. Regulators also
endorsed measures including bondholder writedowns to shield
taxpayers from bank bailouts.  Systemically important banks will face “capital surcharges
of between one and 2.5 percent,”  Mario Draghi , the board’s
chairman, told reporters after the meeting in Paris yesterday.  Regulators are at loggerheads with some banks over the
additional capital rules, with lenders arguing the requirements
may harm the global economic recovery.  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  are among bankers who have suggested
that the new rules will constrain lending and hurt the economy.  Svein Andresen, the FSB’s secretary general, said the board
will publish its proposals for the capital surcharge as soon as
today, giving banks a chance to give their views.  The Group of 20 countries called last year for the extra
 capital requirements  to be drawn up as part of a wider response
to tackling banks deemed too big to fail.  “The surcharges are tougher than they initially look,”
said Monika Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director in
Zurich. “It’s not just taking eight percent in capital today,
and adding an extra one or two percent. Because of tougher rules
on what banks can count as capital, your eight percent today may
be four percent tomorrow.”  Basel Surcharge  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  announced last
month that it had completed its work on the surcharge rules, and
sent them onto the FSB for approval. The FSB brings together
finance ministry officials, central bank governors and
regulators from the G-20 countries.  The FSB agreed on a set of measures to guard against the
need for state rescues of failing banks by ensuring that lenders
in crisis can either by resurrected with private funds or shut
down, Draghi said yesterday.  The measures would give supervisors “a standard toolkit”
for breaking up crisis-banks into viable and non-viable parts,
said Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker , who heads an
FSB group on how to handle failing banks.  The FSB plans include “writing down the value of debt-
claims after having written off equity,” Tucker said, adding
that the board hasn’t stipulated how bondholder writedowns would
be ordered.  Shadow Banks  Draghi said the board also endorsed draft plans to regulate
so-called shadow banks. Examples of shadow banks include
structured investment vehicles, credit hedge funds and money
market mutual funds, the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  said
in a report last year.  The FSB is examining “the case for additional regulatory
action in five areas” of shadow banking, Draghi said. These
include money-market funds, shadow banks’ links to mainstream
lenders, securitizations,  securities lending  and  repurchase
agreements .  “Banks are being pulled both ways in terms of being asked
to rebuild balance sheets and lend more at the same time, but
the stability of banks must come first,” Syed Kamall, a U.K.
lawmaker who represents  London  at the European Parliament, said
in an e-mail.  The capital surcharges may be a measure that “only
scratches the surface of the problem” of regulating banks that
are too big to fail, Kamall said. “We should be asking all
banks to put in place plans for an orderly wind-down procedure
if they get into trouble, which does not require being bailed
out again by taxpayers,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 