-- 
Gasoline Falls as European Debt Crisis Threatens Fuel Demand

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-18T20:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/gasoline-falls-as-european-debt-crisis-threatens-fuel-demand.html
Gasoline futures fell to a one-week
low, following crude oil’s decline, as the European debt crisis
threatened to slow the economy and reduce fuel demand.  Futures slipped 1 percent as European leaders prepared to
meet July 21 to discuss how to contain the region’s credit
crisis. The investment appeal of commodities lessened as the
euro weakened against the dollar.  “The dollar is stronger this morning, there’s the European
sovereign debt crisis and, in the U.S., there’s a horribly slow
economy,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the
Energy Management Institute in  New York .  Gasoline for August delivery dropped 3.19 cents to settle
at $3.0974 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The dollar gained 0.4 percent against the euro at 3:43
p.m. in New York. Oil slipped 1.4 percent on the Nymex to settle
at $95.93 a barrel as the S&P GSCI Index sank 0.9 percent.  The European debt crisis “is all everyone is really
focusing on, and there’s concerns about getting a debt agreement
in the  United States ,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  will push a revised budget plan this week aimed
at allowing a debt-limit increase needed to avoid a government
default as President Barack Obama presses for action in time for
an Aug. 2 deadline for raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  “The debt ceiling impasse is causing a weaker stock market
and a weaker oil market,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager
at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  each dropped 0.9 percent as of 3:44 p.m. in
New York.  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand, measured by wholesale deliveries,
fell 3.2 percent in the week ended July 8 to a nine-week low of
9.02 million barrels a day, according to Energy Department data.  Measured on a four-week average, gasoline consumption was
0.9 percent below a year earlier.  Gasoline inventories probably fell 100,000 barrels last
week, according to the median estimate of 10 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. Distillate stockpiles rose 1.5 million
barrels, according to the survey.  Regular gasoline at the pump was unchanged at $3.676 a
gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for August delivery declined 4.03 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $3.0777 a gallon, the biggest loss since
June 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  