-- 
Germany’s Draft Gambling Rules Need to Be Changed, EU Says

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-18T17:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/germany-s-draft-gambling-rules-need-to-be-changed-eu-says.html
Germany’s draft gambling rules can’t
be adopted as planned because they violate European Union law,
EU regulators said.  The European Commission said “Germany should not adopt the
draft,” according to an e-mailed statement today.  Betfair Group Plc (BET) , a British online-gaming site, complained
to the EU this month about the rules it described as
“discriminatory and protectionist” because it would force them
to pay a 16.67 percent tax on all stakes and would limit the
number of licenses for private betting companies.  The betting treaty would overhaul the country’s state
monopoly on sports betting and lotteries that was attacked as
unjustified by the EU’s highest court in a ruling last year.  EU regulators wouldn’t give details on their objections to
the German rules because they are still in talks with German
officials. They said German authorities are expected to respond
to the EU’s objections. A call to the German government press
office wasn’t immediately answered.  Court Ruling  The EU Court of Justice ruled in September 2010 that
 Germany ’s betting monopoly, which only allows state-owned
companies to offer most sports betting, violates European laws
because the German rules “do not limit games of chance in a
consistent and systematic manner.” The online-betting ban was
upheld on June 1 by Germany’s top administrative court, which
said the rules were in line with constitutional and EU law.  The leaders of Germany’s 16 states last month delayed until
October a decision on the draft rules, according to  Kurt Beck ,
the prime minister of Rhineland-Palatinate. State premiers in
April reached a preliminary agreement on the new rules.  The Brussels-based commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive
arm, is responsible for checking whether national legislation
complies with region-wide rules. EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s department is conducting a review
of gaming laws across the region.  Betfair’s chief legal officer, Martin Cruddace, said the
company expects Germany to amend the draft law “so that it
genuinely caters for a competitive online gambling market in
Germany,” according to an e-mailed statement.  “As a responsible operator committed to transparency and
integrity, Betfair hopes to obtain a license in the newly
regulated German market, and we view today’s action from the
Commission as a significant step towards us achieving this
goal,” Cruddace said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 