-- 
Gestapo Robs Jewish Bankers, Leaves 264 Clues Untouched: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/gestapo-plunders-jewish-bankers-old-masters-misses-264-treasures-books.html
It took 30 seconds to snap my
thighbone in a cycling spill and three hours of surgery to bind
the splinters. The healing is expected to last months.  Hospitalized and dulled by pain, I wasn’t yet up to
digesting my usual ration of books on finance and economics. So
between shots, X-rays and intravenous bags dripping, I read
crime novels, half a biography and a beguiling remembrance of a
Jewish banking dynasty crushed in the 1938 Anschluss. Here’s a
look at the two volumes that kept my mind most occupied.  “The Hare With Amber Eyes” by Edmund de Waal ( Chatto &
Windus / Farrar, Straus & Giroux ): Part personal odyssey, part
saga, this meditative history of the once mighty Ephrussi
trading and banking family defies literary pigeonholes.  The hare in the title is one of 264 netsuke, matchbox-sized
Japanese carvings made of ivory and boxwood. De Waal, a British
 ceramicist  who makes minimalist pots, inherited the pieces
through a great-uncle in  Japan . That sounds straightforward
enough until he begins investigating the lives of family members
who, starting in the high noon of Impressionist art, came to own
the hare, the snarling tiger, the brindled wolf and the rest.  De Waal’s research propels him from late 19th-century Paris
to wartime Vienna and on to  Tokyo  during the U.S. occupation. At
each stop, he arranges his fragmented findings into a mosaic
depicting the expansion and brutal contraction of the Ephrussis,
a force in European grain and finance for almost 100 years.  Seasonal Migration  Like the Rothschilds, the Ephrussis were wealthy and
urbane. They possessed palaces, estates and vast art
collections. Family members migrated with the seasons, spending
January in Nice or  Monte Carlo , August along Lake Lucerne in
 Switzerland . The Ephrussis struck deals with governments,
entered into ventures with archdukes, became intimates of
artists and authors.  De Waal’s journey begins with Charles Ephrussi, the
Parisian connoisseur who purchased the netsuke. He inspired
Marcel Proust’s character Charles Swann and became a patron to
Manet, Renoir and Degas.  The collection next went to Viktor von Ephrussi, who led
the family business in the early 20th century. Viktor moved in a
Viennese circle that included playwright Arthur Schnitzler.
Viktor’s daughter Elisabeth, De Waal’s grandmother, studied
under economist Ludwig von Mises and corresponded with poet
Rainer Maria Rilke. The background heaves with the music of
Richard Strauss and the sexual obsessions of  Egon Schiele  and
 Sigmund Freud .  ‘Art-Historical Gumshoe’  As seductive as these glints of a glamorous past are, De
Waal evinces zero interest in “writing up some elegiac
Mitteleuropa narrative of loss.” His is a quieter quest, as he
thumbs through old volumes of the Gazette des Beaux-Arts --
“like some sad art-historical gumshoe,” he says -- and ducks
into a gossipy Viennese genealogical society.  “I want to know what the relationship has been between
this wooden object that I am rolling in my fingers -- hard and
tricky and Japanese -- and where it has been,” he says.  What emerges is a tactile story of an assimilated Jewish
elite living through dazzling days and disturbing nights, with
virulent anti-Semitism festering beneath: Pogroms, the Dreyfus
Affair and the Holocaust intrude on the Ephrussis, disrupting
the stately rhythms inside their gilded homes.  Days after the Anschluss, the Gestapo arrived at the Palais
Ephrussi in Vienna to catalog and crate up Old Masters, rare
books and jewelry. As the Nazis fixated on grand pieces, a
family maid, Anna, spirited the netsuke away in her apron.  Elegant and unsettling, this is an ideal book to read while
convalescing or, more luckily, vacationing. It thrums with a
hushed suspense yet invites you to soak up one atmospheric
paragraph at a time, relishing images of marble-clad interiors
and a staircase “curling up like a coil of smoke through the
whole house.”  Inspector Montalbano  “The Track of Sand” by Andrea Camilleri, translated by
Stephen Sartarelli, (Mantle/Penguin): A Sicilian cop awakes one
morning to find a dead horse -- battered and bloodied -- on the
beach of his seaside home. It’s a noir image bleached in
blinding light, and it fills Inspector Montalbano with rage as
the 12th novel in this popular crime series begins.  A gruff yet vulnerable bachelor of 56, Montalbano calls his
men, downs some coffee and takes a shower. When he gets back to
the beach, the carcass has vanished, leaving only the tracks of
a cart in the sand.  Back at police headquarters, a seductive equestrian
champion named Rachele reports that her English thoroughbred has
disappeared from the stable of one of the wealthiest men in
Sicily. Soon Montalbano is drawn into a whirl of horseracing,
clownish aristocrats and sexual temptation.  The story coasts along with Camilleri’s trademark melange
of comically bad accents, gourmet meals and verbal restraint. As
in a play, character and plot are revealed through dialogue and
Montalbano’s self-mocking interior monologues. Though I solved
the mystery early on, I kept reading for the pleasure of the
light, accessible style.  To buy these books in  North America , click  here  for “The
Hare With Amber Eyes” and  here  for “The Track of Sand.”  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 