-- 
MGIC Leads Mortgage Insurer Slump After Swinging to Loss on Claims Costs

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-18T20:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/mgic-swings-to-151-7-million-loss-as-mortgage-insurer-s-claims-costs-jump.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  led a mortgage
insurer slump after the company swung to a loss as fewer
borrowers caught up on overdue loans.  MGIC, the largest U.S. mortgage insurer, dropped $1.38, or
23 percent, to $4.62 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading at 4 p.m. No. 2  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  fell 14 percent and
 PMI Group Inc. (PMI)  dropped 13 percent. Genworth Financial Inc., the
seller of life insurance and mortgage coverage, slipped 7.7
percent.  MGIC pays lenders when homeowners default and foreclosure
fails to recoup costs, and losses swelled as the housing market
slumped. The Milwaukee-based insurer today reported a net loss
of $151.7 million, or 75 cents a share, in the three months
ended June 30, its 15th unprofitable period in 16 quarters.  “Capital is a serious concern for mortgage insurers,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “I wouldn’t want to be a
mortgage insurer right now. I do not envy their business
risks.”  The second-quarter operating loss, which excludes some
investment results, was 86 cents a share, missing by 75 cents
the average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. MGIC,
led by Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver, has plunged 55
percent this year, compared with the 57 percent decline at
Philadelphia-based Radian and a fall of 66 percent at PMI.  Progress Needed  “There is a growing sentiment that the mortgage insurers
need to show better progress toward profitability if investors
are going to believe that further capital raises are not
needed,” KBW Inc. analysts led by Nathaniel Otis wrote in a
note to investors on July 12.  MGIC’s cost of claims from mortgage defaults rose 44
percent to $459.6 million. The number of so-called cures, in
which insured borrowers caught up on payments, dropped to 35,832
from 47,290.  Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, dropped to $7.52 a share, compared with $8 on March
31. The insurer had an investment gain of $21.7 million,
compared with $31.7 million a year earlier.  Premium revenue slipped 8 percent to $284.5 million.
Stricter loan standards have meant less new business for
mortgage insurers and less revenue to cushion losses from
foreclosures.  Claims, Expenses  MGIC spent $1.78 on claims and expenses at its mortgage
business for every dollar it collected in premium. The ratio
worsened from $1.19 a year earlier.  Federal regulators are working to shrink the role of
government-backed mortgage insurers, which took on greater
market share in the housing slump. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has  called  for reducing the number of loans
the  Federal Housing Administration  can insure and increasing the
price of coverage.  The prospect of private mortgage insurers becoming a bigger
part of the housing market “is kind of the one bright spot on
the horizon,” LeBas said. “They have the potential to take on
a lot of new business. But that’s likely several years down the
road. 2015, I’d say, is probably an optimistic time.”  FHA insurance covers about 30 percent of U.S. mortgages,
compared with historical rates of about 10 percent to 15
percent, Geithner and Housing and Urban Development Secretary
Shaun Donovan wrote in a February report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  