-- 
Google Wins Halt to Street View Wiretapping Case for Appeal

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-07-18T23:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/google-wins-halt-to-street-view-wi-fi-data-collection-lawsuit-for-appeal.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won a halt to a lawsuit
claiming its data collection using Wi-Fi networks for its Street
View program violates wiretapping laws, allowing the company to
appeal a ruling permitting the case to advance.  U.S. District Judge James Ware in San Francisco today
granted Google’s request to put the case on hold pending an
appeal of his ruling last month that its data collection, which
included e-mails, user names, passwords and other private data,
violated federal wiretap laws.  The class-action, or group, lawsuit was filed on behalf of
residents living in nine U.S. states whose homes can be seen
depicted on Google Street View, which allows users see
photographs of roadsides. The case is the first in which a
federal court is being asked to determine whether a company can
be found liable under federal wiretap laws based on allegations
that it intentionally intercepted data from a wireless home
network, according to Ware’s opinion.  “In light of the novelty of the issues presented, the
court finds that its June 29 order involves a controlling
question of law as to which there is a credible basis for a
difference of opinion,” Ware wrote in his ruling today.  In the June 29 ruling, Ware wrote that while Google
publicly disclosed its intent to use vehicles equipped with
cameras to capture photos, it failed to say it also intended to
capture wireless data. The  Mountain View , California-based
company argued it couldn’t be found liable for federal
wiretapping violations because the Wi-Fi broadcasts were
unencrypted and “readily accessible” to the general public.  “We are pleased that the court has allowed us to
appeal its recent decision on our motion to dismiss,” Google
said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe the claims are
without merit and that the court should have dismissed the
wiretap claim just as it dismissed the plaintiffs’ other
claims.”  Ware previously granted Google’s request to dismiss claims
based on state statutes.  The case is In re Google Inc. Street View Electronic
Communications Litigation, 10-2184, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  