-- 
Green Exchange to Start California Carbon Futures in September

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 
2011-07-18T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/green-exchange-to-start-california-carbon-futures-in-september.html
Green Exchange LLC , the second-
biggest emission exchange by open interest in European permits,
will offer futures contracts for Californian carbon allowances
starting Sept. 11.  The New York-based exchange will list  California  futures
contracts for delivery in December in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the
exchange said today in an e-mailed statement. Green Exchange is
owned by a group that includes  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which oversees
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “California will be the world’s second-largest carbon
market and we intend to play a major role in its development,”
Tom Lewis, chief executive officer of Green Exchange, said in
the statement. The new contract “complements our existing range
of environmental derivatives,” he said.  California’s Air Resources Board is preparing to start an
emissions-trading system in January 2013. The start was delayed
by a year after a legal challenge.  The delay “would not affect the stringency of the program
or change the amount of emission reductions that the program
will achieve,”  Mary Nichols , chairman of the California ARB,
said on June 29. The state’s 2006 climate change law aims to cut
California’s greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.  Cap and Trade  California’s cap-and-trade program was approved in December
and will be the first mandatory regulation of its kind in the
U.S. It aims to reduce emissions from power plants, refineries
and other polluting industries by about 15 percent by 2020 by
creating tradable allowances for emitting carbon dioxide.
Emission limits will be enforced by decreasing the number of
allowances over time.  Green Exchange was founded by a group of banks, brokers and
trading companies including Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse Energy,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , RNK Capital, Spectron Energy, Vitol Group and
Tudor Investment Corp. The exchange currently offers futures
contracts for EU emissions allowances and UN carbon credits.
Clearing of all trades will be carried out by CME Clearing.  Green Exchange is the second-biggest carbon exchange after
ICE Futures Europe, based in  London . 