-- 
Greenhill Advances as Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Advisory Revenue

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-18T15:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/greenhill-posts-profit-that-beats-estimates-as-advisory-revenue-increases.html
Greenhill & Co., the investment bank
founded by Robert Greenhill, climbed in  New York  trading after
second-quarter profit exceeded analysts’ estimates, helped by
advisory revenue.  Greenhill rose 48 cents, or 1 percent, to $46.98 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 11:35 a.m., after
reaching $51 earlier today, the New York-based company’s biggest
intraday climb in more than two years.  The gains pared a 12 percent decline on July 15 after the
departure of a third managing director since early June at the
firm, run by Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok. Greenhill
released earnings yesterday after the stock tumble, which was
the biggest since the firm’s initial public offering in 2004.
Net income climbed 22 percent to $21.5 million from a year
earlier, and earnings per share of 69 cents beat the 33-cent
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Substantially better-than-expected earnings highlight the
lumpy nature of Greenhill’s business, but also demonstrates
potential as the M&A cycle progresses,” Devin Ryan, an analyst
with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said today in an
e-mail. Greenhill “will be a significant beneficiary of a
rebound in M&A activity over the long-term,” Ryan said.  The shares slid 43 percent this year through last week
after the portion of revenue used to pay employees jumped to 75
percent in the first quarter, contributing to the bank’s first
loss in 2 1/2 years. That ratio fell to 46 percent in the second
quarter, the same level as a year earlier.  Revenue Increase  Revenue for the three months ended June 30 climbed 8.7
percent to $90.8 million, driven by a 38 percent increase in
financial advisory fees, the company said.  “We earn a significant portion of our revenue from clients
in ways that are not apparent from merger announcements and
completions,” Bok said in a statement yesterday. “We are
increasingly involved in strategic advisory assignments,
fundraising and other activities.”  Timothy M. George, a member of the management committee who
has advised on some of the firm’s biggest deals, is taking a job
with Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , two people familiar
with the matter said last week. Other departures since the start
of last month include banker Alejandro Przygoda and Simon Borrows, chairman of Greenhill & Co. International LLP and
founder of the firm’s European operations.  Compensation Ratio  The firm had averaged fewer than one such departure
annually since its founding in 1996, Greenhill said last month.
The ratio of Greenhill’s compensation to revenue surged in the
first quarter after the firm boosted the number of managing
directors 63 percent since 2007.  “Our compensation ratio is consistent with the cost level
we maintained for our first six years,” Bok said in the
statement. That level “was well below that of our peers.”  Robert Greenhill, who formed the mergers and acquisitions
department at Morgan Stanley, founded Greenhill after a Wall
Street career spanning more than three decades. He joined Morgan
Stanley in 1962 and rose to become its president. In 1993, he
left to be CEO of Smith Barney Inc.  Greenhill will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. tomorrow,
the firm’s first following an earnings release since going
public, at the behest of analysts and investors, Jeff Taufield,
a Greenhill spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  