-- 
Gundlach Leads Bond Funds Boosting Cash to Most Since 2008

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-07-18T19:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/gundlach-leads-bond-funds-boosting-cash-to-most-since-2008-in-bullish-bet.html
Mutual funds in the U.S. that focus
on bonds have the highest percentage of their assets in cash
since 2008, which may temper a rise in yields from about record
lows as managers put that money to work.  Managers are sitting on about $243 billion of cash and
short-term securities, or about 9.79 percent of assets, after
investors plowed $90 billion into taxable bond funds this year,
according to Morningstar Inc. and the Investment Company
Institute in  Washington . That’s up from 9.1 percent last year
and above the average of 8.43 percent in the decade ended 2010.  Few managers see scope for yields on everything from
Treasuries to  junk bonds  to fall, and many said they are poised
to redeploy the cash into bonds as they rise because the economy
isn’t strong enough to generate faster inflation or cause the
Federal Reserve to raise  interest rates  this year. Each time the
yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury approached 4 percent in
the past three years, investors drove it lower. It ended at 2.91
percent last week.  “We are looking for a more severe down move in prices, for
a better level to buy,” said  Jeffrey Gundlach , whose $8.51
billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund beat 99 percent of its
peers in the last year by returning 13 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “To hold cash you have to have a
conviction that prices of something that you’d otherwise own
will go down, which is exactly what happened in June.”  Buying Opportunity  Gundlach, the chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based
DoubleLine Capital Inc., said in a telephone interview that he
has 10 percent of the fund’s assets in cash, about five times
what it usually holds. He views a move in the 10-year Treasury
yield above 3.5 percent as a buying opportunity.  Bonds rallied last week even as Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on review
for downgrade as lawmakers dicker over raising the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling and cutting the  budget deficit .  Treasuries extended last week’s advance, pushing the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note one basis point lower to 2.90
percent, as of 11:12 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent security due May 2021 rose
3/32, or $94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 30/32.  Last week’s auctions of three-, 10- and 30-year Treasuries
all attracted higher-than-average demand. The bid-to-cover ratio
on the $13 billion in bonds, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount offered, was 2.80, above the average
of 2.64 at the prior 10 sales.  ‘Put to Work’  “The market is saying that regardless of what happens,
there is money to be put to work in all the ultra high-grade
sovereigns,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said. “There’s cash on the
sidelines from profit-taking in the second quarter. There’s
money coming in from global investors.”  Assets in bond funds rose to $2.6 trillion at the end of
2010 from $1.5 trillion at the end of 2008, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  Fixed-income securities have returned an average of 3.73
percent this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Market Index, which has about 10,300 securities with a
market value of $17.9 trillion. The index has risen every month
this year except in June, when it fell 0.3 percent.  Treasuries handed investors a 3.54 percent gain this year,
the Bank of America figures show.  Growth Slowdown  Bonds are attractive as the economy slows, inflation
remains contained and analysts push back their estimates of when
the Fed will raise interest rates.  The median estimate of 62 economist surveyed by Bloomberg
News from June 28 to July 7 is for gross domestic product to
expand 2.5 percent this year. That’s down from 3.1 percent in
the January poll. Figures from the Labor Department on July 15
showed that consumer prices fell 0.2 percent in June, the first
decline in a year as energy costs dropped.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week that
the central bank is prepared to take additional action,
including buying more  government bonds , if the economy appears
to be in danger of stalling.  Futures traded at the Chicago Board of Trade show the Fed,
which last month ended its $600 billion Treasury purchase
program, isn’t likely to raise its target rate for overnight
loans between banks from a range of zero to 0.25 percent until
at least the second quarter of next year.  Thornburg Fund  “Yields are pretty low, but at the same time economic
fundamentals in the U.S. and most developed markets are poor. So
it’s unlikely that the  Federal Reserve  will raise rates in the
next year,” said Jason Brady, a managing director at Santa Fe,
New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which
oversees $84 billion.  Thornburg’s Limited Term U.S. Government Fund, which
invests 80 percent of its assets in U.S. government issued or
guaranteed securities, had 9.5 percent in cash as of June 30,
about double the typical 5 percent, Brady said. The $340.3
million fund’s 3.28 percent return in the last 12 months beat 90
percent of its peers, according to Bloomberg data.  The $8.7 billion Western Asset Core Plus Bond Fund had 33
percent of its assets in cash as of June 30, data from
Morningstar show. The fund, managed by Legg Mason Inc.’s Western
Asset Management unit, has advanced 7.7 percent to beat 89
percent of peers over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, isn’t likely to be swapping idle cash
for longer-maturity Treasuries.  Bill Gross , Pimco’s co-chief
investment officer and manager of the $242.8 billion Total
Return Fund, has said Treasuries are unattractive because yields
are too low relative to the risk of faster inflation.  ‘Liability Burden’  The Total Return Fund had approximately 29 percent of its
assets invested in cash and equivalents as of June 30,
equivalent to about $70 billion. While Gross boosted the fund’s
investment in U.S. government securities to 8 percent of assets
in June from 5 percent in May, he told CNBC on July 13 that
their Treasury investment is in two-year and three-year notes.  “The U.S. basically has a $60 trillion net present value
liability burden, and that constitutes Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security in combination,” Gross said July 15 on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .
“It certainly exceeds those liabilities in Greece or Portugal
or  Spain . Ultimately the U.S. has a big, big problem.”  Europe  Crisis  Treasury 10-year yields, which serve as a benchmark for
everything from mortgages to company bonds, will likely rise to
3.55 percent by year-end, according to the weighted average
estimate of 62 economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield, which has ranged from 2.04 percent to 4.27
percent since the start of 2008, slid back below 3 percent last
week as traders sought the safest assets on concern Europe’s
dent crisis was spreading.  Moody’s cut Ireland to below investment grade on July 12,
while Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose to 6.02 percent on July
12, the highest since the euro was created in 1999. The 17-
nation common currency touched $1.3837 on July 12, its weakest
level since March.  “It’s a period now where you need to be cautious,” Terry Belton, the global head of fixed-income and foreign-exchange
research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a July 7 “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview. “So earning zero or close to
zero for a short period of time is not the worst thing in the
world in the very near term.”  Belton’s fixed-income research group was No. 1 last year in
Institutional Investor magazine’s poll of U.S. money managers.  BlackRock ‘Defensive’  The $21 billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund is holding the
highest levels of reserves since 2007, according to Kathleen Gaffney, co-manager along with  Dan Fuss . The fund, which
according to Bloomberg data has advanced 8.4 percent over the
past five years to beat 96 percent of peers, has about 9 percent
of assets in cash and equivalents and nothing in Treasuries.  “We normally park our reserves in Treasuries but the
Treasury market is too volatile these days,” Gaffney said in a
telephone interview from  Boston .  Rick Rieder, who oversees $595 billion as chief investment
officer of fundamental fixed-income at BlackRock Inc. in  New
York , said he is holding “high levels of cash” in various bond
portfolios. The fixed-income portion of BlackRock’s Strategic
Income Opportunities Fund has 43 percent of its assets in cash
and cash equivalents.  Rieder said his firm is “underweight” Treasuries relative
to benchmark indexes, although he may be a buyer if yields on
the 10-year Treasury rise above 3.5 percent.  “We’re a bit defensive because the downside risks are
significant, but we also think there’s going to be opportunities
to take advantage of as we learn more about the debt ceiling
situation and the European debt crisis,” Rieder said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  