-- 
IBM Gains Most in Two Years After Raising Profit Forecast

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-07-19T20:14:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/ibm-increases-2011-eps-forecast-as-second-quarter-profit-exceeds-estimates.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer-services company, climbed the most
in more than two years after reporting sales that beat analysts’
estimates and lifting its profit forecast amid buoyant demand
for software.  Second-quarter revenue rose 12 percent to $26.7 billion,
Armonk, New York-based IBM said yesterday. That topped $25.4
billion, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
IBM raised its full-year earnings forecast to at least $13.25 a
share, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $13.21.  Software sales advanced 17 percent, evidence that Chief
Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is making headway on efforts to
bulk up in that area, in addition to services, IBM’s mainstay.
Together, the divisions accounted for 80 percent of IBM’s sales
in the quarter, up from 65 percent a decade earlier.  “They’ve done a good job of adjusting their business model
so that it’s more in line with the macro trends that we see in
technology,” said Joseph Foresi, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in  Boston , who rates the company “buy”
and doesn’t own the shares. “They’re very much forward-looking
in their business strategy.”  The company signed global services contracts worth $14.3
billion in the quarter.  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, estimated contract signings of
$12.8 billion.  IBM climbed $9.93, or 5.7 percent, to $185.21 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange trading, the biggest intraday gain since
March 23, 2009. It has climbed 26 percent this year. At least
ten analysts raised their price estimates for the stock.  Hardware Gains  Even as it focuses on software and services, IBM is
boosting sales of hardware, such as server computers, powerful
machines that run corporate networks. Sales at the hardware
division rose 17 percent as companies spent more to upgrade
dated technology.  “This is the time for IBM,” said James Kelleher, an
analyst at Argus Research in  New York , who recommends buying the
stock. “They’ve spent 20 years structuring their operating
model for the second half of an IT refresh cycle. IBM is much
better suited to this kind of environment because we’ve moved to
the second phase, where services, solutions and software
matter.”  Sales at the services business, IBM’s largest, increased 10
percent to $15.1 billion. The backlog of IBM’s services
contracts expanded to $144 billion.  “They’re taking a lot of market share in the hardware
business and helping drive along margins,” said Chris Whitmore,
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  San Francisco . “Corporate IT
spending is still healthy.”  Grids, Emerging Markets  Net income rose 8.2 percent to $3.66 billion, or $3 a
share, from $3.39 billion, or $2.61, a year earlier. Excluding
some items, earnings were $3.09 a share, beating the $3.02
average of analysts’ estimates.  IBM is seeking to boost operating earnings to at least $20
a share in 2015. The company is investing in businesses such as
cloud computing and analytics software, which it predicts will
generate $7 billion and $16 billion in revenue, respectively, by
that year. The global market for cloud-related services may more
than double to $148.8 billion in 2014 from $58.6 billion in
2009, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT)  in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Those steps, along with investments in emerging markets and
Smarter Planet -- IBM’s plan to digitize power grids, roads and
other infrastructure -- will help add on about $20 billion in
sales through 2015, IBM has said. In 2010, emerging markets
including  Brazil ,  China  and  India  accounted for 21 percent of
IBM’s revenue by geography, up from 11 percent a decade earlier.  ‘Stable Model’  Palmisano, who turns 60 this month, said last year the
company plans to make about $20 billion in acquisitions by 2015.
IBM is also developing services to monitor bank mainframes,
railroads and electrical grids. The company expects software to
make up half of total profit in 2015.  “IBM has answered the question: How do you add value while
hardware is becoming increasingly commoditized?” said David Grossman, a San Francisco-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. who rates the stock “buy” and doesn’t own it. “It’s a
pretty stable model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at  dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  