-- 
Michele Bachmann’s Hazardous Love for Israel: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/michele-bachmann-s-hazardous-love-for-israel-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Michele Bachmann , the Minnesota
congresswoman and Republican candidate for president, is
making a muscular showing in the polls. She is telegenic.
She is clever. Some of her Republican opponents worry she
may be unstoppable.  But never fear, oh Republican opponents of Michele
Bachmann: I’ve devised a fail-safe way to bring her to a
state of cognitive paralysis. This method will require some
travel on her part. Bachmann’s destination: the  Tel Aviv 
gay-pride parade.  Bachmann is unwaveringly opposed to what she refers to
as the gay “lifestyle.” Her husband, Marcus, runs a
counseling practice devoted in part to the straightening-
out of gay people. Bachmann herself told an audience not
long ago, “It’s a very sad life. It’s part of Satan, I
think, to say this is gay. It’s anything but gay.”  So a gay-pride parade in  New York  or  San Francisco 
might induce in Bachmann some uncomplicated feelings, such
as revulsion and loathing. But Tel Aviv is a different
story. Because Tel Aviv is in Israel -- a country that, in
Bachmann’s view, was placed on earth by God to fulfill his
ultimate purpose.  “A Curse”  Bachmann has built her foreign-policy platform on the
nuance-free defense of Israel. She does this not because
Israel is a strategic ally, or because it’s a democracy,
but because the Bible states that God will curse those who
betray it.  At a recent meeting of the  Republican Jewish
Coalition , she said, “I am convinced in my heart and in my
mind that if the  United States  fails to stand with Israel,
that is the end of the United States.” She went on: “We
have to show that we are inextricably entwined, that as a
nation we have been blessed because of our relationship
with Israel, and if we reject Israel, then there is a curse
that comes into play.”  Just imagine, then, Bachmann’s paralysis when
confronted by the reality of Tel Aviv, which is home to the
largest annual gay-pride parade in the  Middle East . The
most recent one, held last month, drew about 100,000
people.  According to a Guardian reporter , “Every square
metre of shade was crammed” and “friends greeted one
another with sweaty kisses and hugs.” A man named Amit
Margalit, described as a bare-chested 28-year-old, said,
“The weather is hot, the guys are hot, it’s a hot city.”  And it’s a city apparently in thrall to Satan. How
could  Israel , a country that represents to the Christian
right proof that history is steered by God’s hand, allow
such a thing to happen? This dilemma might be too much for
Bachmann to bear.  Of course, Bachmann would not be surprised by Israeli
society’s laissez-faire attitude toward gay rights if she
knew very much about Israel. But she doesn’t seem to know
much at all, apart from what she reads in the Bible.  Vision of Israel  Which brings us to a serious point. Lately, the
Christian right in the U.S. has made a fetish of Israel, to
a sometimes-disturbing degree. Not Israel in all of its
complications and contradictions: The Israel these
“Christian Zionists” support is the uncompromising Israel
of its most right-wing ideologues.  Republican presidential candidates race to outdo one
another in promising to defend a territorially maximalist
Israel as they would defend America.  Glenn Beck  is taking
his roadshow to Israel next month for a “Restoring Courage”
rally in  Jerusalem  (no, you can’t make this stuff up).
Organizations such as the Rev. John Hagee’s Christians
United for Israel lobby in  Washington  for a particularly
right-wing vision of the Middle East, in which Israel would
keep every one of its West Bank settlements.  Israel, in the eyes of many of its evangelical
supporters, can do no wrong. Its earthly mission, they
believe, is to thwart the global jihad; its heavenly
mission is to create conditions for the return of Jesus.  Hazards of Love  I’m not making light of sincerely held beliefs. There
is, of course, something improbable and mysterious and even
miraculous about the rebirth of the Jewish state after
2,000 years of nonexistence. And Israel doesn’t suffer from
a surfeit of friends in the world. But there are hazards in
this sort of love, both for the U.S. and for Israel.  For the U.S., the first danger is obvious: It’s one
thing to say we should support Israel because of shared
interests and cultural affinity. It’s another to say that
U.S. foreign policy makers should support Israel because
God will strike them down if they don’t. As a general rule,
theocrats should not make foreign policy.  Misunderstanding Zionism  A second hazard is this: Bachmann, Beck and company
defend, on theological and political grounds, Israel’s
continued settlement of the  West Bank . When President
 Barack Obama  recently suggested that Israel’s 1967 borders
should serve as the basis for peace negotiations (along
with land swaps),  Mitt Romney  accused him of throwing
“Israel under the bus.”  But what if Obama is right? What if the occupation of
the West Bank threatens Israel’s status as a Jewish-
majority democracy? The right’s conflation of settlements
with the cause of Zionism itself may come back to haunt
Israel.  “Betraying” Its Birthright  Which brings us to a third hazard: How will the
Christian right feel if Israel does, in fact, make
compromises for the sake of peace by “betraying” its
biblical birthright? Some pro-Israel evangelical leaders
already blame Jewish stiff-neckedness for the phenomenon of
anti-Semitism.  In his book “ Jerusalem Countdown ,” Hagee writes: “It
was the disobedience and rebellion of the Jews, God’s
chosen people, to their covenantal responsibility to serve
only the one true God, Jehovah, that gave rise to the
opposition and persecution that they experienced beginning
in Canaan and continuing to this very day.” The Jews’ own
rebellion, he writes, “had birthed the seed of anti-
Semitism.”  I’ve met evangelical leaders who share an unpleasant
tic with Israel’s critics on the far left: They all hold
Israel to an impossible standard of moral and political
behavior. To much of the Christian right, Israel isn’t a
real nation-state facing a series of painful choices. It
is, instead, a biblical fantasyland, and an instrument of
Christian salvation. In Bachmann’s case, it’s a living test
of America’s fealty to God.  For Israel’s sake then, if not for America’s, perhaps
it’s best that she remain ignorant of Israeli reality.
Including the reality of all those sweaty gays.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 