-- 
India Government Use of Free Webmail Criticized

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-07-18T23:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/india-government-s-use-of-hotmail-gmail-recipe-for-disaster-.html
After a triple bombing in Mumbai
killed 21 people last week, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
office issued a statement condemning the terrorist attacks --
from a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Hotmail address.  Singh’s staff’s use of a free e-mail account is typical of
most government workers, who log into Hotmail,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Gmail and Yahoo! Inc.’s e-mail to conduct official business.
They also list those addresses on agency websites and business
cards.  Bureaucrats avoid the government system because it covers
only 10 percent of federal employees, doesn’t include the latest
security patches and can’t be accessed via India’s 840 million
mobile-phone connections. That preference for free e-mail
accounts threatens the safety and veracity of government
information because the data is moving through computer servers
outside India, cybersecurity experts said.  “It’s a recipe for disaster,” said  Pawan Duggal , a New
Delhi lawyer who argues information-technology cases before
 India ’s Supreme Court. “It’s really quite amazing that, as a
nation, we haven’t yet woken up to the idea that sensitive
government information should be shared through secure channels,
not Hotmail or Yahoo.”  Tata Consultancy, Infosys  The  Ministry of Commerce  sends market-moving inflation data
via a Gmail account, and the  Indian Air Force  uses another to
send media updates on competitive bidding for an $11 billion
combat-jet program. After a July 6 interview with Bloomberg News,
Attorney General Goolam Vahanvati handed out Hotmail and Gmail
addresses as the best ways to contact him.  Public servants shun an e-mail system in a nation with an
 $88.1 billion IT industry  employing 2.5 million workers, making
India the world’s largest outsourcing destination. The nation’s
three biggest IT companies --  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
Infosys Ltd. and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  -- count Deutsche Bank AG and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  among their clients.  The government system created by the New Delhi-based
National Informatics Center usually requires an Internet-
connected computer, and the  World Bank  said last year that fewer
than 5 percent of Indians have ever used the Internet. Indians
typically use smartphones to access e-mail.  Only senior government officials have smartphone access to
federal e-mail, and a security precaution prevents them from
sending messages to other NIC addresses, according to the  NIC
website .  Hacking Worries  B. K. Gairola , the director general of the NIC, did not
respond to several phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  “It certainly makes sense that lots of people around India
use Hotmail for all sorts of e-mail, both official and
personal,” Microsoft’s India unit said in an e-mail. “Hotmail
is convenient, secure and easily accessible.”  Google’s Gurgaon-based spokeswoman, Paroma Chowdhury,
declined to comment.  A week before the terrorist attacks, Singh’s office used
Hotmail to send condolences to the families of 65 people killed
in a train derailment.  ‘Alarming’ Situation  Singh’s spokesman, Harish Khare, did not respond to an e-
mail sent to his government account seeking comment.  Using the government system requires going through NIC’s
website. During the past decade, NIC created about 300,000 e-
mail accounts for India’s 3.1 million federal employees to
access through secure servers, said Siba Charan Pradhan, who is
in charge of the messaging systems and anti-virus unit at NIC.  India’s domestic Intelligence Bureau issued a directive
saying government workers must use official e-mail accounts,
Pradhan said.  Accessing NIC’s website is complicated for those in remote
parts of India, where  Internet access  is spotty and slow.
Ministry of Environment and Forests employees list their Hotmail
and Gmail addresses on the  website  because even basic mobile
phones can receive e-mails, said Eknath Muley, a former director
who retired last year.  “It’s quite alarming and sad that this is the situation in
a country where the private sector IT companies are so
advanced,” said  Rakshit Tandon , a consultant with the  Internet
and Mobile Association of India , an industry group. “The use of
private e-mail accounts needs to be stopped, once and for all.”  Veracity Questioned  The government also is creating potential legal troubles
for itself by using Hotmail and Gmail accounts, Duggal said. The
host servers often are outside India, making jurisdiction
complicated during instances of cyberfraud or hacking.  The  Supreme Court  has said in several cases that it doesn’t
trust government statements or data sent through a free e-mail
account, so it requested information through official accounts
instead.  “When an official is defending himself by presenting
information or exchanges from a free account, it produces the
question of authenticity and veracity of information,” Duggal
said. “And that starts giving the opposite end the opportunity
to stand and challenge it.”  E-Mail ‘Leakage’  Before the government depends on its own e-mails, the
system has to be upgraded to fix flaws, and users have to be
taught to be more sophisticated, Tandon said. Official websites
often don’t have the latest security patches, and employees
share or use common passwords.  “There is a massive amount of proliferation and leakage in
the government sector,” said Tandon, whose group has held
workshops on cybersecurity with about 5,000 government officials.  The website of the  Central Bureau of Investigation , India’s
equivalent of the FBI, was  defaced  with anti-Indian messages in
December. The government denied July 6 reports in local media
that the website for the National Security Guards, the elite
counter-terrorism unit, had been hacked.  In April 2010, hackers traced back to  China  accessed
documents from India’s missile programs, security assessments of
states bordering China and files from embassies worldwide,
including two marked “secret,” according to a report by
Information Warfare Monitor, a research group associated with
the  University of Toronto .  The Indian government was unaware of the attack until
informed by researchers, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  