-- 
India Stock Rally Hinges on Policy Steps, Spending, Kotak Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-18T08:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/india-stock-rally-hinges-on-policy-steps-spending-kotak-says.html
B. Gopkumar, executive vice
president at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. He spoke today in a phone interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
0.3 percent to 18,506.5 as of 1:24 p.m. in Mumbai.  On outlook for  interest rates :  “We expect inflation and interest-rate cycle to peak out
soon, which may boost stocks. We expect a rate increase of a
maximum 50 basis points from here.”  India ’s central bank has raised borrowing costs 10 times
since the start of 2010 to tackle inflation. The next policy
announcement is due July 26.  On government policy:  “If the government passes legislation on foreign direct
investment in retail in the monsoon session of the parliament,
raises infrastructure spending and speeds up project execution,
stocks may rally. Things will fall in place once the government
sends out the right policy signals.”  “We expect more companies to increase capital expenditure
in the next three to four months. The appeal of equity as an
asset class will return as soon as investors stop shifting money
to fixed income markets and corporate debt instruments.”  On company earnings:  “It’s a bit too early to take a call on earnings across
sectors. We expect banks to post strong net interest margins and
profit numbers for the June quarter.”  “We are advising clients to buy stocks in the information
technology and consumer spaces, including shares of fast-moving
 consumer goods .”  Three out of four Sensex companies have reported earnings
for the quarter ended June 30 that has fallen short of analyst
estimates as rising interest costs damped demand.  Some 33 percent of Sensex companies reported profits that
missed analysts’ estimates in the March quarter, compared with
less than a quarter that did so last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  