-- 
Minnesota Shutdown, Wisconsin Recalls Show States Mirror Washington Split

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/minnesota-shutdown-wisconsin-recalls-show-states-mirror-washington-split.html
Minnesota’s government is in its
third week of a shutdown. In Wisconsin, vacations have been
interrupted by nine recall elections. California lawmakers
approved a budget with only Democratic votes and  Montana ’s
Democratic governor vetoed 79 bills from the Republican-
dominated Legislature.  As Congress and the White House are again in showdown mode,
deadlocked over a measure to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, state
capitols are becoming more confrontational and adopting the
partisan traits of political  Washington , according to some
governors at the National Governors Association conference in
Salt Lake City that ended yesterday.  The tensions complicated efforts to close combined 2012
deficits estimated by the Washington-based Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities at $103 billion as states navigated the fourth
consecutive year of budget-cutting.  “It’s ironic that governors tend to demonize Washington
even as they practice some of the same arts at home,” Larry Jacobs, a political scientist at the  University of Minnesota ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  While some Democratic and Republican governors at the
three-day meeting condemned the debt-limit gridlock in
Washington, the effects of political polarization fester in
several states.  The Minnesota shutdown, which began July 1, was caused by a
standoff between Democratic Governor  Mark Dayton , who sought a
tax increase, and the Republican-controlled Legislature, which
opposed it. The impasse halted state construction projects,
closed parks and agencies and idled 23,000 employees.  Dayton and legislative leaders plan a special session as
early as today to approve a deal and end the shutdown, according
to the  Associated Press .  Recall Elections  An unprecedented number of recall elections, to remove
elected officials from office, are slated in Wisconsin after
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  and the Republican-led
Legislature enacted curbs on collective bargaining for most
state government employees.  The economic downturn has forced almost every state to make
deep spending cuts to balance its budget. Some, like  Illinois ,
have raised taxes, although with no Republican votes. Recall
efforts have begun in  Michigan  in protest of education cuts
approved by the Republican Legislature and Republican Governor
Rick Snyder.  ‘The Same Rhetoric’  “I listen to some of the clips today about the rhetoric in
Washington and I hear the same rhetoric in  North Carolina ,”
Democratic Governor Beverly Perdue said at a news conference
July 14. “It’s almost a playbook about the next election.”  Perdue last month vetoed a $19.7 billion budget approved by
the Republican-led Legislature that cut agencies and scaled back
environmental controls, while letting a temporary one-cent  sales
tax  expire along with some income taxes on high earners.
Lawmakers overrode the veto on party lines.  In  California , Governor  Jerry Brown  sought to cover part of
a $26 billion deficit by extending expiring taxes and fees. He
needed the votes of four Republican lawmakers to put the issue
to a statewide vote and began to woo the legislators in January.
Talks went into June as Republicans used their power to block
his tax plan to jockey for cuts to public pensions and to
environmental and business regulations. Ultimately, Brown
dropped the revenue effort and the state budget was passed only
with the votes of Democrats.  Intra-Party Disputes  Not all the conflicts are partisan. Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, called a special session of the
Legislature, which is controlled by members of her own party, to
change state law allowing extended  unemployment benefits  paid by
the federal government. Lawmakers refused on philosophical
grounds, immediately stopping assistance to 15,000 people and
costing the economy almost $3.5 million a week.  There’s a time to “stand your ground,”  Oklahoma Governor
Mary Fallin, a Republican, said in an interview, “but I also
think you should find common ground.”  “I don’t think it’s helpful when you have standoffs and
shutdowns of the government, whether it’s at the state level or
the federal level, because we’re dealing with issues that affect
the American people,” said Fallin, a former representative in
Congress.  Determining where and when to take that stand is the
challenge. Most states, including  New York , approved budgets
without disruption. Still, the level of conflict has escalated
around the country, said Missouri Governor Jay Nixon, a
Democrat. The battles have become fight-to-the-finish struggles.  ‘Lack of Civility’  “We’re all concerned with the lack of civility,” Nixon
said in an interview.  “We all know that our states and our country are more
complex than what a donkey or an elephant might say on a
particular issue,” he said, referring to the symbols for the
major political parties.  The current political climate has sharpened partisan
divisions on taxes and spending and discouraged bipartisanship,
Nixon said. “It’s not a sign of strength to join with others
and make incremental gains,” Nixon said.  Jacobs, the Minnesota professor, said partisanship at the
state level has grown because many moderates in both political
parties have been “chased out” and bipartisan consensus is
discouraged.  “It’s the same story we’re seeing in Washington, and it’s
playing out in all these states,” Jacobs said.  Wisconsin ’s War  Wisconsin is at political war. Both parties and their
traditional support groups have pledged to spend millions of
dollars on the August recall elections because control of the
state Senate is at stake. Walker, whose approval rating dropped
to 37 percent in a University of Wisconsin Badger Poll released
July 13, faces the prospect of a separate recall next year.  “In the end, what calms things down is results,” Walker
said in an interview, adding he believes the changes he pushed
in Wisconsin will be accepted by taxpayers.  Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent who
was previously a Republican U.S. senator, said he expects
divisions at the state level “to get worse.”  In fact, governors at their national meeting decided not to
issue what was to be a bipartisan letter urging Congress and the
White House to settle their differences on the debt ceiling.  “Everybody agreed, absolutely bipartisan, Republicans and
Democrats” that the debt ceiling needs to be raised, said
Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat who chaired
the governors’ meeting. The letter didn’t materialize, she said,
because the governors needed time to reach consensus on a larger
plan for taxes and spending cuts, and felt their message had
already gotten out through the media.  “I think the point is every governor that I know of thinks
it is important to raise the debt ceiling,” said Mississippi
Governor Haley Barbour, former chairman of the  Republican
National Committee . “But there are very significant differences
among governors” on how to get there, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Timothy Jones in  Salt Lake City  at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Salt Lake City at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  