-- 
Israeli Corporate Bonds Decline on European, U.S. Debt Concern

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-18T18:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/israeli-corporate-bonds-decline-on-european-u-s-debt-concern.html
Israeli corporate bonds fell the
most in almost two months on concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis and negotiations toward raising the U.S. debt ceiling may
hurt the local companies’ cash flow.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which includes inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, dropped 0.4 percent to 265.30 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, declining the most since May
24. Ten-year bonds of Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s second-
largest bank by assets, fell for the first time in three days.  The MSCI World index of global stocks dropped the most in a
week and the yield on Treasuries rose. European leaders are
holding a special summit this week seeking to contain the debt
crisis, after eight of the region’s banks failed stress tests.
In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  is trying to get lawmakers
in both parties to agree to a deficit-cutting deal as the Aug. 2
deadline for raising the debt ceiling looms.  “There is a fear of risk in the market denting investor
confidence in corporate bonds,” Assaf Rosenberg, a trader at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in  Ramat Gan , Israel
said by telephone. “Investors are moving out of corporate bonds
and are switching to  government bonds .”  The benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond due January
2020 rose, pushing the yield down one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.97 percent, the lowest level since Feb.
15. The TA-25 Index of shares dropped 0.9 percent, the most in a
week.  “There is negative sentiment in the market fueled by the
debt crisis in Europe, which is attracting investors to safer
assets,” said Shuki Arditi, a bond trader at Leader Capital
Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Shekel Weakens  The shekel weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar to
3.4507 at 5:44 p.m.  The yield on Bank Hapoalim bonds due in 2021 rose 1 basis
point to 3.25 percent.  Delek Group Ltd., the holding company owned by billionaire
Yitzhak Tshuva, had its debt outlook lowered by Moody’s Midroog
to “negative” from “stable,” while maintaining the A1
rating.  “The negative outlook is based on concern about weakening
sources of permanent cash flow,” Midroog said in a statement to
the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange today.  The yield on Delek’s shekel-denominated bonds due in 2022
jumped the most since April 20, increasing 27 basis points to
5.64 percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold Delek
bonds instead of Israeli sovereign debt more than doubled this
week to 44 basis points.  Israel  Electric  Israel Electric Corp.’s Baa2 debt rating was placed on
review for possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service,
after the company said it expects “financial hardship” in
financing the cost of alternative fuel following attacks on the
natural  gas pipeline  from  Egypt  last week.  The state-owned utility said it is prepared to use
alternative fuels to replace the Egyptian gas, which may add as
much as 3.5 billion shekels ($1 billion) beyond its allocated
fuel budget for the year.  The yield on 6.5 percent Israel Electric bonds due 2015
rose 5 basis points to 4 percent, the highest level since May
18.  The price of electricity in Israel may rise by 20 percent
as the country shifts to diesel and other more expensive fuels,
Israeli Minister of National Infrastructures Uzi Landau said
last week.  “Even with the proposed increase in tariffs, Israel
Electric may face a  cash flow  shortfall of about 2 billion
shekels,” according to Moody’s report.  Watchlist  Separately, Moody’s Midroog placed Israel Electric Corp.’s
2022 bond series on “watchlist,” citing financing difficulties
due to changes in gas supply.  Israel’s Ministry of Finance raised 950 million shekels at
debt auctions today.  “Demand at the auction was good as prices were at market
level,” Excellence’s Rosenberg, said by telephone.  The government sold 250 million shekels of notes due
September 2013 with a 3.5 percent coupon and 200 million shekels
of bonds maturing in January 2022 with a 5.5 percent coupon,
according to data from the ministry on Bloomberg.  The government also sold 200 million shekels of 2.75
percent inflation-linked bonds maturing in September 2022 and
300 million shekels of 183-day bills.  The auctions bring sales so far this month to 2.8 billion
shekels, out of the 3.9 billion shekels the ministry plans to
raise in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  