-- 
Israeli Facebook Campaign Over High Prices Helping Fischer Inflation Fight

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-19T13:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/israel-consumer-awakening-may-help-fischer-moderate-inflation.html
An Israeli Facebook boycott to
protest the rising cost of cottage cheese has inspired further
consumer actions against high prices of items ranging from
diapers to housing and may help bring down the inflation rate.  More than 100,000 Israelis joined a Facebook group last
month calling for a boycott of the dairy product whose price
surged after government price supervision was lifted. The outcry
prompted dairy companies, including  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , to lower
the cost and the government to set up a committee to examine
rising food prices. Another Facebook group is now targeting
other consumer products while demonstrators in several cities
are rallying against housing costs.  “The wave of protests against high food prices has
gathered momentum,” Victor Bahar, deputy manager of Bank
Hapoalim Ltd.’s economics department in  Tel Aviv , said by
telephone. “It has managed to bring down the prices of certain
dairy products and is also likely to hold down price increases
in the future.”  Economists’ 12-month inflation expectations declined to 2.9
percent from 3 percent a month ago, the Bank of  Israel  reported
yesterday, the first time this year that they have dropped below
the upper limit of the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range. Consumer prices, which rose 4.2 percent last
month, have surged as the economy recovers from the global
recession faster than most advanced countries, with inflation
exceeding the target range every month this year.  Average Inflation  Investors are betting that the average yearly inflation
rate will decline to 2.8 percent in the next two years,
according to Bloomberg data. The breakeven rate to 2019, which
reflects investors’ expectations for annual inflation for the
next 8 years, is 2.6 percent.  The expected slowing in inflation also follows 10 interest-
rate increases by  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  that
raised the benchmark rate to 3.25 percent from 0.5 percent in
2009. Growth slowed to 4.6 percent in the first quarter from 7.7
percent in the previous three months.  Israel’s index of leading economic indicators rose 0.2
percent in June, the Bank of Israel reported today.  “The index points to continued economic expansion, but at
a more moderate rate in the second quarter, compared to previous
quarters,” the central bank said in the statement.  Cutting Prices  Alon Holdings Blue Square Ltd. and Shufersal Ltd.,
operators of the two largest supermarket chains in the country,
have been cutting some prices in reaction to the protests,
Haaretz reported on July 11.  A Facebook group called “Buy Less - Bring Down Prices”
with 5,873 members opened following the cottage-cheese protests.
It is targeting diapers, baby formula,  breakfast cereals  and
olive oil, Gad Haran, one of the founders, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Demonstrators set up tent camps in central Tel Aviv,
Jerusalem and Beersheva this past weekend to protest what they
say is unaffordable housing. Home purchase prices have increased
36 percent in the past two years.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said yesterday the
government is working to amend laws to enable the construction
of “many more” apartments.  “Housing is a bit different. You can’t cut prices by
decision,” Bahar said. “However, there is a feeling of a
turnaround.”  Electricity Prices  While prices of consumer products may be moderating,
electricity prices are likely to rise due to problems with the
supply of natural gas from  Egypt , said Bahar, who expects an
increase of between 10 percent to 18 percent in the cost of
electricity.  Fischer will probably hold the benchmark interest rate at
the end of the month, according to 13 of the 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg at the end of June and beginning of July.
The two-year interest rate swap, the cost to receive floating
payments or a measure of the average short-term rates in the
next two years, declined to 3.86 percent from 4 percent the day
after the last interest rate increase decision on May 23,
meaning traders are boosting their bets on lower rates.  The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  has declined by about 6
percent since the beginning of the year, led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, supermarkets and manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 