-- 
Itau BBA’s Iunes Sees Brazil Equity Offerings Climbing to Most Since 2007

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 
2011-07-18T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/itau-bba-sees-brazil-equity-offerings-rising-to-most-since-2007.html
Brazil will have the most share
sales this year since 2007 even after companies including  Tereos
Internacional SA (TERI3)  canceled offerings and others raised less money
than expected, according to Banco Itau BBA SA, the nation’s top
equity underwriter.  “We’re heading towards much better conditions and more
share offerings than in the previous three years,” Fernando Iunes, managing director for  investment banking  at Itau BBA,
said in a July 13 telephone interview from  Boston . “We’ll see
some large companies or large deals going to the market. A lot
of the Brazilian companies need access to capital.”  Retail, infrastructure and commodities firms will lead the
increase in share sales this year as Brazil’s middle class
boosts spending and companies from Copersucar SA to QGEP
Participacoes SA seek funds for “ambitious” growth plans,
Iunes said. Itau BBA managed 19 stock sales worth $2.6 billion
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Sao
Paulo-based bank ranked fourth last year after Citigroup Inc.,
Banco Santander SA and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The benchmark Bovespa has fallen 14 percent this year
through July 15, the worst-performer out of 18 major global
stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Seven out of 10 companies
that held IPOs in  Brazil  this year sold their shares below or at
the bottom of their pricing ranges, including oil and gas
producer QGEP and Qualicorp SA, a health-insurance broker
controlled by Washington-based  Carlyle Group .  Brazil had 25 initial public offerings and secondary
offerings this year, amounting to 16 billion reais ($10
billion), compared with 18 deals worth 22.4 billion reais a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. That’s the most deals
since 2007 when 40 offerings totaling 26.6 billion reais were
priced in the same period.  Reduced, Pulled Sales  “It’s true that valuation has been affected because
comparable companies are trading down, so they’re trading at
lower multiples than previously,” Iunes said. “Secondly,
there’s more  risk aversion  in the markets overall, so there’s
less appetite for new issues. IPO discounts are much higher now
to reflect market conditions.”  There were 49 Brazilian share offerings in 2010, totaling
141.8 billion reais, Bloomberg data show. The value of share
sales last year was exceptional because of  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) ’s record $70 billion offering, Iunes said.  Copersucar, a Sao Paulo-based sugar exporter, said proceeds
of its planned offering of as much as 2.7 billion reais will be
used to almost double its port export capacity to 10 million
metric tons a year from 5.5 million. The IPO would be the
largest in Brazil since October 2009, when Banco Santander SA
raised 13.2 billion reais in the listing of its local unit in
 Sao Paulo .  ‘Favorable’ Outlook  Infrastructure investment will rise as Brazil President
 Dilma Rousseff  spends as much as  955 billion reais  in four years
on roads, airports and projects linked to the 2014  World Cup  and
2016  Summer Olympics  in Rio de Janeiro.  “The long-term outlook for Brazil remains very favorable
for the domestic consumer market, for infrastructure investment
and for commodities,” Iunes said. “We know of a few more
companies that are planning to go public and it will probably
happen in the second half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  