-- 
James Murdoch to Face Questions on $3.2 Million Settlements

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-19T10:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/james-murdoch-fights-for-career-as-lawmakers-to-question-hacking-payoffs.html
James Murdoch, deputy chief
operating officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) , will be asked by British
lawmakers whether settlements he authorized to victims of phone-
hacking by a Sunday tabloid were part of a cover-up.  Murdoch, 38, faces questions over his approval of at least
2 million pounds ($3.2 million) to settle privacy cases filed by
hacking victims and whether they were designed to conceal
wrongdoing at the News of the World tabloid News Corp. shut down
on July 10. He and his 80-year-old father, Rupert, will give
testimony to the Culture Committee at 2:30 p.m. in London today.  Some of those payments, which Murdoch said on July 7 he
regretted approving, were conditional on non-disclosure
agreements. In the same statement, Murdoch said his company’s
executives had misled Parliament. The policeman in charge of the
original investigation accused News International, the U.K.
publishing unit of News Corp., of “deliberately trying to
thwart” him. Ten people have been arrested in a new probe.  “We want to get to the bottom of what happened and why
none of this has come out until now,” Philip Davies, a
Conservative lawmaker who sits on the panel, said in an
interview. “They should have been aware of what was going on --
or certainly their company should have been aware of what was
going on.”  Chase Carey   News Corp. is considering elevating Chief Operating Officer
Chase Carey to chief executive officer, succeeding Rupert Murdoch, people with knowledge of the situation said. A decision
depends on Murdoch’s performance before Parliament, said the
people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. Murdoch would
remain chairman, the people said. Executives are concerned
Murdoch won’t do well answering questions, two people said.  The hearing will be led by Conservative John Whittingdale,
51, a former political secretary to  Margaret Thatcher  and aide
to ex-Conservative leader  William Hague . He achieved prominence
last week when he threatened to use Parliament’s powers to force
the Murdochs to give evidence.  The toughest questioning will come from Labour’s  Tom Watson ,
44, who has led the campaign to expose phone-hacking within
Parliament for two years. It was he who in 2009 got News of the
World editor Colin Myler to reveal that James Murdoch had
approved at least one of the settlements.  Paul Farrelly, 49, also for Labour, will draw upon his
background as a journalist with Reuters, the Observer and the
Independent on Sunday.  Only Hacker?  News Corp.’s News International unit, which publishes the
company’s U.K. newspapers, said after royal reporter  Clive Goodman  was jailed for phone-hacking in 2007 that he was the
only News of the World employee who had acted illegally. The
settlements authorized by James were for victims who had nothing
to do with the royal family.  Alice Macandrew, a News Corp. spokeswoman, declined to
comment before the hearing.  The committee will also question Rebekah Brooks, a former
News of the World editor who quit last week as News
International chief executive officer, after the Murdochs.
Brooks was arrested by police and questioned for nine hours two
days ago.  “What the public wants to hear is not just why it happened
in the first place, but why it wasn’t cleared up,” opposition
 Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  told reporters today. “Years
and years of denial, years and years of saying that it was a
small problem, rogue reporters and all of that, so I think they
need to come clean on those kind of issues.”  ‘Rogue Reporter’  Until January, News International executives stuck to the
line that phone-hacking at the News of the World had been the
work of a single “rogue reporter,” in the words of  Andy Coulson , who resigned as editor of the paper following Goodman’s
conviction. Coulson went on to work for U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  as director of communications, resigning in
January. He was arrested July 8.  In private, the company was settling lawsuits. First it
paid undisclosed amounts to Goodman and a private investigator,
 Glenn Mulcaire , who was jailed alongside him for phone-hacking.
Goodman had been fired when he was sent to prison and sued for
unfair dismissal. Mulcaire, who had been on a contract for the
paper, did likewise.  Les Hinton , then executive chairman of News
International, told the Culture Committee in September 2009 he
approved the payments. Hinton resigned from News Corp. July 15.  ‘Hush Money’  “There was definitely a cover-up,”  Chris Bryant , a
lawmaker from the opposition Labour Party who is suing News
Corp. over phone-hacking, said in an interview “Hush money was
paid, and  James Murdoch  agreed the payments. The question is
whether he got agreement higher up, and what he thought he was
doing. That’s one of the questions.”  In April 2008, lawyers for  Gordon Taylor , chief executive
of the Professional Footballers’ Association, obtained documents
from the police who had investigated Goodman and Mulcaire that
included a transcript of voicemails left for Taylor on his own
phone and left by him on the phones of two associates.  The transcript had been typed up by a junior reporter on
the newspaper and marked “for Neville.” The only Neville on
the News of the World at the time was Neville Thurlbeck, its
chief reporter. Tom Crone, legal manager at News International
told the committee in July 2009 that at this point the company
decided to seek an out-of-court settlement.  Gagging Order  Before the end of the year the paper paid 1 million pounds
in compensation and costs to Taylor and his colleagues, a
payment Crone said was approved by James Murdoch. It required
Taylor to agree a gagging order about the settlement. Crone left
the company on July 13.  The  Guardian newspaper  reported the Taylor settlement in
July 2009.  Rupert Murdoch  said he wasn’t aware of the payment.
“If that had happened, I would know about it,” he said in an
interview. The Culture Committee may ask him whether this was
the first he learned of the case and how he responded.  It was the Guardian report that prompted the committee to
begin asking its questions about phone-hacking. Hinton, Coulson,
Crone and Myler, the News of the World editor at the time, all
gave testimony and all insisted there was no evidence
implicating any reporter other than Goodman.  Taylor’s lawyer,  Mark Lewis , told the committee in
September 2009 that News International’s lawyers threatened to
seek an injunction to stop him from representing other phone-
hacking victims.  ‘Inconceivable’ Testimony  When the committee produced a report in February 2010, it
said it found the testimony from the four News Corp. executives
“inconceivable.” News International responded that the inquiry
had “damaged and materially diminished” the reputation of
Parliament, and that committee members had “repeatedly abused
the public trust.”  Again, this contrasted with another out-of-court
settlement, this time with the celebrity publicist  Max Clifford ,
the previous month. Clifford has acknowledged settling the case,
though he has refused to comment on reports in British media
that he received around 1 million pounds.  New denials of wrongdoing from News Corp. followed a New
York Times investigation in September. The Times cited unnamed
former News of the World reporters as saying Coulson had ordered
phone-hacking. News International questioned the newspaper’s
reliance on anonymous sources, and said it contained “no new
credible evidence.”  One of those sources was Sean Hoare, a former News of the
World reporter. A man police said they believed to be Hoare was
found dead at his home yesterday, according to police in
Hertfordshire, north of  London . The death is being treated as
unexplained and isn’t thought to suspicious, the police said in
a statement today.  Jude Law  By late last year, News International was facing a mounting
number of lawsuits from celebrities such as actor Jude Law and
soccer player Andy Gray. Some were also taking the police to
court to get access to evidence to help their cases. It was
these lawsuits that would force the company to change its line.  In January, News International handed the Metropolitan
Police a cache of material, leading the force to begin a full-
scale probe. In April, the News of the World admitted phone-
hacking had taken place on a much wider scale than previously
admitted, and said it would settle cases.  “News Corp. executives and non-executive directors have
shown themselves completely unable to control what was going on
in the paper,” Bryant said.  Two weeks ago, after the phone-hacking allegations spread
to encompass Milly Dowler, a schoolgirl murdered in 2002, and
the relatives of British war dead, James Murdoch said the News
of the World had “failed,” and News Corp. closed the paper.  “James Murdoch said he didn’t know enough,” Lewis, who
also represents Dowlers’ parents, said in a telephone interview.
“The question to be asked is not what didn’t he know, but what
did he know?”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 