-- 
Janney Hires Henson to Bolster Municipal-Bond Underwriting Team

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-18T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/janney-hires-henson-to-bolster-municipal-bond-underwriting-team.html
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, the
179-year-old Philadelphia brokerage firm, hired Tom Henson to be
head of public finance as it seeks to boost municipal-bond
underwriting.  Henson, 58, who previously was manager of public finance at
Pittsburgh-based  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , starts today
and reports to Steve Genyk, Janney’s managing director. Since
2008 the firm has hired more than 60 people for its capital
markets division, which includes fixed income, said Kathy Sweet,
a company spokeswoman.  “Half the battle in public-finance banking is
relationships, and Tom has fantastic relationships,” said Dale Foard, Janney’s head of municipal sales and trading, in a
telephone interview. “His relationships will allow us to be a
bigger player in the public-finance sector.”  The firm, an independently operated subsidiary of the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Co., is seeking to be among the five
biggest underwriters in  New York ,  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio , New Jersey
and  New England , Henson said.  “I was looking for a firm that understood the business and
had a consistent strategy to what mine would be in the middle-
markets space,” Henson said in a telephone interview. “I can’t
wait.”  PNC Expansion  At PNC, Henson expanded the municipal-finance group and
brought the firm to the top 10 in underwriting in Ohio and  New
Jersey , he said. He expanded the group to 45 bankers from 12
when he joined eight years ago.  Fred Solomon , a PNC spokesman, confirmed Henson is no
longer with the firm and declined to comment further.  Henson worked for UBS AG in the Zurich-based company’s
Philadelphia office before joining PNC in 2003, according to a
filing with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. In
1997, while at PaineWebber Inc., the brokerage acquired by UBS
in 2000, he paid a $50,000 fine without admitting or denying
guilt to settle allegations he made false entries on business
expense reports, according to the regulatory  filing .  “It’s been cleared up for a long time,” Henson said.  Janney agreed to pay an $850,000 penalty to settle claims
by the Securities and Exchange Commission over the failure to
enforce procedures related to its Equity Capital Markets unit,
creating the risk of  insider trading , the agency said in an e-
mailed statement July 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  