-- 
Japan, Australia Stock Futures Fall on U.S., Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-18T23:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/japanese-australia-stock-futures-fall-on-u-s-europe-debt-crisis-concern.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  fell on concern U.S. lawmakers will fail to reach a deal
on the country’s debt limit two weeks before a deadline and
 Europe ’s worsening crisis will slow the global economic recovery.  American depositary receipts of Nissan Motor Co., a
Japanese automaker that gets one third of its revenue in  North
America , declined 1.1 percent from the closing share price in
Tokyo on July 15 after stress tests on European banks failed to
alleviate investor concern over the region’s debt woes. Those of
Canon Inc., which counts Europe as its largest market, declined
1.2 percent. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, retreated 1.4
percent in Sydney after  oil prices  declined.  Futures on  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,870 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,970 in Osaka, Japan, on July 15. They were bid in the pre-
market at 9,900 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Markets were
closed in Japan yesterday for a holiday. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index declined 0.5 percent in Wellington.  “On top of uncertainty about the  U.S. economy , there can
only be negativity if the U.S. governments’ functionality
becomes paralyzed,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , senior strategist
at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo. “In Europe, the stress
tests are being seen as too soft, and it’s just postponing the
potential for problems.”  Global Decline  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. In  New York , the index slipped 0.8 percent to
1,305.44 yesterday, pushing the measure to its worst seven-day
period in more than a month, amid concern U.S. lawmakers will
fail to reach a deal on the nation’s debt limit two weeks before
an Aug. 2 deadline.  Global stocks declined amid President Barack Obama’s
efforts to get lawmakers to agree to a deficit-cutting deal as
the deadline for raising the debt ceiling nears. U.S. equities
have been under pressure amid growing concern lawmakers will
fail to reach an agreement to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit.  Shares also declined after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
economists led by Jan Hatzius, based in Germany, cut their
forecasts for real U.S. economic growth to 1.5 percent in the
second quarter and 2.5 percent in the third quarter, from 2
percent and 3.25 percent respectively.  Stress Tests  European shares declined yesterday on concern the region’s
banks may have to raise as much as 80 billion euros ($113
billion) of additional capital as stress tests failed to allay
investor concern about a Greek default and governments’ ability
to bail out their lenders.  The European Banking Authority said after the close of
trading on July 15 that eight of the 90 banks had failed the
stress tests. Regulators didn’t include a Greek default in the
tests even though credit default swaps indicate investors see an
almost 90 percent chance of one.  Crude oil for August delivery dropped １.4 percent to settle
at $95.93 a barrel in New York yesterday. Oil futures have risen
26 percent in the past year.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.9 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 3.8 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index in
the same period. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at
13.5 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.1
times for the S&P 500 and 10.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 