-- 
JetBlue’s $4 Fares Lure Angelenos Flying for ‘Heck of It’

-- B y   D a n i e l   T a u b
-- 
2011-07-18T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/jetblue-s-4-fares-lure-angelenos-flying-for-heck-of-it-.html
Michael Beener drove 40 miles from
his home in Orange County to board an Airbus SAS A320 in
 Burbank , fly across  Southern California  to Long Beach, get off,
get back on and return to Burbank. The cost: $8, plus gas and
parking.  “I fly on a regular basis, and this is one of the ones to
go down on the books,” said the 30-year-old advertising
designer. “It’s just for the heck of it.”  The  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  “Carmageddon Fly-Over” trips he
took were tied to the weekend shutdown of a 10-mile (16-
kilometer) section of Interstate 405, the busiest stretch of
freeway in Los Angeles, to allow for the demolition of an
overhead bridge. The event was labeled Carmageddon by local
media, and residents were warned to stay home or use alternate
routes during the closure. The work was finished yesterday, and
cars returned to the freeway 16 hours ahead of schedule.  The special JetBlue flights -- two each way on Saturday
between Bob Hope Airport in Burbank, north of the shutdown, and
 Long Beach  Airport to the south -- cost $4 for a standard seat
and $5 for one with extra legroom on the 150-seat A320.  “I’m not really a high-roller, so I didn’t fork out the
extra dollar,” said Justin Paquette, a 28-year-old chiropractic
student from Burbank. He flew one way, Burbank to Long Beach, to
work at the Orange County Fair, and was planning to catch a ride
home with a friend driving back at night.  The flights sold out within three hours, according to Mateo Lleras, a spokesman for the Forest Hills, New York-based
carrier. With 29 miles between the two airports, they were the
shortest the airline had ever scheduled, he said.  ‘Serious Business’  “This is a very serious business in terms of the  airline
industry , but we also don’t take ourselves overly seriously,”
JetBlue Chief Executive Officer Dave Barger said in an interview
at Long Beach Airport after taking the first of the four
flights, designated Flight 405 for the interstate that was
closed. “Otherwise I think air travel these days is basically a
commodity, moving from A to B.”  Travelers were treated to cake decorated with toy cars in
Burbank. On the plane, there were cookies frosted with the
Interstate 405 logo. JetBlue provided a lunch of Vietnamese
spring rolls, chicken skewers, pita and hummus in Long Beach.  Flight 405 included views of the car-free interstate,
eliciting oohs and aahs from passengers used to seeing the
freeway jammed with bumper-to-bumper traffic. “I think I saw
 Paris Hilton  walking her dog,” one flight attendant said over
the public-address system. The trip lasted 23 minutes from
liftoff to landing.  Bike Race  “JetBlue welcomes you to Long Beach,” an attendant
announced. “The local time is 20 minutes after you left.”  “I can never sleep on a flight,” complained one passenger
during exit.  A group of bicycling advocates used the opportunity to race
the jet from Burbank to  Long Beach . They left at 10:50 a.m., an
hour and a half before the flight’s scheduled departure, about
the time a local passenger would have to leave for the airport,
said Joe Anthony, a group member who took the flight.  “We lost,” he said, checking his mobile phone while
leaving the plane. The five bicyclists arrived at Long Beach’s
waterfront at 12:24 p.m., 35 minutes before the plane landed.  Later in the day, passengers returning to Burbank were
warned to beware of jet lag, and the plane’s doors were held
open an extra moment for stragglers. “We don’t want to leave
anyone here because they wouldn’t have a way to get home,” one
JetBlue worker said over the loudspeaker.  “They could always bike home,” retorted another employee.
“It’s faster.”  No Profit  The flight back, which reached an altitude of just 5,000
feet (1,500 meters) and gave passengers another view of the
empty 405, was quicker than the one down. Jetliners usually
cruise at more than 30,000 feet. It took off at 7:59 p.m., and
six minutes later attendants were told to prepare for landing,
and in another six minutes the plane touched down at  Bob Hope
Airport . Total flight time: 12 minutes.  JetBlue didn’t make money on the flights. With government
taxes and fees totaling $10.70 per person, it was in the red
even before paying for fuel, pilots and other operating costs.  Passengers had extra expenditures too. Parking for the day
at Bob Hope Airport was $31, almost four times the amount of a
round-trip ticket, and a cab from the airport in Long Beach to
the waterfront was $23 before tip.  Those on board included reporters from the Los Angeles
Times,  CNN  and other outlets doing stories on the flights as
part of their Carmageddon coverage.  Trains, Automobiles  John Friedman, the 53-year-old owner of RSM Security Inc.,
an alarm-installation company in  Westlake Village ,  California ,
took the trip with his 9-year-old son, Aaron. Over the course of
the day, they rode almost every type of transportation
available: a car to the airport, the plane south and back, two
buses and a train in Long Beach, and a boat to visit the  Queen
Mary , the retired luxury ocean liner docked there.  While Friedman planned to spring for the most expensive
seats, he found the only $5 ones available were over the plane’s
wings, which wouldn’t afford his son the view he wanted.  The price was right, said Beener, the Orange County
advertising designer. “This opportunity will probably never
exist again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in  Los Angeles  at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  