-- 
Julio Velarde to Stay On at Peru Central Bank for Five Years, Humala Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-18T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/julio-velarde-to-stay-on-at-peru-s-central-bank-humala-says.html
Peru ’s President-elect Ollanta Humala said Central Bank President Julio Velarde will remain in
his post for another five-year term to help maintain economic
stability.  Velarde accepted an invitation to stay on after his term
ends July 28, Humala said in an interview with Lima-based
America Television yesterday. Velarde has led the central bank
“well,” he said. Humala said he’ll announce ministerial posts
July 20.  “Our commitment is to provide macroeconomic stability and
stability in monetary policy, which Julio Velarde is going to
do,” Humala said. “We’re sending the right messages.”  Humala, who takes office July 28, is seeking to reassure
investors concerned that his plans to raise mining royalties,
increase Peru’s minimum wage and enlarge state companies may
crimp private investment fueling the region’s fastest growth of
the last decade. The $153 billion economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 15 months in May as companies reduced spending
while waiting for the 49-year-old former army rebel to announce
his economic policies.  The Lima General Index of stocks has fallen 13 percent this
year amid concern Humala’s plans to introduce a mining windfall
tax will endanger $42 billion of investment in mine expansions.
The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due August 2020 has risen 36 basis points, or 0.36 percentage
point, to 6.30 percent this year, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Tripling Reserves  Since being appointed in 2006 to head the central bank,
Velarde, 59, has helped triple international reserves to a
record $47 billion and raised lending rates to a two-year high
in May to curb inflation, which has been the lowest in the
region since 2006.  Velarde, who holds a doctorate in economics from  Brown
University , introduced measures including raising  reserve
requirements  for  bank deposits  to rein in lending. He increased
the operating limit on pension fund managers’ investments
overseas four times last year to help cool demand for the local
currency.  Humala said he’ll seek to spur investment in the Andean
nation’s mining and gas industries and will urge pension fund
managers to invest in infrastructure projects instead of buying
stocks or overseas assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  