-- 
Nabi Shares Plunge After Smoke-Cessation Drug Shown Ineffective in Study

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-18T17:03:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/nabi-shares-plunge-after-smoke-cessation-drug-shown-ineffective-in-study.html
Nabi Biopharmaceuticals (NABI) , the
developer of a vaccine for nicotine addiction, plunged to a 13-
year low in Nasdaq trading after the treatment for smoking
cessation failed to show effectiveness.  Nabi, based in Rockville,  Maryland , dropped $1.75, or 69
percent, to $1.75 at 12:53 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, after earlier declining to $1.55, the lowest
price since October 1998.  The drug, NicVAX, is an experimental vaccine aimed at
aiding smoking cessation and preventing relapses in recovering
smokers. NicVAX didn’t help smokers quit in the first of two
Phase 3 clinical trials designed to evaluate effectiveness, Nabi
said today in a statement.  “NicVAX is dead as currently configured,” Jeffrey Cohen,
senior analyst at CK Cooper & Co. in  Irvine ,  California , said in
an interview. “Nabi’s recovery is somewhat unrealistic.”  Cohen has a “buy” rating that is under review, he said.
He doesn’t own the stock.  Subjects using NicVAX quit smoking at a similar rate of 11
percent compared with subjects who received a placebo treatment,
the company said. The study was part of the last of three stages
of clinical trials generally required for U.S. regulatory
approval.  Nabi is currently conducting a second round of Phase 3
trials that will analyze today’s results, President and Chief
Executive Officer Raafat Fahim said in a webcast.  “We hope that our analysis over the next little while will
shed light on the reasons for such surprising results,” Fahim
said. “The trial was very well conducted.”  Nabi formed an exclusive option and license agreement for
NicVAX with London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in March 2010 that
entitled Nabi to receive $20 million upon the successful
completion of Phase 3 trials and up to $460 million in potential
option fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 