-- 
Australia Dollar Pares Gain as RBA Minutes Show No Rush for Tighter Policy

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-07-19T06:53:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/new-zealand-dollar-falls-on-stock-slump-aussie-gains-before-july-minutes.html
Australia ’s dollar pared gains
against its U.S. counterpart after minutes from the  Reserve
Bank ’s last meeting reduced expectations that policy makers will
increase  interest rates  to combat inflation.  The so-called Aussie failed to offset a three-day decline
after the RBA said there was “more time” to assess price
pressures. New Zealand dollar’s traded 0.6 percent from its all-
time high versus the greenback as TD Securities Inc. said the
nation’s central bank may raise rates as early as next week.  “The big thing in the minutes is they dropped the
reference to need for tighter policy at some stage,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy at Credit Agricole SA
in  Hong Kong . “The fact that they have now dropped that
reference is obviously playing negatively for the Aussie.”  Australia’s currency was at $1.0633 as of 4:48 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0607 in New York yesterday, trimming earlier
gains to $1.0651. New Zealand’s dollar traded at 84.53 U.S.
cents from 84.50 cents, close to the 85.07 cent record reached
on July 14. The Aussie fetched 84.03 yen from 83.84 yen, while
the so-called kiwi was at 66.81 yen from 66.79 yen.  “The flow of recent information suggested both that there
was more time to assess the likely strength of inflationary
pressures in Australia and that it would be prudent to use that
time,” according to the minutes released today of the RBA’s
July 5 meeting. Minutes from the June meeting released last
month signaled that “tightening in monetary policy would be
necessary at some point.”  100% Chance  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens has kept the official cash rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent since November as the economy
recovered from floods. Cash-rate futures show a 100 percent
probability the RBA will lower borrowing costs by December,
Sydney Futures Exchange contracts show.  “The RBA is likely to ‘stay its hand’ in terms of
tightening near term,” Gavin Stacey, an interest-rate
strategist in Sydney at  Barclays Capital , and Joaquin Vespignani,
an economist at the company, wrote in a note today. “But, in
our view, rate hikes rather than rate cuts are on its mind.”  Yields on Australia’s government bonds maturing in three
years added one basis point to 4.29 percent after reaching 4.26
percent yesterday, the lowest level since September.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which advised clients on June 29
to sell the yen and buy Australia’s dollar, stopped the
recommendation.  N.Z. Rates  “The trade idea suffered” because expectations for higher
interest rates decreased in Australia and appetite for riskier
assets deteriorated, strategists led by  Thomas Stolper  wrote in
a note dated yesterday.  The kiwi was supported on speculation the Reserve Bank of
 New Zealand  will raise rates from a record low of 2.5 percent.  “We are warming to the theme” that there may be a 50
basis-point increase in rates as soon as next week,  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities in
 Singapore , wrote in a research note today. “At the very least,
the bank may prepare the market for such a move at the 15
September Monetary Policy Statement.”  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent in the three months
ended March 31 from the previous quarter, Statistics New Zealand
said on July 14, outpacing the RBNZ’s forecast for an expansion
of 0.3 percent.  Demand for the Australian and New Zealand dollars was
limited as euro-area leaders prepare to meet in Brussels on July
21 to discuss efforts to end the region’s debt crisis.  “Concern about  Europe ’s debt problems spurs risk aversion
through a drop in stocks,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior
currency analyst in  Tokyo  at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides
foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “We should be
bearish” on the Australian and New Zealand currencies for the
near term, he said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares fell for a
fourth day, losing 0.4 percent after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slid 0.8 percent in  New York  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 