-- 
New Zealand Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-18T01:59:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/new-zealand-inflation-accelerates.html
New Zealand consumer prices rose
more than economists forecast in the second quarter, led by fuel
and food costs, adding to the case for the central bank to lift
 interest rates  this year from a record-low.  Consumer prices gained 1 percent from the first quarter,
when they advanced 0.8 percent, Statistics New Zealand said in
Wellington today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 15 economists was for a 0.8 percent increase. From a year
earlier, inflation accelerated to 5.3 percent in the second
quarter, the most since 1990, from 4.5 percent in the year
through March.  Annual inflation is near the top of the central bank’s
target range, after excluding a 2.5 percentage-points lift from
emissions trading levies and a sales-tax increase. Two-year
swaps yields rose to a five-month high as traders bet underlying
price pressures may prompt Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard to
raise the official cash rate from 2.5 percent by year end.  “The cash rate at 2.5 percent is on borrowed time,” said
 Mark Smith , an economist at ANZ  National Bank Ltd. (NBL)  in
Wellington, who expects a December increase. “Any unwelcome
surprise on the inflation and employment front and the RBNZ’s
hand is likely to be forced in September.”  Rate Outlook  Traders today increased bets Bollard will lift rates. There
is a 100 percent chance of a quarter-point rise in December,
from 84 percent on July 15, according to swaps prices quoted by
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   There is a 68 percent possibility of an Oct. 27 rise and 28
percent chance of Sept. 15, swaps show.  The two-year swap yield rose 8 basis points to 3.5 percent
as at 1:15 p.m. in Wellington, the highest since Feb. 24.  New
Zealand ’s dollar bought 84.36 U.S. cents from 84.49 cents
immediately before the report. Earlier it rose to 84.92 cents.  After a July 14 report showed gross domestic product surged
0.8 percent from the fourth quarter, six of 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast Bollard will raise the cash
rate in December. Five expected no change in borrowing costs
until 2012.  Bollard cut the cash rate to a record in March to revive
confidence after an earthquake devastated the southern city of
Christchurch, killing more than 180 people and hurting spending.
He left the benchmark unchanged on June 9, saying the pace and
timing of any increases will be guided by the speed of recovery.  Inflation Target  Last month Bollard forecast that consumer prices rose 0.7
percent in the second quarter, and that annual inflation
excluding one-time government policy changes would be 2.5
percent. He is required to keep inflation in a range of 1
percent to 3 percent on average.  Rising insurance and construction costs resulting from the
Christchurch quake may boost inflation in the next year,
economists said.  Thirty-six percent of 782 companies surveyed last month by
the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc . expected to
raise prices. Inflation will average 3 percent in two years,
according to the average of 75 forecasts received from local
company executives, the central bank said May 24.  In the second quarter, consumer prices were led higher by a
4 percent jump in gasoline and a 1.1 percent gain by food,
primarily groceries and vegetables, today’s report showed.  Bollard’s primary focus is on non-tradable inflation, a
core measure of prices that isn’t influenced by currency
fluctuations and fuel.  Core Prices  Non-tradable prices rose 0.6 percent from the first
quarter, today’s report showed. The measure gained 5.2 percent
from a year earlier, matching a record for  Statistics New
Zealand ’s series back to 1999, and the highest since 1991 based
on an earlier central bank series.  Non-tradable inflation was stoked by electricity prices,
which gained 2.7 percent. The cost of purchasing a new house,
which reflects construction expenses, rose 0.9 percent. Domestic
airfares rose 8 percent, the most in 10 years.  Tradable prices rose 1.5 percent from the first quarter led
by fuel and food. International airfares gained 6.8 percent. The
price of imported audio-visual and computing equipment fell as
the currency gained. From a year earlier, tradable prices
increased 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  