-- 
News Corp. Names Grabiner to Lead Independent Internal Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-07-18T15:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/news-corp-says-lawyer-to-lead-internal-probe.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  appointed Anthony Grabiner, a U.K. lawyer and chairman of retailer Arcadia Group
Plc, to lead an internal probe into phone hacking at its News of
the World newspaper.  Grabiner, who represented Liverpool Football Club last year
in a legal battle with former owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett , will head a committee investigating wrongdoing by
employees, News Corp. said today. Grabiner will serve as an
independent director on the management and standards committee
with  Simon Greenberg , corporate affairs director at the News
International U.K. unit, and General Manager Will Lewis.  The 66-year-old Grabiner “will bring his undoubted
experience and intellect to this very important role,” News
Corp. Executive Vice President  Joel Klein  said in a statement.
“His appointment clearly demonstrates that we are serious about
putting things right that have gone wrong in the past.”  The move is a step for News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
to address the crisis at the News of the World that has forced
the closure of the 168-year-old Sunday tabloid, the resignation
of two senior executives and shelved News Corp.’s 7.8 billion
pound ($12.5 billion) bid for full ownership of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. Murdoch and his son, James, who is
chairman of News International, have been called on by U.K.
politicians over the past two weeks to take responsibility for
the crisis.  Klein, Dinh  The new committee will report to Klein, Murdoch’s top
adviser, and Viet Dinh on behalf of News Corp.’s independent
directors, the company said in the statement.  Both Murdochs are scheduled to testify tomorrow at a
Parliamentary hearing looking into the phone-hacking scandal.
Rebekah Brooks, the former News of the World editor who was
arrested yesterday, will also testify.  In addition to a police investigation into the phone
hacking and allegations of payments to law enforcement officials
for information, the company is facing a separate inquiry into
phone hacking launched by the U.K. government and led by Brian Leveson, a judge. It will examine press regulation and have the
power to question managers and executives of the New York-based
company under oath, reporting back to parliament within 12
months.  The new committee is authorized to cooperate fully with all
relevant investigations and inquiries in the News of the World
phone-hacking case, police payments and all other related
issues, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  