-- 
S&P May Downgrade News Corp. Debt

-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 
2011-07-18T21:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/news-corp-has-its-bbb-debt-rating-placed-on-creditwatch-negative-by-s-p.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  may lose its BBB+
corporate debt rating because of risks created by a phone-
hacking scandal that led to the arrest of its top U.K. newspaper
executive,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Rupert Murdoch, was placed on credit watch “negative”
today by S&P. In a statement, S&P cited potential damage from
broadening legal inquiries in the U.K. and an FBI probe into
allegations related to phone hacking. The action affects more
than $2 billion of News Corp. debt, the statement said.  “Recent developments materially increase the reputational,
management, litigation, and other risks” faced by  New York- 
based News Corp., S&P said in a statement.  Rebekah Brooks, the former head of News Corp.’s U.K.
newspaper unit, resigned last week and was arrested by police
yesterday on suspicion of corruption and conspiring to intercept
communications. She was released around midnight local time.  Brooks, Rupert and  James Murdoch , who is deputy chief
operating officer and chairman of News International, are
scheduled to testify tomorrow before the U.K. Parliament.  The fallout has also touched high-level politicians and
police officials in Britain. Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Paul Stephenson resigned yesterday because of “accusations”
about police links to News Corp.’s U.K. unit and the hiring of a
former journalist at the tabloid as a consultant. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  cut short a trip to Africa to prepare for a
statement to Parliament on July 20.  News Corp.’s Class A nonvoting shares lost 67 cents, or 4.3
percent, to $14.97 today in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have lost 17 percent since the U.K.’s The Guardian
reported on July 4 that News of the World hacked the phone mail
of murdered teenager Milly Dowler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  