-- 
News Corp. Swaps Diverge as S&P Considers Cut: Corporate Finance

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-07-19T16:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/news-corp-swaps-diverge-as-s-p-considers-cut-corporate-finance.html
Credit-default swaps on  News Corp. (NWS) 
are the highest on record relative to its media peers as
 Standard & Poor’s  says it may cut the publisher’s bond rating
because of risks associated with the phone-hacking scandal.  The cost of protecting debt of the owner of the Fox TV
networks and the Wall Street Journal from default soared 58
basis points this month to 142 basis points as of yesterday,
compared with an increase of 10 basis points for the average
contract on  Rupert Murdoch ’s company and its four biggest
competitors. Relative yields on News Corp.’s bonds have risen 31
basis points, while those of similar companies widened one basis
point, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  S&P said in a statement it may lower New York-based  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s BBB+ corporate  credit rating  after “broadening legal
inquires” into the phone-hacking scandal centering on the
defunct News of the World newspaper “increased business and
reputation risks” for the media company. The review came just
five days after the ratings company said the outlook was stable.  “The court of public opinion can be fairly merciless, and
that’s the bigger headwind now,” Tom Farina, managing director
at Deutsche Insurance Asset Management in New York, which
oversees $200 billion, said in a telephone interview. While News
Corp. may not see “direct financial ramifications,” the
reputational damage is the larger risk, Farina said.  Most on Record  Credit-default swaps on its News America Inc. unit are the
highest on record, compared with the average contract on the
debt of competitors. Swaps on News Corp.,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Time
Warner Inc.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , and  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  climbed to 79 basis
points from as low as 54 basis points in December, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  News Corp. has $15.5 billion of long-term borrowings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Contracts protecting debt issued by News America, which pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt, have almost
doubled since July 13, adding 64 basis points to reach the
highest since April 2009, according to CMA. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The contracts fell four basis points to 136 basis points as
of 11:46 a.m. in  New York , after earlier climbing as high as
145, according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  ‘Healthiest Balance Sheets’  “We’ve got one of the healthiest balance sheets in the
business,” said Alice Macandrew, a News Corp. spokeswoman in
London. “I can’t imagine anyone would be worried” about the
company’s ability to service its debt.  Revelations that reporters from the News of the World
hacked into dozens of telephone messages left for people
including celebrities, members of Prince Charles’s staff and a
murdered schoolgirl forced Murdoch, 80, to shut the newspaper
and abandon a plan to purchase the 61 percent of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc it didn’t own.  The scandal has also led to the resignations of News Corp.
executives  Les Hinton  and Rebekah Brooks; she was arrested July
17 in  London . Two top police officers also resigned amid
investigations of links between the News of the World and
Scotland Yard.  News Corp. is considering elevating Chief Operating Officer
 Chase Carey  to chief executive officer, succeeding Murdoch,
people with knowledge of the situation said. A decision hasn’t
been made and a move depends on Murdoch’s performance before
Parliament today, said the people, who weren’t authorized to
speak publicly. Murdoch would remain chairman, the people said.  News Corp. Properties  News Corp. also owns Harper Collins Publishers, the Times
of London, the Australian and Dow Jones Newswires. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in
providing financial news and information.  Without the purchase of pay-television provider Isleworth,
England-based BSkyB, News Corp. may now use its $11.8 billion of
cash to finance an expanded stock-repurchase program and
increase its dividend, analysts at bond researcher CreditSights
Inc. said in a note yesterday.  Last week, News Corp. almost tripled its stock repurchase
program to $5 billion, which indicates the company “intends to
enhance  shareholder value  (or at least reclaim shareholder value
that has been lost in recent weeks),” CreditSights analysts
Karen Klapper and Mark Chapman wrote in a note July 13.  Operating income at News Corp.’s newspapers and information
services unit has fallen by 28 percent in the past five years.
Publishing accounts for about 18 percent of total revenue.  The credit swap contracts are approaching levels implying
the debt is rated Baa3, the lowest investment grade, according
to Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets group. Moody’s Investors
Service grades the company’s debt Baa1, Bloomberg data show.  Spreads Widen  “There’s not anything when it comes to its near-term
financial position that could put it at risk,” Robert Eckerstrom, a director in the Moody’s capital markets research
group in New York, said in a telephone interview. “That said,
all the allegations out there could easily pressure spreads.”  The extra yield investors demand to own News Corp. debt
instead of Treasuries has climbed 31 basis points this month to
212 basis points as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Relative yields on U.S. media company
bonds have climbed in the same period to 155 basis points.  News Corp.’s $1.15 billion of 6.4 percent notes due
December 2035 have declined 7.75 cents since July 13 to 99.55
cents on the dollar to yield 6.436 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The average yield for BB rated bonds fell
to 6.21 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  ‘No Big Deal’  The company’s long-term borrowings are up from $13.2
billion as of June 30, 2010, the end of its previous fiscal
year, according to a regulatory filing. Revenue declined to $8.2
billion in the first calendar quarter from $8.8 billion the year
before, according the filing.  The scandal hasn’t been enough to make William Hochmuth, an
analyst at Thrivent Financial, which had $73 billion in assets
under management at yearend, want to sell the News Corp. bonds
his firm holds.  “I haven’t heard anything to this point in time that tells
me News Corp. is a fundamentally worse credit than it was a week
ago,” he said in a telephone interview. “Six months, 12 months
from now, you’d like to think this whole thing has blown over
and it’s no big deal, but there’s a lot of time and volatility
in that period.”  Credit Watch  S&P placed the company’s rating on CreditWatch, citing
developments that “materially increase the reputational,
management, litigation, and other risks currently faced by News
Corp. and its subsidiaries.”  “If evidence arises sufficient to bring a criminal charge
against the company or any current or former employee of the
company, then prosecuting authorities in the U.S. could proceed
with those charges,” credit analysts Michael Altberg and
Heather Goodchild wrote in the note yesterday. “Any criminal
conviction can materially affect the reputation of the company,
which may be more substantial than any financial penalties.”  News Corp. Class A nonvoting shares climbed 84 cents, or
5.6 percent, to $15.80 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 12:10 p.m.
New York time. It had declined 17 percent from July 1 through
yesterday, before the Guardian reported that News of the World
employees had intercepted the voice mail of Milly Dowler, a
schoolgirl who was later found murdered.  Management Ranks  While the scandal isn’t yet showing signs of affecting the
company’s financial soundness, if it were to reconsider buying
BskyB in about 12 months, “then there may be an issue where
they have to raise some debt,” said  Dave Novosel , an analyst
with Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago . Additionally, investors may
worry about how high the scandal reaches within the ranks of
management, Novosel said.  “You do have the qualitative factors regarding management
and how they may have to adjust their model,” he said.
Investors may be concerned that “you actually might be getting
people fired that might not be directly involved but to placate
the public and the political people that are in Britain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  