-- 
News Corp., Murdoch Family Are Sued by Holder for Damage Caused by Hacking

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-18T21:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/news-corp-murdoch-family-are-sued-by-holder-for-damage-caused-by-hacking.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
and his sons Lachlan and James were sued in  Manhattan  federal
court by a shareholder who says the phone-hacking scandal
damaged the company and who described their actions as
“damning.”  Gregory Shields, a News Corp. shareholder from  California ,
alleges Murdoch and the other defendants breached their
fiduciary duties by their actions, engaged in “gross
mismanagement” of News Corp. and wasted corporate assets.  Shields’s case is a derivative suit, a claim filed on
behalf of the company to enforce legal rights the company’s
officers and directors have allegedly failed to assert.  The defendants “made false and/or misleading statements as
well as failed to disclose material adverse facts about the
company’s business,” Shields said in the complaint. “News
Corp. has been damaged by News Corp. board’s failure to
adequately address the unlawful activities that have occurred at
the company.”  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., didn’t immediately return a voicemail message left at her
office seeking comment about the suit. Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  Stock Reduced  Shields said the value of the company’s stock has been
reduced as a result of revelations that the company’s News of
the World tabloid in the U.K. hacked into the voice mail of
murdered teenager Milly Dowler. Since the scandal first broke,
News Corp. stock has declined by about 7 percent and may drop
further, he said. The final issue of the News of the World was
published July 10.  The News of the World, “engaged in a decade-long practice
of unlawful interception of voice mail and cell phone traffic of
thousands of people,” Shields said. As a result, costly
settlements have been paid out to resolve lawsuits, advertisers
have departed and News Corp. had to scuttle plans to take
control of pay-television provider British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc.  “Each of the key officers and directors knew of and/or
directly benefited from the wrongdoings,” Shields said.  The case is Shields v. Murdoch, 11-CV-4917, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 