-- 
News Corp. Said to Consider Elevating Chase Carey to CEO

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r ,   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-07-19T18:32:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/news-corp-said-to-consider-naming-chase-carey-as-ceo-suceeding-murdoch.html
News Corp. is considering elevating
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  to chief executive officer
to succeed Rupert Murdoch, people with knowledge of the
situation said.  A decision hasn’t been made and a move depends in part on
Murdoch’s performance today before the U.K. Parliament, the
people, who weren’t authorized to speak publicly, said
yesterday. Murdoch would remain chairman, the people said.  Murdoch and his son James appeared today to discuss the
company’s role in the alleged phone hacking of murder victims,
members of the royal family and others by the News of the World,
which was closed on July 10. The 80-year-old executive said he
wasn’t considering resigning. He said he wasn’t responsible for
the hacking scandal and that the blame lies with “the people I
trusted to run it.”  “The News of the World is less than 1 percent of our
company,” Murdoch told Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport
Committee. He said that he may have “lost sight” of the
newspaper because it was “so small in the general frame of the
company.”  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives who watched Murdoch rehearse for his
appearance had concerns about how he handled questions,
according to three people, who weren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  “Who would have thought this could happen two weeks ago?”
Laura Martin, an analyst with Needham & Co. in Pasadena,
 California , said before the hearing. “He spent 60 years
building something and we are watching his legacy being ripped
apart day by day.”  Shares Rebound  News Corp. rose 72 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $15.68 at 2:02
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, paring the
decline since July 4, when the Guardian newspaper reported that
the News of the World hacked into the voicemail of a murdered
teenager, Milly Dowler. Before today, the Class A shares had
dropped 17 percent since July 1.  A change to Carey, 57, as CEO would “likely be
applauded,”  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets in New York, said in a research note today.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday it may lower New York-
based News Corp.’s BBB+ corporate debt rating because of
“business and reputation risks” created by the phone-hacking
scandal.  Independent Directors  Independent directors yesterday weighed naming Carey CEO,
according to a person close to the board. The directors, who
didn’t make a decision, discussed whether the stock market and
investors would react favorably to a change, the person said.  There was no meeting yesterday to elevate Carey, said a
senior News Corp. executive who sought anonymity because the
matter is private. Existing succession plans get re-evaluated
from time to time, and any suggestion they have been accelerated
or implemented is unfounded, the person said.  Murdoch has the board’s support, Thomas Perkins, one of the
independent directors, told the  Associated Press . He said the
board isn’t considering elevating Carey.  Board members and executives at News Corp. are concerned
about Murdoch’s ability to contain the fallout from the hacking
scandal, the people familiar with the matter said. The company
closed the 168-year-old News of the World this month and
abandoned its bid for British Sky Broadcasting Plc.  Politicians, Police  News Corp.’s top publishing executive in the U.K., Rebekah Brooks, resigned last week and was arrested on July 17. She also
gave evidence to Parliament today.  The scandal has touched high-level politicians and police
officials in Britain. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson and Assistant Commissioner John Yates resigned and
are under investigation over their roles in the scandal by the
Independent Police Complaints Commission. Prime Minister David Cameron cut short a trip to  Africa  to prepare for a statement to
Parliament tomorrow.  A shift in leadership would end Murdoch’s almost six-decade
run as CEO of a company that began with a newspaper in  Australia 
and evolved into a media empire that controls Fox television and
movie assets, HarperCollins Publishers, and newspapers including
the Times of  London , The Sun and the Wall Street Journal.  Board Control  Murdoch’s voting power suggests he can influence any board
decision about his role and would retain clout even if there
were a leadership change.  “ Rupert Murdoch  controls the votes of the company through
the Class B shares,”  Charles Elson , director of the John L.
Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the University of
 Delaware , said this week in an interview. “He can just replace
them if he wants. They may do something, but it will be
temporary. Maybe he becomes chairman, but this is still his
company and he can do what he wants. When he controls the stock,
he controls the board.”  Through a family trust, the Murdochs own 306.6 million
shares, or 38.4 percent, of News Corp.’s Class B voting stock,
according to the company’s proxy statement. Including other
family holdings, Rupert Murdoch controls 39.7 percent of the
voting power, giving him effective control, filings show.  The value of the family’s holdings has declined more than
$700 million since the scandal erupted, according to Bloomberg
data.  Carey’s Role  Independent directors must protect shareholders and act in
their best interest, said Needham’s Martin, who recommends
buying News Corp. shares. Considering succession issues at this
moment is “justifiable,” she said.  By installing Carey as CEO, News Corp. would be relying on
a trusted Murdoch deputy to help get past the hacking scandal.  Carey worked for 15 years as a senior News Corp. executive
before becoming CEO of  DirecTV (DTV)  in 2003. He returned in 2009
following the resignation of  Peter Chernin  as Murdoch’s No. 2.  News Corp.’s independent directors, who hold nine of 16
board seats, have expressed frustration over the quality and
quantity of information they’ve received about the scandal and
concern about management’s ability to handle the crisis given
how slowly the company has responded, a person with knowledge of
the situation said earlier.  Negotiating Stance  According to News Corp.’s proxy filing, independent board
member Roderick Eddington, the former CEO of British Airways, is
the company’s lead director. He has the responsibility to call
meetings of the non-executive directors or independent directors
and to serve as a liaison between the chairman and the
independent board members.  In his first stint at News Corp., Carey served as co-chief
operating officer and as an aide to Murdoch for about six years,
helping Fox acquire rights to the  National Football League ,
 National Hockey League  and  Major League Baseball .  Carey, who played on the Harvard Business School rugby team
while studying for his MBA, led News Corp.’s efforts this year
to generate fees from its Fox broadcast affiliates, pressuring
them to share more of the so-called retransmission fees that
local stations get from cable and satellite operators.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  