-- 
NFL Players Say They’ll Seek Global Deal When Labor Agreement Is Approved

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-19T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/nfl-players-seek-global-deal-as-talks-to-end-lockout-continue-in-new-york.html
National Football League players say
they want to settle multiple legal cases simultaneously as part
of a new labor agreement that would end the four-month lockout
of the U.S.’s most popular sport.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the  NFL Players
Association , said yesterday that work remains to be done even
though the sides are close to an agreement that would reopen the
league before the scheduled start of the season.  “Nobody cheers for you at mile 25 of a marathon,” he said
in a televised briefing from  Washington . “You still have to
cross the finish line. There still are things that can get you
tripped up and we’re going to push through.”  Members of the players’ association executive committee and
team representatives are scheduled to meet in Washington today
“with the hope they have something to look at, and with the
hope we can move forward on this,” Atallah said.  NFL owners could ratify an agreement at a meeting scheduled
for July 21 in Atlanta.  The Associated Press said that if an agreement is ratified
that day, team executives would be briefed on the effects on
league business, including rookie salaries and guidelines for
player transactions.  Any agreement would also have to be approved by players.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan rejoined negotiators
for both sides yesterday in  New York City , after a week in which
the sides talked without a mediator. Atallah said lawyers were
working on the contract’s language and “some of the things we
agreed to last week.”  NFL owners in March locked out players, who sued in federal
court claiming antitrust violations and wage fixing, behind
Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and
 Drew Brees . A federal appeals court upheld the lockout two weeks
ago, saying a lower court erred in blocking it.  ‘Global Settlement’  Atallah said players would prefer a “global settlement”
that ends all cases. The sides also await a decision by U.S.
District Judge David Doty, who ruled in March that owners didn’t
negotiate television contracts fairly. Players then asked him to
place $4 billion in escrow during the lockout.  The sides are trying to reach a deal before missing one or
more rounds of preseason games, which the league estimates are
worth about $200 million in revenue each week.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears  are
scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play the
first preseason game Aug. 7 in Canton, Ohio.  The start of the NFL regular season is scheduled for Sept.
8, when the Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers would host the
 New Orleans Saints .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 