-- 
Nine Dragons Among 35 China Firms That May Struggle for Funds, Fitch Says

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-07-18T03:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/nine-dragons-gcl-poly-may-struggle-for-finance.html
Nine Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd. (2689) ,
 GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  and  China Medical Technologies
Inc. (CMED)  are among some 35 Chinese companies that may find capital
markets closed to them due to escalating corporate governance
concerns, according to Fitch Ratings.  High levels of cash and external valuations of reserves
which can mask accounting issues, teamed with concentrated
private ownership and independent directors who stay on boards
for longer than five years are traits investors should be alert
to, the ratings company said in a report released today.  “International investor interest in Chinese companies
driven by the search for yield is coinciding with limited access
to information at key issuing entities,” said John Hatton,
Asia-Pacific corporates group credit officer at Fitch. Companies
with a “blemished reputation” can’t raise funds, especially if
there’s an accompanying deterioration in investor sentiment.  China’s reputation among investors has been strained after
short sellers said companies from Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd. to  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  were exaggerating operations. Moody’s
Investors Service last week cited five Chinese companies as
having more “red flags” on corporate governance than others,
sending shares of West China Cement Ltd. to a record decline.  High cash balances at companies could indicate trapped
funds in offshore accounts, for example, which is not available
to repay debt, while exponential year-on-year growth and the
rapid addition of new businesses can enlarge the scope for
financial misstatement, Fitch said.  Governance Issues  “Many Chinese companies have raised debt ahead of growth-
led capital expenditure requirements and in anticipation of
Chinese banks reducing their lending capacity,” said Hatton,
who is based in  London . “Higher-than-normal profit margins
could also be an indicator of governance issues.”  Chinese developers have sold $10.2 billion of dollar bonds
alone in the past 12 months, compared with $1.6 billion for real
estate companies in the rest of  Asia , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Fitch said it would examine the  capital controls 
that can impede Chinese companies transferring U.S. dollars
onshore in an upcoming report.  The yield investors demand to own the 8 percent bonds due
December 2016 of  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) , a Chinese
developer highlighted by Fitch for its ownership concentration
and long-serving independent directors, has increased 190 basis
points this year to 10.22 percent, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices show. That’s 8.62 percentage points more than the
yield on similar-maturity Treasuries, a gap that’s widened from
6 percent at the start of the year.  ‘Bad Systemic Issues’  “One of the unusual things about China is that you have a
very high-rated sovereign with very bad systemic issues in terms
of clarity of regulation, rule of law and transparency of
information,” Andrew Steel, Fitch’s Singapore-based head of
corporate ratings, told Bloomberg Television today. “There’s a
huge differential between the strength of the state and the
environment in which companies are operating and that tends to
make investors less cautious than they ought to be.”  China is rated A+ by Fitch, its fifth-highest investment
grade. The cost to insure China’s government debt against
default has risen 23 basis points this year to 91 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Nine Dragon Bonds  Nine Dragon’s 9.875 percent notes due April 2013 were
trading at 97.5 cents on the dollar to yield 11.452 percent as
of 10:14 a.m. in  Singapore , RBS prices show. The relative spread
investors demand to hold the debt has risen 101 basis points
this year to 11.13 percentage points. The bonds were sold to
investors at a spread of 505.2 basis points.  The yield investors demand to own the 10 percent, three-
year bonds of LDK Solar Co., another company singled out for its
volatile profit margins and long-serving independents, has
increased 136 basis points to 12.77 percent since they were sold
in February, RBS prices show.  A pool of professional independent directors with corporate
experience has also yet to develop in China and founders of
companies with concentrated ownership probably regard such forms
of objective shareholder representation an “unnecessary
expense,” Fitch said.  In the case of Nine Dragons, a paper products company whose
debt ratings were withdrawn last month by  Standard & Poor’s , the
current independent directors have served on the board since
2006, Fitch said. Chairwoman Zhang Yin,  China ’s richest woman,
boosted her stake in the company last month and said June 27
debt is expected to peak this year. Nine Dragons said July 4 it
agreed on a 3.1 billion yuan ($480 million) loan facility with
China Development Bank Corp. in June.  Steel said it was “difficult to say” whether corporate
governance standards in China are improving. “Clearly there are
intentions to improve the framework in which companies operate
but we’re still at very early stages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  