-- 
Obama’s Pick for Consumer Agency Has Record of Fighting Banks

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/obama-s-pick-for-consumer-agency-has-record-of-fighting-banks.html
Mark Seifert recalls being impressed
when Richard Cordray, then the  Ohio  state treasurer, walked into
the offices of his Cleveland activist group one day in August
2007.  Seifert’s organization -- Empowering and Strengthening
Ohio’s People, or ESOP -- was known for its confrontational
tactics, such as the time it gathered at the home of a regional
vice president of lender Countrywide Financial Corp. and covered
his lawn and flower beds with small plastic “loan” sharks to
draw attention to mortgage abuses.  “We are not necessarily safe for the powers-that-be to
hang around with,” Seifert, ESOP’s executive director, said in
an interview yesterday. “We do direct action. We throw plastic
sharks at bankers.”  Far from being aghast, Cordray approved of the tactics and
said the small, Cleveland-focused group should expand, Seifert
recalled. Before long, it was advising homeowners on how to
avoid foreclosure in 10 Ohio offices.  A year later, Cordray became Ohio’s attorney general in a
special election and expanded his horizons as well. Using the
powers of his new office, he took the biggest banks, including
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Ally Financial Inc., to court over mortgage servicing practices
and losses to state pension funds.  Now, Cordray, 52, may take on banks on a larger stage.
President  Barack Obama  has chosen Cordray as his nominee to run
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which was created by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  Call from Warren  Cordray already knows the agency well. After he lost his
bid for another term as Ohio attorney general in November, he
got a call from  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration
adviser, asking him to head up the bureau’s enforcement work.  In choosing Cordray for the top post, Obama passed over
Warren, who has been tasked to set up the new agency and was
favored by union and consumer groups to assume the helm when it
opens officially July 21. Warren said Cordray would make “a
stellar” director.  “ Richard Cordray  has spent his career advocating for
middle-class families, from his tenure as Ohio’s attorney
general to his most recent role as heading up the enforcement
division at the CFPB and looking out for ordinary people in our
financial system,” Obama said in a statement yesterday.  Republican lawmakers and banking lobbyists have been
critical of Warren’s tone and comments since she began working
on the launch last fall. Cordray, too, has come in for
criticism.  ‘Filled With Enemies’  Of all the officials in the consumer agency, Cordray
“frightens me the most,” said Jennifer Monty Rieker, an
attorney for financial services firms with Cleveland-based
Weltman, Weinberg and Ries.  “We have a bureau that is potentially filled with enemies
of the banking industry and want to bring us down,” she said at
a presentation at the Consumer Bankers Association convention in
 Orlando  on June 13.  Cordray did not respond to requests for comment. Neither
did White House spokeswoman  Jen Psaki .  Cordray brings a wide-ranging resume to the job: He is a
five-time winner on the quiz show “Jeopardy” who also clerked
for U.S. Supreme Court Justices Byron White and  Anthony Kennedy .
He has personally argued seven cases before the high court,
according to his official biography.  Cordray attended  Michigan State University  and Oxford
University before getting his law degree from the  University of
Chicago , where he edited the law review. After two years in the
Ohio House, Cordray practiced law privately, while also serving
as counsel to the law firm Kirkland & Ellis, until being elected
state treasurer in 2007.  Shoeless Richard  At the consumer bureau, Cordray likes to remove his shoes
and stroll through the offices in his stocking feet. While in
 Washington , he has commuted back to Grove City, Ohio, the town
southwest of Columbus where his family still resides.  Travis Plunkett , legislative director for the  Consumer
Federation of America , said that Cordray has “a strong track
record in consumer protection.”  “He was one of the leading attorneys general in addressing
subprime mortgage abuses,” Plunkett said in an interview.  In his public comments, Cordray has echoed Warren’s theme
that credit markets don’t function well if consumers can’t
understand what they are buying. Cordray  told  the Columbus
Dispatch on June 15 that “simplifying and clarifying”
financial agreements should be the agency’s goal.  ‘Clean’ Markets  “If we are enforcing the law against the dishonest
businesses, the ones that are competing unfairly and illegally
with the honest businesses, then that’s better for all
concerned,” Cordray  told  the Dispatch. “It cleans the
markets.”  As attorney general and as the consumer bureau’s
enforcement chief, Cordray has staked out a position that could
bring him into conflict with other banking regulators, notably
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The OCC has
repeatedly defended its ability to pre-empt, or invalidate,
state laws that conflict with federal ones, a policy that often
stopped state enforcement of consumer protection rules.  “Dodd-Frank has made an effort to lift pre-emption in a lot
of areas,” Cordray said in an interview in December. He
predicted “joint enforcement authority with this new bureau and
state attorneys general.”  Still, Cordray has held out the possibility that the
consumer bureau would work smoothly with other agencies.  Influence  “If it’s a good relationship, we will have influence on
them and they will have influence on us,” Cordray told a
Washington meeting of the National Community Reinvestment
Coalition, an activist group, on April 14.  Cordray also told the group that the consumer bureau may
hold “investigative hearings” to shed light on trends in
consumer finance, and he urged the audience to provide stories
and data about what they see on the ground.  “The anecdote is usually the spearhead of the
phenomenon,” Cordray said.  After joining the bureau, Cordray began attending meetings
dealing with the settlement talks among federal and state
officials and major mortgage servicers over lapses in
foreclosure paperwork and processes, according to a copy of his
calendar for early 2011 obtained by Bloomberg News through a
public-records request.  In late March, after press reports surfaced about the
consumer bureau’s involvement in mortgage servicing talks,
Cordray backed off. He subsequently did not attend a key meeting
at the  Justice Department  on the issue, according to a person
briefed on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 