-- 
Obama to Pick Former Ohio Attorney General for Consumer Post

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-07-18T01:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/obama-to-pick-former-ohio-attorney-general-for-consumer-post.html
President  Barack Obama  said he will
nominate former Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray to lead
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which opens this week
amid continuing political fights about its scope.  Cordray, currently the assistant director for enforcement
at the bureau, will be introduced at the presidential residence
today as Obama’s choice, the White House said in a statement.  “Richard Cordray has spent his career advocating for
middle-class families, from his tenure as Ohio’s attorney
general to his most recent role as heading up the enforcement
division at the CFPB and looking out for ordinary people in our
financial system,” Obama said in the statement yesterday.  After losing his bid for re-election in November, Cordray
was recruited by  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard University
professor who developed the idea for the new agency and was
appointed by Obama last fall to set it up.  Warren’s prospects for becoming director of the bureau
suffered a setback last year when  Christopher Dodd , the
Connecticut Democrat then in charge of the Senate Banking
Committee, said she couldn’t win confirmation.  Instead, Obama named Warren assistant to the president and
special adviser to the Treasury secretary. Warren, who is
currently on leave, will return to Harvard in the fall,
according to a person briefed on her plans.  Warren’s Support  Warren said Cordray, 52, will make “a stellar director”
of the consumer bureau. “Rich has always had my strong support
because he is tough and he is smart -- and that’s exactly the
combination this new agency needs,” Warren said in a statement.  Cordray previously served as  Ohio ’s treasurer and a state
representative. When he was appointed enforcement chief at the
consumer bureau in December, he  told  the Columbus Dispatch that
he was planning to run for governor in 2014.  On June 15, he told the Dispatch that “if you are doing an
enforcement job in a federal independent agency, that’s got to
be your focus. So politics has to be put entirely to one side.”  A onetime law clerk to the U.S. Supreme Court Justices
Byron White and  Anthony Kennedy , he has personally argued seven
cases before the high court. He was also a five-time winner on
the quiz show “Jeopardy.”  As attorney general, he sued GMAC Mortgage LLC and its
corporate parent, Ally Financial Inc., accusing them of using
fraudulent affidavits in court cases over foreclosures in Ohio,
according to the state’s website. His office also managed
litigation against financial firms including American
 International Group  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Cordray recovered “more than $2 billion” through the
lawsuits he brought, the White House said in its statement.  Gap in Oversight  The consumer bureau, which is to begin formal operations on
July 21, was established by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial-
regulatory overhaul to fill what lawmakers said was a gap in
oversight of financial products -- such as mortgages and credit
cards -- whose abuse contributed to the financial crisis.  The president’s nomination for bureau director is subject
to Senate confirmation. Without a Senate-confirmed leader, the
agency cannot assume certain powers conferred by Dodd-Frank,
such as the supervision of non-bank firms -- payday lenders and
mortgage originators, for instance.  Because of procedural rules, a nomination needs the support
of 60 of the 100 senators to be confirmed. In May, 44 Republican
senators announced they wouldn’t vote to approve any candidate
to run the bureau without changes in its structure.  The president can still make temporary appointments during
a congressional recess, but some Republicans have said they want
to keep Congress in session to prevent these so-called recess
appointments.  McConnell, Shelby  Senator  Mitch McConnell , the Republican leader in the
Senate, yesterday reiterated his opposition to confirming
anyone. Senator  Richard Shelby , the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, insisted in a statement yesterday that “a
few reasonable structural changes” must be made before a
director is confirmed.  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who heads
the committee, said he would move the nomination “as quickly as
possible” so the bureau gets the authority over non-bank firms
that compete with traditional lenders.  “Until a Director is in place, the CFPB will not be able
to level the playing field for responsible community banks and
 credit unions ,” Johnson said in a statement.  Richard Hunt, president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, said in a statement yesterday that Cordray should
explain during his confirmation hearings how the bureau will
“ensure financial-service companies can continue to provide
innovative and competitive products to address consumers’
financial needs.”  ‘Broken Credit Market’  Warren struck back at Republicans in her statement, saying
that she has seen “a real eagerness to move forward, to work
together to repair a broken credit market” in her travels
around the country.  “I hope that Republicans in the Senate take notice and
stop their fight to preserve a regulatory system that failed
us,” Warren said.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from Ohio, told The
Columbus Dispatch, which first reported news of the nomination,
that he “fully” expects the state’s other senator,  Rob Portman , would support Cordray. Portman, a Republican, signed
the May letter. Jeffrey Sadosky, Portman’s spokesman, did not
return an e-mail seeking comment.  Warren’s Supporters  Warren, who previously led the congressional watchdog panel
overseeing the bailout of U.S. banks, never publicly removed
herself from contention for the job, and Democratic activist
groups campaigned for her appointment. Stephanie Taylor, co-
founder of one of those groups, the Progressive Change Campaign
Committee, had argued Warren’s nomination was important to the
Democratic political base.  “With her track record of standing up to  Wall Street  and
fighting for consumers, Elizabeth Warren was the best qualified
to lead this bureau that she conceived -- and we imagine  Richard
Cordray  would agree,” Taylor said yesterday in an e-mail.
“That said, Rich Cordray has been a strong ally of Elizabeth
Warren’s and we hope he will continue her legacy of holding Wall
Street accountable.”  Representative  Barney Frank , who chaired the House
Financial Services Committee when Dodd-Frank was passed, said
Obama made “second-best appointment possible.”  Warren’s unpopularity among Republicans was on display most
recently at a May 24 House hearing, when she and Representative
 Patrick McHenry  of  North Carolina  argued over the truthfulness
of her previous testimony and even over how long she would
remain to answer lawmakers’ questions.  Several potential candidates rejected overtures about
become director, including Jennifer Granholm, the former
governor of  Michigan , and Ted Kaufman, a former Democratic
senator from  Delaware , people briefed on the search said. Raj Date, the bureau’s assistant director for research, markets and
regulations, was also considered for the post, a person briefed
on the process said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Carter Dougherty in
Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  