-- 
Obama Meets ATT, Time Warner Cable CEOs on Education

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-19T11:54:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/obama-meets-att-time-warner-cable-ceos-on-improving-education.html
(Corrects Green’s title in ninth paragraph.)  President Barack Obama held a
roundtable discussion with business leaders including  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt,  AT&T Inc. (T) 
CEO Randall Stephenson, and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  co-founder Steve Case, to
discuss how industry-led partnerships can help improve the U.S.
education system.  “Our children are the future,” said Alma Powell, who
started the youth-advocacy group America’s Promise Alliance with
her husband, former Secretary of State Colin Powell. “If they
are not prepared for the future, there is no future for this
country,” she said.  Powell, who served as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
in former President George H.W. Bush’s administration, said he
told the CEOs at today’s meeting that education is crucial for
the U.S. because “these youngsters are your future employees
and your future customers.”  He said that while he appreciates the monetary pledges from
companies, including more than $10 million annually already
committed by State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co, money
won’t fix the problem.  “More important to me and to my wife and to the programs
is that every State Farm agent, every State Farm office is
involved in their community,” he said. “What we need is retail
level connection between every aspect of the business community
and the kids who are in those communities that are in need. We
want your personal involvement, we want your human
involvement.”  Money Pledged  At today’s meeting,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, announced a $50 million pledge over
the next three years to help the unemployed, returning veterans
and people with disabilities get connected with institutions,
including community colleges, to help them learn skills and
enter the workforce.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , of Redmond, Washington, pledged to invest
$15 million in research and development in learning technology,
and a commitment to train more than 150,000 educators and
leaders over the next three years.  Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sportswear company, is adding $3 million to an existing $7
million fund designed to aid schools in Oregon.  “This is a defining moment,” said  Accenture Plc (ACN) ’s
Chairman William Green. “The outside world has raised the bar,
it’s our job to raise our game.”  Chief Executives  Among those at today’s meeting were: Craig Barrett, former
CEO of Santa Clara, California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC) ; Ed Rust, CEO
of Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm; Bill Swanson, CEO of
Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ; and David Zaslav, CEO
of Silver Spring, Maryland-based  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)   U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan; senior Obama adviser
Valerie Jarrett; and Domestic Policy Council Director Melody Barnes also were among those attending.  “We have to educate our way to a better economy,” Duncan
said.  Obama has said future U.S. economic growth depends on
improvements in education. He has called for the U.S. to have
the world’s highest percentage of adults with college degrees by
2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  