-- 
Obama Vows Fight as Republicans Push to Weaken Dodd-Frank, Consumer Bureau

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-07-18T23:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/obama-vows-fight-over-efforts-to-weaken-dodd-frank.html
President  Barack Obama  said he would
push back against Republican attempts to alter the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul, in particular the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  “I will fight any efforts to repeal or undermine the
important changes that we passed,” Obama said today in remarks
at the White House after nominating former Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  to be the agency’s first director. “We are
going to stand up this bureau and make sure it is doing the
right thing for middle-class families.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  and 43
other Republicans announced in May that they wouldn’t vote to
confirm anyone as director until changes were made to its
structure, a message he repeated today. Under procedural rules
in the 100-member Senate, the Republicans could block any vote.  “Senate Republicans still aren’t interested in approving
anyone to the position until the president agrees to make this
massive new government bureaucracy more accountable and
transparent to the American people,” McConnell said in a
statement.  The bureau, which was set up by Harvard professor and Obama
adviser  Elizabeth Warren , is scheduled to start work on July 21.
In a posting on the White House blog, Warren criticized
“trillion-dollar banks” and Republicans who oppose or want to
revamp the agency.  “This agency still has enemies in Washington,” Warren
 wrote . “And they have a plan.”  Possible Senate Bid  Warren, who didn’t rule out running for the  U.S. Senate  as
a Democrat in November 2012, will return to Harvard later this
year.  “That’ll be the time to think about my future,” Warren
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bottom
Line” program.  Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, said the
administration would fight efforts to weaken the agency.  “We believe that Mr. Cordray is the right person for the
job and will push that forward,” Carney said today at a news
conference.  Consumer advocates including Robert Weissman, president of
 Public Citizen , back Cordray even as they express disappointment
that Warren didn’t get the job.  Obama “succumbed to  Wall Street ” in bypassing Warren,
Weissman said in an interview.  “We are going to strongly support Cordray, and we want the
White House to push hard for his confirmation,” Weissman said.
“If the Republicans indicate they will block confirmation, we
want to see a recess appointment.”  ‘Deep Concerns’  David Hirschmann, who heads the Center for Capital Markets
Competitiveness at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said the
business group has “deep concerns” about how Cordray would
wield the bureau’s powers.  “We will need to understand where Mr. Cordray stands on
these issues,” Hirschmann said in a statement.  Under the Dodd-Frank law enacted last year, the consumer
bureau on July 21 will assume authorities under pre-existing
laws, including the Truth in Lending Act. It doesn’t inherit
other powers such as the ability to supervise non-bank financial
firms, including payday lenders and mortgage originators, until
a director is in place.  Full Powers  Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat and chairman
of the Banking Committee, said yesterday in a statement that he
will move the nomination “as quickly as possible” so that the
bureau can assume its full powers.  Senator  Rob Portman , who was among the Republicans to sign
the May letter, didn’t rule out voting to confirm Cordray, a
fellow Ohioan.  “Rich Cordray is a dedicated public servant and I will
look forward to hearing his views, including on how the CFPB can
be made more accountable,” Portman said in a statement
yesterday. “As I have said since its inception, I have serious
concerns about this new federal bureaucracy.”  Calls to the office of Senator  Scott Brown , one of two
Republicans who didn’t sign the letter, weren’t returned. Brown,
of  Massachusetts , would be Warren’s opponent if she decides to
run for Senate next year and wins the Democratic nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 