-- 
Obama Says Cordray as Consumer Chief Will Shift Balance

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-07-18T17:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/obama-says-cordray-as-consumer-chief-will-shift-balance-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said his
nomination of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau puts financial lenders on notice that the
government will be looking out for “regular people.”  Obama said “dangerously risky” behavior on  Wall Street 
helped lead to the worst recession since the 1930s and heaped
greater burdens on middle-income Americans. The bureau will
change the balance, he said.  “One of the biggest problems is that the tables were
tilted against ordinary people,” Obama said at the White House,
where he introduced Cordray as his choice the lead the new
agency. Consumers “deserve to be treated honestly.”  In picking Cordray, Obama bypassed  Elizabeth Warren , the
Harvard University professor who developed the idea for the new
agency and was appointed by Obama last fall to set it up,
because of strong opposition to her in the Senate by
Republicans, who want the agency revamped before approving
anyone.  The president praised Warren as a tireless advocate for
consumers and said she deserves credit for raising warnings
about risks in the financial system.  Cordray “was one of the first people Elizabeth recruited,
and he’s helped stand up the bureau’s enforcement division” in
the past six months, Obama said.  ‘Army of Lobbyists’  Obama warned that there is “an army of lobbyists and
lawyers” working weaken the protections passed into law in the
wake of the $700 billion financial-market rescue in 2008.  “We’re not going to go back to a time when our whole
economy was vulnerable to a massive financial crisis,” Obama
said. “That’s why reform matters. That’s why this bureau
matters.”  “The president is focused on moving” Cordray’s nomination
forward, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
today.  Cordray acquired a tough, cop-on-the beat reputation when
he sued GMAC Mortgage LLC and its corporate parent, Ally
Financial Inc., accusing them of using fraudulent affidavits in
court cases over foreclosures in the state. He also managed
litigation against financial firms including American
 International Group  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Cordray recovered “more than $2 billion” through the
lawsuits he brought, the White House said in a statement
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 