-- 
MobiTV Said to Hire JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank to Manage Initial Offering

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/mobitv-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-deutsche-bank-to-manage-ipo.html
MobiTV Inc. , the maker of software
that lets smartphone users watch live television, hired  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to manage its initial public
offering, said two people with knowledge of the situation.  The company is planning to go public by the end of 2011 and
may raise about $100 million, said one of the people, who
declined to be named because the company’s plans aren’t public.  MobiTV would follow technology companies LinkedIn Corp.,
HomeAway Inc. and Fusion-io Inc. in raising money from public
markets amid a resurgence in IPOs. Companies have held 117 U.S.
offerings in 2011, a 29 percent increase from a year earlier,
and the most of any year at this point since 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment, as did  John Gallagher , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank. A
spokesman for MobiTV, based in Emeryville, California, declined
to comment.  Founded in 1999 by Paul Scanlan, Phillip Alvelda and Jeff
Annison, MobiTV’s growth has accelerated in the past two years
as consumers have flocked to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Google
Inc.’s Android devices. MobiTV has developed software that
delivers sports, TV shows and news to more than 350 different
kinds of devices.  MobiTV was approaching $100 million in annual revenue as of
October 2010, a person familiar with the matter said at the
time. In 2007, the company named media industry veteran Charlie Nooney as chief executive officer, replacing Alvelda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  