-- 
Oceanic Bank of Nigeria Advances on Possible Takeover by Diamond Bank

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-18T14:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/oceanic-bank-of-nigeria-advances-on-possible-takeover-by-diamond-bank.html
Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC) , a
Nigerian lender rescued by the central bank in 2009, rose the
most in almost nine months after  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB) ’s finance
chief said it was in “tentative” talks to acquire Oceanic.  Oceanic jumped 6 kobo, or 5 percent, to 1.26 naira, the
biggest jump on a closing basis since Oct. 29, at 3:18 p.m. in
Lagos.  “It’s very early days,” Diamond Chief Financial Officer
Abdulrahman Yinusa, said by phone today. “We’re not doing a
cash purchase, it’s going to be a share for share combination.”
ThisDay  reported  talks between the two lenders yesterday, citing
unnamed  Central Bank of Nigeria  sources.  The central bank bailed out some of the nation’s 24 lenders
in 2009 after loans to equity speculators contributed to 700
billion naira ($4.6 billion) of non-performing debt, according
to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The  central
bank  has ordered the rescued lenders to boost capital by Sept.
30 or it will withdraw interbank guarantees.  “This news is marginally positive, given that it increases
the possibility that Oceanic Bank would have found a buyer by
the CBN’s Sept. 30 deadline,” Olubunmi Asaolu, head of equity
research at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Intercontinental Bank Plc, Union Bank Nigeria Plc and
FinBank Plc are three lenders rescued by the central bank with
recapitalization deals already signed.  “Discussions are still at due diligence stage, meaning
this will have to be finalized quickly before a formal
acquisition bid is made,” Adesoji Solanke, a Lagos-based
banking analyst at  Renaissance Capital , wrote in an e-mail
today. “We still have five banks up in the air, with at least
three being of systemic relevance -- Oceanic, Bank PHB Plc and
Afribank Plc -- and needing a resolution one way or another.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  