-- 
Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Rises More Than Estimated, NAHB Index Shows

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-18T14:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-rises-more-than-estimated-nahb-index-shows.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
improved in July from a nine-month low as executives turned less
pessimistic on the outlook for sales.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index climbed to 15 this month, higher than forecast,
from 13 in June, data from the Washington-based group showed
today. The median projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a gain to 14.  “It’s still at a very low level,”  Michelle Meyer , a
senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York ,
said about the homebuilders’ measure. “In order to see a
brighter future for housing, we need to see a stronger
economy.”  Builders are facing a backlog of discounted, distressed
properties that remain in the foreclosure pipeline and are
hesitant to start new projects. Rising unemployment and
depressed home values may keep housing one of the weakest parts
of the recovery.  Readings lower than 50 in today’s homebuilder measure mean
more respondents said conditions were poor. Projections among
the 36 economists surveyed ranged from 12 to 16.  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009, and averaged 54 in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  The builders group’s index of sales expectations for the
next six months increased to a three-month high of 22 from 15. A
gauge of current single-family home sales rose to 15 from 13.
The index of buyer traffic held at 12.  Close to Bottom  “The market continues to bounce along the bottom, with
conditions in some locations beginning to improve,” NAHB Chief
Economist  David Crowe  said today in a statement. “The stronger
rebound in sales expectations for the next six months likewise
marks a return to trend.”  The NAHB confidence survey asks builders to characterize
current sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge
prospective buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge
the outlook for the next six months.  Builders in three of the four regions were less pessimistic
this month. In the South, the gauge rose to 17, the highest
since March, from 14 a month earlier. The measure also climbed
in the West and Midwest.  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that housing
starts rose 2.7 percent in June to 575,000 units at an annual
rate, according to economists’ forecasts. New  home construction 
has stabilized since February, when starts fell to the lowest
level since April 2009, the weakest on record.  Existing-Home Sales  Sales of existing homes, which make up about 95 percent of
the market, rose 2.9 percent to a 4.95 million annual pace in
June, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the National
Association of Realtors may report on July 20. Existing-home
sales, while also at depressed levels, have been gaining market
share from new homes due to growing demand for lower-priced
distressed homes.  Purchases of existing homes reached a record-high 7.08
million in 2005, and slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91 million
last year.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults will push as
many as 1 million U.S. foreclosure filings from this year to
2012 or beyond, casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing
market, according to a report last week RealtyTrac Inc., a
housing data provider. A clogged foreclosure pipeline may
prevent real estate prices from finding a bottom as the housing
slump enters its sixth year.  Home Values  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest drop
since November 2009, the group said last month. The index was
down 33 percent from its peak in July 2006.  Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, last month reported second-quarter
profits that beat analysts’ estimates on rising earnings at its
distressed-investing unit.  “While it is now well documented that the expected spring
selling season of 2011 simply did not materialize, it is
beginning to feel like the worst days of the housing market are
getting behind us,” said  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer
of Lennar, on a June 23 conference call. “Stabilization and
recovery will continue to be a slow and rocky process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 