-- 
More Companies in U.S. Look to Invest Than Hire, Survey Shows

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/more-companies-in-u-s-look-to-invest-than-hire-survey-shows.html
More companies in the U.S. hold an
optimistic outlook toward investing in new equipment than
hiring, a survey showed, another sign the labor market will
struggle to improve.  Fifty-four percent of companies said they will boost
capital spending over the next 12 months, compared with 43
percent that plan to increase payrolls by the end of the year,
according a results of a  poll  taken last month by the National
Association for Business Economics issued today. Respondents
also scaled back forecasts for economic growth as sales and
profits cooled.  “The economic landscape is weakening and the recovery is
softening” Shawn DuBravac, chief economist for the  Consumer
Electronics Association  in Arlington,  Virginia , who analyzed the
report, said in a statement. “Sales growth remains positive for
the majority of firms responding,” he said, “but that majority
is now smaller than it was last quarter.”  Today’s report combined with slowing payroll gains shows
employment will be slow to recover the 8.75 million jobs lost as
a result of the recession, raising the risk that household
purchases will weaken further. A report last week showed retail
sales stagnated last month.  The index of the outlook for investment in new equipment
and software over the next year, which reflects the difference
between those planning increases and decreases, climbed to 50,
seven points higher than in the last survey issued in April. The
measure of  capital spending  projects already initiated last
quarter rose to 36, the highest level in more than five years.  More Firings  The employment index for last quarter dropped compared with
the group’s April survey as more companies said they dismissed
workers. A growing number said they planned to decrease payrolls
through attrition than in April’s report, while the number of
firms planning ‘significant’ firings held at zero.  The survey underscores other data indicating the labor
market has weakened. U.S. employers added 18,000 workers to
payrolls in June, the fewest in nine months, as the  unemployment
rate  rose to 9.2 percent, according to Labor Department figures.  Fewer companies reported rising profit margins even as
investment plans improved. Twenty-nine percent of firms said
their profits increased last quarter compared with 45 percent in
April’s survey.  Fewer firms also said sales grew, while more reported costs
rose. The survey’s sales index dropped to 47 from 54 in the
previous survey, while 69 percent of firms reported rising costs
compared with 63 percent three months ago.  Purchases at retailers rose 0.1 percent in June, the
Commerce Department reported last week. Sales excluding autos
were little changed, the poorest performance since July 2010.  U.S. companies cut their projections for economic growth,
according to the survey. Seventy-six percent of respondents said
they expected gross domestic product to expand by more than 2
percent compared with 94 percent in the April survey.  Seventy-three NABE members responded to the survey,
conducted between June 16 and June 29. The National Association
for Business Economics, founded in 1959, is the professional
organization for people who use economics in their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jillian Berman at in Washington or
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  