-- 
Morgan Stanley’s Grimes Masters ‘CityVille’ to Win IPOs From Goldman Sachs

-- B y   A r i   L e v y ,   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-07-18T15:29:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/morgan-stanley-s-grimes-masters-cityville-in-goldman-ipo-duel.html
When investment bankers fled Silicon
Valley after the dot-com bust in 2000,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Michael Grimes and his team stayed put on Menlo Park’s Sand Hill Road.  They’re now listed as the first underwriter on all the
hottest Web deals, including the initial public offerings of
LinkedIn Corp., Pandora Media Inc., Groupon Inc. and Zynga Inc.
Morgan Stanley is even in the running for the lead role in
Facebook Inc.’s IPO, which looked like it was a shoo-in for its
top rival  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  only a few months ago.  Grimes, global co-head of Morgan Stanley’s technology
investment banking, meets regularly with investors in search of
the next  Google Inc. (GOOG)  or  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and has close ties to
venture capitalists at Sequoia Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield
& Byers and  Greylock Partners . He’s also an early consumer of
his clients’ products, whether that means widening his circle of
contacts on LinkedIn’s network or spending hours building a
digital metropolis in  Zynga ’s “CityVille” game.  “He quickly and astutely connects with companies and teams
at that level because of his experience with the product, not
just at a transactional level as an investment banker,” said
David Sze, a partner at  Menlo Park , California-based Greylock
and a board member at LinkedIn and  Pandora . “Companies sense
that. They smell the authenticity.”  Grimes, 44, is leading the Internet field during a year of
resurgent IPOs. Companies have held 117 U.S. offerings in 2011,
a 29 percent increase from a year earlier and the most for any
year at this point since 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Rivalry  Morgan Stanley got an early jump on Goldman Sachs in
January, when LinkedIn chose the bank to lead its offering. The
next month music-streaming service Pandora picked the firm as
well. Over the next few months, Morgan Stanley was tapped to
lead sales by vacation-rental site HomeAway Inc. and Russian
search engine Yandex NV.  Of the 10 biggest technology IPOs this year by offer size,
Morgan Stanley has top billing on six, double the number for
Goldman Sachs, filings show. And that doesn’t include Morgan
Stanley’s prime spot for Groupon and Zynga, which haven’t gone
public yet.  Groupon listed Morgan Stanley first even after Goldman
Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  personally visited
the startup in  Chicago . While Goldman Sachs is co-leading the
IPO, Morgan Stanley occupies the coveted upper-left hand corner
of the box listing involved banks.  ‘Prestige Spot’  “Upper-left is the prestige spot, and there’s a lot of
fighting that goes into who earns that spot,” said Eric Risley,
a managing partner at  Architect Partners LLC  in Menlo Park, who
has worked as an investment banker for 22 years. With Zynga’s
IPO, Morgan Stanley also is to the left, though Goldman Sachs is
co-leading the deal.  Grimes declined to be interviewed for this story.  Andrea Rachman , a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, also
declined to comment.  Grimes’s penchant for nabbing deals will be put to the test
as Morgan Stanley vies with Goldman Sachs for the biggest prize
yet: Facebook’s IPO. The Palo Alto, California-based company,
with a  private-market valuation  of $71 billion, has yet to file.
It’s poised to dwarf even Google’s 2004 IPO.  Morgan Stanley’s underwriting hasn’t gone without
criticism. The doubling of LinkedIn’s shares on their debut
raised concern that Morgan Stanley and the IPO’s other banks
could have set a higher initial price.  ‘Mother of All IPOs’  Goldman Sachs sealed an early advantage with Facebook in
January, when it announced a $1.5 billion investment in the
social network, buying a $450 million stake at a $50 billion
valuation. Goldman Sachs halted plans to offer shares to U.S.
investors days later, citing concerns that the deal may violate
rules limiting marketing of private securities.  “The mother of all IPOs in the near term is going to be
Facebook,” said  Michael Kim , a former Morgan Stanley banker who
invests in venture funds as managing partner of Cendana Capital
in  San Francisco . “Morgan Stanley, by having established its
track record in 2011 with LinkedIn, Groupon and Pandora, is very
well positioned to be the lead underwriter.”  Grimes, a Los Angeles native who graduated from the
University of  California  at Berkeley, joined Morgan Stanley in
1995, when the technology banking team was led by Frank Quattrone. He served as a managing director until 2005 when he
and Paul Chamberlain were promoted to be co-heads of the global
technology  investment banking  group.  ‘Last Man Standing’  In 16 years at the firm, Grimes has been responsible for
financings and merger transactions topping $100 billion in total
value, according to his LinkedIn profile. He worked on Google’s
IPO in 2004,  Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM) ’s offering in 2009 and Hewlett-
Packard Co.’s purchase of 3Com Corp. last year.  His most important move may have been one he didn’t make.
After the dot-com bust, Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse Group
AG’s investment bank cut back on Silicon Valley office space,
and more than 4,000 financial services jobs were lost in the San
Francisco Bay area in the ensuing years. Grimes was one of the
people who stuck around.  “He could be considered the last man standing from the
1990s and all the action that occurred in the dot-com boom,”
said  Ken Goldman , chief financial officer at  Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) ,
whose IPO was handled by Morgan Stanley in 2009. “Many of his
competitors have either moved on or retired, and he still is
actively engaged and probably more engaged than ever.”  Omniture Overtures  Morgan Stanley established its technology  beachhead  in
Silicon Valley in 1994. Five years later, Goldman Sachs set up
shop across the street.  Chamberlain, who was then head of Morgan Stanley’s office,
sent a basket of fruit to the Goldman team, according to an
article in the San Jose Mercury News in 2000. The attached note
said, “Welcome. I guess this means, ‘There goes the
neighborhood.’”  Two years after the stock market reached bottom in 2002,
Morgan Stanley landed Google’s IPO. Grimes and his teammate,
Paul Kwan, also began pitching their services to Omniture Inc.,
a Web-analysis company near Salt Lake City. That put Morgan
Stanley in position to lead the IPO in 2006 and advise the
company on its 2009 sale to Adobe Systems Inc. for $1.8 billion.  “Every banker that comes into your office is a meat-
eating, blood-sucking capitalist, so how do you figure out which
one you can trust,” said Josh James, co-founder of Omniture.
“They were willing to get on a plane and fly to Salt Lake City
to meet us when we were a little Podunk company.”  ‘CityVille’ Player  Grimes’s relationship with Zynga CEO Mark Pincus extends to
the virtual world, where the two are connected on the company’s
two most popular Facebook games, “CityVille” and “Empires &
Allies.”  Kim, of Cendana Capital, is connected to both of them on
the games, and sees them playing frequently. “CityVille,”
which Zynga introduced late last year, lets users build a city
by constructing buildings and collecting rent.  “It’s not just that Michael is building out a level or
two, he’s pretty advanced in his game playing,” said Kim, who
worked with Grimes from 1997 to 2000.  Grimes lives in Hillsborough, an affluent town halfway
between the bustling San Francisco startup scene and Menlo
Park’s venture capital community. He’s fond of taking clients to
the  Village Pub , a Michelin-rated restaurant in nearby Woodside,
said Fortinet’s Goldman.  Grimes is a longtime fan of the Los Angeles Lakers
professional basketball team and a contributor to political
campaigns. In 2009, he gave $2,400 to Republican Carly Fiorina’s
losing bid for the  U.S. Senate  in California, according to
Campaignmoney.com. Last year, he contributed the same amount to
Republican Scott Brown in  Massachusetts , who won Edward
Kennedy’s old Senate seat.  Outside Fiorina’s Office  His relationship with Fiorina dates to her days at Hewlett-
Packard, where she was CEO from 1999 to 2005. Near the beginning
of her term, Grimes spent a full day camped outside her office
to try and get a meeting for a big acquisition Hewlett-Packard
was trying to make, said Kim, without providing details. Grimes
eventually got the deal.  “He’s aggressive and patient and really looks to win
business the hard way,” Kim said.  Another reason for the firm’s success is the longevity of
its team, said Greylock’s Sze, who’s been working with Grimes
throughout his decade in venture capital. Chamberlain has been
at the firm since 1990, Drew Guevara since 1995, Kwan since 1999
and Colin Stewart since 1988.  The bank has now built ties with the current crop of
entrepreneurs, such as Groupon Chairman Eric Lefkofsky. Morgan
Stanley previously led the IPOs of Lefkofsky’s earlier startups,
 Echo Global Logistics Inc. (ECHO)  and  InnerWorkings Inc. (INWK)   “They put in the work necessary ahead of time to build
these relationships and win these deals,” said Harry Weller, a
Chevy Chase, Maryland-based partner at New Enterprise
Associates, the first venture investor in Groupon. Grimes “gets
to know companies really early, much earlier than most people,
and before they are actually in need of true investment
banking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  