-- 
Morgan Stanley Seeks Fixed-Income Rebound After Target Miss

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-18T21:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/morgan-stanley-seeks-fixed-income-rebound-after-missing-target.html
Morgan Stanley, which last year
missed an internal trading-revenue target by more than 40
percent, is under pressure to show improvement after a two-year
effort to turn around the firm’s fixed-income trading business.  The fixed-income unit failed to deliver on a promised
revenue increase last year, leading to the missed target,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the figures. It
has been beset by management turnover, weak markets, bad bets
and a struggle to win back clients lost when the firm retrenched
during the financial crisis, according to interviews with nine
current and former executives who requested anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to speak.  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 53, is looking to
prove to investors this week when results are reported that the
firm is advancing toward his goal of boosting market share in
fixed-income trading by 2 percentage points. With the stock down
69 percent since 2006 to $21.09 last week, Colm Kelleher and Ken deRegt, both 20-year veterans of the company, aim to succeed at
a task that has taken down three senior executives.  “I’m absolutely surprised at how slow it has been,” said
Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has a
“buy” rating on the firm’s shares and is a former Morgan
Stanley treasurer. “I’d love to tell you what the trajectory is
going to be, but I don’t know how rapidly one can come back.”  Second-Quarter Results  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has made some progress. About 70 percent of
clients in a Greenwich Associates survey reported using the New
York-based firm as a fixed-income dealer last year, up from 56
percent in 2009. The company said revenue at its interest-rates
unit climbed 10 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, while total revenue in that business for the 10 largest
U.S. and European banks fell about 11 percent, according to
London-based research firm  Coalition Development Ltd.   More evidence of progress may come July 21, when the bank
announces second-quarter results. While Citigroup Inc. and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  both reported that fixed-income trading
revenue dropped at least 18 percent from the first quarter,
Fiona Swaffield, an RBC Capital Markets analyst, and  David Trone 
at JMP Securities expect Morgan Stanley to post fixed-income
revenue of $1.9 billion, little changed from the first three
months of the year. That would represent a market-share gain.  The bank may reap $200 million in the second quarter from
hedges against monoline insurers, including MBIA Inc., after
$318 million of losses in the first quarter,  Howard Chen , a
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, said in a note last month.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in  New
York , declined to comment on the firm’s fixed-income business.  Falling Behind  Morgan Stanley fell behind rivals in 2009 as fixed-income
trading became the dominant capital-markets business for the
largest global banks. Fixed-income units include banks’ trading
in government and corporate bonds, currencies, commodities,
mortgage-backed securities, interest-rate swaps, credit-default
swaps and other derivatives.  Fixed income, currencies and commodities, or FICC, has
topped combined revenue from equities trading and  investment
banking  at the biggest banks in each of the past two years. It
also has a pretax margin of about 25 percent, almost double that
of equity trading, according to Hintz.  The firm had a market share based on revenue of about 6.5
percent among the top nine U.S. and European investment banks
last year, up from about 5.5 percent in 2009 and down from about
9 percent in 2006, according to an April report by  Glenn Schorr ,
a Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst. That dropped to 6 percent in the
first quarter, according to RBC’s Swaffield. Both analysts
excluded losses and gains tied to the banks’ own debt, known as
debt-valuation adjustments, or DVAs.  JPMorgan, Goldman  JPMorgan had the largest market share last year, with 14.9
percent, while Citigroup, London-based Barclays Plc and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  each had more than 13 percent, Swaffield wrote
in a June note. JPMorgan and Citigroup both reported results
last week. Goldman is scheduled to announce them tomorrow and
Barclays on Aug. 2.  Gorman, an Australian and former McKinsey & Co. consultant
who previously led the firm’s wealth-management business, has
put forward a strategy that relies more on Morgan Stanley’s
17,000-plus brokers and less on principal risk-taking. Still, he
has called repairing the fixed-income unit his priority.  Kelleher, 54, an accountant at Arthur Andersen LLP before
joining Morgan Stanley in 1989 as a fixed-income salesman, took
charge of trading after Gorman ousted Mitch Petrick in late
2009. Kelleher, the firm’s chief financial officer during the
crisis, has overseen a rebound in the equities business, which
last year topped all U.S. rivals except Goldman Sachs.  Optimistic Goals  Gorman and Kelleher have set optimistic goals for the
turnaround. Kelleher’s 2010 trading-revenue target that the
division missed was about $26 billion, $10 billion more than the
firm produced in 2009, and executives pushed for him to lower
his 2011 fixed-income target by as much as $3 billion, according
to two executives who left the bank this year. Delaney, the
spokeswoman, declined to make Kelleher available for comment.  Gorman  laid out  his plan for a 2 percentage-point increase
in February, which would bring the firm’s market share among the
top nine banks to 8.5 percent, according to Schorr’s figures.
That came almost a year after he set a 15 percent pretax profit-
margin goal for the firm’s brokerage, a target executives said
five months later they wouldn’t hit.  “This management team tends to put out somewhat lofty
targets,” said Shannon Stemm, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in  St. Louis  who rates the stock a “buy.” “I don’t think they
need to get to 2 percent at all. The market has pretty
pessimistic expectations for this company, and if we can see any
improvement, it will be applauded.”  Fixing FICC  The effort to fix FICC began two years ago, when then-CEO
 John Mack , who started at Morgan Stanley as a bond salesman in
1972, vowed to close the gap with competitors. The bank reported
$5 billion less FICC revenue than each of its U.S. rivals in the
first half of 2009 as it cut risk after a near-collapse in 2008
during the financial crisis.  The firm announced plans to increase hiring for its client-
flow units, which focus on buying and selling securities for
customers and had been shunned before the credit crisis as Mack,
66, focused on proprietary trading and the securitization
business. It also brought in Jack DiMaio to run  interest-rates ,
bond and  currency trading  with then-president Walid Chammah, 57,
deeming him “ideally suited” to turn around the business.  Played Baseball  DiMaio, 44, a Long Island native who played baseball at New
York Technical College, made his name at  Credit Suisse First
Boston , from which he defected to Barclays in 2001 with his 43-
member team, only to be lured back a day later by a contract
guaranteeing the group $300 million over three years. DiMaio
worked under Mack at Credit Suisse and later started his own
credit hedge fund.  Mack and Chammah hired DiMaio to replace Roberto Hoornweg,
43, without letting Gorman and Kelleher, then co-president and
CFO of the firm, interview DiMaio, three people said.  The bank wasn’t alone in its effort to push further into
the client-trading business in 2009.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse,
both based in Zurich, were also increasing staff after
recovering from the financial crisis. As competitors increased
their presence, opportunities diminished, analysts said.  That was an “unusually profitable year in FICC, one which
we may never see again,” said Frank Feenstra, managing director
at consulting firm Greenwich Associates in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “The pie was very large, and the number of firms
able to take a sizable slice out of that pie was pretty small
because some firms had just come through a very difficult period
and others were just not geared up for that kind of business.”  The turnaround didn’t show the desired results in 2010, as
Morgan Stanley posted less than half the fixed-income trading
revenue of its biggest U.S. rivals for the second straight year.  ‘Long Memories’  “The problem is that clients have long memories,” said
Hintz, the Sanford Bernstein analyst, who is based in New York.
“If you’re no longer the first button on a phone, it takes a
long time to become the first button.”  As 2010 ended, DiMaio and Kelleher clashed over the unit’s
2011 revenue target, as well as compensation for fixed-income
traders, according to two people. Kelleher, who moved to  London 
from New York this year, and Gorman also lost confidence in
DiMaio’s ability to improve performance at his unit, two former
executives said. DiMaio declined to comment.  DiMaio had a background in credit trading, which includes
trading in corporate bonds, and less experience with interest
rates and foreign exchange, three executives said.  DiMaio Departs  In January, DiMaio left Morgan Stanley with plans to start
his own firm, according to two people. He was replaced by
deRegt, the firm’s chief risk officer. DeRegt, 55, was head of
fixed-income trading from the time of Morgan Stanley’s 1997
merger with Dean Witter until he departed in 2000. Mack brought
deRegt back to the firm in 2008 to help manage risk after losses
from a fixed-income proprietary bet.  DeRegt, who was Kelleher’s boss in the 1990s, has been
given more autonomy than DiMaio, two of the people said. While
deRegt has strong backing from Gorman, some employees point out
that he hasn’t run a trading group since 2000, four people said.  David Moore , global head of the structured interest-rates
unit who had been at Morgan Stanley for more than 20 years, was
pushed out in January, and the firm brought in Glenn Hadden from
rival Goldman Sachs as global head of the interest-rates
business, which includes trading of Treasuries, inflation-
protected bonds and interest-rate swaps.  “This is the first time that I have felt comfortable with
the leadership across all of our fixed-income businesses,”
Gorman said on a conference call with analysts in April.
“You’ve got to have that ability at the top, and the investment
we made in hiring people combined with the leadership at the top
I think is what’s starting to move the needle.”  ‘More Confident’  The management turnover meant that the business has been
under three heads of fixed-income trading and two leaders of
overall trading in the past two years.  “It’s hard when you have a vision and you’re trying to
execute a strategy, and then the people creating that at the top
continue to turn over,” said Stemm, the Edward Jones analyst.
Gorman is “finally comfortable with the leadership in place, so
I’m a little more confident that we’re through that at this
point and maybe they can move forward.”  The lack of improvement in trading has helped drive down
the firm’s share price, analysts including Stemm and Hintz said.
Morgan Stanley’s shares have dropped 26 percent in the past two
years, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index is up 21
percent. Morgan Stanley trades at 34 percent below book value
and 23 percent below tangible book value.  The shares fell 40 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $20.69 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the lowest
closing price since March 2009.  Mitsubishi UFJ  The bank’s largest shareholder isn’t losing faith.  “It’s a kind of change of the platform of the business,
and you cannot make it in a few months time,” Nobuyuki Hirano,
deputy president of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., which
owns 22 percent of the U.S. firm, and the Japanese bank’s
representative on Morgan Stanley’s board until May, said in an
interview this month. “It takes a few years, and that we’ve
been aware of since the beginning.”  Morgan Stanley’s lagging performance predated the crisis in
interest-rates and foreign-exchange businesses and was masked by
the firm’s strength in commodities, two former executives said.  While the company doesn’t break out revenue for the
businesses within the fixed-income unit, it’s among the top
three firms in commodities, credit sales and trading, Gorman
told investors in February. The bank is looking to gain market
share in interest rates, where it increased headcount by about
20 percent, and foreign exchange, where it expanded staffing by
40 percent, he said.  ‘Flow Monsters’  “The macro space -- rates, foreign exchange and emerging
markets -- has pockets that are doing very well and pockets that
are not,” Gorman said at the time. “There are enormous
opportunities, and we’ve been investing in that space, in
headcount and in our technology.”  Morgan Stanley aims to increase share in a business
dominated by large commercial banks. JPMorgan, Barclays and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG, dubbed “flow monsters” in
the market, handle more than one-third of the volume in the
interest-rate, bond, securitization and emerging-markets
businesses, according to  Greenwich Associates  data. Clients are
increasing the number of dealers they do business with after
cutting back during the crisis, the consulting firm said.  Interest-rates products make up about 80 percent of fixed-
income volume for all banks, according to Greenwich Associates,
which tracks currency trading separately. Those trades are often
lower-margin deals: The category accounts for less than a
quarter of client revenue, the consulting firm’s data show.  Making Bets  Morgan Stanley’s low market share in the interest-rates
business has not only reduced fees earned from executing client
trades, it also has hindered the firm’s effectiveness in making
bets, according to three people familiar with the market.
Dealers benefit from knowledge about client flows and sharing
ideas with buy-side traders, the people said.  “We believe that where we have insight like commodities,
we can position risk of a proprietary nature on the back of
those client flows,” Kelleher said in 2008 as he discussed
exiting some proprietary-trading businesses.  Whether Morgan Stanley and other banks will be allowed to
continue taking proprietary positions depends on how regulators
write regulations designed to enforce the Volcker rule, which
bars banks from trading for their own accounts.  Morgan Stanley may have seen the downside of such bets. The
bank’s interest-rates trading group lost at least tens of
millions of dollars in the second quarter on a wager on U.S.
inflation expectations, which the firm has been unwinding, two
people said last month, declining to be identified because the
transaction isn’t public.  Short Sales  Traders at the bank bet that inflation expectations for the
next five years would rise, while forecasts for the next 30
years would fall, according to the people. Such wagers on so-
called breakeven rates involve paired purchases and short sales
of Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or
TIPS, in both maturities. Delaney, the Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the reported loss.  Even with the missteps, Morgan Stanley has made headway in
areas where it previously trailed peers, including hedge-fund
relations, risk management and technology.  Hedge Funds  The bank has improved relationships with its hedge-fund
clients in an effort led by Kevin Dunleavy, 51, who was hired by
DiMaio from Bank of America Corp. in 2009 after spending 28
years at Merrill Lynch & Co., where he held a similar job,
according to two hedge-fund clients. It has also strengthened
its presence in interest-rates and bond trading, while still
lagging rivals in derivatives, one of the clients said.  Morgan Stanley also has taken more risk to support clients
and make markets after cutting its balance sheet almost in half
to $626 billion of assets in the first quarter of 2009. Its
assets were $836 billion as of March 31.  The firm’s trading value-at-risk, or VaR, an estimate of
how much the company could lose in securities markets in one
day, went from less than half that of Goldman Sachs in the first
two quarters of 2009 to more than its rival’s in each of the
past four periods.  The increased risk-taking has been accompanied by more
stringent risk management, CFO Ruth Porat said at an investor
presentation in June. The firm hired 200 people in its risk-
management group from January 2009 to April 2011, she said. It
also increased the number of trading limits, better matched the
maturities of its assets and introduced a stressed VaR measure.  Exceeding VaR  The bank had only one day in 2009 and 2010 when trading
losses exceeded VaR estimates. Over the 19 months from June 2007
through the end of 2008, trading losses exceeded VaR limits on
36 days, or about 9 percent of the time.  Morgan Stanley’s effort to catch rivals in technology and
electronic trading are being led by Dexter Senft, hired last
year as head of e-commerce for the fixed-income unit from
Barclays. He held a similar position at Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and was chairman of LiquidityHub Ltd., a company set up by
banks in 2006 to make it easier to trade fixed-income products
electronically by aggregating prices.  Morgan Stanley started an application in 2009 called
Matrix, which provided clients with research, analytics, live
prices and trading capability for some fixed-income products.  Foreign Exchange  Electronic foreign-exchange trading volume with Morgan
Stanley has tripled since 2009, and revenue is four times
greater, Porat said at the June  investor conference . Electronic
trading volume in the interest-rates business has increased at a
compound annual rate of 60 percent, said Porat, 53.  “We expect an increase in electronic volumes in fixed-
income as Dodd-Frank is implemented, and we have been
positioning ourselves for the change,” Porat told investors.  Most large dealers are investing heavily in electronic
trading as clients use it to trade more investment-grade debt
and interest-rate products, Greenwich Associates’ Feenstra said.
About 53 percent of customer accounts trade electronically, and
online trading makes up 43 percent of that volume, an increase
from 38 percent a year earlier, he said.  “If you want to gain more traction with clients and gain
more share, that’s in some ways a relatively easy, though maybe
expensive from a P&L perspective, way of increasing your
footprint,” Feenstra said. “It may be great to add
relationships and do more volume, but it may not be the most
profitable business.”  Smaller Pool  While Morgan Stanley gained market share in 2010, it was
taking from a smaller pool. Fixed-income revenue at the top nine
global investment banks fell to $101 billion last year from a
record $146 billion in 2009. It dropped 17 percent to $32.1
billion in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to
Schorr and Swaffield.  Morgan Stanley’s attempts to gain share have been hindered
by turnover, both at the top ranks and on the trading desks.
Hiring was interrupted by a freeze in the second half of 2010.  Seven of the top interest-rate traders, including Moore,
have left the firm over the past year. Six of them -- Richard Armes, Joeri Jacobs, Barry Piafsky, Vito Santoro, Colin Teichholtz and James Watson -- have landed at hedge funds.
Armes, Watson and Santoro all joined Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, one of Morgan Stanley’s biggest clients.  Pariente, Gaubert  The firm hired Olivier Pariente and Julien Gaubert last
year from BNP Paribas for the interest-rate swaps desk. The pair
has improved the bank’s swaps technology and analytic systems
and has been more aggressive in trading, according to one
executive. Hadden has also increased Morgan Stanley’s presence
in the interest-rate markets, three people said.  The bank is expecting its performance to improve as
problems from the credit crisis recede. Those issues include
clients viewing the firm as a weaker counterparty than
competitors as well as the losses related to monoline insurers
that have cost the company more than $1 billion since the
beginning of 2010.  The conversion of Mitsubishi UFJ’s preferred stake to
common shares will increase confidence in the firm as a
counterparty, Porat said last month. Morgan Stanley also may
benefit from the move of many derivatives to central
clearinghouses, which would eliminate credit-risk differences
between dealers because the clearinghouse would hold collateral
against trades.  ‘Tremendous’ Opportunity  The opportunity for the firm’s shares to benefit from a
successful turnaround is “tremendous” as it would help drive
the stock price back to book value, said  Roger Freeman , an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. Still, the market
is likely going to be skeptical until increased revenue and
decreased revenue volatility is the norm, he said.  “We’d like to see three or four quarters of outperformance
to really make a market-share case,” Freeman said. “You can
outperform for one quarter or maybe a couple if you’ve deployed
capital a little more aggressively or some of your principal
positions went your way. The actual flow captured is going to be
the more sustainable piece. We haven’t seen it yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  