-- 
Tower Semiconductor Targets Asia With Japanese Factory Purchase

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-18T07:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/tower-semiconductor-targets-asia-with-japanese-factory-purchase.html
Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , an Israeli
maker of customized chips, expects the acquisition of a Japanese
factory to help it attain a quarterly sales target of $250
million in 2014, Chief Executive Officer Russell Ellwanger said.  The purchase of the facility, located in Nishiwaki City, is
likely to boost revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, where Tower
gets only 9 percent of sales, Ellwanger said in an interview in
his office in Migdal Haemek,  Israel .  “The capacity at the Nishiwaki factory we believe will be
a big benefit, Ellwanger said. Tower has said the June 5
acquisition will almost double its manufacturing capacity.  Eighty percent of Tower’s 2010 sales came from the U.S.,
while just 0.5 percent was from  Japan , which with the Korean
market offers huge potential, the CEO said. Tower, whose revenue
has almost tripled in five years, aims to more than double
quarterly sales from $121 million in the first quarter of 2011.  The Japanese plant is a 1 1/2-hour flight from  Seoul , where
Tower sees a growing market for the chips it makes for light-
emitting diode, or LED, lights and liquid crystal displays.  “The local proximity to  Korea  we thought would be very
accretive to growing the market that we are gaining very big
traction in, as well as in other parts of the Asia Pacific,”
Ellwanger said.  Two quarters of economic contraction in Japan may mean that
companies there are “motivated to become profitable more
quickly” and may be more ready to close factories and outsource
manufacturing than they were before, according to the CEO.  Major Acquisitions  Tower shares have fallen 31 percent in the past six months,
compared with a 7 percent decline for the benchmark TA-25 index.
The company’s main competitor,  Taiwan ’s Vanguard International
Semiconductor Corp., has dropped 8.8 percent in the same period.
Tower shares trade at 2.2 times estimated 2011 earnings,
compared with a 19 times average for  semiconductor companies .  The company has made two major acquisitions in the past
three years, including the 2008 purchase of Jazz Technologies
Inc. that gave it radio-frequency capability. While Tower isn’t
ruling out further purchases to add technology, it may wait
before buying more factories, Ellwanger said.  “We would need to digest this capacity before we did
another facility capacity,” Ellwanger said. “We are still
active and have been looking at other technologies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in  Jerusalem  at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  