-- 
Palm Oil Drops as U.S., Europe Debt Crises Spark Demand Concern

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-07-18T08:41:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/palm-oil-drops-as-u-s-europe-debt-crises-spark-demand-concern.html
Palm oil  dropped for a second day,
declining after reaching the highest level in more than three
weeks, on concern that demand for the cooking oil may drop as
 Europe  and the United States tackle debt crises.  The September-delivery contract slipped as much as 1.1
percent to 3,083 ringgit ($1,022) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange in Kuala Lumpur and was at 3,092 ringgit at
3:45 p.m. local time. Futures earlier climbed to 3,148 ringgit,
the highest intraday level since June 23.  European leaders are holding a special summit this week as
they seek to contain the region’s debt crisis, after eight of
the region’s banks failed stress tests and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated the ECB won’t accept as
collateral bonds from a nation that defaults.  “Investors are concerned about the global economic
recovery,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte.,
said by phone from Singapore. “Investors may take a cue from
the currency markets’ response to the stress-test result for
banks and what happened in the U.S. about the debt ceilings.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and leaders of Congress face an
Aug. 2 deadline to raise a $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. A
default would cause more panic than the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, former Treasury Secretary Larry
Summers told  CNN  in an interview broadcast yesterday.  “External markets at the moment are at the negative side,
so there’s some spillover,” Donny Khor, senior vice president
for futures & options at OSK Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone
from Kuala Lumpur.  Price Controls  China ended price limits on edible oils, the Quanzhou
Evening News said yesterday, citing an unidentified official at
the price department of the National Development and Reform
Commission, the top economic-planning agency. A call by
Bloomberg News to the office of NDRC Deputy Secretary-General Li Pumin today wasn’t answered.  China told suppliers to cap prices in November to tackle
inflation, which has since reached the fastest pace in three
years.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said May 13 China is unlikely to lift price controls
any time soon because of inflation.  “A three-week high may have prompted traders to come off
their long positions,” Anand James, chief analyst at brokerage
Geojit Comtrade Ltd., said from Kochi,  India . A so-called long
position is a bet on rising prices.  Palm oil for May delivery on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
fell 0.6 percent to close at 9,096 yuan ($1,406) a ton.  Soybean
oil  for delivery in the same month dropped 0.7 percent to 10,268
yuan at the close.  Soybeans for delivery in November shed as much as 0.7
percent to $13.78 per bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Soybean oil for December delivery also fell as much as 0.7
percent to 57.83 cents per pound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  