-- 
Peruvian Stocks Surge as Humala Says He’ll Keep Velarde Atop Central Bank

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-07-18T21:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/peruvian-stocks-surge-after-humala-says-central-bank-president-to-stay.html
Peru’s benchmark stock index surged
after President-elect Ollanta Humala said Central Bank President
Julio Velarde will remain in his post, signaling that policies
that spurred the region’s fastest economic growth in the last
decade will continue.  The  Lima  General Index rose 4.6 percent to 21,284.74, the
biggest one-day gain since June 7. It was the biggest gainer
among 91 equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge was led
by Canadian gold and copper exploration company  Alturas Minerals
Corp. (ALT)  and Caterpillar Inc. distributor  Ferreyros SA. (FERREYC1)  Velarde
will serve another five-year term to help ensure economic
stability, Humala said yesterday.  “Velarde’s appointment is a very good signal,” said
Sebastian Blondet, a trader at Celfin Capital SAB. “The markets
were waiting for a sign that Humala will maintain macroeconomic
policies and a stable currency.”  Humala, who takes office July 28, is seeking to reassure
investors concerned that his plans to raise mining royalties may
slow private investment. Since being appointed in 2006 to head
the central bank, Velarde, 59, has helped triple international
reserves to a record $47 billion and raised lending rates to a
two-year high in May to curb inflation, which has been the
lowest in the region since 2006.  Peruvian bonds and the currency also gained. The sol
increased 0.1 percent to 2.7375 per  U.S. dollar , from 2.74 on
July 15.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 6.27 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.15 centimo to 110.72
centimos per sol.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Peruvian bonds
instead of Treasuries, or spread, narrowed to 1.74 percentage
points today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s benchmark
emerging-market index.  A surge in gold, the country’s second-biggest export earner
after copper, also helped fuel the advance today. Fifteen of the
34 stocks in the index are mining shares, including five gold
miners.  Humala said in a July 17 television interview he’ll seek to
spur investment in the Andean nation’s mining and gas industries
and pledged to announce ministerial posts on July 20.  Velarde introduced measures including raising  reserve
requirements  for  bank deposits  to rein in lending. He increased
the operating limit on pension fund managers’ investments
overseas four times last year to help cool demand for the local
currency.  Peru’s economy expanded 7.1 percent in May, the slowest
pace in more than a year, as companies slowed spending on
concern Humala’s policies may deter foreign investment.  “This is very positive news from a market perspective,”
Credit Suisse AG economist  Carola Sandy  said today in an e-
mailed report. “It signals that monetary policy will remain
independent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  