-- 
Philippine Peso, Bonds Decline as Europe Debt Damps Sentiment

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-07-18T08:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/philippine-peso-bonds-decline-as-europe-debt-damps-sentiment.html
The Philippine peso and government
bonds fell as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening deterred
investors from buying higher-yielding emerging-market assets.  The currency declined by the most in almost a week before
European leaders meet in Brussels on July 21 to step up efforts
to stem the contagion from  Greece . As many as 24 European banks
will be under pressure to show they can raise capital after
failing, or barely passing, a second round of stress tests by
regulators, the European Banking Authority said on July 15.  “Europe is still a concern,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, an
economist at ING Groep NV in Manila. “The Philippine economy
will be able to manage the risk but in the meantime investors
will have cautious sentiment that will affect Philippine asset
prices temporarily.”  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 43.042 per dollar at the 4
p.m. close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
currency lost 0.4 percent last week.  Philippine five-year peso bonds declined. The yield on the
7 percent securities due January 2016 increased five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.80 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services.  The  Philippines  named Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and four other overseas banks as possible arrangers of the
nation’s first exchange of dollar bonds into global peso notes,
a government official said.  Debt Swap  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc., Standard
Chartered Plc and UBS AG were also included in a shortlist, the
official said, declining to be identified as the information
isn’t public. The government may issue 15- and 25-year global
peso notes in exchange for dollar-denominated bonds or may use
the proceeds of the debt sale to redeem some U.S. currency
notes, the person said.  The Philippine central bank has started to review non-
deliverable forward transactions, Governor Amando Tetangco said
in a mobile-phone message today.  “The review doesn’t necessarily mean that NDFs will be
totally phased out, but we want to determine if the NDF market
as it is now is fulfilling its intended purpose of providing a
hedge for legitimate transactions,” Tetangco said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 