-- 
Hacking Whistleblower Found Dead: Guardian

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-18T19:26:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/phone-hacking-whistleblower-hoare-is-found-dead-at-home-guardian-reports.html
A former reporter at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
now-defunct News of the World tabloid, who was the first person
to allege its editor,  Andy Coulson , encouraged phone hacking by
his staff, was found dead, the  Guardian newspaper  reported,
without saying where it got the information.  Sean Hoare’s body was discovered this morning at his
home in Watford,  England , after police were called to the house,
the Guardian said. The death is not thought to be suspicious,
the newspaper said, citing a police statement that did not name
Hoare.  Hoare worked as an entertainment reporter at the News of
the World with Coulson, who resigned as U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s press secretary earlier this year because of the
scandal.  Hoare first alleged that Coulson encouraged his reporters
to hack into mobile phones in an interview with the New York
Times last year. He had also worked with Coulson at News Corp.’s
Sun tabloid before he was dismissed for drug and alcohol
problems, the Guardian said.  Officials for police in Hertfordshire couldn’t be reached
for comment and the  Metropolitan Police Service  in London said
it wasn’t aware of the case.  ‘Terrible Tragedy’  David Sonn, a lawyer for Hoare, said he didn’t know about
it, and if the report is true, it is “a terrible tragedy.”  London’s Metropolitan Police is investigating allegations
that reporters at the tabloid hacked into the phones of
celebrities, politicians, and murder and terror victims, and
bribed police for stories. The scandal forced News Corp. to
shutter the 168-year old News of the World, and led to the
resignations of two senior executives at the company.  The police had previously re-opened the probe in September
last year after a report in the New York Times that cited Hoare.
The report quoted Hoare saying everyone at the News of the
World, knew about phone hacking. The tabloid said in a statement
at the time that the article “contained no new credible
evidence” and was “motivated by commercial rivalry.”  Hoare refused to comment to police after the New York Times
report, forcing prosecutors to close the probe again because of
a lack of evidence, the Director of Public Prosecutions Keir Starmer said in December. Coulson has said he didn’t know the
hacking was taking place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 