-- 
Polish Wage Growth Quickens in June, Bolsters Arguments for Rate Increase

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-07-18T12:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/polish-wage-growth-quickens-in-june-bolsters-arguments-for-rate-increase.html
Polish corporate wages grew faster
than forecast in June, bolstering arguments that the central
bank may need to raise borrowing costs for a fifth time this
year to head off a spillover effect on prices.  Corporate wages rose 5.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 4.1 percent in May, the  Central Statistical Office 
reported in Warsaw today. The median estimate of 22 economists
in a Bloomberg survey was 5.5 percent. Wages advanced 3.3
percent on the month.  “Faster-than-expected wage growth shows that we’re out of
the range deemed safe in terms of triggering second-round
effects by people like central bank Governor Marek Belka,” said
Piotr Piekos, an economist at Bank Pekao in Warsaw. “In that
sense, the reading supports expectations for another rate
increase this autumn.”  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised the seven-day interest rate
in four stages to 4.5 percent this year from a record-low 3.5
percent as economic growth quickened, boosting inflation above
the central bank’s target.  Core inflation  is expected to quicken
to the fastest in 18 months to 2.5 percent in June from 2.4
percent the previous month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
18 economists.  The zloty stayed weaker against the euro after the data,
trading at 4.0366 at 2:47 p.m. in Warsaw, down 0.6 percent on
the day. The yield on the five-year Treasury bond maturing in
April 2016 was little changed after the data at 5.34 percent, up
from 5.30 percent on July 15.  Coal Bonuses  Faster wage growth in June and July can be expected because
of big bonus payments paid in the coal-mining industry,
especially at  Europe ’s largest coking coal producer Jastrzebska
Spolka Weglowa SA, which began trading on the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange  on July 6, said  Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank
BPH in Warsaw.  “Wages will be a key indicator for the Monetary Policy
Council to keep its eye on to determine whether, in conjunction
with above-target inflation, it’ll be necessary to increase
rates again,” Goettig said by phone.  The Monetary Policy Council will hold its next rate meeting
in September. Core inflation data will be released on July 20.  Employment rose 3.6 percent on the year, expanding at the
same rate as in May. The figure compares with the 3.5 percent
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  