-- 
Chinese Police Shoot Rioters in Xinjiang as Xi Warns Tibetan Separatists

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-19T09:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/police-gun-down-xinjiang-mobs-after-attack-xinhua-says-1-.html
China ’s Vice President Xi Jinping
warned Tibetans against separatist activities after forces fired
on rioters in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, underscoring
the struggle to manage ethnic tensions.  China will fight against separatist activities by the
“Dalai group,” the official Xinhua News Agency cited Xi as
saying in a speech in Lhasa today, a reference to supporters of
the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled spiritual leader. The government
will “completely destroy” any attempt to undermine stability
in Tibet and unity in China, Xi said.  His remarks followed yesterday’s assault on a police
station in the ethnic Uighur-dominated city of Hotan that killed
two hostages, two policemen and a security guard, the  People’s
Daily said. The violence was an “organized terrorist attack,”
the Global Times cited a local official as saying.  The unrest “reflects the lack of progress in handling the
ethnic minority issue,” said  Joseph Cheng , a political science
professor at the City University in  Hong Kong . “Although the
Chinese authorities have spent more resources, stepped up
economic support to the regions, the situation remains very
tense.”  The assailants set fire to the police station and used
grenades and explosive devices, the Global Times cited Hou
Hanmin, chief of the regional information office, as saying. The
Global Times is an English-language newspaper run by the
People’s Daily, which is controlled by China’s Communist Party.  Corrupt Officials  China has also struggled to quell uprisings aimed at
corrupt officials and has moved to discipline them. Authorities
today executed a former vice mayor of the eastern city of
Hangzhou and an ex-vice mayor of Suzhou city, who were convicted
of bribery, Xinhua said, citing the Supreme People’s Court.  Xinjiang, where the central government in Beijing faces
sporadic challenges to its power, was the scene of clashes two
years ago involving Uighurs that left almost 200 people dead.
Vice President Xi is in  Tibet  to mark the 60th anniversary of
that region’s “peaceful liberation” by China. Like Xinjiang,
Tibet has seen protests by Tibetans over discrimination and for
greater independence.  The Munich-based  World Uyghur Congress , citing unidentified
people in Xinjiang, said police fired on about 100 Uighurs
protesters in the city’s main bazaar, according to a statement
from the affiliated Washington-based  Uyghur American
Association . The demonstration was against land seizures and
disappearances after the riots two years ago, the group said.  ‘Extreme Caution’  “People should view the Chinese government statements with
extreme caution,” said Amy Reger, a researcher for the Uyghur
 American Association .  Years of central government policies encouraging migration
of majority Han Chinese to areas such as Tibet and Xinjiang have
stoked ethnic tensions. China views groups pushing for greater
independence as seditious.  The  Dalai Lama  this week met U.S. President  Barack Obama  in
 Washington , drawing protests from China.  Muslim Uighurs, who make up less than half of Xinjiang’s
population of 20 million, complain of discrimination by the Han,
China’s dominant ethnic group, and unfair division of the
region’s resources. About 96 percent of Hotan’s population is
Uighur and 3.5 percent Han, the People’s Daily said. The Han
make up more than 90 percent of China’s 1.3 billion people.  Energy Reserves  The landlocked region, about three times the size of
 France , has China’s second-highest oil and natural gas reserves
and was its biggest cotton producer. China last year began
taxing profits on resources extracted from Xinjiang, keeping the
money inside the region.  Tens of thousands of security personnel were deployed in
the provincial capital of Urumqi to quell the unrest in July
2009, Internet and mobile phone connections to Xinjiang were cut
and President  Hu Jintao  was forced to leave early from a meeting
with Group of Eight leaders in  Italy .  The Xinjiang riots also come as protests increase across
China as income gaps widen. So-called mass incidents -- riots,
strikes and protests -- doubled in five years to 180,000 in
2010, Sun Liping, a professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University,
said in a Feb. 25 article in the Economic Observer.  Hotan is in southwestern Xinjiang, near China’s border with
India and  Afghanistan . The central government sent an anti-
terrorist  task force  to Xinjiang after yesterday’s riot, Xinhua
News Agency said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  