-- 
Pork Prices Tumble From Record Highs as Corn Bust Spurs Jump in Hog Herds

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-18T22:02:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/pork-prices-tumble-from-record-highs-as-corn-bust-spurs-jump-in-hog-herds.html
The biggest slump in corn in three
years may mean the end of record pork prices as cheaper feed
spurs farmers to expand hog herds for the first time since 2007.  Corn-feed prices dropped to a six-month low on July 1 after
the government said farmers planted the second-highest number of
acres since 1944, while traders were anticipating a drop. Record
pork exports helped drive hog futures to the highest level in a
quarter century in April, returning the industry to profit after
$6.2 billion in losses in the 29 months through February 2010.  Midwest farmers may make $20 a pig in the next 12 months,
compared with a loss of about $20 at the end of 2010, said  Mark Greenwood , who oversees $1.4 billion in loans and leases to the
industry as a vice president at AgStar Financial Services Inc.
in Mankato,  Minnesota . Futures may drop as much as 16 percent
from the closing price on July 15 to 76.95 cents a pound next
year if expansion occurs, according to the average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  “Once we see that corn crop is there and that those input
costs are going to come down and stay down, there will be some
expansions,” said Bill Tentinger, who markets about 10,000 pigs
a year in northwest Iowa and anticipates producing about 20
percent more this year. “I am going to produce more pounds of
pork. I’m doing it cautiously. That’s what you’re going to see
in the industry, people are going to be very cautious.”  Food Inflation  Cheaper pork may help lower U.S. consumer prices that rose
3.6 percent in May, the biggest year-on-year gain since October
2008. The government has  forecast  shoppers will pay as much as
7.5 percent more for pork in 2011, topping the 4 percent jump in
overall food costs, and fast-food chain  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK)  and
steakhouse Texas Roadhouse Inc. have raised prices to cope with
higher commodity costs.  Corn, the main ingredient in feed, fell 17 percent in June
as farmers planted more crops to take advantage of prices that
reached a three-year high. Hog futures on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange have gained 13 percent this year, as the U.S. exported
more pork than any other nation and the  U.S. Meat Export
Federation  predicted record shipments this year. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of shares rose 1.3 percent, and Treasuries
returned 3.5 percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows.  Hog Futures  Hog futures for October settlement fell 1.35 cents, or 1.5
percent, to settle at 90.3 cents on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, after declining the CME’s 3-cent limit to 88.65 cents,
the lowest for the most-active contract since June 7.  Farmers may delay expansions for now because of concern
that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  is overestimating corn
supplies, AgStar’s Greenwood said. Some may wait until their
profit per pig exceeds $15 for another five to six months before
adding sows to their breeding herds, pushing back gains in
supplies to slaughterhouses to 2013, he said.  The USDA is underestimating planting delays caused by
floods and drought and the risk that yields will decline before
the harvest begins in September, said  Hussein Allidina , the head
of commodity research at Morgan Stanley in  New York . The
department will revise its estimates, and grain for December
delivery should rally 9.5 percent from last week’s closing price
to $7.50 a bushel or higher, he said.  ‘More Caution’  “There’s more caution than there is optimism,” said Doug Wolf, the president of the National Pork Producers Council, an
industry group based in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “Nobody wants to
expand if they’re not certain they’re going to have any feed.”  Rising exports also should help keep pork prices near a
record, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at broker
Allendale Inc. in McHenry,  Illinois . Shipments may increase 8
percent to 2.07 million metric tons this year, said Dan
Halstrom, a spokesman for the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  “Once we get into 2012, even though we will have a little
higher supplies than the trade is expecting, we have to
understand that 2012 will be a meat-deficit year,” Nelson said.
“The message for 2012 pricing is slightly higher supplies,
balanced by much stronger demand.”  U.S. exporters shipped 2.08 billion pounds (942,288 tons)
of pork in the first five months of 2011, 18 percent more than a
year earlier, government  data  show. The biggest buyers were
 Japan , Mexico and  South Korea . Futures on July 11 rose by the 3-
cent exchange limit on speculation that  China , the world’s
largest pork consumer, will accelerate imports to damp domestic
prices that were 57 percent higher in June than a year earlier.  Retail Pork Prices  U.S. retail-pork prices in May reached an all-time high for
the second month in a row, with boneless ham fetching $3.65 a
pound, the highest since at least 1991, government  data  shows.
In February, pork chops touched $3.751 a pound, the highest
since at least 1980. In June, retail bacon prices averaged $4.84
a pound, the highest since at least 1980.  The surge is increasing expenses for restaurants. Jack in
the Box contended with “significant increases” in pork costs
in the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer Jerry P. Rebel
told analysts in a conference call May 19. The San Diego-based
company, which has 2,200 restaurants across 19 states, paid 5
percent more for commodities in the period, compared with 2.3
percent in the first quarter, he said.  Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. saw “sharply higher
pork prices” in its fiscal third quarter that meant higher-
than-anticipated commodity inflation, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Michael A. Woodhouse told analysts on a
conference call May 24. The Lebanon, Tennessee-based company
operates more than 600 restaurants across 42 states.  Wendy’s Raising Prices  Wendy’s Co., maker of the 930-calorie Baconator Double
burger, is raising some prices to reflect “significant
commodity inflation,” Chief Financial Officer Stephen E. Hare
told a conference in  Boston  on June 29.  Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH)  is
raising prices by almost 1 percent this month because of the
cost of food, particularly pork, Chairman Wayne Kent Taylor told
a conference in Nantucket,  Massachusetts  on June 22. The
Louisville, Kentucky-based company has more than 345 restaurants
across 46 states.  Pork prices surged after the U.S. breeding herd shrank to
the smallest on record in the first quarter of 2010 as farmers
sought to contain losses. While corn still costs 69 percent more
than a year ago, sows are producing the biggest litters ever,
helping to shore up margins. The average litter was a 10.03
piglets in the three months ended May 31, government data show.  U.S. Pork Output  U.S. pork production may climb 1.6 percent to almost 23.07
billion pounds next year, the USDA  forecasts . The average
American will eat 46.7 pounds of pork next year, 0.9 percent
more than in 2011, the department estimates.  Farmers are showing the most interest in expanding their
herds since 2007, said Kent Mowrer, a field specialist at the
 Coalition to Support Iowa’s Farmers , a West Des Moines-based
non-profit industry group. Some are already building new hog
barns and others are looking for help in finding new sites to
expand into, he said.  Expansions may help the economy of Iowa, the biggest U.S.
hog-producer. The state’s unemployment rate of 6 percent
compares with the national average of 9.2 percent. Its pork
industry employs 39,000 people directly and contributes almost
$5 billion a year to the state economy, according to the  Iowa
Pork Producers Association .  “There’s going to be some lean years for grain farmers and
it’s going to swing back to the livestock industry, which is
going to have some good years,” said Mark Brummer, a 52-year-
old Illinois farmer who has raised hogs for three decades and
decided to add about 85 percent to his production capacity in
January. “In order to stay competitive in the business, we had
to expand just to keep up with what’s going on in the
industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  