-- 
Libyan Rebels Say They Captured General Behind March’s Misrata Offensive

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-07-22T14:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/qaddafi-exit-plan-disagreements-remain-among-european-african-governments.html
Libyan rebels in the besieged
western city of Misrata say they captured the chief of
operations of government forces in the neighboring town of
Zlitan, which lies on the route to the capital, Tripoli.  General Abdul Nabih Zayid was seized July 20, the first day
of an offensive in Zlitan against troops loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , Mohammed Frefr, chief of the rebels’ prisoner-of-war
administration in Misrata, said late yesterday in an interview.
A member of the rebel military council in Misrata, Hassan Duwa,
said the general was captured at his house as the opposition
force advanced on the town.  The rebels yesterday completed the advance on Zlitan and
were digging in on the town’s outskirts, Duwa said. Qaddafi
still controls the oil-rich North African nation’s capital,
Tripoli, which is west of Misrata. The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization has supported the rebel fighters with an campaign
that is in its fifth month. Zayid’s capture represents a boon
for the fighters in Misrata as they seek to break the siege of
the city, which is within range of Qaddafi’s rockets.  The general was believed to have been the chief of staff in
a government operation in March that saw troops and tanks move
into Misrata, triggering fierce fighting across the city that
left several hundred people dead, said Khalid Alwafi, rebel-held
Misrata’s war-crimes investigator and a member of a lawyers’
group that wants to question him.  “We need to interview him,” Alwafi said. “There were many
crimes committed in Misrata.” He said the lawyers group, the
Misrata Human-Rights Activists Association, is assembling
evidence that he hopes will be of use to the  International
Criminal Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 