-- 
Rand Breaks 7 Per Dollar to 2-Month Low as Fuel Strikes Widen; Bonds Fall

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-18T16:18:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/rand-falls-versus-dollar-on-europe-debt-south-african-fuel-shortages.html
The rand slid to its lowest level in
almost two months versus the dollar on concern a strike by South
African fuel transport workers may dent economic growth and as
 Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand for riskier assets.  The rand weakened as much as 1.7 percent to 7.0035 per
dollar, and traded down 1.6 percent at 6.9978 as of 5:58 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the lowest level since May 26. It slipped 0.8
percent to 9.8236 per euro.  The euro, the currency in which 45 percent of  South
Africa ’s exports are bought, slid to a record low versus the
Swiss franc and weakened against the dollar, while emerging-
market stocks and commodity prices declined after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated his
opposition to a restructuring of Greek debt. In South Africa,
the Solidarity labor union joined a week-long oil industry
strike that has caused fuel shortages.  “The markets have got a lot to worry about,”  John Cairns 
and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in a research note. “That puts the dollar
as favored over the euro, and high-yielding commodity currencies
on the back foot.”  Euro-area leaders will meet in Brussels on July 21 to
discuss efforts to halt the crisis, European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said in a statement July 15. The second summit
in a month follows the worsening of the debt concerns that
pushed  Italy  to the attention of investors and drove bond yields
to euro-area records across Europe’s most debt-laden nations.  Strikes  “Risky assets such as emerging-market currencies have sold
off,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by Johannesburg-
based  Michael Keenan  wrote in a research note. “The rand is
weakening more than most of its emerging-market peers, which we
view as a function of the escalating industrial action in South
Africa.”  Bonds declined for the first day in four, driving the yield
on 10-year debt to a two-month high. The 6.75 percent securities
due 2021 tumbled 39 cents to 88.71 rand, boosting the yield
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.477 percent,
the highest on a closing basis since May 17.  The likelihood the rand will retreat to 7.08 per dollar in
the next week is about 53 percent, according to implied
volatility from options trading. The rand may slide to that
level “over the coming days,”  Standard Bank  said.  The fuel strike has led to shortages at gas stations owned
by Petroliam Nasional Bhd and Royal Dutch Shell Plc. The
striking workers were to be joined by union members at plants
owned by Sasol Ltd. and PetroSa Ltd., a labor union said today.  The strike, together with another in the steel and
engineering industry that ended yesterday, “poses a notable
downside risk to our gross domestic product forecast of 3.8
percent in 2011,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet wrote in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  