-- 
Treasuries Rise on Safety Demand Amid Europe Sovereign-Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-18T11:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/treasuries-rise-on-safety-demand-amid-europe-sovereign-debt-crisis-concern.html
Treasuries advanced amid speculation
European leaders will fail to find a solution to the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis at a summit this week, stoking demand for
the safest assets.  Benchmark 10-year note yields approached this year’s low
before reports this week forecast to show U.S. housing market
weakness. German  government bonds  rose, Italian and Spanish
government securities tumbled and the euro slumped as debt
turmoil spread to some of  Europe ’s largest economies.  “Treasury markets are very much looking at the wider
picture in terms of the real structural problems that there are
in the  euro zone ,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London. “The slow process
of getting things sorted in Europe is a major stumbling block,
and Treasuries are benefiting from the doubts about the
recovery.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.88 percent at 7:33 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities due in May 2021 increased 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 3/32.  Financial markets were closed in  Japan  for a holiday. U.S.
10-year yields finished last week 12 basis points lower at 2.91
percent compared with 2011’s low of 2.81 percent, set July 12.  European leaders will seek this week to break a deadlock on
the debt crisis that is prompting warnings from the
 International Monetary Fund  of contagion.  Euro Crisis  With European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
reiterating opposition to any Greek debt restructuring,
government chiefs plan to gather July 21 in Brussels to discuss
“the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and the
future financing of the Greek program,” European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a July 15 statement.  European bank stress tests failed last week to allay
concern a nation will default and governments will struggle to
bail out lenders. Regulators didn’t include a Greek default in
the tests even though credit-default swaps indicate investors
see an almost 90 percent chance of one.  As  Greece  struggled, yields on Italian and Spanish 10-year
debt surged to euro-era records today. The euro slid 0.9 percent
to $1.4033.  Demand for the safest securities helped send German yields
down in the last two weeks and pushed yields on two-year debt
five basis points lower to 1.17 percent today.  The extra yield that the German notes offer over
same-maturity Treasuries narrowed to 81 basis points, the least
in more than four months.  U.S. Housing  In the U.S., new-home construction rose 2.7 percent in June
to a 575,000 annual rate, according to the median forecast of 59
economists before the Commerce Department’s report tomorrow. The
rate of so-called housing starts has tumbled from 2.27 million
in January 2006, the peak in the past decade.  Purchases of previously owned homes climbed 2.9 percent
from May’s six-month low to a 4.95 million annual rate,
economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected before the
National Association of Realtors’ report July 20.  “The balance of risks still tips toward the bond bulls,”
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts led by  George Goncalves , the New
York-based head of rates strategy for the Americas, wrote in a
July 15 report. “We remain committed to our ‘buy on dips’
view.”  Shorter maturities outperformed longer ones last week as
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S.
debt rating on review for downgrade and lawmakers debated how to
raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling to avoid a default.  Yield Spread  The ratings announcements helped widen the difference
between five- and 30-year yields, Ajay Rajadhyaksha and  Dean Maki , analysts at Barclays Plc in  New York , wrote in a report
July 15. The yield spread increased to 2.82 percentage points,
the most this month.  Net purchases of long-term U.S. bonds, stocks and other
assets by investors outside the nation rose to $40 billion in
May from $30.6 billion, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the Treasury Department report today.  Mutual funds in the U.S. that focus on bonds have the
highest percentage of assets in cash since 2008, which may
temper any rise in yields as managers put that money to work.  Managers are sitting on about $243 billion of cash and
short-term securities, or about 9.79 percent of assets, after
investors plowed $90 billion into taxable bond funds this year,
according to Morningstar Inc. and the  Investment Company
Institute  in  Washington . That’s up from 9.1 percent last year
and above the average of 8.43 percent in the decade ended 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  