-- 
Longer-Term Treasuries Drop From 2011 Highs Amid U.S. Debt-Limit Debate

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-18T21:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/treasuries-pare-gains-pushing-10-year-yields-up-from-almost-year-s-lows.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields climbed
from almost the lowest levels this year as President  Barack Obama  vowed to veto a House Republican proposal to impose
mandatory budget cuts as Senate leaders pressed for a compromise
to raise the federal debt limit.  Declines in benchmark 10-year note yields were tempered as
some traders bet that their drop sparked by the European debt
crisis wasn’t sustainable. China increased its holdings of U.S.
government securities to the highest level this year, Treasury
Department data showed.  Fitch Ratings  reiterated its plan to cut
its U.S. rating in the event of a debt default.  “If the government defaults and the debt ceiling isn’t
passed, there’s a reticence to hold the long-term debt of any
nation that’s going to be in that situation,” said Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at Royal Bank of
 Canada ’s  RBC Capital Markets , the investment-banking arm of
Canada’s biggest bank, and one of 20 primary dealers that trade
Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve .  Yields on 30-year bonds rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 4.31 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, The 4.375 percent
securities due in May 2041 decreased 1 1/32, or $10.31 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 3/32.  U.S. 10-year note yields gained two basis points to 2.93
percent after falling as much as four basis points. The yield
fell to 2.81 percent on July 12, the least since Dec. 1.  Fitch Status  Fitch Ratings reiterated today that it would cut all
defaulted  Treasury securities  that it ranks to B+ from AAA if
the government’s failure to raise the debt limit causes it to
miss its bond payment. If the lack of payments “persisted,”
the firm would cut the U.S. to RD, or restricted default, from
AAA, and all Treasuries rated by Fitch would be reduced to B+.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
government, which reached its $14.3 trillion borrowing limit on
May 16, will run out of options to prevent a default on Aug. 2.
The first test of a Fitch-rated Treasury default stemming from a
failure to raise the ceiling will be on Aug. 4, when the U.S.
has a $90 billion Treasury bill maturing, Fitch said in a
report.  “Neither setting arbitrary spending levels nor amending
the Constitution is necessary to restore fiscal
responsibility,” Obama said in a statement today. The
Republican proposal known as the “Cut, Cap and Balance Act”
would “undercut” the government’s ability to meet its
commitments, the statement said.  European Factors  Treasuries rose earlier amid reports that European leaders
will seek this week to break a deadlock on the debt crisis that
is prompting warnings from the  International Monetary Fund  of
contagion.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated opposition to any Greek debt restructuring.
Government chiefs plan to gather July 21 in Brussels to discuss
“the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and the
future financing of the Greek program,” European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a July 15 statement.  European bank stress tests failed last week to allay
concern a nation will default and governments will struggle to
bail out lenders. Regulators didn’t include a Greek default in
the tests even though credit-default swaps indicate investors
see an almost 90 percent chance of one.  As  Greece  struggled, yields on Italian and Spanish 10-year
debt surged to euro-era records today. The euro slid 0.9 percent
to $1.4033.  German Demand  Demand for the safest securities helped send German yields
down in the last two weeks and pushed yields on two-year debt
five basis points lower to 1.17 percent today. The extra yield
that the German notes offer over same-maturity Treasuries
narrowed to 81 basis points, the least in more than four months.  China  boosted its holdings of Treasuries 0.6 percent, or by
$7.3 billion, in May to $1.16 trillion, Treasury data show.
China’s holdings of Treasury bills fell to $3 billion from $3.9
billion, the smallest position in short-term debt since April
2004. China, the largest foreign lender to the U.S., now holds a
record amount of longer-term notes and bonds at $1.16 trillion.  Japan , the second-largest overseas holder of Treasuries,
increased its position in the debt by $5.5 billion, or 0.6
percent, in May to $912.4 billion after its holdings of U.S.
government securities fell in April for the first time since May
2010.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a 25th month by
$24.9 billion, or 0.6 percent, to $4.51 trillion. Overseas
investors held 48.7 percent of the $9.26 trillion in outstanding
public Treasury debt as of May, Treasury data show.  U.S. Housing  U.S. new-home construction rose 2.7 percent in June to a
575,000 annual rate, according to the median forecast of 59
economists before the Commerce Department’s report tomorrow. The
rate of so-called housing starts has tumbled from 2.27 million
in January 2006, the peak in the past decade.  “The balance of risks still tips toward the bond bulls,”
Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts led by  George Goncalves , the New
York-based head of rates strategy for the Americas, wrote in a
July 15 report. “We remain committed to our buy on dips view.”  Mutual funds in the U.S. that focus on bonds have the
highest percentage of assets in cash since 2008, which may
temper any rise in yields as managers put that money to work.  Managers are sitting on about $243 billion of cash and
short-term securities, or about 9.79 percent of assets, after
investors plowed $90 billion into taxable bond funds this year,
according to Morningstar Inc. and the  Investment Company
Institute  in  Washington . That’s up from 9.1 percent last year
and above the average of 8.43 percent in the decade ended 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  