-- 
Brooks’s Lawyer Says U.K. Police Must Explain Her Arrest in Hacking Case

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s ,   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-07-18T12:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/rebekah-brooks-s-arrest-may-limit-answers-at-hearing-as-police-chief-quits.html
Police must explain why they
arrested and interviewed former News of the World editor Rebekah Brooks for more than nine hours yesterday without confronting
her with any allegations, her lawyer said.  The arrest caused Brooks, 43, “enormous reputational
damage,’’ her solicitor Stephen Parkinson said today. She will
still attend a U.K. parliamentary committee hearing on phone
hacking at the  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid, he said.  “In time they will have to give their account of their
actions, in particular their decision to arrest her with the
enormous reputational damage this has involved,” Parkinson said
in a televised statement. “She is not guilty of any criminal
offense.’’  The revelations of phone hacking -- including breaking into
the voice mail of a murdered schoolgirl -- have already seen
News Corp. shutter the 168-year-old News of the World. Brooks
will attend the Parliamentary hearing tomorrow after testimony
from News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , and his son James,
deputy chief operating officer.  Brooks voluntarily went to a London police station by
appointment yesterday. Police said in an e-mail that the arrest
was on suspicion of corruption and conspiring to intercept
communications. She was released on bail around midnight.  Ten Arrests  Brooks was the 10th person, including at least eight with
links to News of the World, detained by police in the
investigation. She resigned July 15 as chief executive officer
of News International, which publishes New York-based News
Corp.’s U.K. titles. Brooks edited the News of the World and
then the Sun before being promoted to CEO of News International
in 2009.  The scandal also led to the resignation of  Les Hinton , head
of the company’s Dow Jones unit and previously chairman of News
International.  News Corp. dropped 1.4 percent to the equivalent of
$15.02 at 1:25 p.m. in German trading. Its Australian shares
fell 4.1 percent to the equivalent of $15.01, closing at a two-
year low in Sydney and bringing their losses to 17 percent since
July 4, when the scandal erupted.  Niri Shan, a lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP, said Brooks’s
ability to answer questions from lawmakers tomorrow will be
limited because of the arrest.  ‘Level of Knowledge’  “Her lawyers will advise her not to answer questions that
might damage her defense,” Shan said in an e-mail. “All the
questions will be directed to her level of knowledge. That’s
going to be a key part of any case against her, and a key part
of any successful defense.”  Brooks will attend the committee over the initial concerns
of her lawyer, Wilson said.  The July 4 revelation by the Guardian that News of the
World reporters deleted messages from murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler’s voice mail in 2002 turned phone hacking into a national
scandal that led to the shuttering of the tabloid and the end of
News Corp.’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Since
then, about $4.4 billion has been wiped off the market value of
News Corp.’s Class A shares, and 2.5 billion pounds ($4 billion)
from BSkyB’s.  Brooks “should have been arrested,”  Mark Lewis , a lawyer
for hacking victims including the parents of Dowler, said
yesterday. “In the circumstances of her arrest, I’m not
confident that she will offer any meaningful answers” at
tomorrow’s hearing.  ‘Putting Right’  Under the headline “Putting right what’s gone wrong,”
News International said in advertisements published yesterday in
U.K. national newspapers that it’s the company’s obligation to
cooperate with the police and compensate those affected. The
publisher is “committed to change” and said “apologising for
our mistakes and fixing them are only the first steps.”  A News Corp. spokeswoman, who declined to be identified,
reiterated yesterday the company’s intention to fully cooperate
with the police.  In the U.K., people are often arrested at earlier stages in
an investigation for questioning under caution and the
investigation can continue for months before any charges are
filed. The first two arrests in the current probe, of a former
News of the World editor and the tabloid’s then chief reporter,
occurred in April.  In addition to the police and parliamentary probes, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  appointed Lord Justice Brian Leveson to
conduct a judicial inquiry into phone hacking.  Serious Fraud Office   The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, which prosecutes white-
collar crime and corruption, was asked by a lawmaker to probe
allegations of phone hacking by journalists at News Corp.’s now-
defunct tabloid News of the World.  A letter from Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson  arrived
today and was received by the SFO’s director,  Richard Alderman ,
who plans to reply by the end of the week, spokesman  David Jones 
said in an interview today. The SFO isn’t currently
investigating, he said.  “The issues raised by Mr. Watson are very serious
issues,” Jones said. “Not all the issues may be within our
scope, it depends on the public interest.”  Police said in an e-mailed statement that the Brooks arrest
was part of their probe into phone hacking and an investigation
into whether officers were paid for information.  Brooks told lawmakers at a 2003 committee hearing that “we
have paid the police for information in the past.” The
committee wrote in its report that Hinton, then chairman of News
International, later told them Brooks had since told him she had
“not authorized payments to police.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 