-- 
Miners See Record Profits as Glut of Ships Reduces Rates: Freight Markets

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/record-mine-profit-as-shipping-slumps-on-glut-freight-markets.html
The largest glut of ships in history
means the cheapest freight rates relative to iron-ore prices in
at least a decade, helping Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
to generate record profit.  The cost of transporting iron ore to China from  Brazil , the
biggest route, is now equal to 10 percent of the value of the
commodity used by steelmakers, compared with 64 percent in 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That proportion
probably won’t rise much until at least 2013, said Sverre Bjorn Svenning, the director of Fearnley Consultants in Oslo who
correctly predicted a slump in freight rates in March.  Iron-ore prices doubled in three years as mining companies
failed to keep pace with record demand from  steel mills , supply
shortages that are also being found in everything from copper to
corn. Some of that steel was needed for the biggest ever ship-
building program. The expansion caused rates for capesizes,
commodity carriers three times the size of the Statue of
Liberty, to slump about 95 percent as  iron ore  soared.  “It’s a dream for an iron-ore mining company: the highest
commodity prices and the lowest freight prices,” said John Banaszkiewicz, the London-based founder of Freight Investor
Services Ltd., which estimates it handles about 40 percent of
all forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on transport costs. “Freight used to be a critical part of
the delivered cost of iron ore and now it’s almost nothing.”  Freight Derivatives  Capesizes cost $11,314 a day to charter in the single-
voyage market, compared with a peak of about $234,000 in June
2008, according to the London-based Baltic Exchange, which
publishes rates for more than 50 maritime routes. Traders of
freight derivatives anticipate costs no higher than $18,075
through 2016, data from the bourse show. Rates are volatile,
rising or falling 18 percent or more in all except one of the
last 12 months.  Shipping accounts for about 80 percent of world trade in
goods, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
estimates.   Global demand for iron ore will rise 7.3 percent to 1.84
billion tons this year, while supply will advance 2.5 percent to
1.81 billion tons, UBS AG said in a report July 12. Iron-ore 
fines, a grade of the material, will average $251.90 a ton this
year, 41 percent more than in 2010, the Zurich-based bank said. 
It anticipates $243.50 next year and $230.70 in 2013.  Freight Costs  Lower freight costs increase the mining companies’ share of
the iron-ore sale price, said Johnson Imode, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Equity Research in London. The effect of
freight on their profit is hard to gauge because they don’t
disclose contract terms, he said.  Rio, the world’s second-largest iron-ore exporter behind
 Vale SA (VALE5) , will report net income of $18.9 billion this year, 32
percent more than in 2010, according to the mean of 18 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Iron ore accounted for 68
percent of the London-based company’s profit last year. Its
shares rose 41 percent in the past 12 months.  BHP, based in  Melbourne  and the third-largest iron-ore
exporter, made $22.3 billion in its fiscal year that ended last
month, 76 percent more than a year earlier, the mean of 15
analysts’ estimates shows. Iron ore accounted for 26 percent of
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the previous fiscal year. Shares of the company added 26
percent in the past 12 months in London trading.  Economic Growth  The anticipated surge in profit may fail to materialize
should economic growth slow.  China , which makes more than two
out of every five tons of steel worldwide, reported July 13 that
its economy expanded 9.5 percent in the second quarter, compared
with 9.7 percent in the previous three months.  Japan , the second-biggest steelmaking nation, will contract
0.6 percent this year, the median of 11 economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Growth in the U.S., the third-
largest producer, will drop to 2.5 percent from 2.9 percent in
2010, the median of 65 estimates shows.  The surge in income from mining contrasts with a slump in
shipping revenue. A measure of the combined earnings of the 12-
member Bloomberg Dry Ships Index will drop 30 percent this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The dry-
ships gauge declined 21 percent in the past 12 months.  The capesize fleet expanded 39 percent to 1,115 vessels in
the past two years, and the remaining new ships on order are
still equal to 36 percent of existing capacity, according to
data from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay.  Capesize Fleet  The spare carrying capacity of the capesize fleet stands at
about 57 million deadweight tons, or 25 percent of the total,
according to  Barclays Capital . On average, that much ore would
yield about 35.6 million tons of iron, enough to make almost the
same amount of carbon steel, according to data on the web site
of the Brussels-based World Steel Association. It took 57,000
tons of steel to build the Empire State Building.  The cost of transporting Brazilian ore to China, the
commodity shipping industry’s biggest route measured by cargo
volume and distance, was last at $20.40 a ton, compared with a
peak of $108.75 in June 2008, according to Baltic Exchange data.  BHP hired 67 capesizes to haul single-voyage ore cargoes
this year, while Rio took 72 such vessels, according to data
from Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s
biggest shipbroker. The data isn’t definitive and doesn’t include
accords covering multiple journeys. Officials from the two
companies declined to comment.  “Miners are in a sweet spot of demand for iron ore and
transportation capacity,” said Miswin Mahesh, a shipping and
commodities analyst at Barclays Capital in  London . “The losers
are the ship owners who ordered way too many ships.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Wiesebockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  