-- 
Senate Leaders Push Revised Debt-Limit Plan as Obama Seeks Deal

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-18T23:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/reid-mcconnell-push-revised-debt-measure-as-obama-seeks-to-avoid-default.html
The Senate’s top leaders said the
chamber will remain in session until lawmakers hammer out an
agreement to raise the U.S. debt limit, as President  Barack Obama  threatened to veto a proposal to require the government to
balance its budget as part of a debt deal.  “We’re going to stay in session every day, including
Saturdays and Sundays, until Congress passes legislation that
prevents the United States from defaulting on our obligations,”
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said on
the chamber’s floor today.  His Republican counterpart,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
called it a “mutual decision” for the Senate to stay in
session “until we resolve this crisis confronting our
country.”  Both sides in the dispute talked during the weekend in an
effort to resolve the stalemate by an Aug. 2 deadline the
administration has set for raising the $14.3 trillion debt
limit. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, held an
unannounced meeting yesterday with Obama at the White House.  The discussions were aimed at reaching an agreement on a
deficit-cutting deal that Republicans have made a prerequisite
for approving a debt increase.  ‘Gang of Six’  Senator  Kent Conrad  said the five remaining members of what
began as a “Gang of Six” group in the chamber will present an
almost $4 trillion budget-cutting plan to their colleagues
tomorrow.  “We’re going to ask people if they’re interested in
pursuing this,” said Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat who said
about 50 senators have indicated they will attend the private
briefing.  He said his group doesn’t plan to publicly release its
proposal, nor will he or the others focus on trying to attach it
to legislation lifting the debt limit.  “We were never about dealing with the debt limit,” Conrad
told reporters. “Our assignment, as we saw it, was to come up
with a plan to control the debt. Now if people want to join it,
that’s a separate matter.”  House Vote  The House is slated to vote tomorrow on a proposal known as
the Cut, Cap and Balance Act that calls for a deal to include
future caps on  government spending  and a constitutional
amendment to require the government to balance its budget.  The proposal is certain to die in the Democratic-controlled
Senate. Still, the administration outlined its objections to the
idea today in its veto threat, saying “neither setting
arbitrary spending levels nor amending the Constitution is
necessary to restore fiscal responsibility.”  Meanwhile, Reid and McConnell are working behind closed
doors on a plan they aim to release this week that may allow a
debt limit increase. They are amending a proposal to give Obama
the power to raise the debt limit in response to complaints that
the plan, offered by McConnell last week, does little to reduce
the deficit.  They are considering having  House Republicans  attach
spending cuts to the legislation, according to a congressional
aide, as well as provisions creating a committee of lawmakers
charged with finding additional savings later.  ‘Escape the Crisis’  “The good news is that Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and
Senator Mitch McConnell are sitting down and working out an
approach that we are going to try to tackle this week,” Senator
Dick Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said on
CBS’s “Face the Nation” yesterday. “We are going to be
working toward a way to escape the crisis that would come if we
default on America’s national debt.”  The administration sought to downplay the risk the U.S.
would be unable to pay its bills, even with a deal not
immediately in sight.  “Americans should not be concerned” about the prospects
of a government default, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said. “Progress has been made” by the administration and
congressional leaders from both parties, he said.  Still, Carney added that congressional leaders this week
must “crystallize what the options are and what we are going to
pursue.”  Reid, in his remarks today, said Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  warned Senate Democrats last week that failing to raise
the U.S. debt limit by Aug. 2 would hamstring an economy
struggling to recover from the worst recession since the Great
Depression.  ‘A Plague’  “Default would be a plague that would haunt our nation for
years to come,” Reid said. “Our  credit rating  would take years
to rebuild, and the country would never ever be the same.”  Reid also said some Republicans are “playing chicken”
with the debt-limit debate and are wrong when they discount the
results of a default.  McConnell promoted the House measure, saying, “The Cut,
Cap and Balance plan is the kind of strong medicine Washington
needs and the American people want.”  McConnell also said Republicans “have tried to persuade
the president of the need for a course correction, but weeks of
negotiations have shown that his commitment to big government is
simply too great to lead to the kind of long-term reforms we
need to put us” on the right economic path.  Lawmakers are trying to devise a deficit-reduction plan
that would give colleagues the political cover they want to cast
an unpopular vote to raise the legal limit on  government
borrowing .  Treasury Warnings  The Treasury Department warns the debt ceiling must be
lifted by Aug. 2 to avoid default, which it says would drive up
borrowing costs for the government as well as millions of
Americans seeking consumer loans linked to Treasury rates.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service
are threatening to downgrade the government’s credit rating if
Congress doesn’t act.  Raising the debt ceiling “is not some abstract issue,”
Obama said at a news conference last week. “These are
obligations that the  United States  has taken on in the past.
Congress has run up the  credit card , and we now have an
obligation to pay our bills.”  McConnell Plan  McConnell proposed a complex plan last week that would let
Obama raise the debt limit himself without requiring spending
cuts or Republicans to cast votes to lift the cap.  The proposal was aimed at breaking a stalemate over
mutually incompatible demands by Republicans and Democrats.
Republicans said any plan would have to cut spending by at least
as much as it raised the debt limit and couldn’t include tax
increases.  Obama wants a debt limit high enough to accommodate
government borrowing through next year’s elections -- roughly
$2.4 trillion -- and said he would agree to that much in savings
only if it included tax increases. He also has ruled out a
smaller debt limit increase.  McConnell’s proposal ran into criticism from lawmakers in
both parties who said it would do nothing to reduce red ink. So
lawmakers are considering having House Republicans add what
would amount to a down payment in cuts to the McConnell plan
once it clears the Senate, the congressional aide said.  A panel of a dozen lawmakers, equally divided between the
parties, would be responsible for finding additional cuts,
according to the aide. The panel’s plan would need the approval
of a majority of its members, the aide said, and couldn’t be
amended once it reached the floors of the House and Senate.  Coburn Plan  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican who had been a
“Gang of Six” member, released his own 600-page plan today that
he said would balance the budget within a decade. It would raise
taxes by $1 trillion by eliminating or cutting individual tax
preferences. Defense spending would be cut by $1 trillion and $3
trillion would come out of entitlement programs such as Medicare
and Social Security. He estimated the plan would save more than
$1 trillion in projected interest payments on the debt.  Coburn dropped out of the “Gang of Six” negotiations in
May. Aside from Conrad, its members are Durbin and Senators Mark Warner of  Virginia , a Democrat, and Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia 
and Mike Crapo of  Idaho , both Republicans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  