-- 
Republicans Pushing Budget Balance Won’t Deliver Details on How

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-18T16:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/republicans-pressing-for-a-balanced-budget-fail-to-deliver-details-on-how.html
Congressional Republicans are clear
in their demand for a constitutional amendment forcing the
government to balance its budget. What they’re not offering is
clarity on how to get there.  It’s politically popular to line up behind such an
amendment; laying out specific cuts is less appealing.  Almost all Republicans and some Democrats will vote to
alter the Constitution when the issue comes up as early as this
week. Almost none, including a leading co-sponsor of the Senate
measure,  Orrin Hatch , and Bill Flores of Texas, a co-sponsor of
the House measure, say how they’d slash Medicare, eliminate
federal programs or shrink education, law enforcement or
national defense. Republicans agree that tax increases shouldn’t
be part of the equation.  “It’s a misleading political cheap shot,” Bill Hoagland,
a budget adviser to Republican congressional leaders from 1982
to 2007, said of the proposed amendment. “We all agree we
should have a balanced budget, but that’s the process of
budgeting and governing. They are paid to come to town and make
decisions.”  A balanced-budget amendment would require cuts even deeper
than those in the budget proposed by Representative  Paul Ryan  of
 Wisconsin , which was approved by the Republican-controlled House
in April. Ryan’s plan doesn’t balance the budget until 2040 and
would leave a $338 billion deficit in 10 years.  Medicare Vouchers  His plan would overhaul the Medicare health-insurance
program for the elderly by offering vouchers to help the elderly
buy coverage from private insurers.  Polls show public opposition to privatizing Medicare. By 57
percent to 34 percent, respondents to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted June 17-20 say they would be worse off under the
Republican plan to redefine the federal program.  Voter opposition to the Medicare changes helped elect a
Democrat to an open House seat in  New York  in May. The seat had
been held by a Republican, and Republican presidential nominee
 John McCain  got 56 percent of the district’s vote in 2008.  Even a proposal last year by the chairmen of President
Barack Obama’s bipartisan debt commission to cut the budget by
$4 trillion wouldn’t wipe out the deficit for more than 25
years.  Hatch, a Utah Republican facing re-election in 2012,
wouldn’t offer specifics on entitlement cuts or say which
federal departments he would close to reach a balanced budget.  ‘I’ll Name Them’  “When the time comes, I’ll name them,” said Hatch. “I
don’t want to do it right now, because we have to pass that
amendment.”  Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who sponsored a House
plan for a balanced-budget amendment, referred to a proposal by
the Republican Study Committee, which pushes for bigger spending
cuts than those in the Ryan budget, when asked what reductions
he would make.  The committee’s proposal would increase the  retirement age 
for Medicare and Social Security and cut non-defense
discretionary spending almost in half by 2021. Specific cuts to
programs to allow for that aren’t spelled out. Non-defense
discretionary spending involves programs ranging from education
and disease research to transportation and public safety, for
which spending isn’t mandated, unlike entitlements, including
Medicare.  Split Republicans  The plan split Republicans and was rejected by the party in
an April vote.  Two Senate Republicans have stepped forward to offer plans
that include deep spending cuts to balance the books.  Rand Paul of  Kentucky  would eliminate four departments such
as education and commerce. He also would take most federal
health-care and welfare programs and convert them to block
grants to the states to cap spending. That includes Medicaid, a
health program for low-income children,  food stamps  and child-
nutrition programs.  “There are actually a lot of different departments we
shouldn’t have,” Paul said. His plan was rebuffed in a 90-7
Senate vote.  Pennsylvania Senator  Pat Toomey  would cut non-defense
discretionary spending to 2006 levels and freeze it for six
years, slash $1 trillion from Medicaid and count on 3.05 percent
annual economic growth -- compared with a 1.7 percent average
since 2001.  ‘Lays It Out’  “My budget lays it out,” he said. “It demonstrates a way
to do it.”  An analysis by the Democratic-leaning Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities in  Washington  said Toomey’s plan “relies on a
rosy economic scenario.”  It would mean a 30 percent cut in 10 years to the portion
of the budget that includes education, health research,  law
enforcement , transportation, much of homeland security and other
programs, according to the study.  Hatch voted for both the Toomey and the Paul budgets.  Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican who is facing
re-election in 2012 and is a top target of the Tea Party, which
favors deep spending cuts, called a balanced-budget amendment an
“important objective” for long-range planning.  He wouldn’t offer details on cuts. “I’m not going to get
into an attempt unilaterally to lay out before you several
thousand pages” of budget legislation, he said.  No Specific Cuts  Representative Flores, a freshman Republican, said he
couldn’t name specific cuts “off the top of my head.”  Identifying cuts isn’t necessary at this point, he said,
because the voters aren’t “trying to get down in the weeds on
where the cuts would come. They want the balanced-budget
amendment.”  Asked what reductions he would make to comply with a
constitutional amendment, Representative  Allen West , a first-
year Republican from  Florida , didn’t cite specific programs yet
pointed to a Government Accountability Office study earlier this
year that identified “about $200 billion of duplicative and
redundant government programs.”  He said “wasteful spending” at the  Department of Defense 
should be targeted to bring down the deficit, which is estimated
to top $1.6 trillion this year. He didn’t mention weapons
systems or health benefits.  During a visit to a base in his district, West said he
noticed the military is starting “to be careful about buying
toilet paper in the barracks.”  Reining in Defense  Reining in defense wouldn’t be easy. Annual defense
spending has grown every year since 1998, rising about 155
percent to $690 billion in 2010 from $270 billion. That tops a
147 percent jump in annual Medicare outlays and an 86 percent
increase in Social Security payments over the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That difficulty was underscored on July 7 when 172  House
Republicans , including Flores and West, defeated a proposal to
freeze defense spending at 2011 levels on a 290-135 vote.  Lawmakers felt “a responsibility for these men and women
who are out there fighting,” West said.  The Senate budget legislation is backed by all 47
Republicans and no Democrats. It would require balanced books
five years after ratification. House Republicans plan to add
their proposal as part of a package that would cut spending,
place a cap on future government expenditures, and make a $2.4
trillion increase in the debt ceiling contingent upon
congressional approval of the balanced-budget amendment.  The White House said today that Obama would veto the House
legislation.  ‘How It Works’  Republican Representative John Carter of  Texas , another co-
sponsor of the balanced-budget amendment, refused to discuss
specific ways to cut Medicare, when asked how he would scale
back the government health-insurance program to comply with a
balanced-budget amendment.  “When you start talking about Medicare, you have to talk
about how it works, and how it doesn’t work,” he said. “That’s
a completely different discussion, and I am not going to get off
into negotiating with you on Medicare.”  Senator Jim DeMint of  South Carolina  co-sponsored Toomey’s
budget and said it would reach balance in 10 years.  “There are a lot of things we are doing at the federal
level that we don’t need to be doing,” he said.  DeMint said specifics on cuts to meet a constitutional
requirement would come later.  Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri  called the
balanced-budget amendment “political posturing.”  “I find it hard to believe that anybody with a straight
face voted to keep giving subsidies to Big Oil and then thinks
we have to do a balanced-budget amendment,” she said.  Not Necessary  Obama said the amendment isn’t necessary.  “The Constitution already tells us to do our jobs and to
make sure that the government is living within its means,” he
said at a July 15 news conference.  Robert Bixby , executive director of the Concord Coalition,
an Arlington, Virginia-based group that advocates for balanced
budgets, said Republicans would have to be willing to accept tax
increases, something the party has refused.  “They can’t look to the Constitution to do all the heavy
lifting, said. ‘‘I look at it as an avoidance device.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  