-- 
Personal-Injury Lawyer Shkolnik Sued by Former Law Firm

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-18T20:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/rheingold-valet-firm-sues-ex-partner-shkolnik-to-block-client-solicitation.html
Hunter Shkolnik, who successfully
represented injured defibrillator users against  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , was sued by his former  law firm 
over claims he solicited clients for a rival.  Shkolnik, who left  Rheingold, Valet, Rheingold & McCartney
LLP  last week for  Napoli Bern Ripka LLP , allegedly took more
than 600 client files, confidential client lists and electronic
data from Rheingold’s computer system, according to the
complaint filed today in New York State Supreme Court. Rheingold
is seeking a temporary restraining order to block Shkolnick from
using the information while the parties engage in arbitration.  “Shkolnik’s wrongful taking and use of the firm’s
confidential client information to solicit or attempt to induce
the firm’s clients to leave the firm threatens the lifeblood of
the firm,” Rheingold said in the filing.  “I’m allowed to contact my former clients and allowed to
be retained by them,” Shkolnik said today in a phone interview
after a court hearing in the case. “I’ve moved on to my new
firm and look forward to servicing my old clients.”  A judge declined to grant Rheingold a temporary restraining
order, Shkolnik said. The firm’s senior partner, Paul Rheingold,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment. A call to
Rheingold’s  New York  offices seeking comment wasn’t immediately
returned.  Napoli Bern said July 12 that the firm would change its
name to Napoli Bern Ripka Shkolnik LLP to reflect Shkolnik’s
addition as a senior partner. Shkolnik spent more than 15 years
at Rheingold and led that firm’s complex and mass-tort
litigation, according to Napoli’s statement.  The move was prompted by the need to provide more resources
to his clients, Shkolnik said. Napoli Bern is “bigger,
stronger” and has good trial attorneys, Shkolnik said in the
phone interview.  Complaint’s Claims  Two days before announcing he was leaving Rheingold,
Shkolnik allegedly removed original client files from various
locked and secured areas of Rheingold’s offices after hours,
according to the complaint. Shkolnik also asked a cleaning lady
to unlock a secured storage area in order to remove files and,
with the help of three unidentified people, boxed files and
loaded them into a truck, according to the complaint.  The alleged conduct violates various provisions of
Rheingold’s partnership agreement, including one that prohibits
partners who leave from soliciting firm clients for at least
three years, according to the complaint.  The case is Rheingold Valet Rheingold Shkolnik & McCartney
LLP v. Shkolnik,  Supreme Court  of the State of New York, County
of New York, 651945/2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 