-- 
Rolls-Royce, UTX’s Pratt Settle Jet-Engine Patent Dispute

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-18T16:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/rolls-royce-utx-s-pratt-settle-jet-engine-patent-dispute-1-.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc, the
world’s second-largest maker of  jet engines , settled a patent
dispute with United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  Terms weren’t disclosed. The companies requested in July 15
court filings dismissal of two civil lawsuits against each
other. The settlement also covers a related case before the U.S.
International Trade Commission that threatened to delay delivery
of Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner passenger airplanes.  The companies “reached an amicable, confidential
settlement agreement resulting in dismissal of all patent
litigation,” East Hartford, Connecticut-based Pratt and London-
based Rolls-Royce, said in e-mailed statements.  Rolls-Royce had lost in May the case it brought against
Pratt over engine-fan technology, while Pratt’s lawsuit had been
on hold pending the outcome of the ITC complaint. Rolls-Royce
makes the Trent 1000, which has been designated for Boeing’s
newest passenger jet, and the Trent 900 for the Airbus SAS A380,
which competes with the GP7200 engine sold by a venture of Pratt
and  General Electric Co. (GE)   A federal judge ruled in May that Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage
doesn’t violate a patent issued to cover technology in the Trent
engine for the A380. Pratt’s lawsuit accused Rolls-Royce of
unfairly using patent litigation to keep it from re-entering the
biggest segment of the commercial-airline market. Pratt filed an
ITC complaint in which the agency is investigating whether the
Trent 900 and Trent 1000 infringed a Pratt patent.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Turbomachinery
Blades and Engines, 337-751, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  The September case is United Technologies Corp. v. Rolls-
Royce Plc, 10cv1523, U.S. District Court for the District of
Connecticut (New Haven). The earlier case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , 10cv457, U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 Allan Holmes  at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net . 