-- 
S. African Petroleum Employers Raise Pay Offer; Strike Continues

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-18T17:03:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/s-african-petroleum-employers-raise-pay-offer-strike-continues.html
Oil companies  in  South Africa  raised
an offer for pay increases to 8 percent to 10 percent to end a
week-long strike that has caused fuel shortages and affected
refineries, the Solidarity labor union said.  Negotiations would continue into the night, said Dirk
Hermann, secretary general of Solidarity. “We are not yet at
the point where I can say we are happy with the offer, but this
brings the negotiations to a new level,” he said in a phone
interview.  Employers previously offered a 7 percent raise compared
with the 11 percent to 13 percent sought by the unions. The
week-long strike has forced  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the country’s largest
fuel producer, to cut output rates at its largest plant,
Secunda, affecting fuel and chemical production. Sasol’s two
plants account for more than a third of the country’s refining
capacity of 692,000 barrels a day.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s South African unit said more than
157 gas stations in the country have run out of certain grades
of fuel, while night-time deliveries remain suspended due to
security concerns.  Even if a major breakthrough is made tonight, unions still
need to consult their members and the strike will continue
tomorrow, Hermann said. “Ending a strike is not as easy as
pressing a button.”  Maternity Leave  Jerry Nkosi, chief negotiator of the Chemical, Energy,
Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers Union (Ceppwawu), said
the labor organization has revised its demands for a minimum
wage to 5,500 rand ($786) a month, down from 6,000 rand.
Employers are offering an increase of 10 percent on the current
minimum wage of 4,000 rand, Nkosi said in a phone interview.  “This does not affect a large number of workers, but it is
a very important issue,” he said. Employers are also yet to
table their positions on shift allowances, maternity leave and
the scrapping of labor brokers, Nkosi said.  Mxolisi Ratside, chairman of the National Petroleum
Employers’ Association, confirmed that a new offer was tabled
this afternoon, saying he “hopes the parties will be able to
move forward” on the negotiations. He declined to comment on
the details of the offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in London at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  