-- 
Sapphire’s Abused Precious Found Movie Fame; Will Son Do the Same? Books

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sapphire-s-abused-precious-found-movie-fame-will-son-do-the-same-books.html
The kid in Sapphire’s novel “ The
Kid ” is Abdul Jones, son of Precious Jones, the staggeringly
beleaguered heroine of Sapphire’s previous novel, “ Push ,”
which became the movie “Precious.”  “Push” ended on a hopeful note, with Precious freeing
herself from the abuse that had deformed her young life -- she
was raped and twice impregnated by her father -- and determined
to do better by her children.  At the beginning of “The Kid,” we find out just how
successful she was. Once illiterate, she buckled down and made
it into college. She became a lovingly stern single mother. And
then her sad past caught up with her: “Abuse truncated her life
and led to the AIDS ... which finally took it.”  We see her funeral through the bewildered eyes of the 9-
year-old Abdul, whose luck has run out in a very big way. The
first stop on his journey to hell is a foster home where he’s
raped and beaten so badly that he has to be hospitalized.  He spends the next several years in a Harlem orphanage as
the sexual plaything of the Catholic brothers who run it. He
learns, in his turn, to abuse the smaller kids.  It’s hardly surprising that an African-American novelist
should feel drawn to themes of victimization, but Sapphire
embraces them with a relish that borders on the unseemly. The
sex is extensive and explicit, though it’s too humiliating to be
a turn-on. (For most people, I suppose I should add.)  Strong, Beautiful  Nor is Abdul the pure victim his mother was. For one thing,
he has the advantage of those first nine years of love, support
and character building. For another, he becomes a victimizer
himself.  Moreover, he’s a natural aristocrat. Unlike Precious, he’s
strong and beautiful, and he uses his beauty to get money from
older men.  He’s also a gifted  dancer , as he starts to discover when he
stumbles, by accident, into an African dance class. The most
absorbing parts of the novel track Abdul’s artistic growth, as
he’s taken up (pedagogically and sexually) by an aging ballet
teacher and then flowers as a performer in a downtown troupe.  But triumph isn’t Sapphire’s territory. “The Kid,” like
“Push,” is an interior monologue, and after you spend a few
pages inside Abdul’s head you can tell he isn’t headed anywhere
you want to go. It’s a mess in there.  Denial, Confusion  He’s in denial (understandably) about his origins, and his
sexuality is (also understandably) badly confused. This denial
and confusion take the form of a generalized hostility that
threatens at any moment to turn murderous.  He’s vile to the people who try to help him, and the
affection he thinks he feels for the objects of his lust isn’t
very convincing. Kindness is beyond him. His reasons for hating
are all too just, but they don’t make his hatred attractive.  Sapphire, who has published two collections of poetry, uses
a lot of dream imagery, and in long swatches of this longish
book she recounts Abdul’s (usually awful) dreams. I zone out
when my own friends insist on telling me about their fascinating
dreams. I found myself fighting the same impulse during much of
“The Kid.”  “The Kid” is published by the Penguin Press (376 pages,
$25.95). To buy this book in  North America , click here.  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 