-- 
War Hero Who Saved More Lives Than Schindler Remembered at Last

-- B y   J i m   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-07-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/schindler-style-hero-sousa-mendes-honored-after-erasure-from-war-history.html
Portugal at last has its own World
War II hero, even though it stayed out of the conflict.  Aristides de Sousa Mendes  saved thousands of people -- more
than those helped by Oskar Schindler. Yet he was ignored in
Portugal until the 1980s. The country has just declared his
family home a national monument. Supporters are campaigning to
raise 3 million euros ($4.2 million) for its restoration and
conversion to a museum.  Sousa Mendes was a consul in  France  who defied government
orders and gave thousands of visas in June 1940 to refugees,
including Jews and opponents of the Nazis. His reward was
expulsion from the diplomatic service. In 1987 he was
posthumously given an Order of Liberty medal and in 2007
finished third in a TV poll of the greatest Portuguese.  “It shows how one person can make a difference acting with
compassion and a sense of justice,” said Harry Oesterreicher, a
board member of the U.S.-based  Sousa Mendes Foundation , created
last year.  Sousa Mendes accomplished “the greatest single act of
rescue by an individual during the war,” Holocaust historian
Yehuda Bauer is quoted as saying on the Seattle foundation’s
website.  Another foundation, based in  Portugal , plans to restore the
25-room family mansion in Cabanas do Viriato, a town in north
Portugal, hours by train or car from Portugal’s biggest cities.
Sousa Mendes, his wife and most of their 14 children lived there
periodically, before financial ruin caused by his forced
retirement.  Anniversary Plan  “We wondered if it was worth it to make a museum there or
elsewhere,” Aristides de Sousa Mendes, a grandson of the
diplomat, said in an interview in Lisbon. “We know the house
has a special symbolism.”  After years of slow progress, the Portuguese foundation,
created in 2000, appointed a streamlined, three-person board in
March to try to have a museum open at the house by April 2014,
the 60th anniversary of Sousa Mendes’s death.  “Even in the state it’s in, people go there,” said
Mariana Abrantes de Sousa, a former ABN Amro investment banker
who heads the board. “People consider it important to go,
because it’s a very powerful story.”  Antonio de Oliveira Salazar, Portugal’s dictator from 1932
to 1968, ensured that the consul who had defied his orders would
be treated as a non-entity in the censored press -- while
Salazar took credit for taking in  refugees .  Sousa Mendes was Portugal’s representative in the French
city of Bordeaux, when thousands of refugees streamed  south ,
away from the invading German army, in 1940.  Jewish Refugees  Salazar ordered that Jews, as well as stateless refugees
and those barred from returning to their home countries, be
refused visas unless they already had made arrangements to leave
Portugal for another country. Given the suddenness of the French
collapse, few had done so.  Sousa Mendes, then 54, had already earned reprimands for
bending the rules, according to “One Good Man,” a biography by
Rui Afonso. He handed out thousands of visas to everyone who
asked, including U.S. actor Robert Montgomery, who volunteered
as an ambulance driver at the front in France,  Luxembourg ’s
grand duchess and members of the duchy’s cabinet.  Yad Vashem ,  Israel ’s Holocaust museum, estimates a third of
the refugees seeking his visas were Jewish.  Spain  was sympathetic to the Axis powers. While it gave few
visas for extended stays, it issued transit visas for anyone who
had permission to enter Portugal. As the Germans approached,
Sousa Mendes moved south to Bayonne and continued issuing visas
until Portugal’s ambassador in  Madrid  went to France and ordered
him to stop.  Numbers Saved  Estimates of the number of refugees he saved go to as many 
as 30,000. The documents Sousa Mendes issued may have applied to
that many, though the refugees who reached safety before the
blocking of French-Spanish border crossings probably numbered
closer to 10,000, Afonso said. (Schindler saved almost 1,200).  Harry Oesterreicher said he knew that his father and
grandparents had escaped from France in 1940. He only learned
last year that they had Sousa Mendes visas. “A lot of people
don’t realize they’re part of the story,” he said.  Raising awareness and having a clear project for creating a
museum will make fund raising easier, Oesterreicher said.  ``People want to know there's a project with a head, trunk 
and limbs,'' said Joao Crisostomo, a Portuguese and New York 
resident who is on the U.S. foundation's advisory council.  The 19th-century Sousa Mendes home is at risk of collapse,
Abrantes de Sousa said. While European Union funds may cover 
most of the reconstruction, donations are needed for some work 
and to create an endowment for operating costs.  Jewish Tourism  The house is well situated to take advantage of a growing 
interest in Jewish tourism in north Portugal, where vestiges of 
Judaism survived throughout the centuries of the Inquisition.  The Serra de Estrela Tourism Region, the area's tourism 
authority, and municipalities governments this year set up a 
``Sephardic Route'' of sites linked to the country's Jewish 
past, said Jorge Patrao, president of the tourism region.  They include the town of Belmonte, where a small community 
of Jews existed covertly throughout the centuries when their 
religion was forbidden in Portugal. It has a synagogue that 
opened in 1997 and a Jewish Museum, which attracted 80,000 
visitors last year, Patrao said.  Salazar, who kept Portugal out of the fighting, exported
strategic goods to both sides and let the Allies have a base in
the Azores Islands once it was clear the war was going in their
favor. At home, he didn’t tolerate those who defied his orders,
whether they were striking workers or a disobedient diplomat. He
suspended Sousa Mendes for a year on half pay, followed by
retirement on a reduced pension.  The diplomat died in poverty in 1954. In 1966, he was
recognized by Yad Vashem as one of the saviors of Jews during
World War II. It was only in 1987 and 1988 that he received
official recognition from Portugal’s president and parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Silver in Lisbon at  jsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 