-- 
SEC Alleges Insider Trading in Arch Chemicals Before Merger Announcement

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-18T16:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sec-files-insider-lawsuit-against-chartwell-over-trading-in-arch-chemicals.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued three firms, two of them allegedly controlled by
Yomi Rodrig, a Turkish trader living in Geneva, claiming they
profited from insider trading in  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares.  The SEC, in a lawsuit filed July 15 in  Manhattan  federal
court, said Compania Internacional Financiera SA and two other
firms made millions of dollars by buying Arch shares in the days
before a July 11 announcement that Basel, Switzerland-based
Lonza Group Ltd. planned to buy the specialty chemicals maker
for $1.2 billion.  Arch rose 21 percent in the week before Lonza said it would
buy all of the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company’s outstanding
shares for $47.20 each. Arch jumped an additional 12 percent the
day of the announcement to close at $47.37.  In addition to Compania Internacional Financiera, the SEC
sued Coudree Capital Gestion SA, a Geneva-based company also
allegedly controlled by Rodrig, according to the complaint. A
third defendant, Chartwell Asset Management Services, is
described in the complaint as an  investment adviser  based in
Geneva.  In 2005, Rodrig agreed to forfeit more than $4.8 million in
trading profits and pay a penalty of $1.4 million to resolve an
SEC claim that he violated short-selling rules. Rodrig  settled 
without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  “As I read the complaint, it simply says the trades were
suspicious,”  Ira Sorkin , a lawyer for Rodrig, said today in a
telephone interview. “That’s not the standard for trading on
inside information.”  The case is SEC v. Compania Internacional Financiera SA,
11-CV-4904, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 