-- 
SEC Freezes Swiss Firms’ Assets on Alleged Arch Chemicals-Insider Trades

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-18T22:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sec-freezes-swiss-firms-assets-on-alleged-arch-chemicals-insider-trades.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission won a temporary asset freeze against three Swiss
firms, claiming they profited from insider trading in  Arch
Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  shares.  The SEC, in a case filed July 15 in  Manhattan  federal
court, said two of the firms are controlled by Yomi Rodrig, a
Turkish trader living in Geneva. The three are accused of making
millions of dollars by buying Arch shares in the days before
Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza Group Ltd. announced on July 11
its plan to buy the specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.
The agency won the asset freeze the same day it filed the suit.  Arch rose 21 percent in the week before Lonza said it would
buy all of the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company’s outstanding
shares for $47.20 each. Arch jumped an additional 12 percent the
day of the announcement to close at $47.37.  The companies allegedly controlled by Rodrig are Compania
Internacional Financiera and Geneva-based Coudree Capital
Gestion SA, according to the complaint. The third defendant,
Chartwell Asset Management Services, is described in the
complaint as an  investment adviser  based in Geneva.  U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  scheduled a hearing July 28
to consider whether to extend the asset freeze.  In 2005, Rodrig agreed to forfeit more than $4.8 million in
trading profits and pay a penalty of $1.4 million to resolve an
SEC claim that he violated short-selling rules. Rodrig  settled 
without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  “As I read the complaint, it simply says the trades were
suspicious,”  Ira Sorkin , a lawyer for Rodrig, said today in a
telephone interview. “That’s not the standard for trading on
inside information.”  The case is SEC v. Compania Internacional Financiera SA,
11-CV-4904, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 