-- 
SMIC Shares Fall in Hong Kong After David Wang Quits as CEO

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-18T08:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/semiconductor-manufacturing-shares-tumble-in-hong-kong-after-ceo-quits.html
Semiconductor Manufacturing
International Corp. (981) , China’s biggest chipmaker, fell the most in
almost two months in  Hong Kong  trading after David Wang resigned
as chief executive officer.  The chipmaker, which resumed trading today after being
suspended June 30, fell 9.5 percent to 57 Hong Kong cents as of
the 4 p.m. close, the biggest decline since May 20. The stock is
up 1.8 percent this year compared with a 5.3 percent drop in
Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Wang quit SMIC last week after failing to win reappointment
as company director at a shareholders meeting last month. The
former  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  executive, who joined SMIC in
2009, clashed with investors including  China ’s state-owned
Datang Telecom Technology & Industry Holdings Co. over strategy,
according to analyst Michael Clendenin.  “David is a very forceful guy, and I can’t see him backing
down if he thinks he has a strategy that would work,” said
Clendenin, managing director at research company RedTech
Advisors in Shanghai. Wang had planned to focus SMIC on the
production of flash memory chips, a move opposed by Datang,
according to Clendenin.  Edith Kwan, a manager at SMIC’s investor relations
department, said Wang resigned for “personal reasons,” and
declined to comment on the possible disagreement with
shareholders or provide Wang’s contact information. Two calls to
Datang’s communications department weren’t answered.  Zhang Wenyi, a former Chinese government minister, was
appointed acting CEO at SMIC, the company said July 15. In
April, China Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, made a $250 million investment in the Shanghai-based
chipmaker, joining other state-owned investors including Datang
and  Shanghai  Industrial Investment (Holdings) Co.  Holders of 5.33 billion SMIC shares, or 58 percent of the
votes cast at the company’s June 29 annual general meeting,
opposed Wang’s reappointment as a director, according to a June
30 regulatory filing. Wang helped SMIC return to profitability
last year, after the chipmaker posted five straight annual
losses under founder Richard Chang.  SMIC said it will “continue to seek a candidate” for the
CEO role. Zhang, a former vice minister at the Ministry of
Electronics Industry, was also appointed chairman at SMIC
effective July 15.  Former chairman Jiang Shang Zhou died June 27, SMIC said
June 29, without disclosing the cause of death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  