-- 
SER Plans 600 Megawatts of Solar, Competitive Pricing By 2017

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-18T16:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/ser-plans-600-megawatts-of-solar-competitive-pricing-by-2017.html
SER - Sistema de Energia Renovavel,
a new venture in  Brazil , is planning to build 600 megawatts of
solar plants by 2020 and expects the technology to be
competitively priced with other energy sources within six years.  SER will have completed its first 5-megawatt photovoltaic
plant in the country’s northeast next year, said David Fontes
Pereira, director of energy at Manserv Montagem e Manutencao
Ltda., the Sao Caetano do Sul, Brazil-based construction company
that owns 50 percent of the venture.  Almost none of Brazil’s electricity is generated by solar
power, mainly because the equipment is expensive, he said. This
may change if the government increases its support and
manufacturing costs continue to come down.  “Prices of solar panels have fallen by 50 percent over the
last five years,” Pereira said today in an interview. “They’re
still coming down quicker than any other technology,” as their
efficiency improves.  It costs about 2.5 million euros ($3.6 million) to install
a megawatt of photovoltaic power in  Europe , and may cost more
for SER’s Brazil project because the panels will need to be
imported, he said.  There are other cheaper renewable energy technologies
available in Brazil, said Helena Chung, an analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance’s  Sao Paulo  office. Wind farms cost about $2
million a megawatt and can generate 75 percent more electricity
than similarly sized sun-powered facilities, she said.  Guaranteed Prices  Government incentives like a feed-in-tariff, which
guarantees prices for electricity above market rates, would
entice equipment manufacturers and help bring down costs,
Pereira said.  “Once you have projects being built you attract the
industry that produces the equipment,” he said.  Solar radiation levels in Brazil’s sunny northeastern
states of Bahia, Paraiba,  Rio Grande  do Norte and Ceara, where
SER plans its projects, reach 6.5 kilowatt hours a square meter
a day, according to data from the  U.S. National Renewable Energy
Laboratory .  “The Spanish are always impressed by the potential for
solar energy in Brazil,” he said. “Our worst areas are much
better than the best of theirs,” he said.  One possible panel provider for SER’s projects is Tempe,
Arizona-based  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  that has a partnership with
 Spain ’s solar company  Assyce Fotovoltaica Sociedad Ltda. , which
owns the other half of SER.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  