-- 
Singapore Exports Rise Less Than Estimated on Electronics Shipment Slump

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-07-18T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/singapore-s-export-growth-slowed-in-june-on-slump-in-electronics-shipments.html
Singapore ’s exports climbed in June
at less than a third the pace estimated by economists as
manufacturers shipped fewer electronics goods and sales of
pharmaceuticals eased.  Non-oil domestic exports rose 1.1 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 7.6 percent gain in May, the island’s
trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The median
estimate of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for an
increase of 3.8 percent.  Europe ’s debt crisis, slowing U.S. growth and supply-chain
disruptions as a result of disasters in  Japan  have damped demand
for Asian goods. Purchasing managers’ indexes and export data
released this month showed factory output slowing in Asian
economies from  China  to  South Korea , which may reduce the scope
for monetary policy tightening as regional growth cools.  “The impact from Japan production seemed to have passed
but global uncertainty over Eurozone debt worries, a soft U.S.
recovery and record highs in the  Singapore dollar  is expected to
weigh on” export growth, Chester Liaw, an economist at Forecast
Pte in Singapore, said before the report.  Electronics shipments by companies such as contract
manufacturer Venture Corp. dropped 17.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, after declining 15.2 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 12 percent. Pharmaceutical shipments
added 1.1 percent after advancing 61.8 percent in May.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as Sanofi-
Aventis SA can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month
to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning
before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil exports fell a seasonally adjusted 4.5
percent last month from May, when they increased a revised 7.4
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  