-- 
Sinopec Group Unit, Exxon Sign Agreement on Shale-Gas Area

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-18T09:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sinopec-group-unit-exxon-sign-agreement-on-shale-gas-area.html
China  Petrochemical Corp. agreed
with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to jointly assess shale-gas potential in
the southwestern province of Sichuan as the world’s fastest-
growing major economy seeks unconventional sources of energy.  Sinopec Group, a unit of China Petrochemical, and Exxon’s
Sichuan subsidiary signed an agreement to survey the 3,643.59
square-kilometer (1,407 square-mile) Wuzhishan area, the Chinese
company said in its in-house newsletter today.  China, estimated to hold more gas trapped in shale than the
U.S., will open new areas to exploration as PetroChina Co.’s
parent and Sinopec Group seek drilling technology through
partnerships and acquisitions.  China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent, agreed
in June to form a venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc to improve
its drilling efficiency after taking 11 months to complete the
country’s first shale well.  Sinopec Group is “actively” seeking technology and
capital from its potential foreign partners to develop domestic
shale-gas resources, it said.  The government aims to sign contracts with Chinese
explorers this month to develop two blocks offered in the
country’s first auction, and a second sale is planned later this
year, Zhang Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas strategy
research at the Ministry of Land and Resources, said on July 6.  Recoverable Reserves  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or
12 times the country’s conventional natural gas deposits, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration  said  in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  The two countries account for 32 percent of the world’s
recoverable shale reserves of 6,622 trillion cubic feet,
according to EIA data.  Overseas explorers, barred from bidding in Chinese auctions
of shale areas, are in discussions to forge local ventures.
Chevron Corp. and BP Plc are in talks with China Petrochemical
and its unit  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  Norway’s Statoil
ASA is in negotiations to buy stakes in shale-gas assets in
China. Shell is currently exploring the Jinqiu block in
southwestern Sichuan province with CNPC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  