-- 
Slowing India Growth a ‘Blessing in Disguise,’ SMC Global Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-18T09:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/slowing-india-growth-a-blessing-in-disguise-smc-global-says.html
Jagannadham Thunuguntla, equity
strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd. in  New Delhi , comments
on the outlook for Indian stocks. He spoke today in a phone
interview.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
0.3 percent to 18,508.5 as of 1:53 p.m. in Mumbai.  On market concerns:  “Investors are not comfortable with current market levels.
In the near term, the upside for stocks seems capped, while the
downside is anybody’s guess. Earlier, the slowdown was fear. It
is turning out to be a fact. Companies are postponing their
projects as financing costs and inflation keep on rising. The
government doesn’t seem to be able to rein in inflation and
 interest rates . The debt situation in  Europe  is also a cause for
concern. The Euro as a currency is facing paralysis.  ‘‘If the  U.S. Congress  doesn’t approve an increase in its
debt ceiling by Aug. 2 it runs the risk of a short-term default
on its debt and a downgrade in its AAA rating. If this happens,
it will shake up the foundations of our financial system. We
will then turn very bearish.”  On slowing growth:  “The country is still continuing with 7 to 7.5 percent
growth. Slowing growth is a blessing in disguise. It will lead
to lower inflation and signal the end of the rate-tightening
cycle.”  On stock recommendations:  “We are advising clients to add to defensives like fast-
moving consumer goods, pharmaceutical and information technology
stocks. In this environment we’re looking for stable business
over high-beta stocks. We are advising clients to buy Coal  India 
Ltd. and Bharti Airtel Ltd. The recent decline in Coal India is
an opportunity to buy for the long term.”  On the interest-rate outlook:  “We expect inflation to remain high amid moderate growth
unless something dramatic happens in either in the domestic or
global economy.”  India’s central bank has raised borrowing costs 10 times
since the start of 2010 to tackle inflation. The next policy
announcement is due July 26.  On company earnings:  “We are seeing more negative earnings surprises than
positive surprises. We are expecting automobile and
infrastructure companies to post declines in margins.”  Three out of four Sensex companies have reported earnings
for the quarter ended June 30 that fell short of analyst
estimates as rising interest costs damped demand.  Some 33 percent of Sensex companies reported profits that
missed analysts’ estimates in the March quarter, compared with
less than a quarter that did so last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  