-- 
South African Anti-Corruption Chief Faces Graft Probe

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-07-19T07:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/south-african-anti-graft-unit-chief-hofmeyr-faces-probe-denies-wrongdoing.html
(Corrects spelling of spokesman’s name in second paragraph
of story originally published on July 18.)  The head of a South African anti-
corruption unit denied allegations of wrongdoing after
prosecutors disclosed he was being investigated for graft.  Police opened a case against Special Investigative Unit
head Willie Hofmeyer after Dave King, the chairman of investment
company  Micromega Holdings Ltd. (MMG) , alleged he acted illegally in a
dispute over unpaid taxes, National Prosecuting Authority
spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga told the South African Press Association
yesterday.  “If I had believed that I had done anything wrong, I would
have offered to resign my position, or asked to be placed on
suspension pending a resolution of the matter,” Hofmeyer said
in an e-mailed statement today. “I strongly believed that there
was no substance in the complaint” and supported an external
investigation being conducted by the police.  The probe is the latest of a series of allegations and
counter-allegations leveled against the heads of  South Africa ’s
rival law-enforcement agencies, resulting in them simultaneously
investigating each other.  Police are also looking into allegations that funds were
misappropriated and procurement procedures flaunted when a
tender was awarded to refurbish the Special Investigative Unit’s
offices in  Pretoria , prosecutors said on July 11. Hofmeyer also
denied those allegations.  Mhaga did not immediately answer calls to his mobile phone
seeking comment.  Cele Investigation  On July 6, Independent Newspapers reported that police were
also considering laying graft charges against corruption
ombudsman Thuli Madonsela. Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa denied
the report.  Madonsela and Hofmeyer have been investigating whether
police Commissioner Bheki Cele and other security officials
violated government rules when they secured leases for two
office buildings costing at least three times the market rate.  In a report released on July 14, Madonsela urged President
 Jacob Zuma  to take action against Cele, saying he was guilty of
“unlawful and improper conduct.” Zuma’s office said he is
studying the report and will comment in due course.  Cele has denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 