-- 
South Korea Bans Finance Companies From Kimchi Debt for Domestic Projects

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-07-19T07:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/south-korea-will-ban-finance-companies-from-kimchi-debt-for-local-projects.html
South  Korea  will prohibit financial
companies from buying foreign-currency bonds sold for domestic
use, to help curb short-term external debt that contributed to
financial crises in 1997 and 2008.  “Our message is that local firms should raise funds in won
when they use the money here,” Kim Han Soo, head of the
international planning and coordination team at the  Bank of
Korea , told reporters in  Seoul . The regulation takes effect on
July 25, the central bank said in a statement today.  Short-term overseas debt jumped by the most in more than
two years in the first quarter, raising a red flag for
regulators. The won slumped 26 percent in 2008 after sales of
such debt with maturities of less than one year increased for 11
straight quarters. The pattern was similar in 1997, when the
Asian crisis halved the won’s value as funds flowed out of Korea.  “The latest step in Korea reflects the ongoing concern
that foreign exchange loans are a source of instability,” said
 Sean Callow , Sydney-based currency strategist with Westpac
Banking Corp. Similar liabilities in 2008 “caused tremendous
stress as Korean borrowers scrambled to pay back dollars, which
were in sudden demand.”  The Bank of Korea’s Kim said local firms used about 70
percent of the proceeds from foreign-currency debt issued
locally to generate funding in won, circumventing an existing
limit on borrowing overseas for local use.  Non-Koreans Exempt  Foreign-currency bonds issued by non-Korean companies, or
issued overseas by Korean companies, are not subject to the
restriction, he said.  So-called Kimchi bond issuance has jumped because borrowing
costs, even after swapping proceeds back into Korean won, are
lower than selling bonds in the local currency, according to
Kwon Young Sun, Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Limiting their use is likely to increase funding costs for
companies, Kwon said.  Lotte Confectionery Co. plans to sell about 100 billion won
($95 million) in bonds next week in its first local-currency
issuance since 2002, said Kim Sung Ki, a manager in the Seoul-
based company’s finance department.  “We had financed mostly in yen as it was cheaper” Kim
said by telephone today. “Now we have to fund in won when we
need money in local currency.”  Japan ’s 10-year government bonds yield 1.1 percent,
compared with their South Korean equivalent’s 4.1 percent.  Currency Rankings  The central bank is also seeking to restrain advances in
the won, the best performer among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies this year, to protect exporters including Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co.  The won has advanced 5.8 percent this year and touched
1,054.10 per dollar on July 14, the strongest level since August
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It closed at
1,059.73 per dollar as of 3 p.m. in Seoul  Bank of Korea’s Kim defined Kimchi bonds as foreign-
currency denominated debt sold in South Korea. The term
originally referred to debt sold only by foreign companies and
was later widened to include bonds sold by Korean firms.  South Korea ’s short-term external debt surged $11.7 billion
in the first quarter to $146.7 billion, according to central
bank data. This was partially driven by an increase in South
Korean companies selling foreign-currency debt in the domestic
market, Deputy Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said April 28.  Foreign Branches  The amount outstanding of foreign-currency denominated
bonds issued within South Korea rose by $2.1 billion in the
first half of this year to $17.1 billion, after an increase of
$1.2 billion last year, according to today’s statement. About 77
percent of those bonds were held by branches of Japanese and
other foreign banks in South Korea, the statement said.  “This action is part of our efforts to prepare for
possible outflows by regulating capital flows and reducing
short-term external debt,” Kim said. “We’re targeting
financial companies because we don’t have authority to control
the issuers.”  To reduce volatility in capital flows and trading of the
won, South Korea initiated caps on banks’ holdings of foreign-
exchange derivatives in October 2010 and revived taxes on
foreign investors’ bond holdings in January.  Authorities tightened currency-forward positions from July
1 and plan to impose a levy on non-deposit foreign-currency
liabilities held by domestic and foreign banks beginning Aug. 1,
with short-term debt facing higher charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  