-- 
South Sudan Releases Its New Currency to Banks in Capital, Juba

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-07-18T14:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/south-sudan-releases-its-new-currency-to-banks-in-capital-juba.html
Newly independent South  Sudan 
released its own currency today to banks in the capital, Juba,
said Aggrey Tisa, undersecretary for planning in the Ministry of
Finance.  It may take as long as two months before the South Sudan
pound replaces the old currency the nation shared with Sudan
before it gained independence on July 9, Tisa said in an
interview. Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir announced on July
12 that his government decided also to print a new currency.  “Now that they are releasing their new currency, the north
will have nothing to do with” the old pounds, Tisa said. “We
have storage problems, so either they will have to be burned or
we will just collect them and stamp them as worthless.”  Initially, the South Sudan pound will be equal in value to
the Sudanese pound,  central bank  president Elijah Malok told
reporters on July 12 in Juba. The Sudanese pound currently
trades at about 2.67 to the dollar, according to the  Central
Bank of Sudan , while on the parallel market it sold at about 3.4
to the dollar today.  The central bank plans to operate “a managed float” of
the currency, setting its  exchange rate  depending on the price
of oil and the value of regional currencies, he said.  South Sudan now controls about 375,000 barrels a day of
oil, about 75 percent of the former Sudan’s total output, the
third-biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa .  South Sudan was forced to release its currency immediately
after independence because of a shortage of Sudanese pounds in
the central bank, said Tisa.  “If we didn’t start preparing to release the new pound six
months ago, we would have run out of money by now,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Richmond  in Juba at 
 mrichmond10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 sguazzin@bloomberg.net . 