-- 
Spanish Soccer Team Hit by Crisis, Confusion Amid Dispute Over Ownership

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-18T14:17:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/spanish-soccer-team-hit-by-crisis-confusion-amid-dispute-over-ownership.html
Racing Santander, a soccer team in
 Spain ’s top division, is entangled in an ownership dispute
that’s left its Indian owner saying he was unaware of the hiring
of a new manager and its players waiting for some of last year’s
pay.  Ahsan Ali Syed, who controls Bahrain-based financial-
services company  Western Gulf Advisory , bought Racing in January
from Jacobo Montalvo, who has interests in construction and real
estate. The former owner is trying to get the sale canceled,
saying Ali Syed defaulted on payments tied to the 15 million-
euro ($21.2 million) purchase.  With about five weeks to go before the new season, Ali Syed
says he won’t spend more on the team because of the uncertainty,
and said he isn’t being told of the team’s operations. He said
he was told coach Marcelino García planned to quit a day before
he left and had no idea the team hired former Inter Milan and
Valencia manager Hector Cuper until he read media reports.  “I cannot run the team like this, nobody can,” Bahrain-
based Ali Syed said in an interview. “I cannot keep on
investing in the club as long as my ownership is in dispute.
Today they don’t even allow me to have a say in the club.”  In a June 13 letter sent to the Indian, Montalvo said he
was terminating the deal and transferring all shares in the club
back to his Dumviro Ventures S.L. holding company because of
missed payments. Ali Syed said he’s missed the payments because
his ownership is being disputed.  Blackburn Rovers  Last year, Ali Syed said he was prepared to invest 300
million pounds ($483 million) in former English Premier League
champion Blackburn Rovers. He never bought the club and moved on
to Racing.  The Spanish team was put up for sale after the former
owners couldn’t pay debt owed to players and the local
government.  “He first arrived on a private jet, with five white
Mercedes, five bodyguards, three translators, five or six
friends and a financial director,” Montalvo said. “The number
of people accompanying him diminished with each visit until it
was just him, and now not even he comes anymore.”  Last week Francisco Pernia, Racing’s president, put the
team into  bankruptcy protection . The move helps it to avoid
being demoted to the second-tier because of unpaid wages of
about 1.5 million euros it owes its players.  Under Scrutiny  Buying into the world’s most popular sport has led to
scrutiny of Ali Syed’s affairs. He denied claims of financial
impropriety made against him by individuals and media in the
U.K.,  Australia  and other parts of  Europe . The British
Broadcasting Corp. said Ali Syed left unpaid debts in the U.K.
and Australia’s Sydney Morning Herald has accused him of
“duping” clients. Ali Syed said he’s the victim of “one
gentleman who was not happy with us.”  He says his business has more than $1 billion in assets,
most of it generated by his family operations in money-lending
and agriculture in Hyderabad,  India . Ali Syed acknowledged his
family is not well-known despite in India its wealth.  “We are a population of 1.2 billion people and there are
so many millionaires, so many landlords, so many
agriculturalists, so many industrialists,” Ali Syed said. “It
does not mean everybody knows each other. I’m definitely not
like the Ambanis or the Tatas, who are the paramount families in
India. But that doesn’t mean there are no other Indians who are
reasonably affluent.”  Botin a Fan  Racing  is based in the northern Spanish city of Santander,
which has a population of 180,000, and counts Banco Santander SA
Chairman  Emilio Botin  among its fans. The team finished sixth in
the 20-team La Liga as recently as 2008 and came 12th last
season, which ended in May. Ali Syed said he remains determined
to lead the club into the new season.  “I’ve no interest in selling this club to anyone,” he
said. “I want to make this club a seriously recognized team in
the world of football.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London   at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  