-- 
Speeding Labor Elections Unfair to Companies, Employers Say

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-07-18T16:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/speeding-labor-elections-unfair-to-companies-u-s-employers-say.html
Speeding labor elections would deny
companies a fair chance of persuading workers to reject
organized representation, employers are telling U.S. regulators.  The  National Labor Relations Board , which investigates
unfair-labor practices, is considering adoption of steps sought
by unions that would lead to quicker votes. More than 60
speakers are scheduled to testify before the board on the
proposed rule today and tomorrow.  “I assure you, we all have open minds,” NLRB Chairman
Wilma Liebman said today as the hearing began.  Faster elections would be a win for labor, which has lost
fights this year to stop Republican governors from curbing
public-employee unions in states such as Wisconsin and  Ohio .
Speakers include representatives from about 14 unions, 10
businesses or business groups, and academics.  Law-firm 
consultants who help companies block unions also testified.  “Quickie elections quite simply can create an ill-informed
electorate by not providing a reasonable time for all employees
to hear the other side of the story,” from companies, said
Arnold E. Perl, a lawyer with  Memphis , Tennessee-based Glankler
Brown PLLC who is representing the Tennessee Chamber of
Commerce.  The changes would be “modest and incremental,” said Amy
Bachelder, with Sachs Waldman PC in  Detroit , a law firm that
works for unions.  “Delay is often used as a tactic in a union
election,” she said.  Depriving Employers  The proposal is “designed to deprive employers of
representation,” Charles Cohen, an attorney at Morgan Lewis and
Bockius LLP, said in prepared testimony. He represents the
Washington-based  Coalition for a Democratic Workplace , which
calls itself an alliance of workers and employers opposed to
federal legislation making unionization easier,  Union votes should be streamlined because “every
additional day of delay before a representation election
provides another opportunity for employers to manipulate the
system and cause controversies that can take years to
litigate,” Veronica Tench, a member of the  Service Employees
International Union , said in her prepared testimony.  The rule would have a “significant adverse impact” on
businesses, resulting in votes being cast before employers
started to craft a defense, said Peter Kirsanow, a partner at
Benesch, Friedlander, Coplan & Aronoff LLP in  Cleveland ,
representing the  National Association of Manufacturers .  ‘Wants to Say’  “An election would be carried out even before an employer
figures out what it wants to say,” said Kirsanow, who served on
the NLRB from 2006 to 2008.  The proposal is opposed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the largest U.S. business lobbying group, which says it’s a sign
the NLRB has adopted an activist agenda favoring unions at the
expense of companies since President Barack Obama’s appointees
have gained a majority on the board.  Among changes proposed by the NLRB are letting unions file
petitions electronically, deferring “litigation of most voter
eligibility issues until after the election” and consolidating
appeals to the board “into a single post-election appeals
process,” according to a statement from the agency.  The median time for a union election is now 38 days from
petition to the vote, according to the NLRB.  The proposed rule will force elections “in 10 to 21 days
after the filing” of a petition to unionize, according to a
dissent written by  Brian Hayes , the NLRB’s only Republican
member. The board voted 3-1 to issue the proposal.  ‘Patently Unfair’  Deadlines that tight would be “patently unfair” because
workers may be told falsehoods in an organizing drive, Brett
McMahon, vice president for business development at Bethesda,
Maryland-based Miller & Long Co., said in prepared testimony.
Employers should have adequate time to provide a full picture,
he said.  “It takes away the opportunity of workers to be educated
on both sides, which is what the board should be upholding,” he
said.  Faster elections would still give employers time to make
their case, said Kimberly Freeman Brown, executive director of
the American Rights at Work, a Washington group that advocates
for unionization, in her prepared testimony.  Workers “encounter significant obstacles in the form of
needless bureaucratic delays and costly taxpayer-funded
litigation,” she said. “It can take months and even years
before they get to cast a vote.”  The NLRB conducted 1,633 union-representation elections in
the year ended Sept. 30, 2009, the most recent period posted on
the agency’s website. Of cases closed in the period, employees
chose to join a union in 64 percent of the votes.  The rule would require employers to give union organizers
access to workers e-mail addresses, which may be a privacy
violation, said Ronald J. Holland, a partner at Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP in  San Francisco , which represents
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  