-- 
Sri Lanka Rating Raised to Positive by Moody’s

-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-07-18T01:50:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sri-lanka-rating-raised-to-positive-by-moody-s.html
Sri Lanka ’s sovereign rating outlook
was raised to positive from stable by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited a “peace dividend” of greater economic and
financial stability.  Sri Lanka’s improved credit assessment comes as the island
plans to raise $1 billion from the sale of dollar-denominated
bonds in its fourth international offering. The nation’s
foreign-currency rating remains at B1, four levels below
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded the island’s credit
rating by one level to B+ on Sept. 14.  The country may be able to attract more foreign funds and
lower its borrowing costs, further bolstering economic growth
after the end of a three-decade civil war against separatist
Tamil Tiger rebels. The  risk premium  on emerging-market debt has
shrunk to 3.14 percentage points from 8.91 points during the
global financial crisis, according to an index compiled by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Sri Lanka has started to reap a peace dividend that has
accrued to the economy and the security environment,” Moody’s
said in a statement. “The economy is expected to grow
sustainably at around 8 to 9 percent over the medium term as
confidence is further bolstered and investment picks up.”  Central bank Governor Nivard Cabraal forecasts economic
growth to accelerate to 8.5 percent this year, from a 32-year
high of 8 percent in 2010, because of rising demand and
investment after the civil war.  Foreign Investment  Sri Lanka received a record $236 million of foreign direct
investment in the first quarter of 2011, with the  tourism
industry  attracting most of the inflows, the island’s Board of
Investment said June 7.  “Sri Lanka has a number of challenges including high
fiscal deficit, lack of infrastructure and high dependence on
short-term foreign financing,” said Morten Bugge, chief
investment officer at Kolding, Denmark-based Global Evolution
AS, said July 15. The country also has “high growth, attractive
labor costs and a unique strategic geographical location that
could be the opportunity for the future, especially in port
activities.”  Bugge, who oversees $800 million of assets including Sri
Lanka sovereign debt, will consider buying the new global bonds
as well as the nation’s local-currency debt.  Monetary Policy   The central bank has refrained from boosting rates since
2007, breaking with Asian nations from  India  to  Thailand  that
have tightened monetary policy to damp price pressures.  Sri Lanka’s inflation will ease over time and the nation’s
monetary conditions support faster expansion, according to the
 International Monetary Fund , which in April disbursed $218.3
million to Sri Lanka as part of its $2.6 billion loan package.  The government hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Barclays Plc and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch to arrange the bond sale and is briefing investors in
 Asia , the U.S. and  Europe  from July 11, Deputy Governor Dharma
Dheerasinghe said on July 6. It may sell debt maturing in 10 to
15 years, Dheerasinghe said June 17.  Bank of America, HSBC and RBS managed Sri Lanka’s $1
billion 10-year bond offering in September 2010, which garnered
more than $6.3 billion of orders. The notes were sold at a yield
of 6.25 percent, 373 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries. That sale followed two $500 million offerings of
five-year bonds in October 2009 and October 2007.  “We would like to see if the improved peace conditions can
also attract more foreign direct investment and tourism,”
Global Evolution’s Bugge said. “Sri Lanka is a good story. I
would like to see some of the things above being handled before
additional rating upgrades.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  