-- 
SThree 1H Profit Doubles as Recruitment Market Recovers

-- B y   K i r a   S a v c e n k o
-- 
2011-07-18T15:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/sthree-first-half-profit-doubles-as-recruitment-market-recovers.html
SThree Plc (STHR) , a London-based
recruitment company, posted a 55 percent increase in first-half
profit as it added more permanent placements.  Net income for the six months ended May 29 increased to
7.43 million pounds ($12 million), from 4.78 million pounds a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. U.K. gross profit climbed 9 percent, held back by a
“lackluster banking market,” the company said.  Permanent placements climbed 21 percent. The recruitment
market is in a far healthier position and is moving in the right
direction with “few bumps on the road,” Chief Executive
Officer Russell Clements said in a telephone interview. Banking
recruitment remains “disappointing” and is not likely to
improve this year as “it is the only market which tends to be
busier in the first half of the year,” he said.  Clements said he expected improvement in  Germany , which is
a “very immature and underdeveloped market,” over the next two
or three years. The company plans to open a Moscow office by
next year. Clements said it is “not yet going right, but it’s
definitely in a frame.” He is “less excited” about the rest
of eastern  Europe , because of the relatively low salaries.  Overall, gross profit rose 21 percent to 90 million pounds.
The company is proposing raising the interim dividend to 4.7
pence a share, from 4 pence, and paying a special dividend of 11
pence a share.  Investec Securities analysts wrote in a daily note that
they were maintaining their “buy” recommendation “on a very
well-managed business.”  The company’s shares fell 4.3 percent to 390 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London trading. They have risen 6.3 percent
this year, giving SThree a market value of 479 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kira Savcenko in London at 
 ksavcenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  