-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise After Durable Goods, Home Prices Beat Forecasts

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-24T20:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/stock-index-futures-fall-as-debt-deadline-looms-morgan-stanley-declines.html
U.S. stocks rose, extending the
biggest rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in a week,
after reports on durable-goods orders and  home prices  beat
economists’ forecasts and banks advanced.  Financial stocks in the S&P 500 rose 2.8 percent, the
biggest gain within 10 industries.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  surged
11 percent as  Meredith Whitney , who predicted  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
dividend cut three years ago, said it has no urgent need to
raise capital. A gauge of 12 homebuilders in S&P indexes added
3.6 percent.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  slumped 1.6 percent after gold
futures plunged the most since 2008 as demand for havens waned
on speculation financial markets may be stabilizing.  The S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent to 1,177.60 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The durable-goods data wiped out a 1.4 percent retreat in
futures on the index. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  added
143.95 points, 1.3 percent, to 11,320.71.  “Any time you see life in the walking dead, it certainly
makes you feel a lot better,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee
$22 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s so much pessimism priced into the market
that if we get any decent news, it’s going to buoy investors’
spirits. If investors can be reassured that a disaster is not
imminent, that’s good for the market.”  With traders awaiting a speech on Aug. 26 by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,
trading is being affected more than usual by levels monitored by
so-called technical analysts who base forecasts on price and
volume history.  Losing Momentum  An earlier rally today lost momentum after the  S&P 500 
climbed to about 1,173, its closing level after gains of 4.7
percent on Aug. 9 and 4.6 percent on Aug. 11. The index surged
yesterday after falling to 1,121.09 the day before, within 2
points of its 11-month closing low of 1,119.46 reached Aug. 8.  “Resistance came in pretty much where you would expect to
see it followed by a predictable pullback to last night’s
close,”  Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, said in an e-mail. His firm oversees $1
billion. “The most likely outcome is still a retracement of the
majority of yesterday’s gains in the U.S., but if the S&P 500
could move back up above 1,170-1,175 again, maybe you’d get the
shorts under some pressure.”  Equities rose today after the reports on goods meant to
last at least three years and housing prices contrasted with
data this month on jobless claims,  consumer confidence  and
manufacturing that spurred concern the U.S. is poised for a
recession. The S&P 500 lost 15 percent between April 29 and
yesterday, with the retreat accelerating in July after a debate
in Congress on how to cut the  budget deficit  spurred S&P to
strip the government of its AAA credit rating.  ‘Choppy And Sloppy’  “The market is still incredibly choppy and sloppy,”  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief investment strategist at UBS
Wealth Management Americas, said in a telephone interview. His
firm oversees $774 billion. “For those who are waiting for the
Fed to pull a rabbit out of its hat on Friday, there’s room for
disappointment.”  During last year’s conference in  Jackson Hole , Bernanke
signaled a second round of asset purchases, known as QE2, that
buoyed asset markets. The S&P 500 rose 28 percent between Aug.
26, 2010, and Feb. 18 after he foreshadowed the $600 billion
Treasury program.  Gold declined 5.6 percent to $1,757.30 an ounce on
speculation financial markets may be stabilizing, eroding the
appeal of the precious metal as a haven. The futures climbed to
a record high of $1,917.90 yesterday.  Hiding in Gold  “Gold is where people are hiding versus the stock market,
so as the stock market stabilizes or improves, you will see gold
sell off,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage $26 billion at
Security Global Investors in Irvington, New York, said in an e-
mail. “The markets will continue to be volatile as we head into
Friday and Bernanke’s speech.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 stocks added 3.3 percent. Bank of
America jumped 11 percent to $6.99 after plunging 53 percent
this year through yesterday.  “I don’t think that there’s a mad dash to raise capital
immediately,” Whitney, a bank analyst, said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “They’re going to steadily raise capital over time.”  Richard Bove , an analyst who said last month that clients
should stop buying financial stocks, recommended investors
resume purchases after shares of U.S. banks tumbled.  Fallen Too Much  Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc.
are among lenders that investors should buy because “they have
fallen too much,” Bove, a Lutz, Florida-based analyst with
Rochdale Securities LLC, said today in a research note. In a
note to clients last month, Bove said clients should stop buying
banks “since all stocks are likely to fall.”  JPMorgan gained 3 percent to $35.83, while Citigroup added
4.1 percent to $28.45.  D.R. Horton Inc. paced gains in homebuilders, rising 5.7
percent to $9.45, following the report showing an increase in
home prices.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury-home
builder, jumped 4.6 percent to $15.42 after reporting earnings
that beat analysts’ forecasts after a tax benefit and demand for
its move-up houses remained stronger than other segments of the
market.  Newmont, the largest U.S. gold producer, fell 1.6 percent
to $60.26.  Stock Pessimism  Pessimism about U.S. stocks among newsletter writers
increased the most since July 2007, a bullish signal to analysts
who track investor sentiment as a contrarian indicator of share
performance. The share of bearish publications among about 120
tracked by Investors Intelligence rose to 33.3 percent
yesterday, the highest level in a year, from 23.7 percent a week
earlier.  “It’s good for stocks because it’s a contrarian
indicator,” Michael Gibbs,  Memphis , Tennessee-based chief
equity strategist at Morgan Keegan Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees about $80 billion in client assets.
“Although these extreme readings seldom coincide with an exact
bottom, they are pieces in a puzzle that forms the bottom,” he
said. “Human emotion typically drops to the maximum amount of
pessimism near market bottoms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  