-- 
Stop With the Plonk, French Burgundies Offer Value, Refinement

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/stop-with-the-plonk-lush-burgundies-offer-value-refinement-john-mariani.html
The oft repeated advice to fledgling
wine drinkers is to just “drink what you like,” in the hope
they will at some point graduate from five-dollar plonk to 10-
dollar plonk and maybe one day appreciate much better wines.  Such counsel is about as effective as telling a kid to read
what they want, hoping they will soon ditch  Harry Potter  and
graduate to Dostoevsky.  My advice to the budding wine enthusiast is to go out and
buy a very good wine that is typical of its type, thereby having
a standard by which to measure other wines.  Were I to recommend an introduction to fine cabernet
sauvignon, I’d suggest a third- or fourth-cru Bordeaux or a Napa
Valley estate in the $30-$50 range. For a premium Italian wine,
a barolo or barbaresco. When it comes to chardonnay and pinot
noir, however, I’d shy away from recommending big, flashy, oaky
California examples and instead focus on French Burgundies.  The problem is, the very best Burgundies are out of reach
for most consumers -- a bottle of Romanee-Conti costs about
$10,000 -- and, unlike the wines of Bordeaux, which come from
single estates, a single-vineyard Burgundy may be owned by many
negociants (merchants) who buy the grapes, must, or wine then
make blends bottled under their own label.  Becoming familiar with obscure Burgundy negociants is a
lifelong project. But many well-established companies like
 Bouchard Pere & Fils ,  Louis Jadot ,  Domaine Leroy , and  Joseph
Drouhin  are not only readily available in the global market but
produce a wide range of consistently good wines, including some
of the most illustrious and expensive.  Father’s Day Pair  So on Father’s Day this year, I celebrated by opening two
Joseph Drouhin bottlings, a 2009 Meursault ($45.50) and a 2009
Morey-Saint-Denis ($50), the first with spaghetti with a basil
pesto sauce, the latter with a grilled veal chop.  These are wines of enormous refinement, not to be drunk
without food, and they vividly reminded me how distinctive
Burgundian chardonnay and pinot noir can be.  The Meursault’s chardonnay grapes are picked by hand in
selected vineyards from “trusted growers.” They are gently
pressed and aged nine to 10 months, using only 30 percent new
oak barrels, so that the subtlety of the wine remains and the
complexity of the fruit itself is revealed both in the nose and
the palate, with a creamy finish that is quintessentially
chardonnay.  Spiders Under Control  Morey-Saint-Denis, on the Cote de Nuits between Gevrey-
Chambertin and Chambolle-Musigny, only garnered its own
appellation in 1935. Relative to its more famous neighbors,
which have grand cru status, Morey-Saint-Denis wines are
generally less expensive yet express the same lush virtues of
the best pinot noir grapes. Drouhin draws from its partner
vineyards with very low yields in order to “reveal every nuance
of the terroir,” as well as deep color and lilac-like bouquet.  Using 20 percent new oak, Drouhin’s bottling spends 14 to
18 months in the barrel, blended after extensive tastings of
each one. I might well let the wine age a year or more, but at
this point, on a summer’s night, it could not have been a better
expression of great but affordable pinot noir.  Drouhin is also a fine representative of French vineyards’
21st-century attention to biological and biodynamic cultivation
-- designed to limit the amount of chemicals by using organic
compost and allowing natural predators to control spiders.  Under chief executive officer Philippe Drouhin, the 131-
year-old company, with 73 hectares (182.5 acres) in Burgundy,
switched to bottles that are 10 percent lighter, thereby
reducing their carbon footprint.  Those are applaudable commitments, especially since global
warming is making it increasingly difficult to grow the finicky
pinot noir grape.  Right now, wines like these, in this price category, set
the bar for a novice wine drinker by which to judge fine
chardonnay and pinot noir. And for those of us converted long
ago, we are reminded of what it was we loved about them in the
first place.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 