-- 
Swiss Stocks Fall to Two-Year Low; Credit Suisse Shares Decline

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-07-18T15:56:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/swiss-stocks-decline-credit-suisse-kuehne-nagel-shares-drop.html
Stocks in  Switzerland  slid to a two-
year low as stress tests showed European lenders may have to
raise additional capital amid concern the region’s debt crisis
is worsening.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest
banks, tumbled more than 3 percent. Kuehne & Nagel International
AG, the world’s largest sea-freight forwarder, dropped 4.2
percent as earnings missed estimates.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the second-
biggest cement maker, declined 3.3 percent.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest
and most actively traded companies, lost 1.9 percent to 5,826.26
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, its lowest level since July
2009. The gauge fell 3.5 percent last week, the most since
March, as concern mounted that the sovereign-debt crisis is
spreading from Greece to the bigger economies of Italy and
 Spain . The broader Swiss Performance Index also retreated 1.9
percent today.  “The concerns about contagion of the sovereign debt crisis
into core  Europe  have taken center stage and only a substantial
change in the governments’ approach could change the current
trend,” Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a senior analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London , wrote in a note to clients today.  European leaders are meeting this week as they seek to
contain the region’s debt crisis, after eight of the region’s
banks failed stress tests and European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated the ECB won’t accept as
collateral bonds from a nation that defaults.  Stress Tests  Regulators said on July 15 the eight banks that failed EU
stress tests, including two from  Greece , had a combined capital
shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion). As many as 16
more lenders will need to bolster capital after scraping
through, the European Banking Authority said.  A default rating would make Greece’s debt ineligible as
collateral for cash from the ECB, impairing the lifeline to the
country’s banks and sparking contagion across the region. The
ECB is the main source of finance for Greek lenders.  Credit Suisse slid 4.7 percent to 28.72 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since February, and UBS fell 3.4 percent to 13.23
francs. A gauge of European banks was the second-worst performer
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, losing
3.2 percent to a two-year low.  EFG International AG (EFGN) , , slumped 4.7 percent to 8.27 francs,
a seventh day of losses. The private bank controlled by Greek
billionaire Spiro Latsis and his family said its exposure to
Greek banks is 0.3 percent of assets and its exposure to Greek
government bonds is 0.2 percent.  Kuehne & Nagel Slips  Kuehne & Nagel slipped 4.2 percent to 113 francs after
reporting second-quarter net income of 158 million francs ($193
million), trailing analyst estimates of 163 million francs. The
company also agreed to buy Grupo Eichenberg, a Brazilian
logistics company with 700 employees.  Holcim dropped 3.3 percent to 54.65 francs. The cement
maker’s profitability may suffer “some pressure” from raw-
material costs, Finanz & Wirtschaft reported, citing Chief
Executive Officer Markus Akermann.  Swatch Group AG, the world’s largest watch maker, slipped
3.1 percent to 408.40 francs after Rene Weber, an analyst at
Vontobel Holding AG, said the strong franc may hurt the
company’s operating margins.  “The strength of the Swiss franc is a big drag of the
sales development,” Weber wrote in a note to clients today.
“It has a direct impact on the operating margin as well, as the
cost base is mainly in Switzerland.” Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA, the owner of the Cartier brand, declined 3.3 percent to
52.15 francs.  The Swiss currency rose to a record today against the euro
and pound.  Syngenta, Schaffner  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest producer of crop-
protection chemicals, dropped 1.1 percent to 271.30 francs as
UBS forecast the shares will underperform.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the
maker of pigments and emulsions, slid 3.3 percent to 14.60
francs, its lowest price since March.  Schaffner Holding AG (SAHN) , an electrical components maker,
slumped 12 percent to 290 francs, its biggest drop since October
2008, after Andreas Escher, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG,
reduced his price estimate for the company’s shares to 325
francs from 360 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  