-- 
Syria Forces Encircle Town After Killing 71, Activist Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-18T14:14:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/syria-forces-encircle-town-after-killing-71-activist-says.html
Syrian security forces have
surrounded an eastern town near the border with  Iraq  after
killing at least 71 protesters across the country in the past
three days, an activist said.  Tanks and troops are positioned around Bukamal, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said
today by phone. Some of the troops arrived by helicopter, Al-
Arabiya television reported. The official Syrian Arab News
Agency said yesterday that gunmen in the town had killed three
members of the security forces and abducted two others.  The killings in the past three days followed nationwide
rallies on July 15 that drew more than 1 million demonstrators,
Merhi said. At least 30 people were killed yesterday, many in
the city of Homs, he said.  The protests that began in March have posed the biggest
threat to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad since he inherited
power from his father 11 years ago. They are part of a wave of
unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa this year that
has unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .  Syrian security forces have killed more than 1,700 people
since the uprising began and jailed thousands, according to
Merhi and Ammar Qurabi, head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria. Their groups have compiled the names of
those killed, injured or detained. Thousands of Syrians have
also fled to  Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan.  Change Needed  Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy,
while saying demands of demonstrators “have merit” and that
changes are needed.  Qatar’s embassy in Damascus suspended operations after
protests outside the compound last week over coverage of the
unrest by the Doha-based Al Jazeera television network,  Syria ’s
pro-government  Al-Watan  newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified Syrian employee at the mission. No one was
available at Qatar’s foreign ministry today and calls to the
embassy were unanswered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 