-- 
U.K. Fraud Prosecutors Receive Phone-Hacking Probe Request

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-18T11:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/u-k-fraud-prosecutors-receive-phone-hacking-probe-request.html
The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office,
which prosecutes white-collar crime and corruption, was asked by
a lawmaker to probe allegations of phone hacking by journalists
at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct tabloid News of the World.  A letter from Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson  arrived
today and was received by the SFO’s director, Richard Alderman,
who plans to reply by the end of the week, spokesman  David Jones 
said in an interview today. The SFO isn’t currently
investigating, he said.  “The issues raised by Mr. Watson are very serious
issues,” Jones said. “Not all the issues may be within our
scope, it depends on the public interest.”  London’s Metropolitan Police is investigating the
allegations that reporters at the tabloid hacked into the phones
of celebrities, politicians, and murder and terror victims. The
police opened a second probe this month into reports that the
newspaper bribed police for confidential information.
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sports committee is also
investigating, and Prime Minister  David Cameron  appointed a
judge to lead a judicial inquiry into phone hacking.  The U.S. Department of Justice has also inquired about the
probe with the SFO. The DOJ didn’t ask for any assistance.  “The SFO is routinely in contact with the DOJ and we will
be happy to assist them should they request it,” Jones said.  In the U.S., Democratic Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois has
called for a congressional probe into the affair, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation has begun looking into whether
News Corp. employees may have targeted the victims of the Sept.
11 attacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 