-- 
News Corp. Scandal Draws Second Resignation From Scotland Yard in Two Days

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-19T10:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/u-k-anti-terror-chief-yates-quits-amid-news-corp-hacking-investigation.html
The News of the World phone-hacking
scandal claimed the job of a second senior officer at Scotland
Yard in two days, as the  London  force’s top anti-terrorism
officer resigned over ties with the shuttered News Corp.
tabloid.  Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner John Yates
announced his resignation yesterday, a day after Commissioner
Paul Stephenson stepped down. The announcements came after Neil Wallis, a former editor at the tabloid who also acted as a
consultant for the police, was arrested on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept phone calls.  The resignations deprived the force of two top officers a
year before London hosts the  Olympic Games  and revealed the
extent of links between police and press. Stephenson met with
reporters from News Corp.’s U.K. newspapers 18 times, including
15 lunches and dinners, from 2006 through 2010, according to
figures e-mailed by the police.  “It must be eye-opening to the public how close a
relationship there was,”  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for hacking
victims including the parents of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler, said in a phone interview yesterday. “I don’t think
anyone could have imagined that the relationship went so far as
to result in social activities, eating meals and drinking
wine.”  Rebekah Brooks  The Independent Police Complaints Commission said yesterday
in a  statement  that it has been asked to probe the conduct of
Stephenson, Yates and two unnamed “former senior officers”
over their roles in the investigation.  The IPCC said today that Dick Fedorcio, the MPS’s director
of public affairs, was also referred for an investigation
because of his relationship with Wallis. Yates, Stephenson and
Fedorcio are scheduled to address a Parliamentary hearing today.  Former News of the World editor Rebekah Brooks, who was
arrested two days ago, told lawmakers at a 2003 committee
hearing that “we have paid the police for information in the
past.” She denied authorizing the payments herself. Brooks
stepped down July 15 as chief executive officer of News
International, which publishes  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. newspapers.  Brooks and News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , along with
his son  James Murdoch , the company’s deputy chief operating
officer, are scheduled to testify before a separate
Parliamentary committee on phone hacking today.  ‘Right Call’  Yates quit following calls for his resignation from
politicians including former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott. London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said that in both the
Stephenson and the Yates case “the right call” was made,
though neither man is suspected of wrongdoing.  A News of the World reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , were jailed in 2007 for
intercepting phone messages left for members of Prince Charles’s
staff. At the time, police said there were no grounds to arrest
anyone else in relation to phone-hacking at the tabloid. Yates
reviewed the case in 2009 and ruled out the need for further
inquiry.  Since then, dozens of victims of phone-hacking have been
identified, including the actress  Sienna Miller , sports
commentator Andy Gray and Dowler. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
told lawmakers last week that police are now looking through
11,000 pages of evidence containing 3,870 names, including about
4,000 mobile and 5,000 landline phone numbers.  ‘Great Personal Regret’  “It is a matter of great personal regret that those
potentially affected by phone-hacking were not dealt with
appropriately,” Yates said yesterday after he resigned.  Yates told a committee of lawmakers  in March  that he may
have met Wallis, the former News of the World editor, for lunch
or dinner in February, the month after police began the latest
inquiry into phone-hacking. A separate probe is under way into
whether police officers were paid by the press for information.  Stephenson said on July 17 that he was resigning “as a
consequence of the ongoing speculation and accusations relating
to the Met’s links with News International at a senior level and
in particular in relation to Mr. Neil Wallis.”  Cameron and Home Secretary Theresa May sought to reassure
the public by promising continuity in the force in tackling
counter-terrorism in the capital and the U.K.  May said she hopes Stephenson will “leave his post as
swiftly as possible.” His deputy, Tim Godwin, will take over as
acting commissioner. Johnson said Assistant Commissioner
Cressida Dick, the first woman to hold that rank, will take
Yates’s post in charge of anti-terror policing.  “If police officers haven’t done a proper job, and they
obviously haven’t, they need to go, however close it is to the
Olympics,” John Cryer, a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour
Party , said in an interview. “It’s a point of principle.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  