-- 
U.S. Tour de France Teams Bar TV Cameras in Standoff Over Revenue Sharing

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/u-s-tour-de-france-teams-bar-tv-cameras-in-standoff-over-revenue-sharing.html
Tour de France  teams are pressuring
the Amaury family that owns the 108-year-old cycling race to
share television-rights income for the first time.  Garmin-Cervelo, whose rider  Thor Hushovd  wore the leader’s
yellow jersey for the first week of this year’s race, and HTC-
Highroad showed their discontent by barring broadcasters from
their vehicles during some Tour stages, officials of the two
U.S.-based teams said in interviews. They’re normally obliged to
open up team cars and buses to TV rights holders.  Most European competitors support lobbying for some of the
TV income from the Amaury Sport Organisation, although French
squads are wary of confronting organizers because they risk
having their invitation to ride withdrawn, said Jonathan Vaughters, manager of the Boulder, Colorado-based Garmin team.
ASO may get as much as $200 million from TV rights, while the 22
Tour de  France  teams typically have an annual budget of $10
million each from sponsorships, Vaughters said.  “The athletes and equipment are our property -- why should
we give access” to cameras if teams don’t get a share of the
television rights, said Vaughters, who’s also president of the
teams’ association. He added that most in-car filming is now
done from the vehicles of French teams.  The Amaury family has controlled the Tour de France since
the 1940s, and manages it through its closely held Amaury Sport
Organisation. Paris-based ASO runs additional sports events,
including the Dakar rally and the Paris marathon. The family
shared in 136.6 million euros ($192 million) of dividends from
ASO between 2004 and 2008, according to company filings.  Television Income  Jean-Etienne Amaury is president of ASO, and his mother,
Marie-Odile, is on the board of the company. Vaughters said he
spoke with Marie-Odile before April’s Paris-Roubaix race, and
she said she wouldn’t consider sharing income.  “She said she was confident they could put on a race with
amateur riders from France if necessary,” Vaughters said.  Race director Christian Prudhomme said he was unable to
speak on the issue and couldn’t immediately make the Amaury
family available for comment.  The Tour de France, broadcast in more than 180 countries,
gets about 60 percent of its income from TV rights, ASO
marketing director Laurent Lachaux has said, without giving
financial details. The rest of the race income comes from
sponsorship and the fees it charges towns to host stages.  The Tour differs from other competitions, such as the
 National Football League  and soccer’s  Champions League , because
organizers don’t give teams a share of TV money, according to
 Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports business strategy at the
U.K.’s Coventry University.  Fight Doping  “It’s very, very unusual that the Tour de France doesn’t
share its revenue with the constituent parts of its brand,”
Chadwick said. “They’re adhering to a model that was first
introduced about a century ago.”  By sharing income, ASO could even help fight doping that
has tarnished cycling for years because it would reduce
financial pressure on riders to win, Vaughters said. A stage win
at the Tour can make the difference between a sponsor renewing
its backing of a squad or not, Euskaltel team rider  Samuel Sanchez  told Eurosport after winning a leg in the Pyrenees on
July 14.  “Teams are constantly in danger of dissolving as soon as
their contract” with a sponsor ends, Vaughters said. “It’s not
sustainable.”  Milram Shut  Germany ’s Milram shut after failing to find another sponsor
last season. San Luis Obispo, California-based HTC-Highroad may
have to close after this year if it can’t get more backing, team
spokeswoman Kristy Scrymgeour said. The team’s riders include
19-time stage winner Mark Cavendish of the U.K.  HTC barred television cameras from a team car on the first
day of the race, although has changed its stance in recent days
because there isn’t a consensus among all teams on what action
to take, Scrymgeour said.  Luxembourg-based Leopard-Trek, which includes two-time Tour
runner-up  Andy Schleck  on its roster, wants to hold talks with
ASO after the 21-stage race finishes on July 24, spokesman Tim
Vanderjeugd said.  “We think it’s important but we are not going to go on
strike about it,” Vanderjeugd said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux, France at 
9602 or  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  