-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Advances Above Record $1,600

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-18T11:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-advances-above-record-1-600.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Climbs Above Record $1,600 on U.S.,  Europe  Debt Concerns  Gold rose to a record above $1,600 an ounce as debt
concerns in Europe and the U.S. boosted demand for the metal as
a protection of wealth. Bullion climbed to all-time highs in
euros and pounds and silver topped $40 an ounce.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Romania May Get 15%-20% Less Than Planned in Petrom Share Sale  Romania may get 15 percent to 20 percent less than the 2.56
billion lei ($843 million) it wants in the sale of a stake in
OMV Petrom SA as concerns the European debt crisis may spread
eastward makes investors reluctant.  Aquamarine Power Seeks Funds for Commercial Output, Chief Says  Aquamarine Power Ltd., a Scottish marine energy company, is
seeking a further 30 million pounds ($48 million) from investors
over the next three years to make its machines commercial.  Posco’s India Steel Mill Accord Said to Exclude Ore Exports (1)  Posco, the world’s third-largest steelmaker, may be barred
from exporting any  iron ore  from its proposed $12 billion Indian
mine and steel project, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  Pork Prices Peaking as Corn Bust Spurs Hog-Herd Expansions (1)  The biggest slump in corn in three years may mean the end
of record pork prices as cheaper feed spurs farmers to expand
hog herds for the first time since 2007.  Hedge Funds  Cut Natural Gas Bets to 16-Week Low: Energy Markets  Hedge funds reduced bullish bets on natural gas to the
lowest level in 16 weeks on speculation that record output will
surpass demand for the power-plant fuel even as air-conditioning
use rises.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Rally to Record on Demand From China, Maike Says (1)  Copper may rally to a record $12,000 a metric ton in the
first quarter as stronger-than-expected demand from China, the
largest user, and tumbling inventories spur imports, according
to Maike Futures Co.  Glencore’s Peru Acquisition ‘Attractively Priced,’ Liberum Says  Glencore International Plc’s $475 million acquisition of a
Peruvian copper project from CST Mining Group Ltd. is
attractively priced compared with recent transactions, according
to Liberum Capital Ltd.  Copper May Rise on Speculation Supply Gap Will Support Prices  Copper may rise in London, extending a third weekly gain,
on speculation the prospect of a supply shortfall will keep
bolstering prices even as Europe’s debt crisis continues.  MINING:  Rio to Resume Talks With Rossing Labor Union as Pay Strike Ends  Rio Tinto Plc, the world’s second-largest mining company,
said it will resume talks with the Mineworkers Union of  Namibia 
today after a pay strike at its Rossing uranium mine in the
country ended.  Talvivaara Mining Raised to ’Overweight’ at JPMorgan  Talvivaara Mining Co PLC (TALV LN) was raised to
“Overweight” from “Neutral” at JPMorgan by equity analyst
Ian Rossouw. The 12-month target price is GBp 520.00 per share.  China’s Hanlong Makes A$1.2 Billion Bid for Rest of Sundance (2)  Sichuan Hanlong Group offered A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion)
in cash for the rest of Sundance Resources Ltd. to gain control
of the Australian company’s iron ore project in West Africa.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Prices May Reach $5,000 by 2020, Standard Chartered Says  Gold prices, which rose to a record high of above $1,600
today, may soar to as much as $5,000 an ounce by 2020 on slowing
production growth and increasing demand from China and India,
according to  Standard Chartered  Plc.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Drops as U.S., Europe Debt Crises Spark Demand Concern  Palm oil dropped for a second day on concern that global
demand for the cooking oil may drop as Europe and the United
States tackle debt crises.  Ghana  Plans to Boost Cocoa Output to 1.2 Million Metric Tons (1)  Ghana, the world’s second-largest cocoa producer, plans to
increase production to about 1.2 million metric tons of the
beans a year by 2015 because of new tree plantings.  Wheat Drops for Third Day as Importers May Shun U.S. Supplies  Wheat fell for a third day in  Chicago  on speculation demand
for U.S. exports may wane as importers switch to cheaper Russian
supplies.  India  Cotton Yarn Exports to Rebound From September, Group Says  Cotton yarn exports from India, the world’s second-largest
producer, may rebound from September as buyers replenish
stockpiles, a textile producers’ group said.  Coffee Falls as Economic Woes Threaten Demand; Sugar Retreats  Coffee fell for a third day in London on concerns demand
for the beans may decline in developed nations as the economic
crisis worsens in the U.S. and Europe. Sugar also slid.  SHIPPING:  Tanker Nord Nightingale Shipped Gasoil to  Libya ’s Benghazi (1)  The oil tanker Nord Nightingale carried a cargo of gasoil,
a fuel used for heating or refined into diesel, to the rebel-
held port of Benghazi in Libya, said the company operating the
vessel.  Jubba XX Tanker Pirated in  Indian Ocean , EU Navfor Says (1)  Jubba XX, a laden oil tanker, was pirated in the northern
Indian Ocean while sailing to Berbera in Somalia from the United
Arab Emirates, the European Union Naval Force said.  ECONOMIES:  China’s New Home Prices Quicken in  Shanghai , Beijing (1)  New home prices rose in 67 Chinese cities in June, with
growth in Beijing and Shanghai accelerating for the first time
since the government stepped up efforts this year to curb
growth.  Bank Yield Spread Quadruples on Bad-Debt Risk: China Credit  The premium investors demand to hold bonds issued by
Chinese banks that lend to promote official policies quadrupled
in the past eight months as Moody’s Investors Service said local
governments may owe more than was estimated in a national audit.  EU Summit Looms on Crisis Deadlock as Contagion Threatens (1)  European leaders will this week seek to revamp their debt
crisis-fighting strategy and snap a deadlock that is spooking
investors and prompting warnings of contagion from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Trichet Says Europe Can Resolve Crisis by Showing Determination  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Europe can surmount its sovereign debt crisis by showing the
will and determination to do so.  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro, Stocks Decline on European Crisis Concerns; Gold Rises  The euro dropped the most in a week against the dollar,
Italian and Spanish bonds slumped, while shares slid on concern
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. Gold topped a record $1,600
an ounce and silver rose for a fourth day.  Franc Is Most Expensive Currency as Taylor Sees Euro Parity (2)  Even after making the Swiss franc the most over-valued
major currency, traders are betting on more strength as the
European Union’s sovereign-debt crisis begins to infect bigger
economies.  European Stocks Retreat as Stress Tests Fail to Calm Debt Crisis  European stocks dropped for a third day after results from
bank stress tests failed to allay concern that the region’s
sovereign debt crisis will spread. U.S. index futures and Asian
shares also declined.  Record S&P 500 Return on Equity Over Bond Yields Spurs Bulls (1)  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies are returning more
than ever in earnings compared with their borrowing costs, a
signal that takeovers and  capital spending  will help investors
overcome a slowing U.S. economy.  Brent Crude  Declines for a Third Day on European Debt Concerns  Brent crude declined for a third day in  London  as investors
bet that Europe’s worsening debt crisis may slow the economy and
crimp fuel demand.  Karzai Aide Killed Less Than Week After President’s Brother (2)  A senior adviser to  Hamid Karzai  was shot dead at home in
Kabul yesterday in a second blow to the Afghan president less
than a week after the assassination of his powerful half
brother.  SPORTS:  Aguero to Replace Tevez at  Manchester City , Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Darren Clarke Can’t Get Used to Winning  British Open  at 20th Try  A beaming Darren Clarke looked at the Claret Jug given to
the British Open champion on the table next to him. He still
couldn’t believe it’s his.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  