-- 
U.S. Held Secret Meeting With Qaddafi Regime

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-18T22:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/u-s-held-secret-meeting-with-qaddafi-regime-to-deliver-message.html
Three senior U.S. officials held a
secret meeting July 16 with representatives of Muammar Qaddafi’s
government, which said today the development was a sign of U.S.
willingness to negotiate with the regime.  A U.S. State Department official said the meeting was not a
negotiation, and was intended only to deliver the message that
Qaddafi must step down.  U.S. Ambassador to Libya  Gene Cretz , Assistant Secretary of
State Jeffrey Feltman and National Security Council staff member
Derek Chollet met with Libyan officials to clear up any
misunderstanding about the U.S. position, the U.S. official
said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.  The decision to hold face-to-face talks reflected U.S.
concern that Libyan officials incorrectly thought the U.S. was
prepared to see a future role for Qaddafi in Libya, the official
said. The U.S. closed its embassy in Tripoli in February.  Disclosure of the meeting came first in Tripoli, where a
Libyan government spokesman described the Tunisia meeting as a
“first-step dialogue” to repair ties between the two nations,
according to the  Associated Press .  “This is a first step and we want to take further steps,”
said the Libyan spokesman, Moussa Ibrahim, the AP reported. “We
don’t want to be stuck in the past. We want to move forward all
the time.”  The State Department official said that the meeting was not
the start of talks and that there is no plan to hold another
session. U.S. diplomats told Libyans that during the meeting and
came away with the sense that their message about Qaddafi was
understood, said the official, who was not authorized to discuss
the event on the record.  Consultations with Allies  Before the talks, U.S. officials consulted with diplomats
from other nations attending the  Libya  Contact Group meeting
July 15 in Istanbul as well as with officials from the
Transitional National Council, the rebel governing group,
according to the State Department official.  The U.S. joined more than 30 other nations at the Istanbul
meeting in deciding to recognize the Transitional National
Council as the country’s legitimate representatives.  NATO is leading an air campaign over Libya that began in
March to pressure Qaddafi to step down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  New Delhi  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  