-- 
Ukraine-IMF Deal Unlikely Before 2012 Elections, RenCap Says

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-07-18T13:21:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/ukraine-imf-deal-unlikely-before-2012-elections-rencap-says.html
Ukraine is unlikely to get more
money from the  International Monetary Fund  as part of a $15.6
billion bailout program before parliamentary elections next
year,  Renaissance Capital  said.  The government lacks the political incentive to raise
household gas prices, a condition to receive the next IMF
tranche, ahead of elections in October 2012,  Ivan Tchakarov ,
chief economist for Russia and the former  Soviet Union , said
in a telephonic interview today. “The immediate urgency of
winning IMF support is much weaker than in 2008,” he wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  Ukraine received two tranches totaling $3.4 billion from
the IMF after promising last year to reduce its  budget
deficit , its second rescue package in three years. The third
installment was delayed as the Cabinet had not met its cost-
cutting pledges to increase the  retirement age  and raise
household gas tariffs. Last week, the parliament approved a
revised pension plan raising women’s retirement age by five
years to 60, ahead of an IMF mission next month.  The move will “not be enough to get IMF money” without
raising gas prices, Tchakarov said by phone.  In the absence of aid, Ukraine’s gross reserves will
decline from its current record high of $37 billion to $33
billion by year-end, he wrote, while 2012 will be “more
challenging without IMF support” as reserves will drop to $22
billion.  Ukraine may adjust its economic policy to ensure it
receives bailout money after the elections, but before the end
of 2012, according to the note.  “Ukraine can survive without this money before the
elections,” Tchakarov said by phone. “In the longer term,
it’s clear they need IMF help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London on 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  