-- 
Hulu’s Owners Are Said to Offer Bidders Five-Year Program-Access Guarantee

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-07-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/hulu-s-owners-are-said-to-offer-bidders-five-year-program-access-guarantee.html
Hulu LLC, the online video service
seeking bids, plans to offer suitors five years of access to
shows from its media-company owners, including two years of
exclusivity, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  The extended terms would provide a new owner with continued
access to programs from owners  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , News Corp. and
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal, said the people, who weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Details of the rights, similar to terms Hulu’s owners
considered for an earlier share sale, and other financial data
will be provided to bidders who sign a non-disclosure agreement,
two people said.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , based in Seattle, and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are unlikely to bid without guarantees of access
to shows, said people familiar with the companies’ discussions
who weren’t authorized to talk publicly.  During the exclusivity period, TV networks would still be
allowed to post shows on their own sites, said one of the
people. There would also be exceptions for on-demand services
offered by pay television operators, the person said.  Elisa Schreiber, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment, as did Julie Henderson, a News Corp.
spokeswoman. Kathy Kelly-Brown, an NBC Universal spokeswoman,
and Disney’s Zenia Mucha didn’t answer requests for comment.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Guggenheim Partners, Hulu’s bankers,
have met with 10 to 12 potential bidders including Mountain
View, California-based  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo Inc., Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft and Dallas-based
 AT&T Inc. (T) , people familiar with the process said last week.  Seeking Bidders  Disney Chief Executive Officer Robert Iger told reporters
July 6 at the Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, that
Hulu’s owners are committed to selling the company.  The owners, which include  Providence Equity Partners , chose
last month to proceed with a sale after being approached by a
possible acquirer. Hulu, which didn’t go forward with an initial
public offering that may have given it $2 billion in market
value, said it will  exceed  1 million subscribers paying $7.99 a
month by the end of August.  The company may approach $500 million in revenue in 2011,
CEO  Jason Kilar  said April 4 on Hulu’s  website , citing trends at
the time.  Hulu’s tentative agreements for renewed rights to shows
from Disney’s ABC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox will increase the number
of commercial minutes in current season episodes at the website,
people with knowledge of the arrangements said June 24.  Comcast, required by U.S. regulators to give up Hulu
oversight as a condition of its NBC Universal acquisition, will
likely agree to terms negotiated by its partners, said one
person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  