-- 
Mundial Has Record Rally on Yorkville Investment, Takeover Bets

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-18T16:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/mundial-has-record-rally-on-yorkville-investment-takeover-bets.html
Mundial SA Produtos de Consumo
surged, extending a record winning streak, after a Yorkville
Advisors LLC fund agreed to invest as much as $50 million in the
Brazilian consumer-products maker, amid bets it will be bought.  Mundial jumped 9.3 percent to 4.13 reais in  Sao Paulo  at
12:01 p.m. New York time, for its ninth straight advance. The
stock price has jumped more than 12-fold from 32 centavos at the
end of the first quarter.  The company, which makes cutlery and beauty products,
signed an agreement in which a Yorkville fund will buy Mundial
shares in private placements within two years, according to a
regulatory filing today.  The surge in Mundial’s stock may indicate that investors
are betting on a takeover by another company, said Felipe
Miranda, an analyst at Empiricus Research in Sao Paulo. Zilma
Amorim, an investor relations coordinator for Mundial, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message and e-mail requesting
comment on the possibility of a takeover.  “It’s speculation that escapes any of the company’s
fundamentals,” Miranda said in a telephone interview. “It’s at
stratospheric multiples with this price. It doesn’t make any
sense. From a fundamental, operational point of view, there’s
plenty of reason for it to fall.”  Mundial trades at 109 times reported earnings, compared to
a ratio of 38.3 for larger consumer-goods maker Hypermarcas SA
and 9.3 for the benchmark Bovespa index, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Lenn Ceitlin said June 15
that the company hadn’t received any acquisition proposals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  