-- 
Forint Drops to Record Low Against Franc on Debt; Polish Zloty Depreciates

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-07-18T15:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/hungarian-forint-depreciates-to-record-low-against-swiss-franc.html
The forint and zloty slid to record
lows against the Swiss franc and Hungarian stocks lost the most
in three months on concern the euro-area’s debt crisis may cause
emerging European economies to slow and lenders to pull out.  The Hungarian and Polish currencies both sank as much as
1.7 percent to their weakest levels against the franc since
Bloomberg started tracking the data more than 13 years ago. The
BUX equity gauge slumped 3.7 percent in Budapest, the most since
April 18. Warsaw’s WIG20 index slid 2.6 percent.  The euro-region’s debt crisis threatens to hurt the export-
led economic recovery in the European Union’s east, according to
Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The risk
that western lenders will reduce their presence in the region is
another spillover from the debt crisis, they said.  “Risks of contagion from the euro area are rising,”
Pasquale Diana, a Morgan Stanley economist in  London , wrote in a
report today. “The central and eastern European currencies will
depreciate aggressively versus the dollar, Swiss franc and yen
in the event that we see more serious contagion.”  Stocks fell around the world, led by banks, and the euro
weakened to a record against the franc as European stress tests
failed to allay concern the debt crisis will deepen. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of developed and emerging countries fell
1.4 percent.  The forint traded 1.4 percent weaker at 237.707 per franc
as of 5:28 p.m. in Budapest and was 1.2 percent lower at 272.94
per euro. The zloty depreciated 1 percent to 3.5179 per franc
and slid 0.6 percent to 4.0376 per euro. OTP Bank Nyrt.,
 Hungary ’s largest lender with a 30 percent weighting in the BUX
index, sank 4.9 percent to 5,231 forint, the most in eight
months.  ‘Vulnerable’  The cost of insuring government bonds of Hungary, the EU’s
most-indebted eastern member, rose to the highest since January
at 323 basis points, up 13 basis points. Credit-default swaps
increase as perceptions of creditworthiness deteriorate.
Contracts for Poland climbed seven basis points to 175 basis
points, a 13-month high.  “Significant foreign -- west European -- ownership of
local banking sectors across emerging Europe does leave the
region vulnerable to contagion,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-
market research at RBS, wrote in a report. “The key channel of
the transmission could be real economy and trade.”  More than 70 percent of the banking industry in the  Czech
Republic ,  Romania , Hungary and Poland had foreign owners as of
2010, according to RBS. UniCredit SpA, Erste Group Bank AG,
Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Societe Generale SA are
among the biggest lenders by assets in the former communist
bloc.  ‘Red Alert’  “If these banks retrenched, the already modest credit
recovery we are seeing could prove even weaker,” Morgan’s Diana
said. The region is also susceptible to “the obvious contagion
from financial markets,” Diana said.  A weaker forint hurts homeowners who bought property with
foreign-currency loans because they pay more in local terms.
Sixty-three percent of Hungarian household mortgages were
denominated in foreign currencies as of April 30, and more than
100,000 mortgages were overdue, according to central bank data.  “The Swiss franc rally will keep the central banks in
 Poland  and Hungary on red alert,” emerging-market strategists
at BNP Paribas SA, led by Bartosz Pawlowski in London, wrote in
a research note.  ‘Considerable Burden’  The government in Hungary, which received an international
bailout in 2008, pledged to protect foreign-currency borrowers
who are unable to make payments as a result of the forint’s
weakening. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s administration and
banks in May agreed to temporarily fix the franc’s exchange rate
on household mortgages at 180 forint until the end of 2014. The
program shifts a “considerable burden” to banks in the form of
falling profits, Frankfurt-based DZ Bank AG said May 23.  OTP has lost 13 percent since Orban presented the mortgage
plan on May 30 and said he intended to keep a special tax on the
financial industry beyond its 2012 expiration. The forint has
weakened 7.6 percent versus the franc in the period.  Polish banks won’t be hurt by gains in the franc, the most
popular currency for mortgages in Poland, as most borrowers pay
instalments on time, the country’s financial regulator said this
month. The EU’s biggest economy in eastern  Europe  restricted
non-zloty borrowing in January, limiting the maximum monthly
payment on foreign-currency loans to 42 percent of a customer’s
net income and requiring homebuyers to make a 20 percent
downpayment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  