-- 
Munich Re, KKR Acquire 49% Stake in T-Solar’s Assets in Spain, Italy

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-07-18T17:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/munich-re-kkr-buy-49-of-1-billion-euros-of-t-solar-power-parks.html
T-Solar Global SA , the biggest
operator of photovoltaic  power plants , sold a 49 percent stake
in its Spanish and Italian solar parks to  Munich Re  and KKR &
Co. as it seeks funds for global expansion.  Munich Re, the world’s largest reinsurer, and the New York-
based private-equity firm KKR bought into 42 operating parks
with a total capacity of 168 megawatts, Madrid’s T-Solar said
today in a statement. Munich Re acquired 37 percent through its
MEAG Munich Ergo AssetManagement GmbH unit and KKR got 12
percent, Josef Wild, a MEAG spokesman, said by phone, declining
to disclose the price. Both have an option to buy future plants.  T-Solar, a unit of Spanish builder Grupo Isolux Corsan SA,
is seeking funds as it plans to triple solar capacity to 500
megawatts by 2014. The company installed most of its plants in
 Spain  in 2007 and 2008, driven by subsidies for solar energy,
before the government last year reduced the hours that many
plants could earn above-market rates for their power.  T-Solar has spent 1.07 billion euros ($1.5 billion) on its
operating assets, according to today’s statement. Handing stakes
to Munich Re and KKR “enables us to expand our presence in the
solar photovoltaic sector,” Juan Laso, T-Solar’s chief
executive officer, said in the statement. Spokesmen for Isolux
and T-Solar didn’t respond to calls.  Munich Re Investment  Munich Re plans to invest 2.5 billion euros “relatively
quickly” into renewable-energy and technology assets that
promise “low risk and attractive returns,” Wild said. In
December, MEAG kicked off the spending program with a “low
three-digit million” investment in 40  wind turbines  in Germany
with a total output of 73 megawatts.  For KKR, the acquisition is its second renewable-energy
investment in  Europe  in just over a month. At the start of June,
KKR formed a partnership with Italy’s Sorgenia SpA to develop
wind-power projects in  France .  KKR bought into T-Solar because renewable energy is “one
of the most promising areas of infrastructure,” Jesus Olmos,
European head of the company’s infrastructure business, said in
the statement. “The Spanish renewables sector is currently an
attractive investment destination,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marc Roca in  London  at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at
 snicola2@bloomberg.net  or.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 