-- 
Lupin Said to Consider Sale of Indian Drugs Unit; Deal May Reap $1 Billion

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 
2011-07-18T12:09:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/lupin-considers-selling-indian-pharmaceutical-unit.html
Lupin Ltd. (LPC) , the world’s largest
maker of drugs to fight tuberculosis, is considering selling its
unit that markets medicines in India, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  Founding shareholders who own a combined 47 percent of the
Mumbai-based company have started the process of finding a buyer
for the operations, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private. The Indian
business may be worth at least $1 billion, one person said.  Selling the Indian medicines unit, which accounted for 32
percent of Lupin’s 57.1 billion rupees ($1.3 billion) of revenue
in the year ended March 31, may help finance investments in more
profitable markets overseas. Lupin is the fifth-largest supplier
of generic drugs in the U.S. based on prescriptions and U.S.
sales jumped 27 percent to 20.5 billion rupees last year.  Lupin said it has no plans to sell its domestic operations.
“This is baseless and there is no such activity going on,” the
company said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News on July 15.  The company’s shares fell 1 percent to 479.25 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai after gaining as much as 1.1 percent
earlier in the day. The shares lost 0.4 percent after adjusting
for a dividend payment due on Aug. 26.   India ’s pharmaceuticals market will expand by about 14.5
percent annually to reach $55 billion by 2020 from $12.6 billion
in 2009, according to McKinsey & Co.  By the start of the next decade, India’s drug sales will be
the largest after the U.S.,  Japan  and  China , helped by rising
household incomes,  population growth , improved health insurance
coverage and increased prevalence of diseases such as cancer and
diabetes, according to McKinsey.  Higher Valuations  Sales at Lupin’s domestic formulations unit increased 17
percent to 15.5 billion rupees in the year ended March 31. The
business has focused more on treatments for chronic diseases
over the past five years and less on acute conditions, Monica Joshi, a health care analyst with Avendus Securities Pte, wrote
in a July 1 report.  If the sale does take place, the company should get at
least 8 or 9 times the sales of its Indian unit, Hemant Bakhru,
an analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets said in an interview
today. “Lupin has a fairly strong domestic business, so I don’t
see any reason why they should sell at a lower price.”  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. (PIHC)  sold its branded generic-drug unit
in India to  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  for $3.72 billion last year.
That acquisition valued the unit at nine times the annual sales,
chairman  Ajay Piramal  said in May 2010. International
pharmaceutical companies have made $11.9 billion of acquisitions
in the last five years in India, according to Bloomberg data.  India Share  Lupin was founded in 1968 by Chairman Desh Bandhu Gupta, a
billionaire with a Master’s degree in chemistry. Lupin had about
4,000 medical sales representatives in the domestic market,
according to its 2011 annual report. Gupta and his family
control 46.96 percent of the company.  Lupin, India’s fourth-largest drugmaker by revenue, has a 3
percent share of the domestic market, Nomura Financial Advisory
and Securities (India) Pte. said last month, making it the 6th
largest pharmaceutical supplier in India by value. Cipla Ltd.
had the biggest share of the local market, with 5 percent.  Eight of Lupin’s nine manufacturing facilities are in India
-- Goa, Tarapur, Ankleshwar, Jammu, Mandideep, Indore,
Aurangabad and Vadodara. The ninth is in Sanda, Japan. Three of
the plants have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for exporting drugs to the country, according to
the company’s website.  Medicines to fight tuberculosis and other bacterial
infections accounted for 26 percent of Lupin’s domestic
formulation sales, according to the company’s annual report. It
also makes gynecological medicines, drugs to treat  heart
disease , diabetes and asthma.  Tonact, a generic form of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, diabetes
medicine Gluconorm and blood-pressure pill Ramistar are Lupin’s
top-sellers in the domestic market, according to Nomura.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  