-- 
Murdoch Stock Loss Nears $1 Billion in Hacking

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-18T21:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/murdoch-stock-loss-nears-1-billion-in-hacking.html
Rupert Murdoch’s family has lost
almost $1 billion from the drop in  News Corp. (NWSA)  stock since the
phone-hacking scandal erupted into the headlines and led to the
arrest of the company’s top U.K. newspaper executive.  The value of the family’s News Corp. holdings fell to about
$4.96 billion today in U.S. trading, from almost $6 billion at
the July 1 close, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
before reports that News of the World had hacked into the
voicemail messages of murdered U.K. teen Milly Dowler.  The loss of $977 million represents a drop of 16 percent,
highlighting the financial consequences for the Murdoch family.
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief of Murdoch’s U.K. newspapers,
resigned last week and was arrested by police yesterday. At
stock’s lowest today, the decline was $1.03 billion.  The fallout has also touched high-level politicians and
police officials in Britain. Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Paul Stephenson resigned yesterday because of “accusations”
about police links to  News Corp. (NWS) ’s U.K. unit and its hiring of a
former journalist at the tabloid as a consultant. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  cut short a trip to  Africa  to prepare for a
statement to Parliament on July 20.  Police are probing allegations of widespread hacking of
crime victims, dead soldiers, politicians, celebrities and
royal-family members at the now-defunct News of the World. They
are also investigating allegations of police bribery.  Brooks, Rupert Murdoch, who is chairman and chief executive
officer of the New York-based company, and  James Murdoch , who is
deputy chief operating officer and chairman of News
International were scheduled to appear before parliament to
respond to questions.  Trust Holdings  Standard & Poor’s today put News Corp. debt on
“creditwatch with negative implications,” because of risk
associated with the investigation.  “The U.K. legal process has expanded and pressure from
U.S. lawmakers has increased for an FBI probe” of possible
phone hacking in the U.S., S&P said in a statement.  News Corp. Class B voting shares fell 69 cents, or 4.3
percent, to $15.40 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, after dropping to $15.23 earlier. The Class A
nonvoting shares declined 68 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $14.97,
above the intraday low of $14.76.  Through a family trust, the Murdochs own 306.6 million
shares, or 38.4 percent, of News Corp.’s Class B voting stock,
according to the company’s proxy statement. Including other
family holdings,  Rupert Murdoch  controls 39.7 percent of the
voting power, filings show.  Collectively, Rupert Murdoch, his sons James and Lachlan
and the trust hold 5 million shares of the Class A nonvoting
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  