-- 
Turkish Lira Sinks to Lowest Level in Two Years on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-07-18T15:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/turkish-lira-heads-for-lowest-level-in-two-years-on-european-debt-concern.html
The lira depreciated to the lowest
in more than two years against the dollar as  Europe ’s credit
crisis and lack of progress in talks on raising the U.S. debt
ceiling damped investor appetite for emerging-market assets.  Turkey ’s currency dropped as much as 1.2 percent to 1.6717
per dollar, its weakest level since April 2009. It traded 0.8
percent lower at 1.6642 as of 5:41 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira
weakened for a seventh day against the euro-dollar basket, the
longest losing streak since June. Bond yields rose, and stocks
fell for a third day.  European leaders are holding a special summit this week as
they seek to contain the region’s debt crisis, after eight of
the region’s banks failed stress tests. In the U.S., President
Barack Obama is trying to get lawmakers in both parties to agree
on a deficit-cutting deal as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the
U.S. debt ceiling looms.  “The absence of any steps regarding the euro-zone debt
crisis and the U.S. debt ceiling is keeping the markets under
pressure,” Fatih Keresteci, a strategist at the Turkish unit of
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a note to clients.  The Swiss franc and yen gained against most of their major
counterparts on demand for so-called safe-haven assets. Gold
rose to a record above $1,600 an ounce as investors sought the
metal as a protection of wealth. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index, a global benchmark equity gauge, slipped 0.9 percent.  Risk Aversion   Concern over sovereign debt among investors “is creating
some unease which has manifested in a rise in risk aversion” in
the near term, Tradition Analytics said in a note.  Two-year benchmark bond yields were at 8.90 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, higher than on July 15 and the
first increase in four days, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index
showed.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  retreated 1 percent to
62,024.97.  Offers to sell the dollar in the central bank’s daily
auction fell to $59 million today, the lowest level this year,
as domestic lenders hoarded the U.S. currency, the central
bank’s  data  showed. The central bank buys $30 million in daily
auctions after cutting purchases from $40 million on June 29
citing slower capital inflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  