-- 
Venezuela to Sell at Least $3 Billion of Dollar-Denominated Debt This Year

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-18T20:03:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/venezuela-to-sell-at-least-3-billion-of-dollar-denominated-debt-this-year.html
Venezuela  will sell at least $3
billion of dollar-denominated bonds in the local market this
year to take advantage of declining borrowing costs, a
government official said.  The government may begin selling the bonds as soon as next
month, said the official, who is involved in the transaction and
asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter. He declined to comment on the maturity
and interest rates the bonds would offer. Venezuela last sold
dollar debt in August, when it issued $3 billion of 12.75
percent notes due in 2022.  The dollar debt offering forms part of a plan to raise as
much as 45 billion bolivars ($10.5 billion) to help finance
President  Hugo Chavez ’s programs to build homes, boost
agricultural production and create jobs. The terms of the
additional debt plan, which was denominated in bolivars when
published in the Official Gazette last week, doesn’t restrict
the sale of part of it in dollars, the official said.  Venezuelan bonds have rallied since the announcement last
month that Chavez was operated on to remove a cancerous tumor in
Cuba, which fueled speculation his health problems may bolster
the opposition ahead of 2012 presidential elections and lead to
a reversal of his socialist economic policies.  ‘Significant Rally’  “These new supply concerns will remain a constraint, but
the dominating issue is whether Chavez will be healthy enough to
run next year,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a phone interview.
“The prospect of Chavez not being there after next year and
with no successor with his charisma and ability to carry on
could trigger a significant rally in the bonds.”  An official at the  Finance Ministry  didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment on the bond sale.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan
 government bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries has fallen 113 basis
points, or 1.13 percentage points, to 1,074 basis points since
June 16, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBI+ index.  The yield on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 rose 5 basis points to 13.03 percent today at
3:30 p.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price fell 0.28 cents on the dollar to 74.75 cents.  Selling Debt  The government has been selling debt denominated in U.S.
currency over the past eight years to tap into demand for
dollar-based securities from Venezuelans locked out of the
currency market by Chavez’s foreign exchange controls. Local
investors can obtain dollars by selling the bonds for cash in
international markets.  The government will design the bond so that the implicit
rate which locals pay after buying the bonds locally and selling
them abroad isn’t weaker than 5.3 bolivars per dollar, the
official said.  That puts the  exchange rate  in line with the central bank’s
 currency market  that the government created last year after
shuttering an unregulated market run by brokerages. The
government also pegs the bolivar at 4.3 for imports deemed
essential.  Venezuela won’t weaken the 5.3 central  bank rate  in the
“short term,” the government official said today.  “Unless oil takes a big tumble, I don’t see them devaluing
ahead of the election period,” RBC’s Biszko said. “This is the
mechanism they have to supply dollars, so they have to keep the
system going and to make that happen they have to continue
servicing the debt.”  The central bank continues to buy back bonds in the
secondary market to bolster prices and to resell the securities
through its Sitme currency market, the official said. The bank
is still negotiating the repayment of a loan given to state  oil
company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA which may involve the
reopening of corporate bonds due in 2022, he said.  PDVSA said on June 30 that it reopened bonds due in 2013
for $1.78 billion in a private placement with the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  