-- 
Brazil Joins Argentina on Copa America Sidelines as Run of Upsets Extends

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-18T03:31:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/venezuela-paraguay-set-up-copa-america-soccer-semifinal-as-brazil-exits.html
Venezuela  beat Chile 2-1 to complete
a weekend of quarterfinal upsets at soccer’s Copa America as
defending champion  Brazil  joined tournament host  Argentina  in
exiting after a penalty shootout.  Gabriel Cichero scored the winning goal with 10 minutes
left at San Juan’s Estadio del Bicentenario last night to send
Venezuela, known as the Vinotinto, to its first semifinal in 15
attempts. Chile’s Humberto Suazo had matched Oswaldo
Vizcarrondo’s first-half header with a 70th-minute strike.  “Glory to the brave people!!! Let’s pay supreme tribute to
our glorious Vinotinto boys!!” Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
said on his  Twitter  feed. “Long live Venezuela!! We will win
and conquer!!”  Venezuela set up a final four matchup at  South America ’s
continental championship with Paraguay, which earlier ousted
Brazil 2-0 on penalties. The Brazilians missed all four of their
penalty attempts following a scoreless draw in  La Plata .  Brazil, which had been seeking its fifth title in the past
six editions, joined Argentina in going out in the
quarterfinals. It’s the second time in 43 Copa Americas that
neither Brazil nor Argentina made the semifinals of a tournament
in which at least one of them took part.  “You need more than will to win matches, you need goals,”
Brazil coach Mano Menzes told the tournament’s official website.
“All Brazil lacked was goals,”  Of the region’s top four teams in the FIFA world rankings,
only  18th-ranked   Uruguay  made the semifinals.  World Cup  Semifinalist  Uruguay, which finished fourth at last year’s World Cup,
faces Peru in the first semifinal tomorrow in La Plata as it
tries to win a 15th continental championship to move one ahead
of the record 14 titles it shares with Argentina.  Manchester City striker Carlos Tevez missed the only
penalty two days ago as Uruguay beat Argentina 5-4 in their
shootout following a 1-1 draw after extra time.  Brazil’s Elano, Thiago Silva, Andre Santos and Fred all
failed to score from 12 yards in yesterday’s shootout against
Paraguay, for whom Marcelo Estigarribia and Christian Riveros
converted. The match was tied 0-0 after extra time and both
teams finished with 10 men following a 13th-minute fracas.  “Brazil dominated for almost the entire match,”  Paraguay 
goalkeeper Justo Villar told the Copa America website. “We had
to stay back and run a lot. Penalties are a lottery, which we
took well and they failed with theirs.”  Two-time champion Paraguay, which won its most recent title
in 1979, takes on first-time semifinalist Venezuela on July 20
in Mendoza. The final is scheduled July 24 in  Buenos Aires .  “We are getting stronger all the time,” Venezuela
goalkeeper Renny Vega said in a televised interview. “I just
hope we can get to the final now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  