-- 
Veterans’ Dementia Risk Linked to Combat Head Injury, Study Says

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-07-18T05:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/veterans-dementia-risk-linked-to-combat-head-injury-study-says.html
Head injuries may more than double
the risk of  dementia  in military veterans, a study found.  The dementia risk was 15.3 percent among U.S. veterans who
had sustained a traumatic brain injury, compared with 6.8
percent for those who didn’t suffer head trauma, over a seven-
year period. The risk was significant for all forms of  traumatic
brain injury , or TBI, according to researchers, who reviewed
medical records of 281,540 veterans ages 55 and older.  The findings, to be presented at the  Alzheimer’s
Association International Conference  in Paris today, highlight
another potential hazard of war. Traumatic brain injury is a
“signature wound” of the conflicts in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,
accounting for 22 percent of casualties overall and 59 percent
of blast-related injuries, said Kristine Yaffe, director of the
Memory Disorders Program at the  San Francisco  Veterans Affairs
Medical Center and a professor of psychiatry at the University
of  California , San Francisco, who led the research.  “This issue is important because TBI is very common,”
Yaffe said in a statement. “The data suggest that TBI in older
veterans may predispose them toward development of symptomatic
dementia. And they raise concern about the potential long-term
consequences of TBI in younger veterans.”  Soldiers increasingly suffer from serious head injuries as
a result of changes in warfare technology, said William Thies,
chief medical and scientific officer of the  Alzheimer’s
Association .  ‘Pretty Conclusive’  “It’s pretty conclusive that there is an association
between serious head injury and dementia,” Thies said in an
interview. “What we can anticipate is that in all those
soldiers coming back from Iraq and Afghanistan, 20 years from
now we are going to see a big increase in the amount of
Alzheimer’s that’s going to develop.”  The incidence of dementia in younger soldiers means
patients may live longer with the memory-robbing illness.  “If they have certain kinds of behavioral problems because
they are younger and more functional they will actually become
more dangerous patients to handle,” Thies said.  More than 5 million Americans have  Alzheimer’s disease ,
which disrupts memory, learning and mental function, according
to the Alzheimer’s Association. By 2050, as many as 16 million
Americans will have the disease, said the advocacy organization,
which is based in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  