-- 
Virgin Names New Joint CEOs; Promises “Large Transaction”

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-18T10:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/virgin-names-new-joint-ceos-promises-large-transaction-.html
Virgin Group, the travel and leisure
company founded by  Richard Branson  that offers private space
travel, named David Baxby and Josh Bayliss co-chief executive
officers from the end of 2011.  Baxby, 37, currently CEO of Virgin Asia-Pacific and head of
Aviation, and Bayliss, 38, the company’s General Counsel, will
replace Stephen Murphy. who will step down at the end of the
year, the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “The key now is to expand internationally and bring in
partners for transactions,” Nick Fox, company spokesman, said
in a telephone interview. “There will be a number of large
transactions over the next few years,” Fox said, adding that a
priority for the New Zealand-born Bayliss and former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive Baxby will be to seek strategic
partners.  Fox cited Virgin’s partnership with  Wilbur Ross , CEO of WL
Ross & Co. LLC, who, who paid 100 million pounds ($161 million)
to take a 21 percent stake in Virgin Money and committed as much
as 500 million pounds to bolster its bid to buy Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc’s U.K. branch network last year, as the model for
future purchases.  Virgin plans to expand its Asia-Pacific and Latin American
operations, its intended Virgin Hotels chain and Virgin Galactic
businesses in the U.S., and its U.K. banking arm, Virgin Money,
Fox said. Expanding Virgin Money by buying taxpayer-owned bank
Northern Rock Plc and a network of 600 Lloyds Banking Group Plc
branches is a “key priority,” Fox said.  “With such a lot to do, in such a big world, having two
heads will help us cover the ground,” Fox said of Bayliss and
Baxby. The co-CEOs will head a new senior partnership along with
two other executives, according to the statement.  Murphy, 54, joined Virgin as group finance director in
1993. Chief Financial Officer Mark Poole, who will also stand
down at the end of the year, has not yet been replaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Sharples at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net  