-- 
WebMD Shares Post Biggest Drop Ever After Company Reduces 2011 Forecast

-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-18T20:29:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/webmd-plunges-most-since-2005-after-company-lowers-2011-forecast.html
WebMD Health Corp. (WBMD)  plunged the most
ever after the medical-information company reduced its 2011
forecast for profit and sales, citing an anticipated decline in
advertising revenue.  The shares fell $14, or 30 percent, to $32.48 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Today’s drop is the
biggest since the company sold shares to the public in September
2005. The shares closed as high as $58.17 on May 2.  Advertising revenue in the second half will be reduced by
unexpected delays or cancellations of promotions from several
consumer-product companies, New York-based WebMD said in a
statement today. Ads previously sold to drugmakers and consumer
companies are going through extended legal and regulatory
reviews, leading to unanticipated lags for introducing the
promotions on WebMD’s site.  “When the indication is that there are multiple issues
with respect to cancellations or delays that obviously raises a
red flag,” said  Scott Kessler , an equity analyst with  Standard
& Poor’s , in an interview. “These are not necessarily very
short term issues.”  The company said 2011 revenue will be $580 million to $600
million, down from a May projection of $610 million to $640
million. Income from continuing operations will be $71 million
to $80 million, down from a previous forecast of $79.8 million
to $91.8 million.  More Users  WebMD’s site attracted an average of 104.8 million users a
month and 2.17 billion total page views during the second
quarter, the company said today, increases of 30 percent and 24
percent, respectively, from a year ago.  “While I am disappointed in our growth in the back half of
this year, I am confident that the long term opportunity for
WebMD is substantial,” Chief Executive Officer Wayne Gattinella
said in the statement.  The company will be introducing new services designed to
streamline the internal approval process for drug ads, he said,
without providing additional detail.  “The second-half revenue outlook is worse than any WebMD
saw during the recession,” said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst with
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in  San Francisco , in a report
today. “Given certain softness in biopharmaceutical advertising
and concerns around online direct-to-consumer and direct-to-
physician marketing, the company could experience certain
challenges to grow its revenue base.”  -- Editors: Lisa Rapaport, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  