-- 
West Africa Pledges Security Boost in Region Before Liberia’s October Vote

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   S e s a y
-- 
2011-07-18T13:12:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/west-africa-pledges-security-boost-in-region-before-liberia-s-october-vote.html
The West African nations of Liberia,
 Sierra Leone ,  Ivory Coast  and Guinea pledged to increase
security in the region before Liberia holds a presidential
election in October.  The countries of the Mano River Union, named for the water
body that runs between Sierra Leone and Liberia, will provide
security forces and helicopters to monitor the frontier between
Liberia and Ivory Coast, according to a statement handed to
reporters in Monrovia yesterday.  “The failure of one of us to have a strong security
network affects all of us,” said Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, who is seeking a second term in office.  Mercenaries from Liberia have been blamed for some of the
violence that followed Ivory Coast’s disputed November election.
The return of those fighters back to Liberia could destabilize
the country before its own vote, James Victor Gbeho, president
of the Economic Community of West African States, said on June
8.  Ivorian President  Alassane Ouattara  said his country has
made “substantial progress” in the western region, near its
border with Liberia. “We want to put behind us problems that
affect the country,” he told reporters in Monrovia.  As many as 3,000 people were killed in 4 1/2 months of
violence that followed the Ivory Coast election, according to
the  International Criminal Court , which is investigating alleged
crimes committed during the conflict.  The Mano River leaders, including Guinea’s  Alpha Conde  and
Sierra Leone’s Ernest Bai Koroma, also discussed infrastructure
issues including seeking funds for roads and developing the West
Africa Power Pool to link utility companies and share
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Sesay in Monrovia via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 