-- 
WexTrust’s Shereshevsky Gets 21-Year Prison Term for Fraud

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-19T00:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/wextrust-s-shereshevsky-sentenced-to-21-years-in-9-2-million-ponzi-scheme.html
WexTrust Capital LLC co-founder
Joseph Shereshevsky was sentenced to 21 years and 10 months in
prison after pleading guilty to defrauding victims of at least
$9.2 million as part of a  Ponzi scheme .  Shereshevsky, 54, and WexTrust co-founder Steven Byers were
charged in 2008 with lying to investors in their now-collapsed
real estate fund. Many of their victims were members of the
Orthodox Jewish community. The penalty was at the top of the
range suggested by federal guidelines. Byers was sentenced to
more than 13 years in April.  “Mr. Shereshevsky very much had a controlling role in this
criminal enterprise,” U.S. Circuit Judge Denny Chin said in a
hearing today in  Manhattan . “Although he purports to be a
religious man, he preyed on his own community.”  Shereshevsky, the former chief operating officer of
Chicago-based WexTrust, pleaded guilty to mail fraud, conspiracy
and  securities fraud  in February. Chin said today that victims
may have lost more than $20 million.  Prosecutors claimed Byers and Shereshevsky told investors
they planned to buy residential and commercial properties in
 Illinois ,  North Carolina ,  Wisconsin , New York and elsewhere.
Instead, they paid investor returns and financed unrelated
projects, the government said.  Real Estate  WexTrust had at least 1,100 investors in the U.S. and
abroad, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
related lawsuit. WexTrust owned at least 120 entities formed to
acquire real-estate interests and conducted at least 60 private
placements since 2005, the SEC said. Earlier in the case the
government valued the fraud at $255 million.  A private placement is a negotiated sale in which
securities are sold directly to investors rather than through a
public offering. In a Ponzi scheme, money from new investors is
used to pay existing ones.  Mark Harris, a lawyer for Shereshevsky, argued for a
10-year sentence, telling Chin about his client’s charitable
activities and poor health. Prosecutors urged Chin to sentence
Shereshevsky within the guideline range of 210 to 262 months
cited by both sides in a plea agreement.  During the hearing, Chin read from some of the 80 letters
the court received from victims of the WexTrust fraud, which
told of lost retirement nest eggs and college funds.  “I destroyed you and I am sorry,” Shereshevsky said,
addressing the victims in a statement to the court.  Chin continues to preside over the criminal case and a
related civil case, after being confirmed last year to the
federal appeals court in  New York . In 2009, Chin sentenced
 Bernard Madoff  to 150 years in prison for orchestrating the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Byers, 08-cr-1092, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  