-- 
Zoellick Criticizes Obama’s ‘Missed Opportunity’ on Trade Talks

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-07-18T23:43:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-18/zoellick-criticizes-obama-s-missed-opportunity-on-trade-talks.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
criticized President Barack Obama’s administration for failing
to provide leadership in the  Doha round  of trade talks and
adopting a defensive stance that helped stall discussions.  Speaking at the  World Trade Organization  in Geneva
yesterday, Zoellick said trade negotiators from “key” rich and
developing economies fell into “tactical ploys,” wasting the
chance of an ambitious agreement. He questioned what the U.S.
gained with its negotiating tactics, including resistance to
cuts in farm subsidies which are now bound to happen because of
efforts to narrow the  budget deficit .  “It’s a missed opportunity for a pro-growth strategy at a
time when the U.S. -- and the world -- could use one,”
Zoellick, a former U.S. trade representative under President
 George W. Bush , said in  prepared remarks .  U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said at a meeting of the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group in May that the Doha
round needs a new approach after a decade of unsuccessful
attempts to bridge gaps among 153 nations. His address was the
most emphatic statement by the Obama administration that the
long-running talks are foundering.  “If U.S. negotiators wait for the U.S. Congress to tell
them it’s OK to close a deal, they’ll wait for a long time,”
Zoellick said, adding that “Congress thinks that the executive
branch is supposed to carry that load.”  ‘Up or Down’  “And Congress knows deals, especially big ones like Doha,
are sold as binary choices -- up or down -- for the
international trading system or against,” he said.  Zoellick, whose term at the  World Bank  ends in a year, said
such a defensive posture had already started “late in the  Bush
administration , even though President Bush pushed for a deal, so
the fault is bipartisan.” He added that the U.S. didn’t bear
the sole responsibility for the Doha failure.  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the U.S. trade
representative’s office, defended the Obama administration’s
role in Doha. The round of talks are named for the city in Qatar
where they began in 2001.  “For more than two years, the Obama administration has
been the chief proponent of greater ambition in the Doha
Round,” Guthrie said. “Unfortunately, in part because of the
structure of the negotiations, there has been little appetite
for that sort of ambition by other major trading partners.”  The administration would “continue to work in the weeks
and months ahead to explore how best to strengthen the
multilateral trading system,” Guthrie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  