-- 
‘Beaten Down’ India Banking Stocks May Rebound, Kedia Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-07T01:27:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/-beaten-down-india-banking-stocks-may-rebound-kedia-says.html
Raghvendra Kedia, vice-president of
sales at Systematix Shares and Securities Ltd., comments on the
outlook for Indian stocks. Kedia spoke on phone from Mumbai.  On  Swiss Franc  exchange-rate cap:  “For  India  there is no impact in the development because
Indian companies do not have much exposure to the Swiss Franc.
Infosys and Tata Consultancy Services do have exposure, but this
will be insignificant to the broader revenue stream.”  On markets:  “There is a Reserve Bank of India policy meet on Sept. 16,
so markets are very apprehensive right now, especially on
banking and interest-rate-sensitive stocks. Investors are
waiting for the verdict of the policy meet before taking
positions. U.S. economic data has not been impressive. Investors
are waiting for Obama’s speech to find out how the U.S. will
phase out of slowing growth and whether there will be QE3.”  On investments:  “Investors should refrain from buying till some certainty
emerges in markets. Let some cues come from the U.S. markets and
wait for the  Reserve Bank  of India’s policy meet. It might bring
better levels to enter markets. In this policy meet, the way the
10-year paper is behaving, it doesn’t look like there would be a
policy rate hike.  “Investors should look at banking stocks, as this sector
has been beaten down massively in the last six weeks, so we
would expect a trading bounce. Investors should avoid metals and
oil; metals because they are prone to volatility in the European
markets.”  On  interest rates :  “There should be no change in rates. Since March 2010
there have already been 11 hikes in less than 18 months. The
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  has also said the  Reserve Bank
of India  will not go so aggressive on policy tightening. So in
the backdrop of the statement and the hikes, this is the peak of
the interest-rate cycle. There may be a U-turn in early 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  