-- 
‘Helicopter Ben’ May Deter Lending With Lower Rates, Gross Says

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 
2011-09-07T02:33:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/-helicopter-ben-may-deter-lending-with-lower-rates-policies-gross-says.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  risks causing a decline in longer-term lending by
holding down benchmark  interest rates ,  Bill Gross , who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said in an opinion piece on the Financial Times website.  If the Fed seeks to drive down longer-maturity yields, as
some are anticipating, then the central bank may “destroy
leverage and credit creation in the process,” Gross wrote in
the  piece , which was titled “‘Helicopter Ben’ Risks Destroying
Credit Creation.” The Fed on Aug. 9 pledged to keep the
benchmark rate near zero until at least mid-2013.  “Borrowing short-term at a near risk-free rate and lending
at a longer and riskier yield has been the basis of modern-day
finance,” Gross wrote. “The further out the Fed moves the zero
bound towards a system-wide average maturity of seven to eight
years the more credit destruction occurs.”  The Fed may decide at its Sept. 20-21 meeting to replace
short-term  Treasury securities  in its portfolio with long-term
bonds in a bid to lower rates on everything from mortgages to
car loans, according to economists at Wells Fargo & Co., T. Rowe
Price Associates Inc., Barclay’s Capital Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Bernanke is scheduled to speak on the U.S. economic
outlook tomorrow in  Minneapolis .  The Treasury 10-year note yield slid yesterday to a record
1.9066 percent. It rose to 2 percent as of 10:47 a.m. in  Tokyo .  The extra yield investors demand to buy 10-year notes
instead of 2-year debt narrowed yesterday to the least since
March 2009. The gap was at 1.80 percentage points today after
touching 1.71 percentage points yesterday.  Bernanke, in an Aug. 26 speech to an economic conference at
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, said the central bank has a “range of
tools that could be used to provide additional monetary
stimulus.” The costs and benefits of those tools would be
debated more fully at the Fed’s Sept. 20-21 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  