-- 
Milberg Founder Weiss Seeks Dismissal of Madoff Trustee Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T17:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/madoff-trustee-asks-court-to-strike-request-for-rehearing-1-.html
Melvyn Weiss, the disbarred co-
founding partner of the law firm Milberg LLP, said he will seek
dismissal of a lawsuit by the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff’s
defunct firm that demands the return of money withdrawn from the
 Ponzi scheme  over 15 years.  “The trustee’s claims violate the statutory ‘look back’
periods limiting avoidance to six years prior to the filing date
for state law,” Weiss said yesterday in a filing in U.S.
District Court in  Manhattan .  Trustee Irving Picard’s lawsuit last year against Weiss and
his family never alleged they had actual knowledge of the fraud,
according to Weiss. That sets it apart from 19 suits in which
Picard claimed defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s
conduct and sought to recoup funds withdrawn beyond the six-year
limit, he said.  Weiss asked the judge to remove the case from  bankruptcy
court , saying it raised a “novel issue” and federal law
questions that require a district judge’s ruling.  “The trustee and his counsel are confident in their claims
and look forward to arguing this matter in whichever court the
case is eventually heard,” Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Weiss and ex-partners William Lerach, David Bershad and
Steven Schulman all pleaded guilty to criminal charges in
connection with paying firm clients to file securities fraud
suits against companies. The four, who were partners in the
former firm Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP, were
disbarred and served prison sentences.  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in  North Carolina ,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud.  The case is Picard v. M&B Weiss Family Limited Partnership,
10-04241,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 