-- 
Madonna, Clooney, U2 Featured at Star-Studded Toronto Festival

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/madonna-clooney-u2-featured-at-star-studded-toronto-festival.html
Madonna directs a film inspired by
the romance between King Edward VIII and American divorcee
Wallis Simpson.  George Clooney  directs and co-stars in a political
thriller,  Brad Pitt  plays an innovative baseball general manager
and rock legends U2, Pearl Jam and Neil Young headline a stellar
list of music documentaries.  Those are among the highlights of this year’s  Toronto
International Film Festival , which opens tomorrow with the U2
movie “From the Sky Down.”  North America ’s largest film festival, which runs through
Sept. 18, will screen 336 films from 65 countries. They range in
length from one-minute shorts to the 15-hour epic, “The Story
of Film: An Odyssey.”  “The international scope and diversity of voices ... are
impressive and inspiring,” Piers Handling, the festival’s
director and chief executive officer, said in a statement.  Madonna’s “W.E.,” her second directing effort, is a time-
jumping film centering on two women involved in complicated
romances.  Abbie Cornish plays an unhappily married present-day New
Yorker who obsesses about the famous love affair between Simpson
(Andrea Riseborough) and Edward (James D’Arcy), who abdicated
his throne in 1936 to marry the American divorcee.  Cornish’s character falls in love with a Russian security
guard while discovering that the royal marriage she idealizes
wasn’t as idyllic as she thought.  Clooney’s Thriller  Clooney’s “The Ides of March” centers on a scandal that
threatens to derail a presidential candidate’s bid for the White
House.  Ryan Gosling , Paul Giamatti and Philip Seymour Hoffman
round out the heavyweight cast.  Clooney also stars in “The Descendants,” Alexander Payne’s dramedy about a neglectful father forced to re-examine
his life after his wife is left comatose by a boating accident
in  Hawaii .  In “Moneyball,” based on  Michael Lewis ’s best-seller,
Pitt plays Oakland GM Billy Beane, whose use of a new
statistical formula for evaluating players helps the Athletics
compete with much richer teams. The film is directed by Bennett
Miller, whose “Capote” won an Oscar for Hoffman.  Crowe, Demme  The three big music documentaries were all made by
prominent directors. “From the Sky Down” was directed by Davis Guggenheim, who won an Oscar for “An Inconvenient Truth.”
Jonathan Demme presents “Neil Young Journeys” and Cameron Crowe is debuting “Pearl Jam Twenty.”  Ralph Fiennes  makes his directing debut with
“Coriolanus,” an adaptation of Shakespeare’s play about an
exiled Roman general who seeks revenge against the city. Fiennes
plays the title character and Gerard Butler is the arch-enemy
who becomes his ally.  Francis Ford Coppola and William Friedkin, filmmakers whose
careers peaked in the 1970s, are coming to town with new crime
dramas.  Coppola’s “Twixt” stars Val Kilmer as a horror writer who
gets involved in a murder mystery during a book tour. Bruce Dern
plays a small-town sheriff,  Elle Fanning  is a ghost and Ben Chaplin appears as Edgar Allan Poe. In case that’s not weird
enough for you, Tom Waits narrates.  “Killer Joe,” Friedkin’s first feature in five years, is
about a young drug dealer (Emile Hirsch) who hires a hit man
( Matthew McConaughey ) to kill his mother for her insurance
money.  De Niro, Fonda  Other notable directors at the festival include Bruce
Beresford (“Peace, Love, & Misunderstanding), David Cronenberg
(“A Dangerous Method”), Lars von Trier (“Melancholia”) and
Pedro Almodovar (“The Skin I Live In”).  Among the Oscar-winning actors with Toronto films are
 Robert De Niro  (“Killer Elite”), Geoffrey Rush (“The Eye of
the Storm”), Nicolas Cage (“Trespass”) and  Anthony Hopkins 
(“360”). Oscar-winning actresses include Jane Fonda (“Peace,
Love, & Misunderstanding”), Vanessa Redgrave (“Anonymous”),
Nicole Kidman (“Trespass”) and Tilda Swinton (“We Need to
Talk About Kevin”).  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 