-- 
Advent Hires Weil Gotshal’s James Westra as Chief Legal Officer

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-09-07T14:50:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/advent-hires-weil-gotshal-s-james-westra-as-chief-legal-officer.html
Advent International Corp., the
private-equity firm whose investments have included Lululemon
Athletica Inc. and WorldPay Ltd., hired James Westra as its
chief legal officer.  Westra, 60, who will be a managing director of Advent, will
join the firm from Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, where he was co-
head of its private-equity group and the managing partner of the
law firm’s Boston office, Advent said today in a statement.  Advent, founded in 1984, has expanded to employ more than
170 investors in offices in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and  Latin
America . Part of that expansion also involved hiring senior
executives like Eileen Sivolella, who joined the Boston-based
firm from Bain Capital LLC in 2009 as Advent’s chief financial
officer, and former Carlyle Group managing director Bob Brown,
who Advent hired last year to manage its relationships with
investors.  “We’ve been in a significant growth mode,” David Mussafer, managing partner of Advent, said in a telephone
interview. “As the organization from the investment side has
grown, we’ve looked to ensure that the administrative side keeps
pace.”  Westra earned a bachelor’s degree from  Harvard University 
in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and a law degree from  Boston
University . He joined  Weil Gotshal  in 2002 and opened the firm’s
Boston office after serving as a partner at Hutchins Wheeler &
Dittmar.  Westra has worked with private-equity clients including
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Berkshire Partners, according to
the statement.  WorldPay Deal  He advised Advent on acquisitions including its 2009
investment in Vantiv, the processing unit of Fifth Third
Bancorp, and the 2010 acquisition of credit-card processor
WorldPay. Mussafer said Westra will continue to work on deals at
Advent, in addition to his administrative duties.  “He brings a wealth of experience,” Mussafer said. “He’s
been a great adviser to us and we will benefit from the added
perspective he’ll gain sitting around the table with us.”  Advent bought a stake in yoga- and athletic-clothing
retailer Lululemon in 2005. The company went public in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  