-- 
Lagarde Uses IMF Role to Prod Europeans to End Debt Haggling

-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/lagarde-atop-imf-prods-europeans-to-end-their-haggling-over-sovereign-debt.html
A week after becoming the only woman
in history to take charge at the  International Monetary Fund ,
 Christine Lagarde  notched another milestone: she nominated Zhu Min, a former deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China, as
a deputy. Zhu is the first Chinese deputy managing director
since the fund’s founding in 1945.  Zhu’s nomination is one way in which Lagarde, who has
worked and lived in France and the U.S. throughout her career,
is extending her influence beyond the West, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its October special issue on the 50 Most
Influential people in global finance. Her supporters say her
background is a plus.  “A European head of the IMF may be able to let the
Europeans accept that it is time for the institution to take
distance from  Europe ,” says Jean Pisani-Ferry, an economist at
the Bruegel research group in Brussels.  Lagarde, who took over on July 5, has a history of working
to unify disparate interests. During her first weeks as managing
director, with European governments haggling over another Greek
bailout -- this one 159 billion euros ($222 billion) -- she made
it clear that they needed to act.  Things Have to Happen  In a July 26 address at the Council on Foreign Relations in
New York, she pressed European nations to implement a Greek
rescue package they had formed the previous week. And she urged
Greece to accept austerity measures in exchange for the bailout.  “Things now have to happen and have to be delivered,” she
told the group.  On Aug. 27, she told a gathering of central bankers in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that more action was need to save the
world economy. This time,  Germany , Spain and the European Union
rebuffed her call for an “urgent” recapitalization of Europe’s
banks.  Lagarde, 55, has navigated a previous wave of turmoil in
Europe. She was France’s finance minister in May 2010 when dread
about the stability of Greece and other nations spread across
the globe. At a European ministerial meeting in Brussels, she
juggled phone calls from U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and European government officials. By the early hours
of May 10, she had forged a consensus with European Union
finance ministers to back a $1 trillion plan to rescue troubled
euro-zone economies.  “Wherever she has worked, she has had a strong voice and
impact,” World Bank President Robert Zoellick says.  ‘Political Acumen’  The new chief’s negotiating skills will help her steer the
187-nation IMF through the escalating euro-debt emergency, a
slow global recovery, rising inflation and high unemployment,
says  Alessandro Leipold , a former IMF acting director.  “She’s very able, and one of the skills she brings with
her is certainly political acumen,” Leipold says.  Lagarde took over after countryman Dominique Strauss-Kahn
resigned to defend himself against charges of sexually
assaulting a hotel maid. On Aug. 23,  New York  State Supreme
Court Justice Michael Obus dismissed the indictment against
Strauss-Kahn.  Lagarde has her own legal headaches. On Aug. 4, a French
court ordered a formal investigation into whether she’d abused
her finance minister position by allowing a 385 million euro
($547 million) settlement in 2008 to  Bernard Tapie , an investor
and former Socialist minister.  Tapie, who endorsed President Nicolas Sarkozy, got the
award after accusing Credit Lyonnais SA of bilking him in 1993
when it oversaw the sale of his stake in sporting-goods maker
Adidas AG. Tapie declared personal bankruptcy in 1994.  ‘No Way Incompatible’  Yves Repiquet, Lagarde’s lawyer, says the judicial inquiry
won’t affect her IMF duties.  “This procedure is in no way incompatible with the current
functions of the managing director of the IMF,” he said in a
statement. Lagarde declined to comment for this story.  Lagarde worked to overcome dissent that threatened her
nomination. Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee called for
non-Western nations to play a bigger role in an organization
formed to monitor and lend to the world’s economies. Many agreed
with him.  “It is important to have a greater say from emerging
markets because they have been through more crises and have come
through them more successfully than the industrialized world,”
says Kevin Gallagher, associate professor of international
relations at Boston University.  Courting Emerging Nations  Lagarde got the point. To help build a following, she
traveled to Brazil,  China , Egypt,  India  and  Saudi Arabia  and
also met with African finance ministers who had gathered in
Lisbon. She promised to be more inclusive of emerging economies.
Lagarde’s pledges won Mukherjee’s support, which helped her beat
her leading rival for the IMF job, Mexico’s central bank
governor Agustin Carstens.  It may be easier for Lagarde to make the case for greater
heterogeneity at the IMF: She didn’t scale French politics by
attending one of the elite grande ecoles, hasn’t aligned with a
party and grew up in Le Havre, out of the Paris limelight.
Lagarde formed her early political notions in the U.S. -- not
France.  She traveled to  Washington  in 1973 as a high school
exchange student at Holton-Arms, a private girls’ school in the
capital’s Bethesda, Maryland, suburb. She interned in 1974 for
 William Cohen , the Republican congressman from  Maine  who became
defense secretary in 1997.  Rapid Rise  Back in her homeland, Lagarde twice failed to gain
admission to the Ecole Nationale d’Administration, a top school
for the French elite. She pursued law at what is now Paris West
University Nanterre La Defense and got a master’s degree in
American literature and a postgraduate diploma in business and
labor law. She joined the Paris office of Chicago-based law firm
Baker & McKenzie LLP in 1981.  She rose quickly to partner in 1987 and to selection as one
of two European representatives on the seven-member executive
committee in 1995. Known as a tough negotiator in complicated
cases, Lagarde became the firm’s first female global executive
committee chairman in 1999, overseeing more than 3,400 lawyers.  Lagarde caught the interest of Dominique de Villepin, the
French prime minister, who offered her the post of trade
minister in 2005. Two years later, Sarkozy appointed her
minister of economic affairs, finance and employment, making her
the first woman finance chief in the Group of Seven, which
includes the U.S., Canada,  Japan  and the biggest European
nations.  Attracting a Following  Lagarde, who now lives in Washington, is attracting a
following. With her silver hair and 6-foot (183-centimeter)
frame, she’s an imposing presence. Well-wishers mobbed her at
the Bastille Day party at the French ambassador’s residence on
July 12. A photo shoot by fashion magazine Vogue boosted her
rock-star credentials into a league with previous subjects:
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and First Lady  Michelle Obama .  As financial markets reeled in early August, Lagarde showed
her trademark equanimity and inclusiveness. She applauded
statements by the  European Central Bank , the G-7 and the leaders
of Germany and  France  to ensure stability.  “This cooperation will contribute to maintaining
confidence and spurring global economic growth,” she said.  With another crisis in full force, Lagarde, who helped
unite jittery governments last year, finds herself in the thick
of things.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 