-- 
Albwardy Investment Denies It Paid Bribe to Tanzanian President

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-09-07T13:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/albwardy-investment-denies-it-paid-bribe-to-tanzanian-president.html
Albwardy Investment, a Dubai-based
 investment company , denied its chairman paid a bribe to
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete, as alleged in a diplomatic
cable posted by  Wikileaks .  Former U.S. Ambassador Michael Retzer said Ali Albwardy
flew Kikwete to  London  in 2005 and bought him five suits, while
seeking the rights to build two new hotels in Tanzania,
according to the cable. Retzer also said Albwardy made a legal
donation of $1 million to the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party.
Philip d’Abo, managing director of Albwardy Investment, said the
allegations were “monstrous and totally untrue.”  “Having carefully analyzed the contents of the memorandum,
I can state that the only elements of truth contained within it
are the correct names of the persons mentioned and absolutely
nothing else,” d’Abo said in a letter dated Sept. 5 distributed
by  Tanzania ’s presidency today.  Tanzania, an East African nation of 41 million people, has
been ruled by Kikwete since 2005. In that time, the country’s
ranking deteriorated to 116th from 93rd on an index of the
world’s  most corrupt  countries compiled by  Transparency
International , the Berlin-based advocacy group.  Tanzania’s presidency denied Kikwete received any payments
from Albwardy.  “The cable is untruthful and outrageous,” Salvator
Rweyemamu, director of presidential communications, told
reporters in Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital, on Sept. 5.
“If there is evidence to the contrary, we would like Mr.
Ambassador Retzer to produce it.”  The U.S. government doesn’t comment on the substance or
authenticity of any document that “might have been leaked,”
William Strassberger, chief public affairs officer at the Bureau
of Africa Affairs in the State Department, said by phone from
 Washington  today.  Albwardy has annual revenue of more than $3 billion,
employing 4,000 people, according to its  website . The company’s
portfolio consists of 35 companies including the Alseer Group,
and brands including Kilimanjaro Kempinski Hotel in  Dar es
Salaam  and the Saadani Safari Lodge in Tanzania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 