-- 
All Blacks Make Nine Changes to Face Tonga in Rugby World Cup Opening Game

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-07T01:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/all-blacks-make-nine-changes-to-face-tonga-in-rugby-world-cup-opening-game.html
Rugby World Cup favorite  New Zealand 
made nine changes to play Tonga in the tournament’s opening
match in two days, retaining only two of the seven backs who
started last month’s loss to Australia.  Fly-half Dan Carter and Ma’a Nonu kept their places in the
starting lineup from the 25-20 defeat in Brisbane 11 days ago,
with Jimmy Cowan, Sonny Bill Williams, Israel Dagg, Richard
Kahui and Isaia Toeava replacing Piri Weepu, Conrad Smith, Mils Muliaina, Zac Guildford and Cory Jane. Nonu moves to outside
center to accommodate ex-rugby league international Williams.  “We don’t know what will happen later in the tournament,
who is going to be standing and who is not, so we have to give
players an opportunity to play,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry 
said in comments distributed by tournament organizers. “There
is still some competition going on, which is good.”  Prop  Tony Woodcock  will start against the Tongans in
Auckland after injuring his hamstring in training earlier this
week, while Andrew Hore takes over from  Keven Mealamu  at hooker.
No. 8 Kieran Read and flanker Adam Thomson weren’t considered
because of injury and will be replaced by Victor Vito and  Jerome
Kaino . Ali Williams was named at lock, with Sam Whitelock
dropping to the bench to cover the back-row positions.  NEW ZEALAND: 1. Tony Woodcock, 2. Andrew Hore 3. Owen
Franks, 4. Brad Thorn, 5. Ali Williams, 6. Jerome Kaino, 7.
Richie McCaw (captain) 8. Victor Vito, 9.  Jimmy Cowan , 10. Dan
Carter, 11. Isaia Toeava, 12. Sonny Bill Williams, 13. Ma’a
Nonu, 14. Richard Kahui, 15. Israel Dagg.  Replacements: Corey Flynn, Ben Franks, Anthony Boric, Sam
Whitelock, Piri Weepu, Colin Slade, Cory Jane  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Baynes at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net  