-- 
Ambani Aims Beyond India With Reliance $16 Billion Cash Hoard

-- B y   J e r e m y   K a h n
-- 
2011-09-08T12:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/ambani-aims-beyond-india-with-16-billion-in-reliance-cash-influential-50.html
Mukesh Ambani doesn’t do small. He
is the richest man in India. His company,  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , operates the largest oil refinery complex ever built from
scratch.  And late last year, he moved into one of the planet’s most
expensive private homes. The 27-story apartment features a spa,
a 50-seat movie theater and a rooftop heli-pad -- all for six
residents: Ambani, his wife, his three children and his mother.  Ambani’s clout permeates India and beyond, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its October special issue on the 50
Most Influential people in global finance. He and his family own
more than 45 percent of Reliance Industries, among the country’s
largest companies by market value and the world’s leading
manufacturer of polyester. The stake was valued at $26.7 billion
on Sept. 7.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  named Ambani a nonexecutive director
in March, the first person from outside the U.S. that the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank has ever nominated to its
board.  A relentless India advocate, Ambani, 54, has committed his
company -- through its philanthropic Reliance Foundation -- to
building a new university and an engineering academy in a
country where half the population is younger than age 25.  Money Magnet  Ambani is a magnet for the planet’s moneymen, especially
since he settled an infamous dispute with his younger brother
Anil. Reliance will have more than $16 billion in cash on its
balance sheet by year’s end -- one of the top 30 cash hoards for
nonfinancial firms anywhere, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Every investment banker in the world who knows what is
going on has his number and is calling him,” says Jon Thorn,
manager of the $335 million India Capital Fund Ltd., which holds
Reliance in its portfolio. Ambani declined to comment for this
story.  Reliance plays an unparalleled role in an economy that’s
among the fastest-growing emerging markets and home to almost a
sixth of the world’s people. With interests from oil and gas to
retail and biotech, the company makes up 10 percent of India’s
benchmark Sensex index. Annual revenue of $58 billion represents
3.6 percent of India’s gross domestic product.  “Reliance has a tremendous amount of impact on the
economy,” says Susanta Mazumdar, manager of T. Rowe Price Group
Inc.’s Global Infrastructure Fund. As of July 31, T. Rowe Price
held 11.2 million shares -- or 0.34 percent -- of Reliance,
divided among almost a dozen portfolios.  Like Buffett  Ambani’s annual shareholder meeting, like the confab hosted
by fellow billionaire Warren Buffett, draws thousands to hear
the sage words of the chairman -- and to pepper him with
questions. Recent topics ranged from whether Reliance should
raise its dividend to the quality of the free ice cream that
Reliance offered to attendees.  The town-hall style show isn’t the only similarity between
Ambani and Buffett. Like the American investor, Ambani is a
dedicated bargain hunter who has a history of not overpaying for
acquisitions.  Even with Reliance’s pot of cash, there was some hand-
wringing at this year’s meeting: Shares have sagged 19 percent
in 2011 as of Sept. 8 as investors worried that Reliance would
miss gas production targets, says Sanjeev Prasad, an analyst at
Kotak Institutional Equities in Mumbai.  To help boost production, Reliance teamed up with  BP Plc (BP/)  in
February, selling it a 30 percent stake in 21 oil and gas blocks
for $7.2 billion.  Spreading Influence  As India grows and Reliance becomes increasingly global,
Ambani’s influence is only likely to spread. Those who know him
say he’s a man of soaring ambition infused with national pride.  “If people say, ‘In India, you can’t do this,’ then he
thinks, ‘I’ll show you,’ and he wants to do it better than the
rest of the world,” says Akhil Gupta, chairman of the Indian
arm of private-equity firm  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and a close
friend.  This explains Ambani’s massive refinery and colossal
residence. The high-rise, while designed by an American firm,
subscribes to Vastu Shastra, a Hindu system of directional
precepts similar to Chinese feng shui.  Ambani, unlike some of India’s business elites, is not
infatuated with the customs of Western moguls. He often speaks
in Gujarati, the native tongue of his family, instead of
English. He prefers South Indian street food to sushi and hasn’t
acquired a taste for wine. On visits to New York, he shops at
Macy’s for his favorite khakis.  Rite of Passage  Gupta first met Ambani in Stanford University’s MBA program
in 1979. Ambani never completed his degree. After his first
year, his father, Dhirubhai, summoned him home to oversee
construction of a polyester mill. It was a rite of passage in
his journey to the top of Reliance, founded as a spice shop in
1958, the year following Mukesh’s birth.  “Reliance has always historically based itself on the
single principle that Indian growth is going to be terrific and
it is going to be permanent so we should be part of it,” Thorn
says.  Following Dhirubhai’s death in 2002, Ambani feuded with
Anil over Reliance’s direction. In 2005, the company split
roughly in half, with Mukesh retaining control over refining,
petrochemicals, oil and gas and textiles, while Anil took newer
businesses in telecommunications, asset management,
entertainment and power generation. A noncompete agreement kept
them on their own turf.  Brothers Make Up  The brothers settled a legal dispute over sharing natural
gas and dissolved the noncompete pact last year. Now Mukesh is
moving back into telecommunications, acquiring Infotel Broadband
Services Ltd., which has rights to provide broadband wireless in
India, for $1 billion in June 2010.  Ambani is also pushing into financial services. In March,
he launched an Indian joint venture with U.S. investment company
D.E. Shaw Group. In June, Reliance paid an undisclosed sum to
Bharti Enterprises Ltd. to gain a 74 percent stake in two joint
ventures with France’s AXA Group that sell insurance in India.  It has been slower going outside India. Reliance failed to
acquire bankrupt petrochemical company  LyondellBasell Industries
NV. (LYB)  It also lost out to BP in buying Value Creation Inc., a
Canadian oil sands company, although it did purchase stakes in
U.S. shale gas sites through three joint ventures.  Those who know Ambani say they expect him to be very
cautious making acquisitions with Reliance’s cash.  “He generally believes in building, not buying,” Gupta
says.  Whatever Ambani builds makes an impression -- on the Mumbai
skyline, on India, and, increasingly, on the rest of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story: Jeremy Kahn in London at
   jkahn21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Laura Colby in
New York at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  