-- 
Americans Met Attacks by Drawing on Strengths: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/americans-met-attacks-by-drawing-on-strengths-edward-glaeser.html
In 1941, the Japanese attack on
 Pearl Harbor  ended American isolationism and brought our country
into a global war that resulted in a colossal rebuilding effort
and a long, postwar conflict with the  Soviet Union .  The  2001 attacks  on  New York  and the Pentagon also
demolished illusions of isolation, and, once again, the U.S. has
shown resilience, despite external assault and some self-
inflicted errors. We need that resilience, and the wisdom that
can emerge from experience, because we are ever more enmeshed in
a dangerous world.  The immediate lesson of the Sept. 11 attacks was that we
aren’t protected by our oceans. The world is full of dangerous
people, many of whom wish us harm. We embraced two approaches to
this risk: protecting our homeland and exporting democracy
through aid and military action. Although there will always be
controversy over specific policies, such as the new airport
screening procedures, almost all agree we need more protection
than 10 years ago.  That is one small nugget of wisdom. The lesson from our
foreign ventures is less clear. It was never obvious that
democracy or prosperity abroad would protect us against acts of
terror.  Alan Krueger, the new chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers,  demonstrated  that terrorists aren’t among
the most destitute. My colleague Effi Benmelech finds that
education appears to increase the  efficacy of suicide bombers .
Hatred, like the anti-American feelings that animated the Sept.
11 terrorists, can  easily emerge  in democratic settings.  Arab Spring  Yet, we should all still hope for a world with more freedom
and prosperity, and I believe that the U.S. still has a role to
play in helping that world emerge. The past year seems to have
been a good one for democracy: The Arab Spring toppled dictators
in North Africa, and there are green shoots in  East Asia , where
after a high-speed rail crash the Chinese are more aggressively
debating the flaws of their system.  Perhaps the one clear lesson from our wars is that reasoned
calculation is a safer basis for foreign policy than emotion.
The problem with the  Iraq War  wasn’t its goal of toppling  Saddam Hussein , but our failure to accurately assess the operation’s
human and financial costs, now in the trillions.  The right reaction to that war isn’t to shun all future
military interventions, but to demand a more reasoned analysis
of costs and benefits. Ultimately, the Constitution rests upon
the very rational calculations of our founders, and a devotion
to reason may be the greatest distinction between us and the
terrorists.  Manhattan Undefeated  Although the last decade has illustrated the limits of U.S.
resources, it has also highlighted our nation’s many strengths.
These are perhaps most evident in the example of  New York City 
itself. Many believed that the World Trade Center’s destruction
would defeat  Manhattan , and that people would shun high towers
for fear of future attacks. New York remains strong.  The city’s survival reflects the power of smart, free
people who are connected by urban density. We saw that power in
the emotional fiber of the city in the days after the attacks.
We saw the attraction of  New York’s economic model  as companies,
displaced by the terrorist attack, returned. The comeback of the
badly hit Cantor Fitzgerald LP, which lost 658 employees in the
north tower of the World Trade Center, has been particularly
inspiring.  New York recovered after the British occupation during the
Revolution, and it recovered from the bloody 1863 draft riots,
and it recovered from the fiscal disaster of the 1970s.  Strength of Cities  This resilience is astounding. The analysts who thought the
density would be too dangerous in an age of terror missed three
countervailing forces.  First, density is increasingly important in an age of
ideas, because knowledge passes more easily over close
corridors. Second, effective government has long been able to
counter the downsides of density, such as contagious disease and
violent crime, and good government was able to make New York
much safer from terrorism. Third,  density itself  can help
protect against outside attack. Large buildings are a target,
but far-flung homes can also be vulnerable. Last month’s
 Hurricane Irene  did far more damage in the suburbs, where it
struck down open electric wires, than in New York, where
abundant infrastructure helped protect the city.  Although New York’s example is particularly inspiring, the
larger  U.S. economy  also has shown its strength. Ten years ago,
there was no Facebook Inc. or iPad from Apple Inc., and Google
Inc. was tiny. Certainly, our current labor market malaise is
painful, but that too shall pass.  Political Failings  The largest failings over the last decade are political.
Many Americans were disappointed by both Presidents  George W. Bush  and  Barack Obama . The fracas in Congress over the debt
ceiling did little to inspire confidence. Yet the messiness of
our republic shouldn’t blind us to its fundamental strengths.
Our basic freedoms have been preserved. State and local
governments continue to provide decent services. The federal
government has spent too much, but the political process is now
gradually checking that trend.  Because neither party occupies the ideological middle, it
is natural that we cycle back and forth between leaders who veer
too much in one direction or the other. The Constitution ensures
that Congress and the president will check each other, and the
recent debt-ceiling debate was an example of that process in
action.  We should never expect too much of any government, which
means that we should never be too upset when the system works
imperfectly.  Our nation survived the terrible attack 10 years ago
because we have strong institutions built on freedom and
individual initiative and reason. The challenges facing us today
are real, just as they were on that awful day.  Now, as then, America will move onward, still free, still
strong and, let’s hope, a little wiser.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 