-- 
American Asks Pilots to Defer Vacations on Staffing Concern

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-09-07T20:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/american-asks-pilots-to-defer-vacations-amid-staffing-concern.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines  asked
some pilots to voluntarily delay vacations this month to ensure
adequate staffing after more retirements than the carrier
expected.  September’s 111 retirements are about 10 times the monthly
average over the past year, according to the  Allied Pilots
Association . Forty-five captains and four first officers who fly
 Boeing Co. (BA)  777s were among the retirees, the union said in an e-
mail to members.  “At this time, we’re pretty confident we can cover the
near term,” Missy Cousino, an American spokeswoman, said in an
interview. “That’s why we have systems in place like reserves
and the ability of pilots to pick up additional time. We’re
feeling like we’ll be able to cover it with a buffer.”  Pilots who opt to defer vacations can reschedule the time
off later in the year, receive pay for the unused time at the
end of 2011 or roll it into 2012, Cousino said today. She
couldn’t say how many pilots had responded to the request.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based airline, the third-largest in
the U.S., has not asked the union to temporarily waive any
contract provisions involving work rules or scheduling, said Sam Mayer, an APA spokesman. American operates  47 Boeing 777s , its
largest aircraft.  The larger number of retirements resulted in part from
pilots seeking to obtain maximum value for stock in their
pension plans, Mayer said.  The plan allows pilots to lock in the share price 60 days
prior to retirement, meaning those leaving in September could
avoid share declines that occurred in July and August. AMR fell
33 percent during those months, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped 7.7 percent.  AMR closed at $7.79 on the last day of 2010. The shares
gained 15 cents or 4.5 percent to $3.47 at 4 p.m. today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  