-- 
Hands Said to Seek EMI Valuation Documents From Citigroup, PWC

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T16:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hands-said-to-seek-emi-valuation-documents-from-citigroup-pwc.html
Guy Hands  is seeking to recover
documents about reductions to EMI Group Ltd.’s debt in a move to
review the deal that led  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to seize control of the
music label, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Lawyers for Hands’s private-equity firm, Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which was
EMI’s administrator in the restructuring process, met yesterday
in a London court at a so-called pre-action disclosure hearing,
said two of the people, who declined to comment because the
matter is private. Terra Firma will formally present a request
to the  High Court  by December to obtain the valuation documents
used as the basis of the EMI debt deal, they said.  Citigroup gained control of EMI in February as the record
label struggled to meet the terms of 3.4 billion pounds ($5.4
billion) in loans used to finance its takeover by Terra Firma in
2007. New York-based Citigroup has since initiated a process to
sell the 114-year-old British company.  The U.S. lender ended up owning all of EMI after the debt-
for-equity swap reduced EMI’s debt by 65 percent to 1.2 billion
pounds, EMI said in a statement then.  Officials at Citigroup, Terra Firma, EMI and
PricewaterhouseCoopers declined to comment today.  Sky News 
reported earlier today that Hands had started legal proceedings
over EMI. No lawsuit has been filed.  Pre-action disclosure in the U.K. allows claimants to
obtain copies of documents before a possible lawsuit.  Coldplay, Snoop Dogg  EMI has both production and publishing units that sign and
promote singers and songwriters such as Coldplay, Snoop Dogg and
 Pink Floyd .  Last year, Hands lost a U.S. lawsuit over claims Citigroup
had tricked him into buying EMI, and sought extra cash from his
backers to stop the label breaching debt covenants.  Talks between Hands and Citigroup to restructure the debt
broke down in November over the valuation of the record label.
By then, Hands’ firm had written down the value of its 2.6
billion-euro EMI investment to zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  