-- 
Angola President dos Santos May be Replaced by Oil Company Head Vicente

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 
2011-09-07T13:47:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/angola-president-dos-santos-may-be-replaced-by-oil-company-head-vicente.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos may step down as leader of  Africa ’s second-biggest oil
producer before or after elections next year, a spokesman for
the ruling party said.  Dos Santos, 69, may be replaced by Manuel Vicente, chairman
of the state-owned  oil company ,  Sonangol EP , said Rui Falcao de
Andrade, a member of the  Popular Movement for the Liberation of
Angola ’s political bureau.  “Any scenario is possible,” de Andrade said yesterday in
a telephone interview from the capital, Luanda. “We are talking
about probabilities. No formal decision by the party has been
taken.”  The MPLA’s  Central Committee  will meet in December to lay
out the party’s strategy for the 2012 elections and appoint a
presidential candidate, he said, adding that “for now”  dos
Santos  remains the party’s nominee. This is the first time the
MPLA has signaled that the 32-rule of dos Santos, the second-
longest in sub-Saharan Africa, may be nearing its end.  Vicente and his 45 fellow members of the MPLA’s  political
bureau  are all possible successors to dos Santos, said de
Andrade.  Mena Abrantes, a spokesman for dos Santos, didn’t answer
five calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  ‘Business As Usual’  “There remains considerable uncertainty surrounding
succession, whether he will indeed stand down and when,” Stephen Bailey-Smith, the London-based head of African research at
Standard Bank Group Ltd, said today by phone. “The heir apparent
sits within our core scenario that political power will remain
within dos Santos’s inner circle. It’s business as usual.”  Economic growth in Angola, spurred by stronger  oil prices 
and increased spending, will probably accelerate to 8 percent
next year from about 5 percent this year, World Bank economist
Ricardo Gazel said in an Aug. 24 interview from Maputo,
 Mozambique .  Angolan weekly Novo Jornal reported on Sept. 2 that dos
Santos had picked Vicente as his successor, citing an
unidentified person in the party.  The Luanda-based newspaper said dos Santos will step down
either before next year’s general elections or a year after the
vote. Vicente will quit his job as chairman of Sonangol by
November and pursue a career in politics or in the private
sector, Novo Jornal cited him as saying in March.  Little Change  “He doesn’t strike me as major change agent and that may be
part of the appeal for dos Santos,” Philippe de Pontet, a
Washington D.C.-based director of Africa for  Eurasia Group , said
in a telephone interview.  Little is known about Vicente’s views on issues outside the
 petroleum industry , which “raises some questions” about how he
would try to end Angola’s reliance on oil and work on other
areas of the economy that need major improvements, said de
Pontet.  Oil accounts for about 50 percent of Angola’s gross
domestic product, 80 percent of government revenue and more than
90 percent of export earnings, according to the World Bank
economist Gazel. Angola pumped about 1.7 million barrels of
crude a day in July, according to Bloomberg data.  Elections in Angola, the second since the end of an almost
three-decade-long civil war in 2002, should take place in August
or September next year, de Andrade said.  Election Victory  The MPLA, after winning elections in 2008 with more than 82
percent of the vote, rewrote the constitution, scrapping the
presidential contest and allowing the head of the victorious
party to become president.  Dos Santos, who has a degree in petroleum engineering from
the former  Soviet Union , came to power in 1979, four years into
a civil war that began as Angola gained independence from
 Portugal  in 1975.  De Andrade said recent protests against dos Santos’s rule
by a “small group” of Angolan youths, the third this year,
have done nothing to dent the popularity of the Angolan leader.  “There is no doubt in my mind that dos Santos remains
popular,” he said. “If you ask the over five million MPLA
militants if they want dos Santos to remain as president I’m
sure they will say yes.”  Twenty-four youths were arrested by police on Sept. 3
during a demonstration by about 300 people against dos Santos’
government, power and water shortages and corruption, Radio
Ecclesia reported on Sept 5.  “ Angola  is a democracy and people are free to protest,”
de Andrade said. “But a few individuals think they will become
heroes by throwing stones at the police. Those people should be
brought to justice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 