-- 
Manning Won’t Play in Colts’ First Game Amid Recovery From Neck Surgery

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/manning-won-t-play-in-colts-first-game-amid-recovery-from-neck-surgery.html
Peyton Manning  will miss the
Indianapolis Colts’ season opener because of a neck injury, the
first time he hasn’t started a game since his freshman year at
the University of  Tennessee  in 1994.  Manning’s absence means  Kerry Collins , who came out of
retirement to sign with the Colts on Aug. 24, will start at
quarterback against the Texans on Sept. 11. The Colts are now 8
1/2-point underdogs, according to Las Vegas oddsmakers, who two
weeks ago listed the Texans as 3-point favorites.  Manning, 35, has made 227 consecutive starts since joining
the Colts in 1998, the most among active players and the second-
longest for a quarterback in National Football League history
behind  Brett Favre ’s 321. The last player to start at
quarterback other than Manning was  Jim Harbaugh , who is now
coach of the  San Francisco 49ers .  “To say I am disappointed in not being able to play is an
understatement,” said Manning, who hasn’t made enough progress
in his rehabilitation from offseason neck surgery. “It will be
tough not to be out there playing for the organization and our
fans. I simply am not healthy enough to play, and I am doing
everything I can to get my health back.”  A four-time NFL Most Valuable Player, Manning has missed
only one snap because of injury during his NFL career, in 2001
when he suffered a fractured jaw. His streak of 208 straight
regular-season starts is the longest to begin a career, topping
the previous NFL mark of 207 by offensive lineman Gene Upshaw
for Oakland from 1967-81.  ‘One of a Kind’  “It’s going to be a little different playing without
Peyton,” Colts coach Jim Caldwell told reporters. “He’s
obviously one of a kind.”  Manning had surgery in May to repair a bulging disc in his
neck, two months before he signed a new five-year, $90 million
contract. He was cleared to practice on a limited basis on Aug.
29 before experiencing pain, and there is no timetable for
his return, team Vice Chairman Bill Polian said yesterday on
ESPN Radio’s “Ruocco and Lundberg” show.  Manning’s 54,828 yards passing, 399 passing touchdowns and
4,682 completions are all first among active players.  The 38-year-old Collins is second to Manning among active
players with 40,441 passing yards. He’ll become the sixth
quarterback to take a snap for the Colts during Manning’s NFL
career, joining  Steve Walsh , Mark Rypien, Brock Huard, Jim Sorgi
and Curtis Painter, who will be the backup this week.  ‘Run the Offense’  “I expect to run the offense, bottom line,” said Collins,
who faced the Texans’ defense as quarterback for the AFC South-
rival  Tennessee Titans  from 2006-10. “That’s to make the plays
when they are there, be smart with the ball, make good reads,
good decisions, get us in the right plays when the situation
calls for it.”  With Manning’s run coming to an end, younger brother Eli Manning of the  New York Giants  now has the longest active streak
for quarterbacks at 110 straight starts, including the playoffs.
 Eli Manning  said he hasn’t spoken to his brother in the past few
weeks, though they’ve exchanged  text messages .  “If you can go through 13 years without missing a game,
that’s impressive no matter what position or what sport,” Eli
Manning told reporters. “I know he wants to be out there and
he’s going to give it his all to get back out there.”  After playing in Houston, the Colts, who have made the
playoffs 11 times in the past 12 years, host the  Cleveland
Browns  on Sept. 18 and the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sept. 25.  “The team will do fine without me,” Peyton Manning said
in his statement. “I know for sure that I will miss them much
more than they will miss me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  