-- 
Apple Was Hedge Funds’ Most-Owned Stock Last Quarter, Citi Says

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-09-07T14:54:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/apple-was-hedge-funds-most-owned-stock-last-quarter-citi-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was the most-held stock
among the top 50 hedge funds in the second quarter, while  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Merck & Co. were the companies most-owned by the
biggest equity mutual funds, according to Citigroup Inc.  Cupertino, California-based Apple has held the top position
in the hedge-fund category since the third quarter of 2010,
Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
wrote in a Sept. 6 note. It’s owned by 16 of the 50 largest U.S.
hedge funds. Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, and Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck were owned by 17 of the largest
50 mutual funds in the three months ended June 30.  “Apple retains the top spot for both growth and value
 hedge funds ,” Levkovich wrote.  “The overlap in top stocks for
these two investment styles implies a degree of consensus within
the hedge-fund world and possibly a break from some firms’
traditional investment styles.”  The maker of iPods and iPads has outperformed 99 percent of
the 500 stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since the
start of the third quarter, returning 13 percent from June 30
through yesterday. Technology stocks are the biggest industry
held by both mutual funds and hedge funds, accounting for around
30 percent and almost 50 percent of the top portfolio positions,
respectively, according to Citigroup.  Wells Fargo was the most-owned stock for value mutual
funds, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  was the biggest position for growth
funds.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was the second-biggest position for
hedge funds, behind Apple, Citigroup said. Google performed
better than the  S&P 500  this quarter through yesterday,
advancing 3.1 percent as the index lost 12 percent, while
JPMorgan lost 18 percent and Wells Fargo fell 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  