-- 
Argentina Taps Pension Fund Cash to Raise Payments to Poor Families By 23%

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-07T17:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/argentina-taps-pension-fund-cash-to-raise-payments-to-poor-families-by-23-.html
Argentina  will boost payments to
poor families with children by 23 percent as part of a program
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said is one of her
biggest achievements ahead of elections in October.  Fernandez said today that the government will spend 11.8
billion pesos ($2.8 billion) on such aid this year after
including an increase in the monthly stipend to 270 pesos per
child or pregnant mother from 220 pesos. Funding comes from
money seized by the government in its 2008 takeover of the $24
billion pension fund industry.  “We were able to implement this measure thanks to the
recovery of the administration of the workers’ resources,”
Fernandez said at the presidential palace in  Buenos Aires .
“This measure had an impressive effect in our society.”  Fernandez, who is leading polls ahead of the Oct. 23
elections, has tapped funds from the pension takeover to
subsidize consumer loans, finance small and medium-sized
companies and expand social programs, including one that gives
 laptop computers  to school children. As of May, the investment
fund that uses the pension industry assets climbed 30 percent
from a year earlier to 189 billion pesos, according to the
social security agency’s website.  3.6 Million  The increase in Argentina’s Universal Child Allowance
program, which benefits 3.6 million children and pregnant
mothers, is in line with estimates of annual inflation by
analysts including former deputy Economy Minister Orlando
Ferreres. The government said prices rose 9.7 percent in July
and has fined economists who dispute that estimate.  Fernandez, 58, is seeking to maintain a nine-year expansion
of  South America ’s second-biggest economy. Gross domestic
product will climb 6.6 percent this year after expanding 9.1
percent in 2010, according to the median estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  