-- 
Stocks Rebound on Speculation Obama Plan to Boost Growth; Bonds, Gold Fall

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-07T20:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/asia-stocks-rebound-on-weakening-yen-valuations-aussie-copper-advance.html
Stocks rose, rebounding from a four-
day global slump that drove valuations to the lowest level since
2009, amid speculation President  Barack Obama ’s plan for more
than $300 billion in economic stimulus will boost growth.
Treasuries, German bunds and gold fell as the dollar snapped a
six-day rally.  The MSCI All-Country World Index surged 2.8 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.9 percent at 4 p.m. in New
York. The 10-year Treasury yield added six basis points to 2.04
percent after reaching a record low yesterday, and Germany’s
yield climbed six basis points to 1.91 percent. The dollar
weakened against the euro after legal challenges to Germany’s
role in the region’s rescue funds were rejected by the nation’s
top court. Gold dropped the most in two weeks and copper
advanced above $9,000 a metric ton in London.  Equities rallied after a selloff erased $2.5 trillion from
global markets this month and left the MSCI World trading at 12
times reported earnings. Obama plans to propose tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and direct aid to state and local
governments. Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President Charles
Evans called for more stimulus to reduce a 9.1 percent jobless
rate, including a commitment to keep  interest rates  low until
unemployment falls to around 7.5 percent.  “The stock market likely marked its bottom,”  David Sowerby , a Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at
Loomis Sayles & Co., which oversees $150 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “To the extent that President Obama’s
message is permanent versus temporary, the market and the
economy will respond more favorably.”  Obama’s Address  The  S&P 500  rallied the most in two weeks, rebounding from
a three-day, 4.4 percent slump. Yahoo! Inc. surged 5.4 percent
after ousting Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  and announcing
a strategic review of its business. Bank of America Corp.
climbed 7 percent after naming Tom Montag and David Darnell as
co-chief operating officers and ousting wealth-management head
Sallie Krawcheck and consumer-banking leader  Joseph Price  from
its management ranks.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., American Express Co. and Alcoa Inc.
also rallied at least 4 percent to help lead gains in all 30
stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . All 10 of the main
industries in the S&P 500 advanced, led by financial and energy
companies.  Obama will address Congress tomorrow amid unemployment that
remains at 9.1 percent more than two years after the recession’s
official end. Evans’s speech places the Chicago Fed president
among the “few” members of the Federal Open Market Committee
who, according to minutes of the group’s gathering in August,
favor a “more substantial move” beyond the central bank’s
pledge to hold rates at record lows for about two years.  ‘Truly Badly’  “Given how truly badly we are doing in meeting our
employment mandate, I argue that the Fed should seriously
consider actions that would add very significant amounts of
policy accommodation,” Evans, 53, said in the text of a speech
today in  London . “Such further policy accommodation does
increase the risk that inflation could rise temporarily above
our long-term goal of 2 percent.”  The Fed said the economy grew at a slower pace in some
regions of the country as shoppers limited their spending and
factories curbed production. The economy continued to expand at
a “modest pace,” though some districts noted “mixed or
weakening activity,” the Fed said in its Beige Book survey
released today. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will talk about the
U.S. economic outlook tomorrow in  Minneapolis .  Treasury 10-year notes fell for the first time in a week.
Thirty-year bonds also retreated, sending their yields up nine
basis points to 3.36 percent.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 3.1 percent, rebounding
from the lowest level in more than two years. The gauge’s
valuation had dropped to about 10.4 times reported earnings,
near the cheapest level since December 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA jumped 7.3
percent as the second-biggest luxury-goods company reported
sales that beat estimates.  Germany ’s DAX Index jumped 4.1
percent, the most since May 10.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, fell 0.7 percent, dropping for
the first time in seven days. The Swedish krona strengthened 0.8
percent against the euro after the central bank signaled it may
raise interest rates one more time this year.  The Australian dollar appreciated against 15 of 16 major
peers monitored by Bloomberg, climbing 1.6 percent versus the
 U.S. dollar , after a report showed the economy grew last quarter
at the fastest pace in four years. The Swiss franc weakened to
1.21015 per euro, a day after the central bank set a ceiling of
1.20 versus the 17-nation currency and said it was prepared to
use “unlimited” quantities of cash to defend it. The franc
declined 8.1 percent versus the euro yesterday, the biggest drop
since the shared currency’s introduction.  Spanish, Italian Bonds  The yield on the 10-year Spanish bond fell 19 basis points
to 4.98 percent, declining for the second straight day, with the
similar-maturity Italian security’s yield sliding 24 basis
points. Greek bonds fell, sending 10-year yields up 27 basis
points to 20.08 percent.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe threw
out suits targeting the country’s share of the 110 billion euros
($154 billion) in loans for Greece from euro-region governments
and the  International Monetary Fund  as well as a separate 750
billion-euro rescue fund approved last year to halt the spread
of the Greek debt crisis. The ruling clears the way for
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coalition to participate in the
European rescue plans.  Italian Austerity  The Italian Senate approved Prime Minister Silvio
Berlusconi’s revised austerity plan, setting up a final vote in
the Chamber of Deputies as  Italy  seeks to stem surging bond
yields. The austerity package, the second in a month, was
announced on Aug. 5 to convince the  European Central Bank  to buy
Italian bonds after the 10-year  yield surged to a euro-era
record of 6.4 percent.  The cost of insuring European  government bonds  fell from
records. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps linked to 15 nations sank 10 basis points to a
mid-price of 317.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, fell 5.2 basis points to a mid-
price of 121 basis points, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  Copper Gains  Copper jumped 1.9 percent, the most in a week, to close at
$4.132 a pound on the Comex in  New York , and climbed to $9,092 a
ton on the London Metal Exchange as threats of mine strikes
heightened concern that a global shortfall of the metal will
worsen. Nickel surged 5.3 percent, the most since May 2010.
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Peruvian workers will
begin a two-day stoppage today over pay increases, a union
official said. Another strike may start at the company’s
Grasberg mine in Indonesia next week, unless workers are offered
higher wages.  Gold futures dropped for a second day, falling 3 percent to
$1,817.60 an ounce. Oil rallied the most in four weeks, surging
3.9 percent to $89.34 a barrel in New York as storms threatened
to reduce production from the  Gulf of Mexico , where shut-ins
from last week’s hurricane probably curbed stockpiles.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 2.3 percent,
rebounding from a three-day slide. Benchmark gauges in South
Africa, Russia and Poland jumped more than 3 percent as prices
for oil and industrial metals increased.  The Shanghai Composite Index added 1.8 percent, the most in
two weeks, after the  China  Securities Journal said the central
bank may ease monetary policy. China’s central bank may add cash
to the market by buying bills from banks in open market
operations or cutting the required reserve ratio for banks, the
China Securities Journal, which is operated by the official
Xinhua News Agency, said in a commentary. Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
rallied 3.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  