-- 
Asia Hedge Funds Outperform Global Peers in August Rout

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-09-07T09:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/asian-hedge-funds-outperformed-global-peers-in-august-amid-markets-slump.html
Asian  hedge funds  beat global peers
in August as Europe’s deepening sovereign debt crisis and
 Standard & Poor’s  cut to the U.S. credit rating sparked the
worst month for the industry in almost three years.  About 80 Asia-focused hedge funds reported an average 2
percent decline and median loss of 1.5 percent last month,
according to data from Credit Suisse Group AG’s prime brokerage
unit. Hedge funds worldwide lost on average 3.5 percent, the
worst month since October 2008, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc.’s HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index.  Funds run by Vulpes Investment Management, Titan Capital
Group LLC and Juggernaut Capital Management helped Asian hedge
funds last month overcome a history of underperformance in
market slumps. Asian strategies lost 21 percent in 2008,
compared with the average industry decline of about 11 percent,
according to Singapore-based  Eurekahedge Pte .  “Asian hedge funds have done a great job of managing risk
amid volatile markets,” said Matt Pecot, head of Asia-Pacific
prime services at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong. “This resilient
performance is a strong affirmation of the increasing
sophistication of Asian managers, and a positive signal for
greater capital flows into hedge funds active in the region.”  Investors poured $2.6 billion of new capital into Asia-
focused hedge funds in the second quarter, according to Hedge
Fund Research. Their assets stood at $89.5 billion in the second
quarter, accounting for about 4 percent of the $2 trillion
industry, according to the Chicago-based firm.  Market Rout  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 8.6 percent last month,
the most since May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is
slowing as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis spreads and after S&P
cut the U.S. sovereign rating. The measure has slumped 14
percent from this year’s high on May 2.  “The industry in Asia was already cautiously positioned
after the month of May, so funds entered August with low gross
and net exposures, and traded the markets reasonably well,”
said Stephane Pizzo, founder of Singapore-based Lotus Peak
Capital, whose fund of funds fell about 0.75 percent in August.  Asian managers reported returns which ranged from a gain of
13 percent to a 16 percent loss, according to Credit Suisse.  About 25 percent of the 80 Asia-focused funds tracked by
Credit Suisse reported gains in August, including equity long-
short, macro and volatility strategies, according to the Zurich-
based firm. The returns clustered between 2 percent and 5
percent, according to its prime brokerage unit.  Evidence of Change  “Investors often expect  Asia  hedge funds to lose money in a
down market; that was certainly their experience in 2008,” said
Ben Happ, Hong Kong-based Asia-Pacific region head of capital
services in Credit Suisse’s prime services division. “The
August performance is evidence of the change that Asian hedge
fund managers have made with respect to risk management.”  The VIX, a measure of market volatility known as Wall
Street’s “fear gauge,” soared 50 percent to 48 on Aug. 8, the
biggest gain since February 2007. The gauge fell 4.7 percent to
33.92 last week after increasing four straight months.  Vulpes Investment Management’s long Asian volatility and
arbitrage fund, LAVA, advanced about 4 percent last month, said
Stephen Diggle, the firm’s founder. The manager profited from
bets on derivative positions on gold, debt and Australian
 interest rates , he said.  Europe faces political and legal tests this month including
a series of ratification votes on its rescue fund, known as
European Financial Stability Facility, that could lead to
“serious market dislocations,” Diggle said.  ‘Pivotal Month’  “September could be a pivotal month with the situation in
Europe possibly deteriorating,” Diggle said.  The Titan Asia Volatility Fund, managed by New York-based
Titan Capital, gained 4 percent in August, bringing its return
this year to almost 29 percent, according to a newsletter sent
to investors.  Sinfonietta, an Asia absolute return fund run by Symphony
Financial Partners, advanced almost 15 percent in August,
contributing to a gain of about 26 percent this year, according
to David Baran, its Tokyo-based founder.  Juggernaut Asia Fund, an equity long-short fund, advanced
3.8 percent in August, its first month of trading, said Yashwant
Bajaj, founder of Singapore-based Juggernaut Capital Management.  The fund kept a “very low gross exposure” in the first
two weeks of August and took more risk when volatility started
to abate at the end of the month, according to the manager.
Long-short managers buy stocks they expect to rise and hedge
those bets with sales of borrowed shares they hope to buy back
at a cheaper price.  ‘End-of-the-World’  “We looked opportunistically where the market was pricing
in ‘the-end-of-the-world’ in simple terms,” Bajaj said. “We
took a position contrary to that.”  The Riley Paterson Asian Opportunities Fund gained about 3
percent last month, according to the manager.  “The perilous state of western world finances and Asia’s
cyclicality increasingly means being alert to macro is
important,” said Singapore-based Daren Riley, co-portfolio
manager of the fund who analyzes macroeconomic cycles before
betting on the market at Riley Paterson Investment Management.  Singapore-based Quantedge Capital, which uses statistical
models to pick trades, said its quantitative global macro fund
rose 2.4 percent in August, contributing to a 40 percent advance
this year, according to a newsletter sent to clients. Its losses
in equities were “more than offset” by gains in bonds, the
manager said in the newsletter.  “We expect fluctuations in risk appetite to cause short-
term volatility in our fund’s returns,” Quantedge said in the
newsletter. “The upside is that higher-than-average  risk
aversion  will correspondingly reward our strategy with higher-
than-average returns over the medium-to-long term.”  Ortus, Dymon  The $2.9 billion Ortus Fund Ltd., a Hong Kong trader of
currency-related securities, fell 0.5 percent in August,
trimming its year-to-date gain to 5.2 percent, a person with
knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified
because the information is private. Ortus’s President Bill Lu
declined to comment.  The Dymon Asia Macro Fund declined 0.25 percent last month,
bringing its return to about 14.5 percent this year, said Danny Yong, chief executive officer of Singapore-based Dymon Asia
Capital, which manages about $1.5 billion. The firm’s Dymon Asia
Currency Value Fund rose about 2 percent in August, he said.  Almost half of the Asia-focused hedge funds that Credit
Suisse tracked were flat to down 5 percent in August, according
to data compiled by the prime brokerage unit. About 25 percent
of the funds reported losses of at least 5 percent and were
mainly long-biased Asia or  China  equities strategies.  Difficult Month  The LBN China+ Opportunity Fund, a long-short fund focusing
on China stocks listed in  Hong Kong , is estimated to have
declined 2.24 percent in August, following a gain of 9 percent
in the first seven months of the year, Benjamin Chang, chief
executive officer of Hong Kong-based LBN Advisers Ltd., said in
an e-mail to clients.  “August was definitely the most difficult month year to
date for many managers, but this isn’t 2008,” said Sam Tabar,
Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific capital introductions at
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit. “We don’t
have the same kind of liquidity issues or the mismatch of assets
and liabilities as we did in 2008. For this reason, we don’t
think we will be seeing the same mass redemptions that we saw in
2008.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  