-- 
Asian Stocks Advance Most Since March as Valuations Decline to 2008 Levels

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-07T10:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/asian-stocks-gain-on-yen-s-decline-greece-pledge-over-austerity-measures.html
Asian stocks gained, with the
benchmark regional index set for its biggest rise in almost six
months, after a three-day drop left valuations near a three-year
low and as a weaker yen boosted the outlook for Japanese
exporters.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker, advanced
2.9 percent in Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co., a South Korean
exporter of consumer electronics that counts Europe as its
third-largest market for sales, increased 6.3 percent.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, advanced 3.7
percent after oil and copper prices rose. Hynix Semiconductor
Inc. jumped 15 percent in Seoul, rebounding after having lost
more than half its value since April, on speculation that chip
prices will recover.  “Unless we get clear policies, it’s hard to make long-
lasting investment decisions,” Belinda Allen, senior analyst of
investment markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management in Sydney, which oversees about $150 billion, said in
an interview with Bloomberg TV. “It’s too soon to say we’re on
a firmer footing.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2.3 percent to 121.76
at 7:28 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about seven stocks gaining for each
that fell. The measure lost 5.1 percent in the last three days,
dragging down its valuations below a level last seen in Oct.
2008. The gauge slumped 8.6 percent last month, the most since
May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is slowing as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spreads and after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  Australia’s GDP Gains  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 2 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index rallied 3.8 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index rose 1.7 percent, while  China ’s Shanghai Composite index
climbed 1.8 percent.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index jumped 2.7 percent after the
Bureau of Statistics said the nation’s gross domestic product
expanded 1.2 percent in the second quarter from the previous
three months, beating the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey calling for 1 percent increase in GDP.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent
today. In  New York , the index fell 0.7 percent yesterday, paring
a loss of as much as 2.9 percent, amid concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening.  Greece  said it will accelerate austerity measures in return
for international financing as pressure mounted from European
partners before the payment of a sixth tranche of bailout loans.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday that
Greece won’t get its next bailout installment unless it meets
goals under the aid package.  Samsung, TSMC  Stocks also pared losses in the U.S. earlier in the day
after the Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 in August from 52.7 a
month earlier, beating the median 51 projection by economists in
a Bloomberg News survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Samsung Electronics, which receives about 40 percent of its
sales from America and Europe, advanced 6.3 percent to 773,000
won in  Seoul . Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the
chipmaker which counts America as its biggest market, climbed
3.8 percent to NT$68.6 in Taipei. Li & Fung Ltd., a supplier of
toys and clothes to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 5.4 percent to
HK$14.44 in Hong Kong.  Shares also gained ahead of an address on Sept. 8 by
President Barack Obama, where he may announce plans to propose
boosting job growth by injecting more than $300 billion into the
economy next year mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure
spending and direct aid to state and local governments.  ‘Positive Expectation’  “The service industries data gave some positive note for
the market,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI
 Asia  Ltd. “Investors are now shifting their focus on the
upcoming announcement by Obama on his new economic plan. That’s
raising positive expectation in the market, supporting local
shares.”  Japanese exporter shares also gained after the nation’s
currency weakened against the dollar. The yen traded at 77.27
per dollar today, compared with 76.83 yen at the close of
Japanese stock trading yesterday.  The imposition by Switzerland’s central bank of a ceiling
on the franc’s exchange rate spurred speculation Japan will
follow the European nation in weakening its currency. The Bank
of Japan will conclude a two-day policy meeting today. A weaker
yen against the dollar boost exporters’ overseas income when
repatriated.  Japanese Exporters  Toyota, which counts the U.S. and Canada as its biggest
overseas market, advanced 2.9 percent to 2,680 yen, the biggest
support to gains by Japan’s Topix index. Honda Motor Co., the
automaker which counts  North America  as its biggest market for
sales, climbed 1.6 percent to 2,376 yen. Nintendo Co., which
receives more than 80 percent of its sales from outside Japan,
increased 3.5 percent to 13,220 yen.  “Stocks should be bought back as the yen’s appreciation is
taking a pause,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in
Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Price-to-book ratio shows
stocks are cheap, and technical indicators are also showing
equities are approaching a buy zone.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 14 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 7.4 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 20 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.6 times for the S&P 500
and 9.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, rallied 15 percent, the biggest
advance since April 2009. The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-
gigabit DRAM has fallen 3 percent this month after falling 14
percent in August, according to data from Taipei-based
Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of Asia’s largest spot
market for semiconductors.  Miners, Oil  “There’s some consensus that the chip market is near its
bottom,” Ahn Seong Ho, an analyst at Hanwha Securities Co. who
covers technology stocks, said in Seoul today.  Raw material producers posted the second-biggest increase
among the 10 industry groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
rising 2. percent. All groups rose on the measure.  BHP, which is also Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, rose 3.7
percent to A$38.23. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest
mining company by sales, rose 3.2 percent to A$70.60. Cnooc
Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, advanced 2.3
percent to HK$14.20.  Copper in  London  rose as much as 1.2 percent today for its
first gain in five days. Oil advanced from the lowest price in
more than a week in New York. Crude for October delivery rose as
much as $1.40 to $87.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange .  Capitaland Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest developer,
climbed 7.3 percent to S$2.64 in Singapore, the biggest one-day
gain since May 27, 2009. The company said in a Singapore stock
exchange statement yesterday it bought back 1.5 million shares
at between S$2.42 and S$2.45 apiece.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  