-- 
Asian Currencies Snap Two-Day Loss as U.S. Data Eases Recession Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-07T08:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/asian-currencies-snap-two-day-loss-as-u-s-data-eases-recession-concern.html
Asian currencies snapped a two-day
loss after an unexpected expansion of U.S. service industries
eased concern the world’s biggest economy is sliding into
recession.  South Korea ’s won was the biggest gainer in the region as
the benchmark Kospi stock index climbed 3.8 percent. Central
banks in South Korea,  Malaysia , Indonesia and the Philippines
will all keep their benchmark rates unchanged tomorrow,
according to four Bloomberg News surveys, on concern global
growth will weaken as the  U.S. economy  slows and  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsens.  “The won is rising as sentiment improved following the
Kospi gains,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “It seems some investors judged recent
falls excessive as well.”  The won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1,071.84 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India’s rupee appreciated 0.2 percent to 46.04, the
 Philippine peso  gained 0.1 percent to 42.255 and the Bloomberg-
JP Morgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.1 percent.  The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses increased to 53.3 last month from 52.7
in July, data released yesterday showed. The measure was
projected to fall to 51, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News Survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Europe Concern  The rupee snapped a two-day decline on speculation
companies repatriated overseas income to take advantage of a
favorable  exchange rate .  Exporters probably boosted dollar sales after the local
currency fell yesterday to the lowest level in more than a week,
said Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. The
Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index advanced for a second
day and exchange data showed overseas investors bought $303
million more Indian equities than they sold this month through
Sept. 5.  “Whenever the rupee reaches the 46 level, exporters come
in,” Mumbai-based Harihar said. “Even if there is a slowdown,
 India ’s economic growth remains relatively strong. That
continues to encourage capital inflows.”  Gains in Asian currencies may be limited as the euro
declined against 10 out of 16 major currencies, even after the
 Swiss National Bank  said yesterday “it will no longer tolerate
a euro-franc exchange rate below the minimum rate of 1.20
francs.” The Swiss franc reached a record high against the
dollar and the euro last month as funds sought refuge in the
currency amid the financial turmoil in Europe.  Peso Halts Slide  “That suggests people are still concerned about the
problems in the European Union,” said Ho Woei Chen, a
Singapore-based economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. “I don’t
think there will be support for Asian currencies.”  The peso halted a two-day slide as Philippine central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said today authorities will prevent
“unwarranted” volatility in the currency, which may rise from
the Swiss imposition of a ceiling on the franc.  “With one less hard currency to share the burden,
volatility in the markets can increase, particularly in emerging
market economies,” Tetangco said in an e-mail. Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas will consider the implications of the SNB’s move
during tomorrow’s policy meeting, he said.  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah and Malaysia’s ringgit were
little changed at 8,558 and 2.9838 against the dollar,
respectively. Thailand’s baht fell 0.2 percent to 30, the
 Singapore dollar  declined 0.1 percent to S$1.2074 and Taiwan’s
dollar was steady at NT$29.115.  China ’s yuan dropped 0.05
percent to 6.3940.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  