-- 
Assad Ouster Bid May Unleash ‘Chaos in Mideast,’ Russia Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-07T09:30:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/assad-ouster-bid-may-unleash-chaos-in-mideast-russia-says.html
Russia  warned that any efforts to
overthrow Syrian President Bashar al-Assad by military force
would unleash chaos in the Middle East, saying it categorically
opposes outside “interference.”  The European Union tightened sanctions against Syria last
week, banning imports of crude oil from the country after Russia
blocked efforts by the EU and U.S. to impose punitive measures
through the  United Nations .  “Russia is categorically against any interference,
especially military, in the internal affairs of a country,”
Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said yesterday in a
response to e-mailed questions. “Efforts to resolve the
problems in Syria through outside force would provoke utter
chaos in the Middle East.”  The government dispatched Bogdanov to Damascus on Aug. 29
to urge Assad to implement promised political changes and halt
violence against protesters. Russia, which maintains its only
military facility in the  Middle East  in Syria, a Soviet-era
ally, has rejected U.S. and European calls for Assad to step
down after a crackdown on unrest since March.  Russia will host Syrian opposition representatives for the
second time in Moscow on Sept. 9,  Mikhail Margelov , the Russian
president’s envoy to  Africa  and the Middle East, said today.  Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will also meet with Assad’s
media adviser, Bouthaina Shaaban, in Moscow next week, the
ministry said yesterday. Shaaban is one of three Syrian
officials who had sanctions imposed on them by the U.S. Treasury
Department last month.  ‘Halt the Bloodshed’  “The most important thing for us is to halt the bloodshed
in Syria and for that to happen, you need to talk to all
sides,” Margelov said in an interview in Yaroslavl, central
Russia.  More than 2,450 civilians and 700 members of the security
forces have been killed during the crackdown, while 15,000
people have been injured and at least 20,000 are in prison,
according to the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  ‘Sweeping’ Sanctions  “EU countries and the U.S. have already imposed sweeping
unilateral sanctions against the Syrian leadership, and no one
consulted with us,” Bogdanov said. “We need to switch the
focus from repressive methods to encouraging the authorities and
opposition to discuss reforms.”  Turkey  and Saudi Arabia have condemned the violence and
urged an immediate end to killings of protesters.  Any efforts by the U.S. and  Europe  to force regime change
in Syria after they intervened to oust Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  risk triggering the country’s collapse and further
instability in the Middle East, Konstantin Kosachyov, the head
of the Russian lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs
committee, said in an Aug. 22 interview.  The success of the rebels in  Libya  has implications for
U.S. policy toward Syria,  Ben Rhodes , deputy U.S. national
security adviser for strategic communications, said Aug. 22.  “It sends a message to Assad that the trends are against
those who try to crack down and stifle change,” Rhodes said.  Russia has said it won’t halt weapons deliveries to  Syria .
Arms contracts with the country are worth at least $3 billion,
according to Ruslan Pukhov, director of the Moscow-based Center
for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies. The orders
include Yakhont anti-ship cruise missiles, MiG-29 fighter jets
and Pantsir short-range air-defense systems.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  