-- 
Massachusetts Health-Jobs Surge May Signal Similar Growth under U.S. Law

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/massachusetts-health-jobs-surge-may-signal-effects-of-u-s-law.html
A rise in health-care jobs after
 Massachusetts  instituted a universal insurance program may
foreshadow national employment growth under the U.S. health
overhaul, a study found.  Health-care employment climbed 9.5 percent per capita in
Massachusetts from December 2005 to September 2010, outpacing
5.5 percent growth in the rest of the U.S., according to an
article in the  New England Journal of Medicine  today. New jobs
in administration drove rising health-care employment, wrote
 Douglas Staiger , an economist at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,
 New Hampshire , and colleagues.  The Massachusetts experience suggests the U.S. health
overhaul enacted last year, projected to expand coverage to 32
million uninsured people, may boost doctors’ administrative
expenses, stoke demand for physician services and “accelerate
the trend toward health care’s being the dominant employment
sector in the economy,” Staiger and his co-authors wrote.  “The steady growth in health-care employment is just
really in stark contrast to the rest of the economy,” Staiger
said in a telephone interview today. The U.S. overhaul probably
accelerates job growth “a little bit,” he said. Health-care
employment rose by 30,000 jobs as national unemployment remained
at 9.1 percent in August, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
 reported  last week.  The Massachusetts health law passed in 2006 led to near-
universal coverage for residents and greater spending on health
care. U.S. health-care employment rose 8 percent from January
2001 to December 2005. The researchers used data from the Bureau
of Labor Statistics and the U.S. Census Bureau.  Administrative Job Growth  Job growth in business operations and other areas outpaced
creation of doctor and nurse positions. Administrative staffing
rose about 18 percent in Massachusetts between 2005 and 2006,
before the law passed, and 2008 and 2009, as added enrollment
boosted workflow, the study shows. The number of physicians and
nurses in Massachusetts rose 2.8 percent in that time, the
authors wrote.  The U.S. law includes cost-containment measures including
lower payments to health-care providers from Medicare, the U.S.
insurance program for elderly and disabled, that may mitigate
concern about rising administrative costs, according to the
study.  The U.S. law may “exacerbate expected shortages of
physicians and registered nurses,” the authors wrote. The U.S.
physician shortage may expand almost 10-fold because of the
overhaul, according to data compiled by the Washington-based
 Association of American Medical Colleges .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 