-- 
Latecoere May Remain Independent as Search for Partner Continues

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-07T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/latecoere-may-remain-independent-as-search-for-partner-continues.html
Latecoere SA said it may choose to
remain independent as its finances improve, while the the French
maker of aircraft doors continues its search for a partner.  Latecoere, which sells doors, wiring and engineering
services to all major airframe makers, has been seeking an
investor or a combination with another aerospace supplier to
gain critical mass as investment in new planes increases.  “We’re operating in an industry that’s fragmented,” Chief
Executive Officer Francois Bertrand told journalists at a
briefing. “There are large number of medium-sized companies,
like ours, that will be consolidated in the next few years and
we’ve said early on we want to be an actor in consolidating.”  Since the Toulouse, France-based company began seeking a
partner more than a year ago, finances have improved as orders
and production rise. First-half net income rose to 15.5 million
euros ($21 million) from about 400,000 euros a year earlier.
Latecoere predicted 20 percent sales growth for this year, on an
operating margin of 7 percent, with 8 percent in 2012.  Bertrand said the search for a partner is “global.”
 Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. (SPR)  has been named in French media
as a potential buyer in the past. While  Europe  boasts more than
20 companies making structural parts for commercial aircraft,
the field in the U.S. has been winnowed to Spirit and  Triumph
Group Inc. (TGI) , which owns Vought Aircraft Industries.  Latecoere, whose largest customers are Airbus SAS and
 Brazil ’s  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , gets 56 percent of sales from plane
structures. Wiring contributes 32 percent and engineering 12
percent. Latecoere is supplying doors for four  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliners each month.  Debt as of June 30 was 353 million euros. Latecoere aims to
cut debt by 50 million euros in 2012, Bertrand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  