-- 
Stevens Signals Global Risks Outweigh Australia GDP Gains in Rates Debate

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-07T03:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/australia-s-economy-grows-more-than-estimated-spurring-gains-in-currency.html
Australia’s central bank Governor
 Glenn Stevens  signaled he’s prepared to extend a pause in
 interest rates  as global market turmoil threatens an economy
that grew last quarter at the fastest pace in four years.  Second-quarter gross domestic product advanced 1.2 percent
from the previous three months, when it fell a revised 0.9
percent, a Bureau of Statistics report released today in Sydney
showed. Stevens, speaking earlier in Perth, said households
watching  Europe ’s debt crisis may hunker down and weaken demand
compared with the central bank’s forecasts last month.  Australian households have boosted savings as assets such
as stocks and houses decline in value after the  Reserve Bank 
raised rates to a developed-world high of 4.75 percent, a level
Stevens kept them at yesterday. Today’s GDP result was the
biggest increase since the first quarter of 2007 and was driven
by a recovery from natural disasters in the nation’s northeast.  “More forward-looking indicators would categorize the
economy as very patchy,” said  Savanth Sebastian , a Sydney-based
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s
largest lender. “The uncertain global economic environment will
continue to depress consumer and business sentiment. The Reserve
Bank will need to do its part by keeping interest rates on
hold.”  The Australian dollar climbed after the report, buying
$1.0589 as of 1:45 p.m. in Sydney, a 1 percent advance from
yesterday. It gained against all 16 other major currencies for
the first time since July 27.  U.S. Slowdown  Clouding Australia’s outlook is concern the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly
stagnated in August as employers became less confident in the
strength of the recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1
percent, according to a Sept. 2 report.  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” Stevens said today in Perth. “It is too soon
to see much evidence of a concrete impact of these events on the
global economy.”  Responding to questions from the audience, Stevens said
policy makers need to keep an open mind on the timing and
direction of any decision to change rates. He declined to
speculate on the near-term outlook for monetary policy.  Today’s GDP report showed that compared with a year
earlier, the economy expanded 1.4 percent in the second quarter.
That was double economists’ forecast for a 0.7 percent expansion
from a year earlier.  Spending  Household spending rose 1 percent in the second quarter,
adding 0.5 percentage point to GDP growth, today’s report
showed. Machinery and equipment increased 4.9 percent, adding
0.3 point to growth, the report showed. Exports gained 2.6
percent, adding 0.6 point to the expansion.  Imports advanced 4.3 percent in the three months through
June, subtracting 1.1 percentage points, today’s report showed.  Mining investment in the 12 months ending June 30 next year
is projected to be A$82.1 billion ($87 billion), 45 percent
higher than in the 2010-2011 fiscal year, a report showed last
week. Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1
mining company, are expanding output to meet demand from China
and  India .  In contrast, consumers are curtailing spending as market
routs in Europe and the U.S. threaten global growth and the
outlook for exporters.  RBA Tightening  Australia’s central bank sought to restrain consumption
with 175 basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to
November. That was the most aggressive tightening for a
developed economy coming out of the 2009 global recession.  The nation’s household savings ratio declined to 10.5
percent in the three months through June from 11.7 percent in
the first quarter, today’s GDP report showed.  Stevens today reiterated the observation by his deputy, Ric
Battellino, last month that in the past year economic growth
seems to be turning out slower than expected and underlying
inflation higher.  “A key question is whether that is just the vagaries of
statistical noise and lags, or whether it is telling us that the
combinations of growth and inflation available to us in the
short term are less attractive than they seemed a few years
ago,” he told the Western Australian Chambers of Commerce and
Minerals & Energy today.  Inflation Target  The central bank’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
The RBA aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  The RBA has relied on the Australian dollar’s strength to
temper gains in consumer prices. The local currency has risen
about 16 percent in the past year and reached $1.1081 on July
27, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Qantas Airways Ltd. and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  all announced plans last month to trim their
workforces as Australian consumers retrench.  The nation’s jobless rate rose to 5.1 percent in July as
employment dropped by 100 workers that month. A report tomorrow
may show unemployment stayed at that level last month, with the
number of workers increasing by 10,000, according to the median
estimate of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Europe, there’s little sign of a rebound.  France ’s
economy stalled in the second quarter,  Germany ’s expanded 0.1
percent and the U.K.’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent.
Joblessness is rising from  Russia  to  Belgium .  ‘Complex Forces’  “More than at most times in my professional life,
 Australia ’s economy faces a very unusual, and powerful, set of
complex forces,” Stevens said today.  Even so, he said Australia is in a good position to face
the present challenges, with record-high terms of trade,
unemployment near 5 percent, a stable financial system and
“respected” sovereign credit globally.  Today’s GDP report showed the terms of trade, or export
prices relative to import prices, rose 5.4 percent last quarter.  “We have our problems, but with some good sense and
careful judgment we ought to be able to navigate what lies
ahead,” Stevens said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  