-- 
Australian Dollar Declines After Employers Unexpectedly Cut Jobs in August

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-09-08T16:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/australian-dollar-holds-gains-on-global-stocks-rally-before-jobs-report.html
Australia’s dollar fell against the
greenback after a report showed employers unexpectedly cut
positions in August and the jobless rate increased.  “We’re seeing Aussie coming off since jobs data was very
weak,” said Sue Trinh, a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “With the unemployment rate
ticking higher, investors are suggesting having restrictive
policy settings may be somewhat inappropriate.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0627 at
12:51 p.m. in New York, from $1.0662 yesterday. The New Zealand
dollar rose 0.5 percent to 83.63 U.S. cents, from 83.20.  Employers cut workers for a second straight month in
August, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today. The number
of people employed fell by 9,700, compared with the median
estimate for a 10,000 increase in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The jobless rate climbed to 5.3 percent, the highest
since October, from 5.1 percent in July.  Traders added to bets that the Reserve Bank of Australia
will lower its benchmark interest rate after the jobs report
stoked concern that the domestic economy is weakening. Policy
makers this week held the cash target at 4.75 percent for a
ninth straight meeting.  The yield on December interbank cash-rate futures fell
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 4.04 percent on
the Sydney Futures Exchange today.  ‘Radar Screen’  “Deceleration in annual employment growth is already on
the RBA’s radar screen,” Annette Beacher, the Singapore-based
head of Asia-Pacific research at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, wrote in a note today. “Another sharp rise in
the unemployment rate will be cause for concern.”  Australia’s currency was poised for its first weekly drop
since mid-August versus the U.S. dollar on concern slowing
growth in developed economies may harm sentiment and reduce
demand for the South Pacific nation’s exports.  U.S. jobless claims rose by 2,000 to 414,000 in the week
ended Sept. 3, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a
drop in claims to 405,000, according to the median forecast.  Japan’s current-account surplus sank 42 percent in July
from a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo today.
Machinery orders dropped 8.2 percent in July from June, the
Cabinet Office said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  