-- 
Banks, Funds Trade Record Freight Options as Shipping Volatility Increases

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-09-07T14:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/banks-funds-trade-record-freight-options-as-volatility-jumps.html
Banks and  hedge funds  seeking higher
returns in commodities-related investments are trading record
amounts of freight options as volatility in shipping surges,
according to Freight Investor Services Ltd.  The number of lots in freight options traded climbed 91
percent to a record 17,135 lots in the week ended Sept. 2, from
8,985 lots the previous week, according to the  Baltic Exchange ,
a London-based provider of shipping-market data. Each lot equals
a day’s charter, or 1,000 metric tons of cargo.  Macquarie Group Ltd., Mercuria Energy Trading SA and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch are among the 30 companies
worldwide regularly trading freight options, London-based broker
Freight Investor Services said.  “They’re looking for new avenues to explore and the
traditional markets seem to have lost a little interest for
them,” Ian Thompson, a broker at Freight Investor Services,
said in an interview. “All the big players want to come and see
if they can extract some value.”  Shipping derivatives are the third most volatile of any
traded commodities contract, according to Nikos Nomikos, a
shipping risk management professor at Cass Business School in
 London . Options give traders the right, without the obligation,
to buy or sell a derivatives contract in the future at a set
price.  Those freight-derivatives contracts, known as forward
freight agreements, are used to bet or hedge, on the future
price of hiring ships that transport dry-bulk commodities.  Fourth-quarter FFAs for iron ore-carrying capesize ships
jumped 58 percent in August as demand to ship  iron ore  from the
Atlantic to  Asia  accelerated, according to data from Clarkson
Securities Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker. That
was the biggest monthly price move this year. Capesizes are
vessels that usually haul iron ore and coal.  Increased Volatility  Hedge funds, banks and other institutions that have
experience of trading oil, gas, power and equities options are
increasingly turning to shipping because volatility is as much
as five times higher, Thompson said. The S&P GSCI Index tracking
 commodities markets  has lost 3.2 percent since Aug. 1, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Over the same period, the Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
commodity shipping costs, has advanced 39 percent. October
contracts for capesizes, the most frequently traded shipping
derivative contract, have gained 71 percent.  Trading in freight options is very low compared with crude
oil and other commodities, and is a fraction of the underlying
market, Nomikos said.  About 1 billion metric tons of freight was traded in 2010
using FFAs, according to the Baltic Exchange. That’s about 30
per cent of the 3.5 billion tons of dry-bulk commodities shipped
by sea last year, according to Clarkson Research Services, a
unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  