-- 
Biggest Banks Got $15 Billion ‘Subsidy’ on U.S. Guarantee, Fed Study Shows

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/banks-got-15-billion-subsidy-on-u-s-guarantee-study-shows.html
U.S. banks that took part in a boom
of megamergers from 1991 through 2004 benefited by more than $15
billion from perceived government support after being labeled
“too-big-to-fail,” according to a study from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  The banks, defined as having at least $100 billion in
assets, had lower borrowing costs and operated with less capital
than other lenders, according to the  study . The government’s
“subsidy,” the byproduct of a perceived guarantee that the
U.S. would prevent those lenders from failing, may be harming
the industry, customers and the economy, according to the study.  “They’ve gotten this protection and they’re not paying a
fair price for it,” Julapa Jagtiani, a staff member at the
Philadelphia Fed and co-author of the study, said in a telephone
interview. The paper was posted yesterday on the Social Science
Research Network’s website.  The study, issued in a preliminary version in 2009, is the
first attempt to apply a value to the implicit support that
banks receive when they are regarded by the markets as too-big-
to-fail, Jagtiani said. The paper was written by Jagtiani and
Elijah Brewer III of DePaul University in  Chicago .  The estimated value of the subsidy, $15 billion to $23
billion, was “the lower band” for its overall value to the
banks, Jagtiani said.  “The subsidy we know is much, much larger than we have
estimated,” she said.  The concept of too-big-to-fail came about in 1984 when the
federal government bailed out Continental Illinois National Bank
and Trust Co. to prevent it from collapsing, according to the
paper.  Eight Megamergers  How much the banks benefited financially was based on an
analysis of the premium that lenders were willing to pay to
acquire banks that would give them more than $100 billion in
assets, according to the study.  There were eight such megamergers from 1991 through 2004,
according to the paper, including Chemical Banking Corp. and
Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in 1991, now New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s 1995
acquisition of First Interstate Bancorp.  “Our estimates of the benefits from exceeding a too-big-
too-fail threshold appear large enough to cause increasing
concerns as the megamerger trend continues in the U.S. banking
industry,” according to the paper. “These trends could hinder
the efficient allocation of financial resources across different
sizes of institutions and, in turn, their customers and the
overall macro-economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in  New York  at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  