-- 
Bank of Canada Keeps 1% Policy Rate As Global Forces Cut Need for Increase

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:29:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/bank-of-canada-keeps-key-rate-at-1-detects-diminished-need-for-increase.html
The Bank of  Canada  kept its main
 interest rate  unchanged for an eighth meeting and said there is
a “diminished” need for an increase as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
and a slow U.S. rebound hobble the global recovery.  The Ottawa-based central bank left the target for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, where it has been
since last September, as forecast by all 27 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  The world’s 10th largest economy shrank in the second
quarter as a strong dollar and weak U.S. demand weighed on
Canada, which depends on exports for one-third of its output.
The central bank’s decision echoed signals sent by policy makers
in Sweden, Australia and  Japan .  “In light of slowing global economic momentum and
heightened financial uncertainty, the need to withdraw monetary
policy stimulus has diminished,” the bank’s governing council,
led by Governor  Mark Carney , 46, said in a statement today.  The Bank of Canada reiterated today it expects economic
growth to resume in the second half of this year, led by
business investment and  consumer spending . Output shrank at an
annualized 0.4 percent rate in the second quarter, which the
bank said was “largely due to temporary factors.”  Future ‘Pushed Off’  “Given its outlook that Canada’s economy will pick up
somewhat in the second half of the year, it believes it doesn’t
need to inject further stimulus,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “There is still a
sense that rates will need to go up in the future, but that
future is pushed off.”  The Canadian dollar gained 0.3 percent to 98.77 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 11:17 a.m. in Toronto, from 99.05 cents
yesterday, when it touched 99.66 cents, the weakest since Aug.
11. The yield on the three-month overnight index swap rose to
0.976 percent from 0.951 yesterday as some investors pared bets
on a rate cut, and the yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond rose to 0.90 percent from 0.86 percent.  The bank’s previous announcement in July said “some of the
considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in place will be
withdrawn” as the economy recovers. Policy makers today listed
challenges facing the economy, including the country’s strong
dollar and the need for “significant initiatives by European
authorities” to boost investor confidence.  Extending Pause  Sweden’s Riksbank today abandoned a planned rate increase
after seven consecutive moves, while  Australia ’s central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled he’s prepared to extend a pause
in interest rates because of global market turmoil. The  Bank of
Japan  also kept monetary policy unchanged as it gauges the
effect of stimulus. The Czech central bank may delay raising
interest rates if the euro area’s debt crisis escalates further,
board member Lubomir Lizal said in a Bloomberg interview in
Prague yesterday.  The  European Central Bank  and the Bank of England have
interest-rate decisions tomorrow, and economists predict the
U.K. rate will remain at 0.5 percent and the ECB’s at 1.5
percent. In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  pledged Aug. 9 to keep
its benchmark rate at a record low at least through mid-2013 to
revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated.  “The overarching theme of ‘lower for longer’ remains
firmly intact,” in Canada, said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit. At the
same time, “the bar to a cut in the overnight rate is set
exceptionally high.”  Drag on Exports  Slower global growth will be a drag on Canada’s exports and
ease inflation pressures, the  Bank of Canada  said today. “Net
exports are now expected to remain a major source of weakness,
reflecting more modest global demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, in particular the persistent strength of the
Canadian dollar,” the bank said.  The Bank of Canada’s mandate is to set policy aiming
inflation at a 2 percent annual pace. Consumer prices rose 2.7
percent in July from a year earlier, the eighth month it was
above target.  Some investors resumed betting that the Bank of Canada will
cut interest rates after Statistics Canada reported Aug. 31 that
the economy shrank, Brazil unexpectedly cut rates last week and
Switzerland yesterday offered unlimited funds to cap a rise in
the franc. In the U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s
exports, a report last week showed  job creation  stalled in
August.  More Flexibility  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week that Canada
has more flexibility than the U.S. central bank. “With respect
to the limited tools available given the rate presently in place
by the Fed in the U.S., we have more room to move in Canada than
there is to move in the United States,” Flaherty said Aug. 31
in Toronto.  Flaherty also said that the economy is “sound and
sustainable.”  McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
said today it will spend C$1 billion to refurbish the majority
of its 1,400 Canadian locations. Work will be done on “more
than half” of the restaurants by year-end and most of the rest
by the end of 2012, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said.  “I’m not so sure,” a rate cut is needed, Suncor Energy
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Rick George said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “Rates are
pretty low right now. We in the west, particularly in Alberta
and Saskatchewan, are facing inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  