-- 
BASF Said to Be Close to Selling Most Fertilizer Assets to Yara of Norway

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-07T14:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/basf-is-said-to-be-nearing-sale-of-most-nitrogen-fertilizer-assets-to-yara.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemicals company, is poised to sell most of its nitrogen
fertilizer assets to  Yara International ASA (YAR) , two people with
knowledge of the situation said.  Talks are advancing and an initial agreement may be reached
by the end of September, said one of the people, who declined to
be named because the sale process is private. While Yara is the
front runner,  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC)  of  Egypt  is also a
suitor, the people said.  The sale includes a nitrogen site in Antwerp,  Belgium , and
a share of a venture in  France . The assets generate about 500
million euros ($702 million) in annual sales. BASF, based in
Ludwigshafen,  Germany , put the bulk of its fertilizer assets up
for sale in February as it shifts its focus to less cyclical
products. The assets for sale are profitable, BASF has said.  BASF spokesman Michael Grabicki said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation, as did Yara spokesman Esben Tuman. The
Oslo, Norway-based company has said that it submitted a bid.  The fertilizer industry is consolidating as rising food
prices spur farmers to plant more crops, boosting demand for
soil nutrients. Yara’s fertilizer deliveries were up 4 percent
in the second quarter, led by urea sales. Margins improved for
all its main product groups, with the strongest increase for
NPK, or nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, and nitrates.  K+S Impact  The sale will have a knock-on effect on K+S AG, which has a
marketing agreement with BASF for nitrogen fertilizer extending
through 2014. All options for the distribution arm are being
considered, Michael Wudonig, a spokesman for K+S, said by phone.  “We’re on the sidelines, waiting for the outcome of the
BASF process,” Wudonig said.  BASF will retain fertilizer assets at its headquarters in
Ludwigshafen, Germany.  Yara is also competing for the remaining stake of Burrup
Fertilisers Pty, an Australian ammonia producer under
receivership. The company, which owns 35 percent of Burrup’s
parent, Burrup Holdings Ltd., wants to take full ownership.  For Orascom, the assets would be a chance to build on its
acquisition of similar fertilizer assets from Royal DSM NV last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  