-- 
Berlusconi Deficit Plan Passes Senate, Setting Up Chamber Vote

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-07T18:26:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/berlusconi-s-austerity-plan-passes-italian-senate-setting-up-chamber-vote.html
The Senate approved Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi’s revised austerity plan, setting up a final
vote in the Chamber of Deputies as Italy seeks to stem surging
bond yields.  The upper house voted 165 to 141 to adopt the 54 billion-
euro ($76 billion) plan, with three abstentions, Senate Speaker
Renato Schifani said after the session in Rome. The vote took
place as protesters hurled smoke bombs and firecrackers amid a
heavy police presence outside the Senate building, a day after
thousands of Italians protested in a general strike against the
measures.  Italy is struggling to persuade investors it can tame the
euro-region’s second-biggest debt burden amid contagion from the
sovereign crisis sparked by Greece’s fiscal woes. The austerity
package, the second in a month, was announced on Aug. 5 to
convince the European Central Bank to buy Italian bonds after
the 10-year yield surged to a euro-era record of 6.4 percent.  “After a series of U-turns, the Italian budget saga
appears to be moving toward a satisfactory conclusion,” Nicola Mai, an economist at JPMorgan Chase Bank in London, said in a
note to investors. “Implementation risks remain, relating to
growth and the practical adoption of the measures,” though the
package is “certainly a step in the right direction.”  The new package was amended yesterday to compensate for
measures dropped in recent weeks. The plan now includes an
increase in value-added tax by one percentage point to 21
percent, a 3 percent levy on incomes over 300,000 euros and a
higher retirement age for women.  Yields Fall  The 10-year yield fell 24 basis points today to 5.25
percent, pushing the premium investors demand to hold the 10-
year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds to 334 basis
points, compared with a four-week high of 378 on Sept. 5. That
was the highest since before the ECB started buying Italian
bonds on Aug. 8.  The government had overhauled the package in recent weeks,
bowing to political pressure from allies and stoking concern it
was backsliding. Last week, Berlusconi cut an original version
of a “solidarity tax” on incomes of more than 90,000 euros a
year, trimmed cuts to regional governments by around 1.8 billion
euros and scrapped a measure to change pension-payment rules.  Confidence Issue  “ECB bond-buying can only offer a palliative cure,”
Nicholas Spiro, who runs Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a London-
based consulting firm, said in an e-mail. “What ultimately
matters is confidence in Italian policymaking, and increasingly
there’s a feeling that this may require the appointment of a new
government.”  Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi, who will become ECB
president on Nov. 1, said the central bank’s bond buying is
“temporary” and should not be taken for granted by euro-region
member states. The purchases “cannot be used to circumvent the
fundamental principle of budgetary discipline,” Draghi said,
according to the e-mailed text of a speech in Paris on Sept. 5.  With passage secured in the Senate, the austerity package
now faces a final vote in the Chamber of Deputies, possibly as
soon as this week. CGIL, Italy’s largest union, staged a
nationwide general strike on Sept. 6 against the plan, saying it
unfairly targeted the middle and working classes.  Italy may still need further deficit cuts next month as the
latest package won’t convince the ECB to continue buying Italian
bonds, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Mario Baldassarri, said in an interview in Rome yesterday.  “We may need another adjustment in three, four weeks which
will be the real answer to the European Commission and to
markets,” Baldassarri said. To ensure continued ECB support,
Italy may require another plan with more “spending cuts and not
tax increases, structural reforms in terms of liberalization,
privatizations, sales of public buildings and so on,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  