-- 
Berlusconi Austerity Plan Goes to Chamber of Deputies After Senate Passage

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-08T10:25:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/berlusconi-austerity-plan-passes-senate-in-bid-to-appease-ecb-investors.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s revised 54 billion-euro ($76 billion) austerity
plan was approved by the Senate as the government seeks to
convince investors and the  European Central Bank  it’s serious
about cutting the deficit.  The Senate backed the plan in a confidence vote last night
after the government beefed up the package the previous day by
increasing  sales tax  and changing pension rules. Top lawmakers
in the Chamber of Deputies, parliament’s lower house, meet today
to set their vote, which may come as soon as Sept. 10.  Italy is rushing to pass the measures to ensure the ECB
continues buying its bonds after contagion from the region’s
debt crisis pushed borrowing costs for  Europe ’s second-biggest
debtor to the highest in more than a decade. The flap over
Italian austerity comes as a new bailout for  Greece  and efforts
to shore up the region’s rescue fund founder, undermining
Europe’s ability to restore confidence in the single currency.  “The Italian austerity plan will play a role in calming
the markets, but it won’t be determinant, as the real focus is
the credibility of Europe as a whole,” said Mario Spreafico,
chief investment officer at Schroders Private Banking for Italy
in Milan, who helps oversee about 1.5 billion euros in assets.  Legislating Deficit  The government took further steps to flex fiscal rigor
today as the Cabinet passed a draft constitutional amendment to
force Italian governments to balance their budgets starting in
2014. The bill will be quickly debated and voted on by
Parliament, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement.  The yield on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond fell for a
third day, shedding 4 basis points to 5.21 percent, pushing the
premium investors demand to hold the 10-year bonds instead of
benchmark German bunds to 331 basis points. That compared with
378 basis points on Sept. 6, the highest since before the ECB
started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8.  The ECB began its purchases after Berlusconi proposed the
austerity package on Aug. 5, a day after the yield on Italy’s
10-year bond reached a euro-era high of 6.4 percent. The support
from the central bank knocked more than 100 basis points off the
yield in a week before the government began watering down the
package.  Last week, Berlusconi dropped a “solidarity tax” on
incomes of more than 90,000 euros a year, trimmed cuts to
regional governments by around 1.8 billion euros and scrapped a
measure to change pension-payment rules. Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  initially said the resulting revenue hole would be
plugged by a crackdown on  tax evasion .  Yield Surge  The government bickering over the plan and changes to the
measures contributed to an 11-day slide in Italian bonds. The
country’s benchmark stock index fell on Sept. 5 to its lowest
close since March 2009.  On the eve of yesterday’s Senate vote, the government said
it would raise the value-added tax by 1 percentage point to 21
percent, increasing revenue by more than 4 billion euros a year.
A tax surcharge on Italians earning more than 300,000 euros a
year was also included.  “While the package improved a lot over the past day, a
series of concerns linger,” Nicola Mai, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co in  London , said in a note to investors.
“Italy will need more growth-enhancing structural reforms, and
will have to shrink the size of its overinflated public sector
in a more significant way.”  Italy’s economy will contract 0.1 percent in the third
quarter before expanding 0.1 percent in the three months through
December, the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said in its interim economic assessment today.  Yesterday’s vote took place as protesters tossed smoke
bombs and firecrackers amid a heavy police presence outside the
Senate in central  Rome , one day after hundreds of thousands of
Italians protested against the measures in a general strike.  More Austerity?  The government may be forced to adopt another austerity
plan within a month because the current measures won’t be enough
to convince the ECB, Mario Baldassarri, head of the Senate
Finance Committee and a former Berlusconi ally, said in an
interview yesterday.  The vote came as the ECB prepared for its monthly meeting
in  Frankfurt  today where the bank’s president,  Jean-Claude Trichet , will likely be quizzed on whether the measures are
sufficient for the ECB to step up its Italian bond buying.
Trichet said on Sept. 3 that the plan must be fully “confirmed
and implemented.”  Italy  needs to maintain ECB support for its bonds to keep
down borrowing costs as it seeks to finance a debt that now tops
1.9 trillion euros. The Treasury needs to sell about 18 billion
euros of bonds in September, when it faces 46 billion euros of
maturing debt, analysts at Milan-based UniCredit SpA estimate.  Italy will sell three different bonds next week as well as
11.5 billion euros of treasury bills.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  