-- 
Bloomberg Television Debuts ‘Sportfolio’ with Rick Horrow

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-07T19:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/bloomberg-television-debuts-sportfolio-with-rick-horrow.html

Press Release  Sports Analyst and Dealmaker Rick Horrow Interviews the Business
Personalities behind the Biggest Names in Sports  New York -- Next Wednesday, September 14th at 9:00 PM/ET and PT,
Bloomberg Television goes inside the multibillion dollar
business of sports with the new weekly program, “Sportfolio,”
hosted by sports dealmaker and analyst Rick Horrow.  Each week, Horrow, the CEO of Horrow Sports Ventures and
architect of more than $13 billion in major sports deals, will
talk to sports leaders about the business and economics of the
game.  In Wednesday’s premiere, Horrow sits down with Related
Companies founder, chairman and CEO Steve Ross to discuss his
professional achievements and ownership stake in the Miami
Dolphins. On September 21st, Horrow interviews legendary golfer
and businessman Jack Nicklaus, followed by a special NHL season
opener program with NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman on September
28th.  Tune in each Wednesday at 9 PM/ET and PT for additional
interviews with New York Giants owner Steve Tisch, Milwaukee
Brewers owner Mark Attanasio, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and
more.  “I’m looking forward to hosting Bloomberg TV’s first program on
the business of sports,” said Horrow. “I’ll be on the ground
across America, having conversations with some of the top sports
personalities I’ve known over the years, and offering a new
perspective on the economics of the game.”  “As a sports dealmaker himself, Rick is able to bring in-depth
conversations with the business leaders, sports stars and
entertainment names he’s worked with over the past 30 years,”
said Maia Samuel, executive producer, Bloomberg Television.
“This show is an opportunity for viewers to go inside the
boardroom and see the decisions that influence professional
sports.”  As CEO of Horrow Sports Ventures (HSV), Horrow served as the
architect of more than 100 major deals, worth $13 billion, in
sports, performing arts and urban infrastructure projects
including the development of major stadiums and arenas. Horrow
also served as a consultant for the NFL, Major League Baseball,
the PGA Tour and NASCAR, in addition to hosting national radio
programs for FOX Sports and Sports Byline USA and TV segments on
FOX Sports and ESPN.  He is the author of “When the Game is on
the Line” and co-author of “Beyond the Scoreboard: An Insider’s
Guide to the Business of Sport.” Horrow has also served as
Visiting Expert on Sports Law at The Harvard Law School, where
he received his degree.  About Bloomberg Television  Bloomberg Television, currently available in more than 270
million homes worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most
affluent and influential viewers in terms of household income,
asset value and education levels.  With hubs in New York, London
and Hong Kong, the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage
of the people, companies and ideas that move the markets.
For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
www.bloomberg.com/tv and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Horrow Sports Ventures  Horrow Sports Ventures ( http://www.horrowsports.com ) is the
leading facility development advisor to teams, leagues,
universities, government agencies, and not-for-profit
organizations. Horrow Sports Ventures clients consider Rick
Horrow’s high media profile of equal value to his sports
facilities expertise, and work with him regularly to develop
content that presents their message while providing greater to
fans eager to dig deeper into the business behind their favorite
sports.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-8185,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
