-- 
BNP Paribas Says It Has ‘Excess’ of Dollar Short-Term Liquidity

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-07T12:10:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/bnp-paribas-says-it-has-excess-of-dollar-short-term-liquidity.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s largest
bank, said it has “an excess of short-term liquidity” in U.S.
dollars and that the company has to deposit the extra funds at
the U.S. Federal Reserve.  “It is an additional clue of how much jammed the interbank
market is,” said Christophe Nijdam, a Paris-based analyst at
AlphaValue. “There is no obligation to deposit excess  U.S.
dollar  funds at the Fed as far as I know. It could be deposited
with other banks.”  BNP Paribas has “a sizeable liquidity buffer,” the Paris-
based bank said in a note to clients and investors dated Sept. 6
and obtained by Bloomberg. The lender joins Societe Generale SA
and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s second- and third-biggest
banks, respectively, in providing details on financing from U.S.
money-market funds.  Societe Generale (GLE)  has fallen 52 percent this year in Paris
trading amid funding concerns and the European sovereign-debt
crisis. BNP Paribas has declined 36 percent in the period.  In August, BNP “experienced a shortening in maturities
available and some decrease in the amounts coming from U.S.
money-market funds,” the bank said. The company gets U.S.
dollar short-term funding from sources including corporates,
central banks and wealth-management clients with financing in
the currency spread across the U.S., Gulf countries, Asia-
Pacific and Western Europe, it said, without giving any figure
for U.S. dollar funding needs.  Passing On Costs  “Alternative U.S. dollar funding sources are of course
more expensive and we have to pass that additional cost on to
our U.S. dollar borrowing clients,” BNP Paribas said. “In
practice, some of them may not accept and U.S. dollar funding
needs may come down.”  “This shows a bias in favor of trading activities rather
than financing the real economy,” said AlphaValue’s Nijdam. For
a bank, “it’s much easier and faster to decrease the trading
book rather than the loan book,” he said.  The reduction in the willingness of banks to lend to each
other is mostly an anticipation of new Basel rules and “not
mainly due to counterparty risk issues,” the French lender
said. The  interbank market  situation today “is very different”
compared with the crisis that followed Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s 2008 collapse, the company said.  BNP Paribas reiterated that it has about 150 billion euros
($211 billion) of assets eligible to central banks, including
$30 billion eligible to the Fed, according to the note. The
lender also repeated it completed its 2011 medium- and long-term
funding program of 35 billion euros.  The euro region has a “core of wealthy and sound
countries,” BNP Paribas said. The bank doesn’t see a “specific
risk” that France’s sovereign debt might be downgraded after
 Standard & Poor’s  last month lowered the U.S.’s credit rating to
AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5.  BNP Paribas should “gradually” comply with  capital
requirements  for systemically important financial institutions
with no need of any capital injection, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  