-- 
BOE May Mull More Stimulus as Slowdown Threatens Recovery

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-08T07:23:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/boe-may-discuss-stimulus-as-global-market-turmoil-threatens-u-k-recovery.html
Bank of England  policy makers may
consider the need for more stimulus today in case global market
strains worsen, setting aside inflation risks as the recovery
threatens to unravel.  With European governments struggling to counter the
region’s debt crisis, the Federal Reserve mulling additional
stimulus measures and global growth cooling, the bank may keep
its benchmark interest rate at a record low, according to all 57
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. While a separate poll
shows the central bank will keep its bond plan unchanged,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. say policy makers
will resume asset purchases by November.  The FTSE-100 has dropped 8.3 percent since the start of
August, just before Governor  Mervyn King  chaired the last
Monetary Policy Committee meeting. For now, a 4.4 percent
inflation rate may stay its hand, even after surveys showed
manufacturing contracted in August and services growth slowed as
the budget squeeze persisted.  “We don’t expect them to do more quantitative easing, but
they’ll discuss the conditions required to justify a move later
in the year,” said Chris Scicluna, deputy head of economic
research at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe  in London. “The
recovery has run into the sand but it’s not clear the economy is
contracting.”  Vote Switch  The Bank of England will announce the decision at noon in
London. The bank bought 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) of
securities in a program that ended in early 2010, as the economy
emerged from recession. While  Adam Posen  has been the only
policy maker to vote for further purchases, the darkening
economic outlook prompted  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  to end
their push last month for an interest-rate increase.  The pound fell 0.3 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5938 as of 8:08 a.m. in London. Bonds rose, with
the yield on the 10-year government gilt dropping 2 basis points
to 2.32 percent.  All 57 economists in a survey expect the Bank of England to
keep its key interest rate on hold at a record-low 0.5 percent
today. The bank will also leave the bond plan unchanged, said
all but one of 41 economists in another poll. The  European
Central Bank , which announces its policy decision 45 minutes
later in Frankfurt, will also leave its benchmark on hold,
according to a separate survey.  Downside Risks  Minutes of the MPC’s August meeting showed some members
said increasing the bond plan might “become warranted” if
downside risks materialize.  Since then, the cost of insuring U.K. bank bonds for five
years has risen to levels last seen in September 2008, when
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed. Consumer confidence
fell for a third month and an index of services dropped the most
in a decade in August. Yields on the debt of  Portugal ,  Italy ,
 Greece  and  Spain  have soared on concern Europe’s leaders will
fail to solve the debt crisis.  “The argument for raising rates is well off the agenda,”
said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London  and
former Bank of England official. “There will be more QE by
November, and if the data continues worsening we could easily
get it in October.”  The Institute of Directors, a London-based business lobby,
today called for a 50 billion-pound increase in the bond
program, while the British Chambers of Commerce sees
“arguments” for an immediate expansion.  Reluctance  The central bank may be reluctant to start a new round of
purchases while inflation is above its 2 percent target and the
economy is still growing. King has said price growth will
quicken to 5 percent in the coming months before easing, which
compares with an inflation rate of 2.9 percent when the bank
started QE in March 2009.  “It’s quite difficult to justify more monetary support
when inflation is so far above target,” said Samuel Tombs, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in London. “The risk is that it
becomes ingrained with higher inflation expectations.”  Another barrier stems from questions on what further
stimulus would achieve. So far the bank has acquired about 198
billion pounds of gilts, with the rest in corporate bonds and
commercial paper. More than half the gilts are due in five to 25
years, according to Morgan Stanley.  The yield on 10-year  government bonds  was at 2.34 percent
yesterday, after falling to record-low 2.24 percent last month.  “It won’t make much difference,” said  Brian Hilliard , an
economist at  Societe Generale  in London. “One of the prime
effects they’ve been looking for is on yields, and their own
studies showed QE reduced them by 1 percentage point. I can’t
see that happening when we have almost record-low yields now.”  Fed Meeting  Other central banks are also grappling with boosting
stimulus. The  Federal Reserve  will consider at its next meeting
on Sept. 20-21 replacing short-term  Treasury securities  with
long-term bonds to lower borrowing rates, and some economists
are calling on the ECB to cut  interest rates .  Any revival of QE by the Bank of England would require the
assent of the Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne. He
said Sept. 6 he’ll stick to his budget cuts, leaving the onus
for stimulating the economy on the central bank.  While that remark may raise pressure on the bank to act,
policy makers will likely keep their own counsel, Tinsley said.
Osborne’s predecessor, Alistair Darling, described King as
“incredibly stubborn” in memoirs published this week.  “The chancellor is signalling that when the request comes,
there’ll be no obstacles,” Tinsley said. “As we know from
Darling’s comments, the governor is not a man to be pushed
around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  