-- 
BOJ Keeps Key Overnight Rate at Zero to 0.1%

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-09-07T04:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/boj-keeps-key-overnight-rate-at-zero-to-0-1-.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  kept monetary
policy unchanged after adding 10 trillion yen ($130 billion) of
stimulus last month to combat a yen near a postwar high.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his policy board kept the
key benchmark  interest rate  between zero and 0.1 percent and
left its credit and asset-purchasing programs totaling 50
trillion yen unchanged, in line with forecasts by 10 of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The vote was unanimous,
the bank said in a statement.  The yen advanced against the dollar as the bank refrained
from adding stimulus a day after Switzerland pledged to put a
ceiling on its  exchange rate  against the euro. The Swiss and
Japanese have had to contend with appreciation in their
currencies as risks to global growth boost their appeal with
investors seeking safe-haven assets.  “Further monetary easing is still on the table,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo and a
former BOJ official. “If the yen strengthens sharply beyond the
postwar high, that could push stocks lower, increasing the
chance that the BOJ will ease more.”  Japan’s currency traded at 77.26 against the dollar at 1:41
p.m. in Tokyo, compared with 77.39 before the announcement. The
yen touched a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19. Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration is weighing stimulus measures to
help companies cope with the yen’s gains.  Stronger Commitment  “The BOJ just increased stimulus, so it’s natural they’d
now want to gauge how effective that is,” Akio Makabe, an
economics professor at  Shinshu University  in central  Japan , said
before the decision. “Noda may ask for a stronger commitment
from the BOJ to ease policy. If the yen keeps strengthening, we
can expect them to add more stimulus before year end.”  Two analysts surveyed predicted policy easing and one saw
an equal chance Shirakawa would announce stimulus measures or
keep credit programs unchanged. The lending facility and asset
program have been the central bank’s main policy tools since it
lowered the key rate to near zero in October.  The BOJ expanded stimulus on Aug. 4, hours after
authorities intervened in  currency markets  to prevent the yen’s
appreciation from derailing the nation’s recovery from a March
earthquake.  Reconstruction Spending  Noda, a former finance chief sworn in last week to replace
 Naoto Kan , is drafting a third package to rebuild after the
March quake. He has said the government is weighing measures to
help companies deal with the rising yen. The currency has
climbed 3 percent against the dollar in the past three months.  The premier has also indicated taxes may need to be raised
to help fund the initiatives. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
the nation’s credit rating on notch to Aa3 last month, citing
weak prospects for growth that will make it difficult for the
government to rein in the world’s largest public debt burden.  The yen has retreated from its highest level since 1945,
and weakened yesterday after the Swiss central bank said it will
keep the euro above 1.20 francs and will defend that line with
“utmost determination.” Finance Minister Jun Azumi said
earlier this week that the yen’s gains have been “abrupt.”  A rebound in the world’s third-largest economy from the
March 11 temblor that left more than 19,000 dead or missing may
be losing steam.  Capital spending  unexpectedly declined in the
second quarter and a regular revision to consumer price data
showed the economy is still struggling with deflation. Growth in
the U.S., the nation’s second-largest export destination after
 China , is also slowing, a sign Japan may not be able to count on
exports to end three quarters of economic contraction.  $100 Billion Program  Japanese policy makers have been focused on alleviating the
pressure of the strong yen by establishing lending programs to
encourage companies to acquire businesses or energy resources
overseas. The  Finance Ministry  last month said it would make
$100 billion of its foreign-currency reserves available for
companies through a state-run lender.  “The central bank will want to show it’s willing to
cooperate with the new administration when it can,” said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in  Tokyo . “But there isn’t much the central bank can do. It
would probably be prudent for them to ease policy in October,
around the time the third extra budget is due to pass.”  In addition to boosting its fixed-rate lending program and
asset-purchase facility, analysts surveyed said the BOJ may also
weigh expanding the maturities of debt it purchases to lower
borrowing costs as well as cutting the amount of interest it
pays on reserves financial institutions park at the BOJ.  The central bank is unlikely to pursue more unorthodox
measures to stop the yen’s strengthening such as buying foreign
assets, a move that would interfere with the Finance Ministry’s
control over currency policy, according to Izuru Kato, chief
economist in Tokyo at Totan Research Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  