-- 
BP Doubles Oil Estimate From Gulf of Mexico’s Mad Dog Field

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-07T14:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/bp-doubles-oil-estimate-from-gulf-of-mexico-s-mad-dog-field.html
BP Plc (BP/)  more than doubled the
estimated oil resources at the Mad Dog field in the U.S.  Gulf of
Mexico  following results from an appraisal well drilled in the
northern section of the deposit.  The field may hold as much as 4 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, the London-based company said today in a statement.
The BP-operated field was initially thought to have more than
1.5 billion barrels of oil in place, according to  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , its partner in the project.  “Mad Dog has been firmly established as a giant field in
BP’s Gulf of Mexico portfolio, rivaling Thunder Horse in size of
resource,” BP’s Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said in
the statement.  BP’s Thunder Horse is the largest deepwater producing unit
in the world, floating about a mile above the ocean floor. It
has capacity to process 250,000 barrels of oil and 200 million
cubic feet of gas a day,  according  to BP.  The appraisal well drilled by BHP in a previously untested
northern section confirmed a “significant” resource extension,
BP said.  The partners, which also include  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , have been
accelerating plans to double production from Mad Dog, which
pumped its first crude oil and natural gas in 2005. This week,
Chevron announced the Moccasin discovery in the deepwater Gulf,
where BP is also a partner.  “Coupled with the recent exploration success at the
discovery at the Moccasin prospect, located in Keathley Canyon,
the Mad Dog result re-emphasizes the exploration and development
potential of the Gulf of Mexico,” Dudley said.  Last year, BHP indicated that Mad Dog may hold an
additional 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent resources. The
field’s current facility is designed to process 100,000 barrels
of oil and 60 million cubic feet of gas a day, according to BP’s
 website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  