-- 
U.K. Gilts Fall Second Day as Stocks Rise, Investors Seek Higher Returns

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:47:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/british-pound-declines-against-euro-after-report-on-falling-house-prices.html
U.K. gilts declined for a second day
as stocks rallied and investors sought higher returns than
offered by bond yields near record lows.  Two-year rates climbed to the highest in a week as
speculation waned that the  Bank of England  would increase its
asset-purchase program at a policy meeting tomorrow. The pound
dropped against the euro after as a report showed U.K. house
prices slipped last month more than economists forecast.  “While people think there’s a reasonable chance of there
being more quantitative easing being announced, I don’t think
many expect that to be the case tomorrow -- it’s too early,”
said said Adam McCormack, head of gilt sales at Barclays Plc in
London. Improved sentiment toward stocks “does have an effect
as well.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt climbed five basis points to
2.34 percent at 4:36 p.m. in London, after dropping to a record
2.24 percent on Aug. 18. The 3.75 percent bond due September
2020 fell 0.400, or 4 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,595) face
amount, to 111.385. Two-year yields were little changed at 0.58
percent, after increasing to 0.64 percent today, the highest
since Aug. 30.  The pound slid 0.4 percent to 88.18 pence per euro and was
little changed at $1.5938. The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  of equities rose
3.1 percent, extending yesterday’s 1.1 percent gain.  Pound Gains  Britain’s five-year program to eliminate the  budget deficit 
has provided space for the central bank to practice “monetary
activism” to keep borrowing costs down, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday. The U.K. has “a plan
for fiscal responsibility” that was introduced “so that
monetary activism can allow  interest rates  to stay lower for
longer,” he said in London.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. said two days
ago that U.K. policy makers may resume their quantitative easing
program by buying bonds as early as this week.  Gilts have returned 9.8 percent this year, compared with
7.4 percent from German debt and 8.4 percent from U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The pound weakened for a second day against the euro even
as Halifax said U.K. house prices fell in August.  Prices dropped 1.2 percent from July, the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in  London . From a year earlier,
they decreased 3.9 percent.  “Sterling will remain fragile for the foreseeable
future,” said Harry Adams, a currency trader at Schneider
Foreign Exchange in London. “Any negative data, such as this
morning, will increase speculation of further quantitative
easing, which will result in sterling coming down even
further.”  The pound has depreciated 7 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine major peers, making it the second-worst
performer after the dollar, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  