-- 
HTC Sues Apple Using Google Patents Bought Last Week as Battle Escalates

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-09-08T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/htc-sues-apple-alleging-infringement-of-four-u-s-patents.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-biggest
smartphone maker, is using nine patents bought from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
last week to pursue new infringement claims against Apple Inc.  Google had taken ownership of the patents less than a year
ago, with four of the patents originating from Motorola Inc.,
three from Openwave Systems Inc. and two from Palm Inc.,
according to U.S. Patent and Trademark Office records. Jim
Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based Google,
wouldn’t discuss reasons for the nine transfers to HTC.  HTC now has more ammunition in its fight to fend off
multiple patent-infringement claims lodged by Apple that contend
phones running Google’s Android operating system copy the
iPhone. Google’s involvement in aiding HTC represents a new
front in an industrywide dispute over smartphone technology that
has also ensnared Android customers Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  “That’s a bit of a game-changer,” said  Will Stofega , a
technology analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.
“Google was interested in protecting its licensees with
Android. It shows they need to support their customers in order
to make sure the customers stick with them.”  HTC sued Apple yesterday in court and filed a complaint at
the U.S. International Trade Commission, alleging infringement
of the patents obtained from Google.  Tremendous Pressure  Google, which hasn’t been sued directly by Apple, has been
criticized for sitting on the sidelines while its Android
partners faced lawsuits. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, which gained
attention in the U.S. by making the first phone to run Android,
has defended itself partly by bringing two infringement cases
against Apple at the trade commission in  Washington , one
submitted last year and another last month.  HTC also agreed to buy closely held S3 Graphics Co. less
than a week after that company won a preliminary patent ruling
against Cupertino, California-based Apple.  “Google knows that HTC is under tremendous legal pressure
from Apple and clearly on the losing track,” Florian Mueller, a
Munich-based consultant and intellectual property activist.
“This intervention on Google’s part increases the likelihood of
direct litigation by Apple against Google.”  Google, which had been issued fewer than 1,000 patents as
of the start of this year, had said it would build a stronger
patent portfolio as a defense against intellectual property
lawsuits. It made good on that promise last month when it agreed
to spend $12.5 billion to buy Motorola Mobility, acquiring more
than 17,000 patents.  HTC Complaints  HTC sued Apple in federal court in  Delaware , claiming
infringement of four of the patents obtained from Google and
originally issued to Motorola before it split into Motorola
Mobility and Motorola Solutions Inc. Google acquired one of the
patents in October, two in February and one in March, according
to the PTO.  The lawsuit contends the Mac computer, iPhone, iPod, iPad,
iCloud and iTunes are infringing patents for a way to upgrade
software wirelessly; a way to transfer data between a
microprocessor and a support chip; a method to store user
preferences, and a way to provide consistent contact between
application software and a radio modem.  HTC also amended a complaint with the trade commission
yesterday, adding five of the former Google patents to a case
that targets many of the same products. Three of those patents
Google bought from Openwave and two others had been owned by
Palm, which was acquired by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  last year.  Openwave, RIM  The patents in the ITC case relate to an interface that
lets the user add identifiers such as .com or .org; an interface
that enlarges characters being typed; a way to display
information on mobile devices; and status bars that let a user
check phone calls,  text messages  or calendar events.  “HTC will continue to protect its patented inventions
against infringement from Apple until such infringement stops,”
HTC General Counsel Grace Lei said yesterday. “We believe that
we have an obligation to protect our business, our industry
partners and our customers, who love using our products.”  Google transfered the nine patents to HTC on Aug. 29 and
the transactions were recorded by the patent agency on Sept. 1.  Openwave, a  Redwood City , California-based maker of
software for mobile phones, filed its own patent-infringement
complaints against Apple and Research in Motion Ltd. last month.  Healthy Competition  HTC and Apple are part of a struggle among smartphone
makers looking to fight copycats and thwart competition in a
market projected by researcher IHS Inc. to be $206.6 billion
this year. In addition to HTC’s three complaints, Apple won a
case in July in which a commission judge determined that some
HTC Android devices infringed two patents. Apple has another
complaint, filed in July, that also targets HTC’s Flyer tablets.  “We think competition is healthy, but competitors should
create their own original technology, not steal ours,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple, said yesterday, reiterating a
statement Chairman  Steve Jobs  made last year when Apple sued
HTC.  HTC and Apple “have to sit down and figure it out,” HTC
Chief Financial Officer Winston Yung said in a July 26 telephone
interview. “We’re open to having discussions,” he said.  The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices
with Communication Capabilities, Complaint No. 2841, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington). The earlier civil
case is HTC Corp. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 11-cv-715, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  