-- 
Canada’s Oil-Sand Fields Need U.S. Workers, Alberta Minister Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/canada-s-oil-sand-fields-need-u-s-workers-alberta-minister-says.html
Unemployed U.S. construction workers
should look for jobs in  Canada ’s  oil-sands  industry, which faces
a shortage of as many as 75,000 positions in the next few years,
Alberta Energy Minister Ronald Liepert said.  Alberta’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest recoverable
reserve of crude, needs workers including electricians and
construction staff, Liepert said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York  late yesterday. Labor restrictions
between Canada and the U.S. need to be eliminated first, he
said.  “This is one way of solving the unemployment problem,” he
said. “I really hope as two countries we can come to some sort
of ability to move people back and forth. If we’re short 50,000
to 75,000 workers there would be no problem finding those
workers here in the U.S.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  will address Congress tomorrow
with a plan to boost job growth by injecting more than $300
billion into the economy next year. Unemployment in the world’s
largest economy remains at 9.1 percent more than two years after
the recession’s official end. That compares with 7.2 percent in
Canada.  Alberta faces potential inflation as the oil-sands
industry, the largest source of revenue for the province,
prepares to almost double production over the next decade, the
minister said. Allowing U.S. workers, many of whom share a
similar culture and speak the same language, would help reduce
that risk, he said.  “This is an opportunity that wasn’t here five years ago
when we were both in an overheated economy and we were bringing
in workers from different countries that had different
cultures,” said Liepert. “To me it makes total sense that the
first opportunity should be for Americans.”  Chinese Investment  Alberta faces the risk that Chinese investors in the oil
sands will slow down investment if Canada doesn’t build a
pipeline to the  Pacific Ocean  to ship crude to  Asia , he said.  Recent Chinese investments in the oil sands include Cnooc
Ltd.’s $2.1 billion purchase of  Opti Canada Inc. (OPC)  in July.
China Petrochemical Corp., the Beijing-based company known as
Sinopec Group, agreed to pay ConocoPhillips $4.65 billion for
its stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd. last year.  “If we don’t soon figure out how to get the product to
Asia, the investment is going to dry up,” said Liepert. “The
Chinese want to see things happen. If we want to continue to be
open to Asian investment, there comes a quid pro quo in their
mind and that’s coming up fast.”  Gateway Pipeline  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s largest pipeline owner, has applied
to build a 1,172-kilometer (730-mile) pipeline, called Northern
Gateway, that would end at the Pacific port of Kitimat and
enable tankers to take up to 525,000 barrels of bitumen per day
from Alberta to  China , Japan and  South Korea . Opening those
markets is an “obvious” step to reduce dependence on the U.S.,
which imports almost all of Canada’s oil exports, said Liepert.
     TransCanada Corp. is waiting for a decision from the U.S.
State Department on whether it can go ahead with an expansion of
its Keystone pipeline that would move bitumen to refineries in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  “Clearly we need to diversify,” he said. “If we get to
where we’ll be in 10 years, we’re going to need several
Keystones and Gateways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; 