-- 
Canadian Currency Strengthens Most in 3 Weeks as Stocks, Crude Oil Climb

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-07T21:22:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/canadian-currency-remains-higher-as-boc-sees-less-need-for-rate-increase.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in
three weeks versus its U.S. counterpart as stocks rose and the
Bank of Canada said it expects growth to resume in the second
half of 2011, cooling bets it will cut interest rates this year.  The currency advanced for a second day as policy makers
held the target for overnight loans between banks at 1 percent,
as forecast by all 27 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Canadian and U.S. equities gained on speculation President
Barack Obama’s plan to pump $300 billion into the economy will
bolster growth. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, reached a
one-month high.  “Markets in general are stronger, as are  oil prices , and
the Canadian dollar is just following the broader trend,”
 Camilla Sutton , Scotia Capital chief currencies strategist, said
in a telephone interview from Toronto. “Risk appetite seems to
be back a bit.”  The Canadian currency gained 0.7 percent to 98.33 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the most since Aug. 15, from
99.05 cents yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0165. The
currency fell against the Australian and New Zealand dollars.  Canadian bonds dropped, pushing the yield on the 10-year
note up three points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.27 percent.
It tumbled to a record low 2.22 percent yesterday. The price of
the 3.25 percent securities maturing in June 2021 decreased 28
cents to C$108.54.  Stocks, Oil  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.9 percent, while
Canada’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained
1.6 percent, each snapping a three-day losing streak. Crude oil
for October delivery rose as much as 5.2 percent to $90.48 a
barrel in  New York , the highest level since Aug. 4.  Canada’s dollar remained higher versus the greenback
earlier after central-bank Governor  Mark Carney  said while
growth is likely to resume this year, there’s less need for a
rate increase now as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slow U.S.
rebound hobble the global recovery.  “They’re saying the need to raise has diminished, not
disappeared,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, by phone from
Toronto. “The market was looking for something dovish.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast yesterday the central
bank will cut its benchmark rate to 0.5 percent by year-end. The
central bank will probably keep the rate there through next year
because of weak output growth,  Andrew Tilton , a New York-based
economist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in an e-mail.  September 2010  Policy makers have held Canada’s benchmark rate at 1
percent since September 2010 after raising it last year from a
record low 0.25 percent.  “In light of slowing global economic momentum and
heightened financial uncertainty, the need to withdraw monetary
policy stimulus has diminished,” policy makers led by Carney,
46, said in a statement today.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, reached an 11-week high on
July 19 after the central bank’s last policy meeting, when
Carney signaled  interest rates  might rise. Investors began
raising bets on a September increase before reversing course and
starting to price in amid slowing growth in  North America  and
concern Europe’s fiscal crisis was worsening.  “Whereas the Bank of Canada seemed to be thinking about a
rate increase as recently as a few weeks ago, it no longer wants
to move fast,” said Francois Belanger, director of foreign-
exchange sales at Bank of  Montreal ’s BMO Capital Markets unit,
in a telephone interview from Montreal. “The signal policy
makers gave this morning is that the pause could be longer than
what people had been expecting.”  GDP Fell  Global stocks tumbled last month, with the MSCI World Index
dropping 7.3 percent.  Statistics Canada  reported Aug. 31 that gross domestic
product fell at a 0.4 percent annualized rate in the second
quarter, making Canada the only Group of Seven country besides
 Japan  to contract from April through June.  Data reported two days later showed that employers in the
U.S., Canada’s biggest trading partner, added no jobs in August.
It was the weakest reading of the data since September 2010.  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans
said today in a speech in  London  that the U.S. central bank
should move “aggressively” to reduce unemployment, even at the
cost of temporarily pushing inflation higher.  Obama plans to unveil his proposals for promoting job
growth in an address to a joint session of Congress tomorrow. In
a letter to House Speaker John Boehner, the president said the
nation faces “unprecedented” economic challenges.  “The  U.S. economy  is stalled,” said Belanger at BMO
Capital. “Too many people are out of work. It’s going to take
concrete actions to right this ship.”  The loonie fell versus the currencies of Australia and  New
Zealand , which like Canada are commodities exporters. Canada’s
currency declined 0.4 percent to 81.81 cents per New Zealand
dollar, and dropped 0.9 percent to C$1.0483 to the Aussie.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  