-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Rises as Storm Threatens U.S. Output

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-09-07T16:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/canadian-natural-gas-rises-as-storm-threatens-u-s-output.html
Canadian natural gas rose amid
speculation a storm brewing in  Mexico ’s Bay of Campeche may
threaten output from the  Gulf of Mexico .  The National Hurricane Center in Miami said the storm has a
60 percent chance of becoming a tropical storm in the next two
days. Producers are working to restore production in the Gulf
after Tropical Storm Lee passed through the region last week.  “It’s still very early and people are trying to figure out
its path,” said Carl Neill, an energy consultant with Risk
Management Inc. in Atlanta. Traders are covering shorts, or bets
that gas prices will fall, on the chance that the storm will
boost prices, he said.  Alberta  gas for October delivery rose 2.75 cents to C$3.495
per gigajoule ($3.35 per million British thermal units) as of
12:10 p.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S., and is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta
system.  Gas for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 3.2 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $3.97 per million
Btu as of 11:15 p.m.  Volume on TransCanada’s Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.5 billion cubic
feet, 312 million below target.  Flow Rates  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.76 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.61 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.34 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.42 billion cubic feet today, about 51
percent of its capacity of 2.76 billion.  The volume on Spectra Energy’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.89
billion cubic feet at 11:05 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 