-- 
Canon Hanging on to Mirrors Means Opportunity for Sony, Panasonic Cameras

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-09-07T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/canon-clinging-to-mirrors-means-opportunity-for-sony-cameras.html
Canon Inc. (7751)  and  Nikon Corp. (7731) , the
world’s two biggest makers of high-end cameras, may be missing
out on the industry’s biggest technology shift since film rolls
became obsolete.  The two Tokyo-based companies use mirrors in all cameras
with interchangeable lenses, a technique  Sony Corp. (6758)  is shifting
away from. As a result, Canon and Nikon’s combined share of the
Japanese market has fallen by 35 percent, while Sony’s share has
doubled, according to estimates at research firm BCN Inc.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Samsung Electronics Co. are also
leaving out mirrors to reduce the size and cost of cameras, with
Japanese consumers being among the earliest adopters. Canon and
Nikon, under pressure from smartphones in the low-end market,
may further undermine their lead in the $6.5 billion market
because mirrorless cameras are lighter and take good enough
pictures for most photographers, analysts said.  “Mirrorless cameras are a threat,” said  David Rubenstein ,
a Tokyo-based analyst at MF Global FXA Securities Ltd., who has
“neutral” ratings on Canon and Nikon shares. “If the western
geographies follow the same pattern as  Asia , then it will be
negative for Nikon and Canon.”  In traditional high-end models known as single-lens-reflex
cameras, mirrors allow photographers to look through an optical
viewfinder instead of a liquid-crystal display. Compared with an
LCD, the viewfinder helps users see a more accurate
representation of the images they shoot, avoid time lags between
shots and conserve battery life.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  In mirrorless SLRs, first introduced by Panasonic Corp. in
2008, electronic sensors send the data directly to the LCD
screen. That allows camera makers such as Sony and Panasonic to
skip mirrors, prisms and the optical viewfinder.  The technology may be the biggest “paradigm shift” in the
SLR industry in six decades, Mizuho Securities Equity Research
analyst Ryosuke Katsura wrote last year.  For example,  Hoya Corp. (7741) ’s new Pentax Q weighs 200 grams and
its body is smaller than an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone 4 in terms of
width and height. By comparison, Canon’s entry level EOS Rebel
T3 weighs 495 grams.  “It’s like the difference between automatic and manual
transmission in cars,” said Kumio Yamada, a freelance
photographer who periodically showcases his work at personal
exhibitions. “There is a tug of war going on between
traditional camera makers and consumer electronics companies. As
camera specialists, Canon and Nikon need to better show what
distinguishes their products or they’ll have a difficult time.”  Surging Sales  Canon and Nikon, which began making SLRs in the late 1950s,
are starting to lose their edge in  Japan , home to the world’s
five largest makers of SLRs. Mirrorless cameras accounted for
40.5 percent of SLR sales in the country in July, surging from 5
percent in early 2009, according to BCN.  Globally, sales of mirrorless cameras surged fivefold to
2.1 million units in 2010, and their share of the overall SLR
market may climb to 23 percent in 2011 from 16 percent,
according to Macquarie Group Ltd. estimates last month.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
said last month industry shipments will probably reach 13
million worldwide in three years. The NEX series introduced last
year helped Sony’s share in the worldwide SLR market rise to
about 15 percent in the year ended March 31 from 10 percent a
year earlier, said Hirofumi Otsuru, a Tokyo-based spokesman.  New Models  Sony now plans to release its NEX-5N this week, while  South
Korea ’s Samsung Electronics plans to begin sales of its NX200
next month. Panasonic brought out its G3 in July and Olympus
started offering its PEN E-PL3 last week.  Fujifilm Holdings
Corp. (4901) , which only makes compact cameras, has said it’s
considering offering a mirrorless SLR.  Nikon has completed development of a next-generation camera
and is considering when it will reveal the product, said Sayaka
Suzuki, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman. She declined to say whether
the company will introduce a mirrorless model.  Mirrorless cameras have yet to catch on outside of Japan,
allowing Canon to hang on to an estimated 45 percent share of
the global market for SLRs. Nikon accounts for about 30 percent,
according to researcher IDC.  The new types of cameras aren’t as popular in  Europe  and
the U.S. because “the big camera makers still haven’t entered
market” and “the number of products is too small to draw
consumers,” Ichiro Takagi, president of Sony’s imaging & sound
business group, told reporters in  Tokyo  last month. “A new
market is being created.”  Still Relevant  Mirrors are still lucrative. Canon earned 114.8 billion yen
($1.5 billion) in profit by selling 5.9 million traditional SLRs
last year, four times the profit it made from compact cameras,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates last month. Nikon
earned more from SLRs and lenses last fiscal year than with any
other product, according to Nomura.  “We acknowledge the importance of making SLRs smaller and
lighter to expand the market,” said Takafumi Hongo, a Tokyo-
based spokesman for Canon. “We plan to continue addressing this
issue with or without the use of a mirror.”  Canon, the maker of EOS cameras, forecasts SLR camera sales
will rise 24 percent this year, helping offset the fallout from
the factory disruptions caused by Japan’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami. SLRs accounted for 65 percent of Canon’s total
camera revenue last year, the company said in February.  Canon and Nikon’s reliance on SLRs may increase as compact
cameras, whose shipments jumped 10-fold in the past decade, face
mounting competition from mobile-phone cameras. Shipments will
likely begin shrinking in 2014, according to estimates by
research firm IHS iSuppli.  “In the long run, Canon and Nikon will have to enter the
market,” said Hideki Yasuda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Still, it won’t be too late for them
to enter the market after mirrorless cameras become a global
trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  