-- 
Cantor Leaves Door Open to Extending U.S. Payroll Tax Cut

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-07T21:57:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/cantor-leaves-door-open-to-supporting-obama-payroll-tax-cut-extension-plan.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor 
left open the possibility he might accept President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to extend the U.S. payroll  tax cut  set to
expire at year’s end.  “It is something I supported in the past,” and “will be
part of the discussions ongoing,” the Virginia Republican told
reporters in Washington today.  Citing voter frustration with the political rancor in
Washington, Cantor struck a conciliatory tone, voicing
determination to put aside policy differences with Obama and
other Democrats and agree on ways to create jobs and find $1.5
trillion worth of budget savings mandated by legislation that
raised the government’s borrowing authority.  “People in the country are very anxious” about the
economy and “they lost a lot of confidence in  Washington ,” he
said.  “They are sick and tired of the rancor in this town,”
Cantor told reporters. “The country doesn’t want a blame game
anymore, they want to see solutions and results.”  Obama is scheduled to propose his jobs plan in a speech
tomorrow evening to a joint meeting of Congress. Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, didn’t rule out
backing an extension of the payroll tax cut. “We’re happy to
listen to the president’s proposals and take them under
consideration,” he said.  ‘Difficult Thing’  Alabama Senator  Jeff Sessions , the top Republican on the
Senate Budget Committee, said extending the payroll tax cut
would be “a difficult thing” because “you don’t pay it if
you’re not working.”  Second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said
today most Republicans he has talked to on the 12-member
supercommittee assigned to find the budget savings are committed
to “try to get to a ‘yes,’ a successful vote, not gridlock.”  A failure to reach agreement on the savings would result in
automatic spending cuts.  Lawmakers in both parties heard from voters during the
August recess that “government’s got to work and they don’t
think it’s working right now,” Hoyer said.  Obama will need “some receptivity from Republicans” to
win acceptance of his job-creation plans, he said.  ‘Two to Tango’  “It takes two to tango,” Hoyer said when asked what Obama
needed to do to end the partisan strife that has marked debates
in Congress this year.  In not immediately rejecting Obama’s proposal to extend the
2-percentage-point reduction in the  payroll tax , Cantor said
there are “better ways to focus on small-business growth.”  “Republicans are not for raising taxes,” he also said.  The Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-
based group that advocates measures to help the poor and working
families, said a failure to extend the payroll tax cut past its
Dec. 31 expiration would take money out of the economy. The tax
cut provided the average worker with an extra $934 a year,
according to the center’s  study .  Cantor also said he won’t insist on holding up federal
 disaster relief  funds until lawmakers find spending offsets in
the budget.  Not Taking ‘Hostages’  “I am not for holding up any money; I am not for taking
any hostages here,” said Cantor, who last week said increases
in disaster relief must be offset by spending cuts elsewhere.
Cantor noted that the epicenter of an Aug. 23 earthquake was in
his Virginia congressional district and, that some of his
constituents are still recovering from  Hurricane Irene .  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
he would push a freestanding measure to provide disaster aid.
Cantor, in a statement issued after Reid spoke, said he wanted
details of the Senate leader’s request. Cantor said he hoped “we
can work quickly and responsibly to provide any funding needed
immediately.”  The Obama administration is conducting “an active
discussion” about whether to ask Congress for more money to
help communities hard hit by natural disasters this year,
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said.  “We have to help people get back in their homes,’” she
said in an interview. “We need to rebuild communities, rebuild
schools, fire stations and city halls.”  The Republican leader also said he would be open to
extending  unemployment benefits  set to expire at year’s end if
they are accompanied by changes in the system. He cited the
Georgia Works program that combines jobless benefits and
training to help  idled  workers find employment as a possible
model.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  