-- 
Carney May Keep 1% Canada Rate While Dropping Language on Future Increases

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/carney-may-signal-canada-1-policy-rate-to-stay-low-for-longer.html
The Bank of  Canada  will probably
leave its main interest rate unchanged today and signal it will
stay low for longer than policy makers previously anticipated,
economists said.  Governor  Mark Carney  will hold the Ottawa-based central
bank’s target for overnight loans between commercial banks at 1
percent, where it’s been since last September, according to all
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The decision is due at
9 a.m. New York time.  Slowing overseas demand and a strong currency are weighing
on the world’s 10th largest economy, which depends on exports for
one-third of its growth. At a special legislative hearing last
month, Carney said Canada’s economic “headwinds” have
increased, including Europe’s debt crisis and “subdued”
 consumer spending  in the U.S.  “It’s going to be a dramatic shift compared to the
communique in July,” said Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist
at TD Securities in Toronto. He said the bank is likely to
“pound the table” with the theme that rates will stay lower
for longer. On July 19, Carney signaled rates would rise as the
economy recovered.  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  have
interest-rate decisions tomorrow, and economists predict the
U.K. rate will remain 0.5 percent and the ECB’s at 1.5 percent.
In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its
benchmark rate at a record low at least through mid-2013 to
revive a recovery that’s “considerably slower” than
anticipated.  “Most central banks will be on hold for a long time,”
said Mathieu D’Anjou, a senior economist at Desjardins Group in
Montreal, who predicts no Canadian rate increase until July
2013. Desjardins is the country’s biggest credit union.  Inflation Target  The  Bank of Canada ’s mandate is to set policy aiming
inflation at a 2 percent annual pace. Consumer prices rose 2.7
percent in July from a year earlier, the eighth month it was
above target. The central bank also predicted in July that
economic growth will accelerate in the second half of the year,
a view Carney retained in last month’s testimony.  Canada’s jobless rate has fallen to 7.2 percent in July
from a peak of 8.7 percent in August 2009, and employment has
grown for four straight months. The country’s housing prices hit
a record in June, the National Bank Teranet Home Price Index
showed last week.  “It will take a much more severe degradation of economic
activity to force the Bank’s hand to act,” said  Mark Chandler ,
head of fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank’s Capital Markets
unit in Toronto.  Swap Rate  Although no economist surveyed last week forecast a rate
cut today, some investors are betting that way, with the three-
month overnight index swap rate trading at 0.96 percent
yesterday. The swap rate is a gauge of investor expectations for
the average policy rate over that period.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday the Bank of Canada
will cut the rate to 0.5 percent by the end of the year. Today’s
statement will replace language about a rate increase with an
“easing bias,”  Andrew Tilton , an economist with Goldman Sachs
in New York, wrote in a note to investors.  Bets on a rate cut increased after Statistics Canada
reported Aug. 31 that the economy shrank at an annualized 0.4
percent rate, Brazil unexpectedly cut rates last week and
Switzerland yesterday offered unlimited funds to cap a rise in
the franc. In the U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s
exports, a report last week showed  job creation  stalled in
August.  Caution on Spending  Companies such as aircraft and train maker Bombardier Inc.
of  Montreal  say they are cautious about major new spending
projects because of signs of global weakness. “We’ve been very
careful in how we’ve been planning our capital expenditures,”
 Guy Hachey , the company’s chief operating officer for aerospace,
said on an Aug. 31 earnings call.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said last week that Canada
has more flexibility than the U.S. central bank. “With respect
to the limited tools available given the rate presently in place
by the Fed in the U.S., we have more room to move in Canada than
there is to move in the United States,” Flaherty said Aug. 31
in Toronto.  Flaherty also said that the economy is “sound and
sustainable,” and he doesn’t need major spending cuts to
eliminate a  budget deficit .  “The basic fundamentals of the economy haven’t
disappeared,” said Dana Peterson, an economist at Citigroup
Global Markets in  New York . Monetary policy “is still
extraordinarily accommodative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  