-- 
Chile Sells $1 Billion Dollar-Denominated Bonds at Record-Low 3.35% Yield

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T22:51:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/chile-planning-to-sell-peso-dollar-bonds-in-international-markets-today.html
     Sept. 7 (Bloomberg) --Chile obtained its cheapest funding
on record in the sale of $1 billion worth of dollar bonds after
the biggest rally since December 2008 in benchmark U.S. debt.  Chile, Latin America’s highest-rated borrower, sold dollar
bonds due in 2021 to yield 3.353 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The country also increased its existing
5.5 percent peso-denominated bonds due in 2020, selling an
additional $350 million worth of the notes to yield 4.4 percent.
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc managed both sales.  Even after the extra yield, or spread, investors demand for
Chile’s 10-year dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened
55 basis points in the last two months, the notes still yield 74
basis points less than the 3.89 percent paid when sold in July
last year. That was the least Chile had paid to borrow since it
first sold bonds as an independent republic in 1822, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain said at the time.  “This is a chance for Chile to lock in its cheapest
funding ever,” said Siobhan Morden, head of Latin America
strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.
“They’re probably the highest quality issuer in the world, so
they’re not constrained by market volatility. Treasuries are at
a low and risk appetite is improving.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates Chile’s dollar bonds Aa3,
the fourth-highest investment-grade rating. Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings rank them one level lower at A+.  ‘Attractive’  “Chile is one of the better emerging market sovereigns out
there,” said Cathy Hepworth, who helps manage about $15 billion
of emerging-market debt for Prudential Financial Inc. in Newark,
New Jersey. “In this environment, to the extent that people
have cash, it’s attractive.”  Chile’s 2020 dollar bonds yielded 3.15 percent as of 6:45
p.m. New York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s a 131 basis point spread over similar maturity U.S.
Treasuries, up from 80 basis points on July 7.  “They’re taking advantage of the low yield curve rather
than tight spreads,” said Donato Guarino, an analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York. “Even though the spread has moved
wider, U.S. yields are so low that this is cheap for them.”  Chile may not need to offer an increased yield on the peso
bonds to ensure a sale, Morden said before today’s the sale.  The outstanding bonds yielded 5.07 percent as of 6:48 p.m.
New York time today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with 4.25 percent yesterday  Bond ‘Scarcity’  “They don’t need to offer a new issue premium,” she said.
“There’s a scarcity of bonds in the market. There’s a shift
into global foreign exchange bonds at the moment because of the
higher yields they offer and the low beta on foreign exchange.”  A low-beta currency is one that’s relatively insulated from
fluctuations in market volatility.  The Andean nation’s economy is growing at its fastest pace
in more than a decade at a time when much of the world is
struggling with a widening European debt crisis and slower
global growth.  The $200 billion copper-based economy will decelerate in
the third and fourth quarters after growing 8.4 percent in the
first half of 2011, the fastest pace since 1995, Larrain said.
The economy may grow by more than 5 percent next year, he said
at the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit on Aug. 24.  Chile has increased fiscal savings to $18 billion, the
highest level since 2009 and about 9 percent of GDP. Copper
prices, which plunged 6.6 percent last month after more than
tripling in value since 2009, are underpinned by “robust”
demand, Thomas Keller, the chief financial officer of Chile’s
state-owned copper company Codelco, said at the Bloomberg
conference.  Copper accounted for more than half of Chile’s exports last
month, the central bank said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  