-- 
Chile’s Quinenco Falls to One-Month Low on Quarterly Profit Drop

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T18:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/chile-s-quinenco-falls-to-one-month-low-on-quarterly-profit-drop.html
Quinenco SA (QUINENC) , the holding company of
 Chile ’s Luksic family, dropped to a one-month low after profit
fell more than 80 percent in the second quarter.  Quinenco retreated 1.5 percent to 1,373 pesos at 2:18 p.m.
New York time. That’s the lowest on an intraday basis since Aug.
9.  The company reported today quarterly profit of 32 billion
pesos ($69 million), down from 186 billion pesos a year earlier,
according to a filing posted on the website of Chile’s
securities regulator.  Net income in the first half of the year fell due to a one-
time gain in 2010 from the sale of stakes in LQ Inversiones
Financieras to Citigroup Inc. and in telecommunications company
Cia Nacional de Telefonos Telefonica del Sur, or Telsur, to
Grupo GTD, Quinenco said in a separate e-mailed statement.  “Discounting these transactions, Quinenco’s profit would
have increased in the first half, due mostly to positive results
in units Banco de Chile, Cia Cervecerias Unidas and Madeco,”
the company said in the statement.  Quinenco agreed Sept. 2 to acquire the assets in Chile of
 Colombia ’s Organizacion Terpel for approximately $320 million.
It also agreed that day to buy as much as $1 billion in new
shares of shipping company Cia. Sudamericana de Vapores SA, as
part of its $1.2 billion plan to shore up its finances.  Vapores reported that day a loss of $339 million in the
second quarter as costs rose and shipping rates continued to
fall.  Quinenco controls Chile’s largest brewer Cia. Cervecerias
Unidas SA and copper products company  Madeco SA. (MADECO)  It shares
control of the country’s second-largest lender Banco de Chile
with Citigroup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  