-- 
China Puts Showing No Faith in Predictions for Rebound: Options

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-09-08T06:16:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/china-puts-show-no-faith-in-rebound-predictions.html
Options to protect against declines
in Chinese stocks are the most expensive in four years as
traders lose confidence in forecasts for a rally by Credit
Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG.  The price for three-month bearish put contracts to sell the
Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index rose to 1.41 times the cost of
bullish calls on Sept. 1, the most since March 2007 and up from
1.05 in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Puts that
pay owners should the gauge fall 10 percent cost 1.34 times
bullish contracts as of yesterday.  Investors are seeking insurance from declines after the
index of Chinese companies available to foreign investors fell
12 percent last month, the most since October 2008, leaving the
stocks with the lowest price-earnings ratio in almost three
years. Strategists say the equities are too cheap to pass up,
with Credit Suisse forecasting a 23 percent rally in the index
by year-end, while Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley recommend
investors “overweight” the shares.  “People are more bearish because they remember the
dramatic moves in the market” after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008, Winner Lee, the Hong
Kong-based head of  Asia  derivatives strategy BNP Paribas SA,
said in a Sept. 5 telephone interview. BNP was ranked as the top
equity derivatives firm by Euromoney magazine in 2010. “You
have people who are anticipating a crisis.”  Twice as Much  The Hang Seng China Enterprises has lost 17 percent this
year, almost twice as much as the MSCI All-Country World Index,
amid speculation the Chinese government will maintain policies
to curb inflation as global growth slows. The central bank has
raised interest rates five times in the past year and boosted
lenders’ reserve requirements on nine occasions. Gross domestic
product growth is forecast to slow to 8.75 percent in 2012 from
9.3 percent this year, according to the median projections in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  A report tomorrow may show China’s consumer prices rose 6.2
percent in August from last year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. A gauge of non-manufacturing
industries in China dropped to 57.6 last month from 59.6 in
July, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported
on Sept. 3. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  “Investors are focusing more on the bad news, on the risk,
rather than the valuations, which are very cheap at the
moment,”  Edward Chan , who oversees about $1 billion at Royal
 London  Asset Management in London, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Falling Valuations  The Hang Seng China Enterprises is valued at 9 times
reported profit and reached the lowest level since November 2008
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The current
valuation is 26 percent below that of the MSCI All-Country World
Index, which tracks shares in 45 developed and emerging markets.  The relative expense of bearish options to bullish ones,
known to traders as skew, has surged across Asia. Three-month
puts on  South Korea ’s Kospi 200 Index jumped to 1.74 times the
cost of calls on Aug. 24, the highest since November 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Skew on Hong Kong’s
 Hang Seng Index (HSI)  jumped to 1.47 on Aug. 30, the most since May
2010, while it reached 1.53 for  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index on Aug. 31,
its highest level since April.  While Deutsche Bank’s Ajay Kapur cut his weighting on China
equities to a “modest overweight” last month, he’s bullish on
banks and real-estate stocks. Financial companies in the MSCI
China Index trade at 7.8 times reported profit, the cheapest
since October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Classic Panic’  “This looks like a classic panic, not the start of a  bear
market ,” Kapur wrote in an Aug. 29 note. “While recession
risks have risen, most leading indicators we track are not
signaling one yet.”  Vincent Chan at Credit Suisse predicted a rebound in
Chinese shares in a Sept. 1 report, citing valuations at
“distressed levels.” He cut his year-end forecast for the Hang
Seng China Enterprises to 13,000 from 15,000. It closed at
10,544.86 yesterday. Morgan Stanley raised its allocation to
emerging-market equities to the highest since April 2009 because
of valuations and forecasts that the global economy will avert a
recession, according to an Aug. 15 note.  China-linked options had signaled traders were increasingly
bullish earlier this year. The cost of iShares FTSE China 25
Index puts versus calls fell close to a two-year low on July 25
on speculation higher  interest rates  wouldn’t slow the world’s
second-largest economy. The U.S. exchange-traded fund that
tracks companies such as China Mobile Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. then slid 17 percent to the lowest level since May 2009.  Volatility Index  Hong Kong’s HSI Volatility Index fell 2.9 percent to 31.38
as of 2:14 p.m. local time, for a third day of losses. The
gauge, which measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the Hang Seng Index, has jumped 73 percent
this year. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, is up 88 percent in 2011, and the
VStoxx Index that tracks Euro Stoxx 50 Index options has jumped
82 percent year-to-date.  “The fear is out there and in some ways it can become a
self-fulfilling prophecy,” Katherine Schapiro, a San Francisco-
based manager at Sentinel Asset Management Inc., which oversees
about $20 billion, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 6.
“The driver of growth has been China, and now the question that
a lot of people have been asking is how much is China slowing
down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  