-- 
China Must Create ‘10,000 Apples,’ Welch Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-07T09:02:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/china-won-t-lose-competitiveness-for-3-5-years-welch-says.html
China  needs to build global brands
and companies similar to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to stave off a possible loss
of competitiveness in as few as three years, said  Jack Welch ,
former chief executive officer of  General Electric Co. (GE)   Rising wages in China are fueling inflation and may spur
more global manufacturers to move production to Vietnam and
countries in Africa, Welch told reporters in Shanghai.  China is a “long way from losing its competitiveness,” he
said. “It’s going to happen. Three years or five years, it will
happen.”  China can no longer rely on exports and low-cost production
for economic growth and must innovate by building global brands
and creating “10,000 Apples,” he said.  Steve Jobs , who
transformed Apple into the world’s largest technology company
before resigning as chief executive officer last month, is
“absolutely” the world’s best business leader, he said.  “Right now China is missing global brands,” Welch said.
“That won’t be for long.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is seeking to raise wages and boost
investment in social housing to help sustain growth in the
world’s second-largest economy as a faltering U.S. recovery and
Europe’s debt woes cap demand for Chinese-made goods. China’s
export orders contracted for the first time in more than two
years, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on
Sept. 1.  Rising Wages  A total of 13 provinces raised minimum wages in the first
quarter of the year by an average 20.6 percent, the official
Xinhua news agency reported in April, citing a spokesman for the
labor ministry.  China’s inflation rate jumped to a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July. Consumer-price gains may have slowed to 6.2
percent last month, according to the median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. August inflation data are
scheduled to be released Sept. 9.  Welch said the  U.S. economy  is in a “precarious” position
and is struggling under too much debt.  “The U.S. economy is bumping along at a modest rate,”
said Welch, who is also an adviser to JPMorgan Chase & Co. “You
can’t predict a double dip or if it will stay bumping along.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  