-- 
Study: Clearing Brain Arteries With Stent Ups Stroke Risk

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-07T18:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/clearing-brain-arteries-with-stent-boosts-stroke-risk-in-study.html
Patients with clogged arteries deep
in their  brains  are more likely to suffer a stroke if the
blockages are cleared and propped open with a stent rather than
treated aggressively with drugs, researchers said.  The results contradicted the investigators’ hypothesis and
led an independent safety panel to halt the trial early, after
451 patients enrolled. The findings are slowing use of stents
inside the skull, which had been rising since the 2005 approval
of the device from  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , said researcher
Colin Derdeyn, an interventional neuroradiologist at  Washington
University School of Medicine in St. Louis .  After 30 days, 14.7 percent of patients treated with the
stent in addition to a cocktail of drugs died or suffered a
stroke, compared with 5.8 percent of those given only the
medicines. There were few differences between the groups after
the first month, with a 20 percent expected rate of death or
stroke in the stent group and 12.2 percent in the medical
management arm after one year.  “We’ve shown conclusively that if you have a tight
blockage of an artery inside the brain, being treated medically
is definitely the right way to go,” Derdeyn, director of the
university’s stroke and cerebrovascular center, said in a
telephone interview. “We are following patients further, but
there is statistically no chance at this point that stenting
will win.”  Stroke Statistics  Stroke is the fourth-leading cause of death in the  United
States . Stenosis, a blockage or narrowing of brain arteries
caused by the build-up of plaque, accounts for more than 50,000
of the 795,000 strokes that occur annually nationwide, according
to the  National Institutes of Health .  The results of the study, funded by the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, were released by the  New
England Journal of Medicine . Boston Scientific, based in Natick,
 Massachusetts , provided the stents, called Wingspan. The company
sold its neurovascular unit, including the Wingspan stents, to
Kalamazoo, Michigan-based  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  last year, said
spokesman Eric Olson.  The patients all suffered a stroke or  transient ischemic
attack  prior to enrolling in the study, and the condition was
attributed to a clot that blocked 70 percent to 99 percent of a
major intracranial artery. They were given aspirin and Plavix,
an anticlotting medicine from Paris-based Sanofi and  New York- 
based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  Patients also took Crestor, a
cholesterol-lowering medicine provided by London-based
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , and a drug to lower  blood pressure .  Beneficial Findings  The results offered some positive signs, said  Marc
Chimowitz , the lead researcher and professor of neuroscience at
the Medical University of  South Carolina  in Charleston.  “The good and gratifying news was that the aggressive
medical management appeared to lower the risk substantially,”
he said in a telephone interview. “We’ve made some real
progress here with respect to treating these patients. It seems
like this is a particularly high risk disease early, and once
you get over that first hump things seem to level out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  