-- 
Roger Clemens’s Defense Team Violated Rules on Juror Contact, Judge Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-07T22:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/clemens-defense-violated-rules-on-juror-contact-after-mistrial-judge-says.html
The judge overseeing  Roger Clemens ’s
perjury case said the government can talk to former jurors from
the ex-pitcher’s mistrial after some of them were contacted by
the defense team in violation of court rules.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in  Washington  said today
that he will send a letter to the 16 former jurors alerting them
to the government’s request and reminding them that they don’t
have to speak to anybody. Walton told the ex-jurors he was aware
that an investigator for Clemens’s lawyers might have contacted
them without court approval.  “Now, in connection of the fact that Mr. Clemens will be
retried, government counsel has acted in compliance with the
rules of this court and has requested my permission to speak
with you,” Walton said in a redacted version of the letter
attached to his order.  Walton said he wasn’t ready to rule on the government’s
request that any notes taken by the investigator be turned over
to the prosecution. He gave the U.S. until Sept. 30 to file a
motion to compel the notes be given to prosecutors.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney in
Washington, declined to comment, citing the judge’s gag order in
the case. Clemens’s lawyer Michael Attanasio declined to comment
on the ruling.  Barred Evidence  Last week, Walton decided Clemens can be retried because he
couldn’t determine, based on the record, that prosecutors
intentionally caused a mistrial in July by showing jurors barred
evidence. The government was two days into presenting its case
at the time. Walton, ruling from the bench, set jury selection
for April 17.  The seven-time Cy Young Award winner is charged with one
count of obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts
of making false statements and two counts of perjury in
connection with a congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged
use of performance-enhancing drugs. If convicted on all charges,
he faces as long as 30 years in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  The case is is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 