-- 
Commodities Record Biggest Gain in Four Weeks on Stimulus Outlook in U.S.

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-09-07T21:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/commodities-rebound-first-day-in-four-as-base-metals-crude-oil-advance.html
Commodities posted the biggest gain
in almost four weeks, led by industrial metals and energy, on
speculation that more economic stimulus in the U.S. and low
 interest rates  will bolster demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose
2.1 percent to close at 671.99 at 3:46 p.m. New York time, the
biggest gain since Aug. 11. Nickel jumped 5.3 percent, the most
since May 2010, and crude oil gained as much as 5.2 percent. The
commodity gauge fell in the previous three sessions on concern
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will hinder the global economy.  “Although growth prospects remain bleak, the market is
looking past current weakness in anticipation of further
stimulus out of the U.S. and anticipation that the Chinese may
resume their pro-growth policies,” Scott Gardner, the chief
investment officer at Verdmont Capital SA in  Panama , said in an
e-mail. He helps manage $450 million in client assets.  President  Barack Obama  will unveil his proposal for
promoting job growth tomorrow in an address to a joint session
of Congress. The plan includes the injection of more than $300
billion into the economy next year, mostly through tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and direct aid to state and local
governments.  Oil, Copper  Crude-oil futures topped $90 a barrel in New York as a
weather system threatened to reduce U.S. production from the
 Gulf of Mexico .  Copper futures climbed 1.9 percent in New York as strike
threats at mines in Peru and  Indonesia  heightened concern that a
projected global shortfall will increase. Gold futures dropped
the most in two weeks.  “The market is following the ‘risk-on’ pattern,” Stanley Crouch, who helps oversee $2 billion as the chief investment
officer of Aegis Capital Corp. in  New York , said in an e-mail.
“Gold, on the other hand, is the obvious loser from the risk-on
trade.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares rose as much as
2.8 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 2.9 percent,
snapping a three-session decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  