-- 
Consumer Groups May Sue S&P, Moody’s Should They Cut Italy

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 
2011-09-07T15:43:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/consumer-groups-may-sue-s-p-moody-s-should-they-cut-italy.html
Two Italian consumer groups said
they may sue  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service
should the rating companies downgrade  Italy , saying they aren’t
authorized to rule on the country’s creditworthiness.  “Should either Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s downgrade
Italy, we would sue them as they don’t have the license to issue
ratings on our country and companies operating in Italy,” Elio Lannutti, head of the Adusbef consumer group and a senator with
the Italian Values Party, said in an interview in Rome today.  The ratings companies are already facing legal challenges
in Italy as prosecutors in the southern city of Trani are
investigating statements by S&P and Moody’s on the country’s
creditworthiness. S&P and Moody’s placed Italy’s rating under
review for possible downgrade in May and June, respectively.  The consumer groups are challenging whether the S&P and
Moody’s have the right to rate Italy, saying they lack a license
from the European Securities and Markets Authority, the Adusbef
and Federconsumatori said today in a joint e-mailed statement.
ESMA earlier this year  became  the European Union’s single
regulator of credit-rating companies.  ESMA Chairman Steven Maijoor said U.S. credit-rating
companies won’t get a license for the EU unless they abide by
the bloc’s rules, Financial Times Deutschland reported on June
23, citing an interview.  Possible Cut  An Italian downgrade is “very likely” as the government
failed to restore investor confidence amid rising bond yields,
analysts at Bank of America Corp. said in a report today.
Downgrades “look probable,” Societe Generale SA economists
said in a note to investors this week, citing the poor outlook
for economic growth and “uncertainties over the availability of
market financing.”  The investigation in Trani focuses on a note issued by
Moody’s on May 6 of last year, saying it was assessing the risk
of “sovereign contagion” that could affect the banking
industries of  Portugal ,  Spain , Italy, Ireland and the U.K. The
following day Moody’s said that Italy wasn’t among the countries
most at risk from  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis and its credit
outlook for 2010 remained stable. S&P is being investigated for
its May decision to put Italy’s rating under review.  “Moody’s takes its responsibilities surrounding the
dissemination of market sensitive information very seriously and
is cooperating with the authorities,” the company said in an e-
mail on Aug. 4. The probe in the southern city of Trani is
“without foundation” and the rating company will “strenuously
defend its work,” S&P said the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  