-- 
Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Advance as Dry Weather May Damage Crops

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-07T10:54:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/corn-soybean-wheat-futures-rally-as-dry-weather-seen-damaging-u-s-crops.html
Corn, soybeans and wheat rose in
 Chicago  on speculation dry weather in the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter of all three commodities, may damage crops.  Conditions worsened last week for U.S. corn and soybeans,
the Department of Agriculture said yesterday, as dry, cool
weather across the Midwest increased plant stress and hastened
crop maturity. Dryness this week in the central and southern
Plains winter-wheat area will maintain the drought pattern,
Telvent DTN Inc. said in a bulletin yesterday.  “Uncertainty about U.S. corn production continues to feed
the markets,” Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a daily
note. “The crop rating declined again for corn.”  December-delivery corn advanced 1 percent to $7.6325 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:37 p.m. Paris time.
The grain climbed 64 percent in the past year, helped by adverse
weather in July and August that hurt crops.  About 52 percent of the corn crop in the top 18 producing
states was in good or excellent condition as of Sept. 4, down
from 54 percent a week earlier and 69 percent a year earlier,
the USDA said. An estimated 56 percent of soybeans got the top
rating, against 57 percent a week earlier and 64 percent a year
earlier, it said.  “The market will have been expecting this drop in
condition, but it will reinforce the issue that this year’s corn
crop is going to fall short of demand and that prices will
remain supported as a result,” Profarmer, a unit of NZX Ltd.,
said in a report today.  Crop Estimates  Soybeans for November delivery gained 0.7 percent to $14.32
a bushel. The oilseed advanced 36 percent in the past year.  The U.S. corn harvest may be less than the USDA’s August
forecast, agricultural researcher Informa Economics Inc. said
yesterday. Output may total 12.711 billion bushels this year,
compared with the government’s estimate of 12.914 billion, it
said. Informa also cut its soybean forecast 2.5 percent from
last month to 3.061 billion bushels, still more than the USDA
estimate of 3.056 billion.  Agricultural researcher and broker Allendale Inc. said
yesterday production of the crops will fall below government
forecasts. The USDA is scheduled to update its estimates on
Sept. 12.  Demand for U.S. soybeans may intensify if the harvest comes
in below estimates, potentially driving prices higher should
South American countries miss out on the rain they need to fill
the gap, researcher Oil World said in a report yesterday.  “Given the growing likelihood that the U.S. soybean crop
turns out even below the USDA estimate of Aug. 11 of 83.2
million metric tons (down 7.4 million tons from a year ago),
demand for U.S. soybeans must indeed be rationed and most of
this will probably be done in exports,” Oil World said.  Wheat for December delivery gained 0.9 percent to $7.665 a
bushel. The grain advanced 4.3 percent in the past year. Milling
wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris
advanced 0.7 percent to 207.25 euros ($291.06) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net  