-- 
Cotton Rises to Two-Month High on U.S. Crop Damage; Orange Juice Advances

-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 
2011-09-07T19:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/cotton-rises-to-two-month-high-on-u-s-crop-damage-higher-global-imports.html
Cotton rose to the highest price in
almost two months as Tropical Storm Lee may have damaged crops
in the U.S. South and a report showed global imports will
rebound. Orange juice also climbed.  Tropical Storm Lee brought heavy rains to Louisiana and
much of the Gulf Coast, and rain was expected to continue
through the middle of the week across states including Georgia
and  North Carolina , according to the National Weather Service.
Global cotton imports will rebound to 8.1 million metric tons in
the year that started Aug. 1 as  China  rebuilds government
reserves, the  International Cotton Advisory Committee   said .  “The initial push was from the news on China, but there’s
also a perfect storm brewing here with technical charts and crop
damage,” Louis Barbera, a broker at VIP Commodities in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “The fact of the matter is
that we’re going to have a small crop.”  Cotton for December delivery jumped 4 cents, the maximum
allowed by the exchange, to settle at $1.1034 a pound at 2:42
p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the highest price since
July 11. The 3.8 percent gain was the biggest since Aug. 17.  As of Sept. 4, about 28 percent of U.S. cotton fields were
in good or excellent condition, less than half of the rate of a
year earlier, government data show. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  has forecast 30 percent of domestic output will be
lost this year as the worst drought in more than 100 years
damages crops in  Texas , the biggest grower.  The USDA will update its production forecast on Sept. 12.
The U.S. is the world’s biggest cotton exporter. China is the
top grower, consumer and importer.  Pakistan Crop  Adding to U.S. supply concerns is the possibility of
significant losses in Pakistan’s crop,  Mike Stevens , a
Mandeville, Louisiana-based independent trader, said in an e-
mail. Pakistan is the fourth-largest grower.  Flash floods in Pakistan’s southern Sindh province have
destroyed 80 percent of crops in the region, Irshad Bhatti, a
spokesman for the country’s National Disaster Management
Authority, said by telephone on Sept. 5.  Orange-juice  futures for November rose 3 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $1.679 a pound in New York, the sixth
straight gain and the highest closing price for the most-active
contract since Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  