-- 
Oil Trades at 5-Week High in New York as Gulf Storms Threaten U.S. Supply

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-09-08T06:54:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/crude-gains-a-second-day-on-u-s-stockpile-decline-as-storms-threaten-gulf.html
Oil traded near the highest close in
more than a month in New York on speculation a storm building in
the Gulf of Mexico will hurt supplies in the U.S., which were
reduced last week by an earlier cyclone.  Futures were little changed after the industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute said inventories fell 2.97 million
barrels. An Energy Department report today may show supplies
dropped by 2 million as Tropical Storm Lee shut output, a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Three weather systems are churning
in the Atlantic basin after Nate formed yesterday.  “The number of hurricanes in the Gulf and the east coast
is a bit higher than usual, so that could push down production
levels,” Tetsu Emori, a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in
Tokyo, said by telephone today. “Inventory levels of oil and
products in the U.S. aren’t getting much higher so the down side
should be quite limited.”  Crude for October delivery was at $89.44 a barrel, up 10
cents, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 4:49 p.m. Sydney time. The contract yesterday rose $3.32 to
$89.34, the highest close since Aug. 3. Prices are up 20 percent
from a year ago.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $115.55 a barrel,
down 25 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange.
Prices have risen 48 percent from a year ago. Europe’s benchmark
contract was at premium of $26.10 to U.S. futures, compared with
the record settlement of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  DOE Report  The U.S. Energy Department will release its weekly
stockpile data at 11 a.m. today. The API and government reports
are a day late because of the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 5.  Gasoline inventories dropped 871,000 barrels last week to
209.9 million, the API data shows. The government report may
show they declined 1.4 million, according to the median of 15
analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate-fuel supplies, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, increased by 3.95 million barrels to 157.1
million, according to the API data. The Energy Department report
may show they rose by 500,000 barrels, the survey shows.  Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have
moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time in the past
year. The API collects data on a voluntary basis from operators
of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.  About 37 percent of U.S. oil production and 18 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been halted as
Tropical Storm Lee passed through the region, according to the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement.
The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of the country’s natural gas production.  Tropical Storm Nate  Nate, with winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour about
135 miles west-northwest of Campeche, Mexico, joins Hurricane
Katia and Tropical Storm Maria. Nate is forecast to be a
Category 1 storm with winds of 75 mph in two days.  The statistical peak of the six-month Atlantic hurricane
season comes in three days. This year has produced storms at a
faster rate than 2010, when a total of 19 named systems roared
through the basin. The 14th storm didn’t form until Sept. 29
last year.  Brent’s premium to New York futures widened to a record
this week amid speculation the resumption of Libyan crude output
may be prolonged. The country may take at least 18 months to
restore production to pre-war levels because of delays in
establishing political stability and the advanced age of the
country’s oilfields, Francisco Blanch, Bank of America Corp.’s
head of commodities research, said in a Sept. 6 report.  Fighting in Libya, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density and
sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels a
day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared with
the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  