-- 
Czechs May Delay Rate Increase If Euro Debt Problems Worsen, Lizal Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-09-07T13:21:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/czechs-may-delay-rate-increase-if-euro-woes-worsen-lizal-says.html
A further escalation of the euro-
area’s sovereign debt crisis may delay an increase in Czech
interest rates from a record low, central bank board member
Lubomir Lizal said.  Policy makers in Prague are debating when to increase the
benchmark two-week repurchase rate from 0.75 percent for the
first time since 2008 after monetary authorities across  Europe 
tightened credit to tame inflationary pressures this year. The
 European Central Bank  last raised its main rate to 1.5 percent
in July, pushing the difference from the Czech rate to the
widest in three years.  An economic slowdown in the euro-area, the main market for
Czech exports, and the outlook for lower borrowing costs in the
currency union than previously expected have already postponed a
rise in Czech borrowing costs this year, Lizal, 42, said in an
interview yesterday.  “From the current perspective, barring further escalation
of the debt problems in the euro area, the timing for increasing
interest rates is around the end of the year,” Lizal said.
“But the situation may change and I don’t see this is as
something definitely set.”  The  Ceska Narodni Banka  board members have expressed
differing views on inflation risks, with two policy makers
demanding a quarter-point increase at the last three monetary
meetings. Lizal has voted for no change since he joined the
seven-member bank board on Feb. 13.  Alternatives  The central bank, which uses the outlook for euro-area
market rates as a variable in its forecast models, has signaled
borrowing costs will rise around the end of this year or early
in 2012. The timing of the policy change will be influenced by
developments in European economies and on financial markets,
which are difficult to forecast, said Lizal.  “It’s not possible to fully rule out any alternative as to
when the increase may take place,” he said. “Early in the
summer, it seemed that  interest rates  may be raised sooner.
Then, another wave of the euro zone debt crisis came and changed
the situation.”  Investors have scaled back bets on higher Czech interest
rates, with forward-rate agreements locking in three-month
interest rates in six months dropping to 1.143 percent as of
3:01 p.m. in Prague today, from 1.355 percent on Aug. 4, when
the bank held its previous policy meeting. Forwards locking in
three-month rates in nine months dropped to 1.28 percent from
1.425 percent on Aug. 4. The Czech koruna was little changed at
24.466 to the euro.  Export-Dependent  The Czech economic recovery is dependent on demand for its
products, including Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car parts, from
the European Union, which takes about 80 percent of the
country’s exports.  Germany  alone is the market for about a third
of Czech products sold abroad, while overall exports account for
70 percent of gross domestic product.  Quarterly growth in the euro region slowed to 0.2 percent
in the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first three months
of 2011 as governments cut spending to rein in budget deficits.
Germany’s economy, the region’s largest, almost ground to a
halt.  “The latest data show that reliance of the Czech economy
on exports is quite significant and domestic demand isn’t strong
enough to compensate for an eventual weakening of external
drivers of growth,” said Lizal.  The pace of Czech industrial output slowed to 4.4 percent
in July, the weakest in 19 months, from 7.9 percent in June, the
statistics office said yesterday. Retail sales fell 1.7 percent
in July, after a 3.3 percent decline in the previous month.  Bucking the Trend  The  Czech Republic  has bucked the trend of rising interest
rates in Europe in the past year. Poland has increased its
benchmark rate by one percentage point to 4.5 percent since
January, while policy makers in  Hungary  raised the main rate to
6 percent by January from 5.25 percent in November.  Domestic consumption in the Czech Republic has been
curtailed by government efforts to cut the budget deficit
through spending restrictions, while the  unemployment rate  has
exceeded 8 percent for more than two years.  The Czech inflation rate dropped to 1.7 percent in July,
from 1.8 percent in the previous month, staying under the
central bank’s 2 percent target. The koruna has gained 2.52
percent to the euro so far this year, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “So far domestic inflationary pressures are practically
negligible,” said Lizal. “Furthermore, the koruna’s long-term
appreciation tendency is helping to tame inflationary pressures
coming from abroad” and is “tightening monetary conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  