-- 
Dagong Grants AAA Ratings to Small Companies It Denies U.S.: China Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-08T03:41:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/dagong-grants-aaa-ratings-to-small-companies-it-denies-u-s-china-credit.html
At a time when China is cracking
down on lending, small and medium-sized enterprises in the
nation are being granted AAA credit ratings denied to the U.S.  Chengdu Tianbao Heavy Industry Co., a BBB rated engineering
company in southwestern Sichuan province, was part of a group
that received an AAA grade for 180 million yuan ($28 million) of
7.2 percent bonds on Aug. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The securities, backed by a state-owned insurer, got
the top ranking from Beijing-based Dagong Global Credit Rating
Co., five levels higher than its rating for U.S. Treasuries.  While China is restricting credit after the rate of
inflation rose to a three-year high, it is encouraging thousands
of insurers to guarantee the debt of small- and mid-sized
companies that contribute as much as 60 percent of gross
domestic product in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
Dagong is assigning top rankings based on the insurers’ ratings,
even after cutting the U.S. one level to A last month. Standard
& Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s top grade to AA+ on Aug. 5.  “Because of funding difficulties, 20 percent of SMEs have
already shut down or are not working at full capacity,” said
Zhou Dewen, head of Wenzhou’s trade association for small and
medium-sized enterprises in the coastal province of Zhejiang.
Insurers are “helping SMEs get funds, extending their life,”
he said.  Monetary Tightening  China’s small businesses are on course to sell a record
amount of bonds after they were among the worst hit by monetary
tightening. Policy makers pushed up borrowing costs and drained
funds from the financial system to curb inflation, which
accelerated to 6.5 percent in July.  SMEs issued three-year bonds at yields as low as 5.03
percent since the start of 2011. Chinese government debt of that
tenor yields 3.9 percent while U.S. Treasuries yield 0.32
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two-thirds of industrial output is generated by SMEs, which
contribute 50 percent of tax revenue and employ 80 percent of
China’s workers, according to the government, which is trying to
ensure policies aimed at preventing speculative investments
don’t choke off their funding. The credit shortage for such
firms is worse than during the 2008 financial crisis, according
to a survey conducted by the All-China Federation of Industry &
Commerce in 16 provinces.  The Finance Ministry and the Industry and Information
Ministry issued a notice in May last year encouraging insurers
to guarantee SME debt, while the banking regulator urged
financial institutions in June to ease lending criteria.  Supporting SMEs  Shanghai will set up three funds with combined assets of 3
billion yuan to support SMEs, the municipal government said in a
Sept. 6 statement. One billion yuan will be invested in
insurers, known as guarantee companies in China, the government
said.  SMEs have formed groups to sell 5.1 billion yuan of notes
this year, following a record 5.3 billion yuan last year,
Bloomberg data show. Outstanding loans to the businesses,
including bank bill financing, surged 18 percent to 20.1
trillion yuan in the year to June, the central bank said in its
second-quarter monetary policy report last month.  The credit insurance is similar to the U.S., where
companies such as Ambac Financial Group Inc. and MBIA Inc.
guarantee debt sold by states and municipalities, giving them
AAA ratings. Units of Ambac and MBIA were stripped of their top
rankings in 2008 amid losses on notes backed by subprime
mortgages.  Slowing Growth  The People’s Bank of China raised interest rates five times
in the past year, taking the benchmark one-year lending rate to
6.56 percent, and increased banks’ reserve requirements on nine
occasions. The economy grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter,
the slowest pace since 2009, as faltering growth in developed
nations cooled demand for the country’s exports. Expansion will
slow to 8.75 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “If the Chinese economy has some kind of a hard landing
those guarantee companies will have to face big risks,” said
Shen Minggao, head of China research for Citigroup Inc. in Hong
Kong. “If the Chinese government can manage a soft landing I
think the risk is manageable.”  Five year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign
debt against default rose the most in two years last month as
slowing growth heightened concerns that the banking system will
need to be bailed out should loans to local governments turn
sour. The contracts fell 4.7 basis points yesterday to 115 basis
points, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Market Repudiation  Contracts on U.S. debt dropped one basis point to 51
yesterday. Default-swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower renege on their debt.  The bond market has repudiated the decision by New York-
based S&P and Dagong to downgrade the U.S., as yields on
Treasuries tumbled to record lows. Investor demand for 10-year
government notes, the benchmark for everything from corporate
borrowing to mortgage rates, drove yields to a record-low of
1.91 percent on Sept. 6.  The yield on China’s 10-year government bonds was unchanged
yesterday at 4.03 percent, the lowest level in more than a week.
The yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.3877 per dollar as of 9:47 a.m.
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  Insurer Backing  S&P’s move conflicted with Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, which retained their top ratings on America’s
debt. The new ranking puts the U.S. on the same level as
Belgium, which hasn’t had a government since June 2010, and two
levels above China, which is rated AA- by S&P.  Jiangsu Re-Guarantee , a Nanjing-based insurer owned by the
government of eastern Jiangsu province, had guaranteed about
23.5 billion yuan of debt as of December 2010, nine times its
assets, according to the prospectus for a bond sale it backed in
May. The guarantee company has a credit line of 108 billion yuan
from five banks and its ability to re-pay the debt is “quite
weak,” according to the prospectus.  Two phone calls to the main number listed on the company’s
website seeking comment were unanswered yesterday. Dagong did
not respond to e-mailed questions.  Shenzhen Small & Medium Enterprises Credit Financing
Guarantee Group Co., rated AA, backed 7,989 projects with a
total of 38.3 billion yuan as of September 2010, according to a
prospectus for bonds issued by Zhengzhou Small & Medium
Enterprise. The insurer’s assets were 1.69 billion yuan as of
Sept. 30, 2010, and it received 94.68 million yuan in fees for
guaranteeing debt in the first three quarters of last year. The
company was not available for immediate comment yesterday.  Land, Apartments  The insurer also backed Henan Shangdu Biological Technology
Co., a Zhengzhou, north-central China-based maker of animal feed
products, which got a 28 million yuan one-year loan in August
2010 from Ping An Bank Co. The SME put up land and nine
apartment blocks as collateral and the total rate for the loan
was 5.84 percent, according to the prospectus. The benchmark
lending rate at the time was 5.31 percent.  A total of 160 SMEs had sold bonds as of June, with 11.37
billion yuan of notes outstanding, the central bank said in an
Aug. 10 report. This year, three were rated AAA, and the rest
either AA or AA+.  Wuhan Small & Medium Size Enterprise’s 380 million yuan of
three-year bonds were sold by a group of four firms in the
central city of Wuhan in June and rated AAA by Shanghai
Brilliance Credit Rating & Investors Service Co. The firms are
rated BBB- to A-, according to the prospectus.  Guarantee Companies  The document didn’t disclose what fee was paid to insure
the 5.5 percent notes. The average cost for Chinese companies
ranked BBB+ to issue three-year debt is 9.5 percent, 144 basis
points more than at the end of last year, Chinabond data show.  Guarantee companies had backed about 689.4 billion yuan of
loans by the end of last year, an increase of almost 70 percent
from 2009, Zhu Yongyang, deputy director of the financial
guarantee department at the China Banking Regulatory Commission,
wrote in the Sept. 7 issue of China Finance, the official
magazine of the central bank.  SMEs usually deposit 10 percent of the sum they are
borrowing with the lending bank, with insurers guaranteeing the
remainder for a 3 percent annual fee, according to Antony Cheng,
an analyst at Hong Kong-based Oriental Patron Securities Ltd.  It will be “very hard” for SMEs to get loans without such
backing, Cheng said. “Most of them do not have bank borrowing
records, and with loan guarantees they can shorten banks’
approval processes, which usually takes over a month.”  Many of the SMEs have already turned to the “underground”
lending market, and in some cases the guarantee companies have
become lenders themselves, Wenzhou’s Zhou said.  “The private lending rate is very high,” he said. “Some
companies can borrow in the short-term, but in the long-term it
will greatly increase their cost of capital.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  