-- 
Dalio Returns 25% With Diversified Bets as Markets Convulse

-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/dalio-returns-25-on-diversified-bets-as-markets-convulse-influential-50.html
Bridgewater Associates LP founder
 Ray Dalio  can rattle off the investing fads he’s witnessed since
he began trading as a 12-year-old golf caddie: the Nifty-50
stock craze of the 1970s, the 1980 gold bubble and even the 60-
40 stock-to-bond mix.  “Manias occur when there is group thinking,” Dalio says.  Dalio, 62, built Bridgewater into the world’s largest macro
hedge-fund firm, with $122 billion in total assets, by tacking
against consensus. He’s created a distinct workplace culture and
a research-driven investing process that spreads risk across
scores of markets, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
October special issue on the 50 Most Influential people in
global finance.  “Making money is a zero-sum game, so to be successful you
have to be willing to stand apart from the crowd,” Dalio says.
“And you have to be right.”  The founder was right often enough during and after the
worst financial crisis in decades starting in 2008, helping to
cement his reputation as a leader in his industry. Three
Bridgewater hedge funds placed among the 100 top-performing
large funds in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking in February,
including its flagship, Pure Alpha II. The No. 3 fund posted a
38 percent return for the 10-month period through October 2010.  Dalio’s influence  spreads beyond his elite industry. He and
his colleagues regularly brief central bankers, as well as
pensions and sovereign-wealth funds, on their outlook. The
firm’s newsletter -- Bridgewater Daily Observations -- is
required reading for macroeconomic thinkers for its prescient
analysis.  Economic Power  In August 2007, as credit markets were tightening, the
newsletter warned, “Hedge funds in general are unlikely to
provide much diversification to help protect against poor
performance of traditional markets.”  The next year, funds lost an average of 19 percent.  “You find insights that are different from what you were
thinking,” says Hilda Ochoa-Brillembourg, founding president of
 Strategic Investment Group  in Arlington,  Virginia , which invests
in hedge funds.  At its bucolic headquarters in Westport,  Connecticut ,
Bridgewater devotes a great deal of resources to research. The
firm’s 1,200 employees -- more than at many midsize investment
banks -- help generate the data and analysis that inform bets on
macroeconomic trends. In June, researchers tracked the
percentage of world gross domestic product generated by Western
Europe, the U.S.,  Africa , China and other markets to the 16th
century to show long-term shifts in economic power.  44.8 Percent Return  “No one pursues market-based truth more aggressively than
Ray,” says Britt Harris, chief investment officer of the  Teacher
Retirement System of Texas .  In July 2007, more than a year before the bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , the newsletter cited “pervasive
fragility” in the financial system. It noted the 50 percent
growth in the notional value of  credit derivatives , to
$29 trillion, during just the last half of 2006. So Pure Alpha
II piled into Treasury bonds, shorted stocks and loaded up on
gold. It finished 2008 with a gain of 9.4 percent, investors
say.  By the start of 2010, against a forecast of anemic growth
in the U.S. and Europe, Pure Alpha II’s wagers were spread more
widely than usual. It made money on developed-market currencies,
equities and emerging-market debts and currencies as well as
commodities. Investors say the fund generated a 44.8 percent
return last year. And amid the market turmoil of 2011, the fund
is up 25.3 percent through Aug. 31. All told, Pure Alpha II has
returned 15 percent annualized since its December 1, 1991 start.  Luring Pensions  Dalio’s transformational effect on money management dates
to the early 1980s. While many investors embraced a simple asset
mix of stocks and bonds, Bridgewater spread its bets across
myriad markets, eventually to more than 100 of them. The firm
wagered on every-thing from Treasury yield curves to Australian
dollars to crude.  That diversification, including bets not related to the
overall direction of the market, helped the hedge fund prosper
in good markets and bad -- and lure huge pensions and other big
institutions to an industry then dominated by wealthy families
and endowments.  “He created the framework to look at what is happening in
currencies, economies, equities and credit markets,” says
 Michael Rosen , chief investment officer of  Angeles Investment
Advisors LLC  in  Santa Monica ,  California .  ‘Remember to Reflect’  Dalio grew up in suburban Manhasset Hills on  New York ’s
 Long Island , listening to his father, a jazz musician, play the
tenor saxophone. He graduated from  Long Island University  with a
degree in finance in 1971 and headed to  Harvard University ,
earning an MBA in 1973.  Dalio soon landed at a predecessor firm to Shearson Loeb
Rhoades, the brokerage built by  Sandy Weill , who would go on to
run  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Dalio chafed at the hierarchical culture and
was fired by Weill after about a year.  Dalio started Bridgewater in 1975 in a spare bedroom in his
New York apartment. Since then, he has boiled down his thinking
into a set of investment principles that he won’t disclose. He
does post his management principles on the company’s website.  Some are philosophical, such as No. 24a: “Ask yourself
whether you have earned the right to have an opinion.” Some read
like Confucian aphorisms. No. 17: “When you experience pain,
remember to reflect.” This year, Dalio changed his title to
mentor from president.  Concerns About  Europe   He says the  principles  complement his firm’s effort to be
“radically truthful” and “radically transparent.” Bridgewater
employees -- Dalio included -- are required to publicly talk
about their and their colleagues’ mistakes and weaknesses as a
means to improvement. Conversations are either audio or
videotaped so that employees can make their own assessments.  These days, the view from Bridgewater is dour. He divides
the world into two groups: developed debtor nations that are
deleveraging and emerging creditor countries that are leveraging
up. After years of overspending financed by borrowing, the
former are being forced to lower their debt relative to their
income levels, constraining spending levels and employment
gains.  Developed debtor countries, including Greece, Spain and
 Italy , that can’t print money to make it easier to service their
debts and to make up for slow credit growth will have decade-
long depressions and debt defaults.  “We worry about Europe not being able to solve its
problems,” Dalio says.  ‘A Country in Decline’  Dalio expects emerging creditor nations to be tomorrow’s
economic leaders. Countries such as  China  and  India  that have
currencies and monetary policy linked to those in the U.S. are
experiencing inflationary bubbles because their  interest rates 
are too low, he says. They will have to unlink from the U.S. or
face intolerable conditions. Emerging economies will account for
70 percent of global GDP in 15 to 20 years versus 47 percent
now.  Dalio views the August market turbulence as consistent with
Bridgewater’s expectations. “Emerging creditor countries are
trading more like blue chips; the U.S. is trading more like a
country in decline,” the Daily Observations read on Aug. 8.  Dalio’s insights at least provide some comfort in divining
the commotion that lies ahead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 