-- 
Deadly Bombing at New Delhi Court Complex Exposes Indian Security Failing

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-09-08T11:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/deadly-bombing-at-new-delhi-court-complex-exposes-indian-security-failings.html
A second deadly bombing of a major
Indian city in two months exposed the country’s vulnerability to
terrorist attacks almost three years after a siege of Mumbai
spurred an overhaul of security and intelligence agencies.  A bomb hidden in a briefcase killed 12 people and injured
76 outside New Delhi’s High Court yesterday, the worst strike in
the capital in three years. After a smaller explosion at the
same site in May, Delhi police didn’t meet a request for closed
circuit television cameras that may have deterred the assailants,
Rakesh Tiku, chairman of the Bar Council of Delhi, said by phone.  India has suffered six terrorist attacks since November
2008 when the government pledged to improve policing and
intelligence after Pakistani gunmen killed 166 people during a
siege of the country’s financial capital. Poor training and a
lack of resources mean security forces aren’t equipped to head
off attacks, ensuring India is still a “soft target” for
terrorism, say analysts like S. Chandrasekharan.  “Even after a number of attacks, the risk of terrorism is
not taken seriously enough,” said Chandrasekharan, director of
the  South Asia Analysis Group . “Security personnel aren’t
disciplined. So this is the price you pay.”  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said yesterday that
progress had been made. “In the last few years, several
measures have been taken to strengthen Delhi police,” he said.
“Despite the capacity that has been built and despite Delhi
police remaining on high alert, the tragic incident occurred.”  ‘Fully Secured’  Yesterday’s attack “could have been averted if the police
were more vigilant,” Tiku said.  A lack of metal detectors outside the court further
stretched the security staff responsible for the safety of more
than 3,000 people who work there each day, he said.  “This blast has taken place outside the secured area,
before checking of people waiting to get entry passes starts,”
Rajan Bhagat, a police spokesman, said. The court premises
“were fully secured.”  Police released a computerized sketch of two male suspects,
one showing a 50-year-old with a beard and the other a 26-year-
old. A preliminary analysis suggested a nitrate-based explosive,
with traces of pentaerythritol tetranitrate, a plastic explosive,
had been used in the attack.  Opposition politicians yesterday questioned why India
remained unable to detect attacks and protect its citizens. “It
is a kind of helpless situation,” Arun Jaitley, a leader of the
Bharatiya Janata Party, said in parliament. “Have we become so
vulnerable that terrorist groups can almost strike at will?”  Short of Police  Following the Mumbai attacks in 2008, which shattered peace
talks with nuclear-armed neighbor Pakistan, India created a
federal agency to investigate terrorist strikes, strengthened
coastal patrols, bolstered intelligence agencies and recruited
more security personnel.  Chidambaram, who took over as India’s top internal security
official after the siege, said last month the country’s states
employed an extra 90,000 police officers in 2010. Still, 600,000
vacancies remained, he said, positions that would not be filled
for another seven years at the current rate of recruitment.  India is short of police, deploying an officer for every
1,037 residents, compared with a global average of one per 333
citizens, Human Rights Watch said in a 2009 report. Ill-trained
officers typically are on call 24 hours.  Yesterday’s attack was the worst in India since July, when
25 people were killed in Mumbai as three bombs ripped through
the city during the evening rush hour.  ‘Cowardly Act’  “This is a cowardly act of a terrorist nature,” Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh said in televised comments from
Bangladesh yesterday, as he ended a two-day visit. “This is a
long war in which all political parties, all the people of India
stand united so the scourge of terrorism is crushed.”  Authorities received a claim of responsibility from the
Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami militant group, the Press Trust of
India reported yesterday. Chidambaram told parliament it was too
early to identify those who carried out the bombing.
Intelligence agencies had warned Delhi police in July of a risk
of a terrorist attack “emanating from certain groups,” he said.  Another Islamic militant group,  Indian Mujahideen , sent an
e-mail claiming responsibility for the attack to Indian media
today. U.K. Bansal, the country’s internal security secretary,
said in televised comments they are investigating this claim.  Gujarat Riots  Harkat is an Islamic militant group originally from
Pakistan that Indian officials say used Bangladesh as a base for
attacks in India, notably in 2007 and 2008, according to the New
Delhi-based Institute for Conflict Management. The Indian and
U.S. governments have declared it a terrorist organization.  The explosion at about 10:15 a.m. yesterday was the
deadliest in New Delhi since five bombs struck the city in
September, 2008, killing 26 people and injuring 133. Indian
Mujahideen, the group that is believed to recruit members within
India, said it was behind those blasts.  While the organization may get support from Pakistan, it is
an Indian network comprising men who may have been radicalized
by anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat state in 2002, according to a
study by a government-backed research body in New Delhi, the
Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses.  Lawyers gathered outside the court in New Delhi expressed
anger over security failures. Police failed to carry out checks
on people coming into the court as they lined up for entry
passes at the main gate, Shyam Sharma, a 45-year-old lawyer,
said in an interview as paramedics collected the injured. “It
could happen again tomorrow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  