-- 
Deficit-Struck California Outperforms Amid Debt-Sale Freeze: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/deficit-hit-california-outperforms-on-sales-freeze-muni-credit.html
Debt of  California  and its local
governments, the biggest issuer of municipal bonds in the last
seven years, is beating the broader tax-exempt market in 2011
amid a state borrowing freeze.  California securities produced an 8.6 percent tax-free
return in 2011, according to the  Standard & Poor’s /Investortools
Municipal Bond Index, which includes interest income and price
change. That’s more than the 7.5 percent for the overall $2.9
trillion municipal market. U.S. Treasuries have returned a
taxable 8.3 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The combination of high demand and diminished supply has
helped California post the best return this year of the 26
states for which S&P has performance data. California bonds beat
the overall market last year after trailing the previous three,
S&P indexes show.  “There’s a lot of demand for California paper, given that
it tends to yield more than most,” said Kelly Wine, executive
vice president of RH Investment Corp., a broker dealer in
Encino, California, that will help underwrite a state general-
obligation bond sale later this year. “Between issuances, we
end up seeing more demand than we can supply.”  The state will offer $8 billion of debt this month in its
first tax-exempt issues of 2011 as municipal borrowing this week
and last is set to be the lowest for the period around Labor Day
in seven years.  Sale Moratorium  California has helped drive demand for the state’s debt
this year by not selling any tax-backed bonds as Treasurer Bill Lockyer and Governor  Jerry Brown  dealt with what was a $26
billion  budget deficit . Lockyer said he expects to offer less
than 33 percent of the $27 billion of short- and long-term bonds
he sold last year.  The state may need to add yield at the coming sale to
attract investors, said Joe Gotelli, who manages $2.25 billion
of California debt at American Century Investments. California
debt yields about 1.31 percentage points more than top-rated
municipal debt, compared with a peak yield spread this year of
1.47 percentage points in June, according to Bloomberg data.  “Bringing this size could disrupt some of the spreads,”
Gotelli said in a telephone interview from  Mountain View ,
California. “But in reality, there’s been so little supply
year-to-date that a couple billion extra dollars in long-term
issuance really isn’t going to rock the boat.”  Gotelli’s California Intermediate-Term Tax-Free Bond Fund
beat 88 percent of its rivals during the five years through
Sept. 2, with a 4.41 percent average annual return, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Borrowing Slump  Total municipal borrowing this year has been $146.2
billion, Bloomberg data show, $109.4 billion less than the same
period in 2010, when federally subsidized Build America Bonds
encouraged sales.  California and its municipalities sold $59 billion of long-
term bonds last year, according to Bloomberg data, more than New
York’s $39 billion and  Texas ’s $34.8 billion.  This year, with the debt moratorium, California trails New
York by $818.7 million after being the No. 1 seller among the
three largest issuers each year since 2004, the data show.  Ten-year general obligations from California issuers yield
4.23 percent on average this year, or about 136 basis points
more than top-rated 10-year general-obligation debt, according
to Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. A basis point is one hundredth
of a percentage point.  Lowest Rating  At A-, California has the lowest general-obligation credit
rating of any state from S&P. Investors demand more yield from
issuers with lower credit ratings, and higher yields spur demand
when supply is low. For the year so far, California has
outperformed AAA rated Maryland by 238 basis points, according
to the S&P/Investortools index.  The stable outlooks from the rating companies will help
California continue to outperform, said Tom Boylen, a municipal-
bond trader at Performance Trust Capital Partners in  Chicago .  “There may be a short-term window where it gets a smidge
cheaper in step with the supply,” Boylen said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think it will have any long-term effects
just because of that deal.”  California will sell $5.4 billion of revenue-anticipation
notes Sept. 15 and as much as $2.6 billion of long-term debt
Sept. 20. Lockyer will use the revenue notes to pay off a cash-
flow loan he secured July 27 from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , six other banks and investors.  The treasurer took the loan anticipating a possible credit-
market disruption as Congress debated raising the nation’s debt
ceiling. Without the loan, the state was in danger of running
out of money, as it did in 2009, when the controller issued $2.6
billion of IOUs amid a legislative budget impasse.  Plunging Rates  The new notes will go to market as yields on such debt have
plunged along with Treasury rates. One-year tax-exempt note
yields hovered at 0.31 percent last week, according to a Bond
Buyer index, down from 0.51 percent a year earlier and 3.62
percent in 2007, before the recession. One- to three-year
Treasury yields also fell in the last year, to a record-low 0.56
percent last week from 0.9 percent.  “Times are a little unusual right now,” said Wine of RH
Investment. “A little widening of the spreads once we get the
new deal in the market” can be expected, she said.  California sold $10 billion of RANs at the end of November.
The sale included $2.25 billion of notes that came due in May
with a yield of 1.5 percent and $7.75 billion that matured in
June at 1.75 percent.  The May notes yielded 98 basis points more than top-rated
one-year debt at the time and the June notes yielded 123 basis
points more, Municipal Market Advisors data show.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  NEW YORK  STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY, which oversees a 570-mile
toll road system, will sell as soon as tomorrow $350 million of
personal-income tax revenue bonds to finance highway and bridge
projects. The bonds are rated AAA, Standard & Poor’s highest
grade. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. LLC will lead banks on the
deal. (Added Sept. 1)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  