-- 
Dodd-Frank Forces Early Call in SEC Probe of Former Fannie Mae Chief Mudd

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/dodd-frank-forces-early-call-in-sec-probe-of-fannie-mae-s-mudd.html
Last March the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission told  Daniel Mudd , former head of Fannie Mae,
that he could face claims for his role in the firm’s collapse.
He may be the first chief executive officer to benefit from a
rule that regulators sue or drop such cases within six months.  The 180-day deadline set out in last year’s Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul expires today for Mudd. SEC lawyers can only
get an extension if they formally justify it to their bosses.  Mudd’s situation highlights a dilemma for the agency, which
has been faulted both for letting probe targets languish and for
shutting investigations too quickly, causing the SEC to miss
frauds including Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  “The government does have a role in giving respondents
peace of mind if an investigation isn’t going to continue,”
said  James Cox , a securities law professor at  Duke University  in
Durham,  North Carolina . “At the same time, there’s a natural
reluctance. Nobody wants to be the one who closes the file on
the next Bernie Madoff.”  The Dodd-Frank time limit applies to cases in which the SEC
has sent so-called Wells notices telling individuals they may
face a lawsuit. An unintended consequence may be that fewer
people will learn they’re being probed. Since the agency isn’t
required to make such notifications, some SEC lawyers have been
postponing sending the notices to avoid starting the 180-day
clock, according to a person familiar with the process who spoke
on condition of anonymity.  Fannie and Freddie  Mudd, now chief executive officer of  Fortress Investment
Group LLC (FIG) , received a Wells notice on March 11. Under the SEC’s
rules investigators aren’t required to notify him if the inquiry
is closed or extended.  Mudd, who hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing, declined to
comment yesterday.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC,
declined to comment on notification procedures or the Mudd
matter.  The SEC’s investigation of Mudd, Fannie Mae and its smaller
sibling, Freddie Mac, centers on whether the government-
sponsored mortgage finance firms told investors enough about the
risky loans they loaded into their portfolios as the housing
market cratered in 2007 and 2008, according to people with
direct knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the probe isn’t public.  During Mudd’s tenure as  Fannie Mae  CEO, from 2004 through
the government takeover in 2008, the mortgage company ramped up
its business with lower-quality mortgages. Mudd told Congress in
April 2007 that the firm’s exposure to subprime loans was “less
than 2.5 percent of our book.” Regulators are examining whether
he downplayed the risks.  Fannie Disclosures  After receiving the Wells notice, Mudd said that Fannie
Mae’s disclosures had been previewed by federal regulators. He
said the firm reported on its loan portfolio when he was in
charge the same way it does now -- by breaking down the
mortgages it holds by credit score, loans made to borrowers with
less documentation and loan-to-value ratio.  Under the new Dodd-Frank rules, the SEC’s director of
enforcement,  Robert Khuzami , can grant investigators an extra
180 days to work a case, and beyond that, SEC commissioners have
the power to extend the life of a probe indefinitely.  Khuzami requires the staff to explain in writing why a case
involving a Wells notice is sufficiently complex to justify an
extension, said the person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Novel Issues  An SEC internal form states that reasons for an extension
may include the application of novel legal or policy issues,
difficulty getting evidence from foreign jurisdictions or the
need to coordinate with criminal authorities, the person said.  Khuzami has sent his staff the message that he won’t
rubber-stamp the requests, the person said.  When Dodd-Frank was enacted in July 2010, the SEC started
the 180-day clock for Wells notices that had been already been
sent, meaning that the agency has since decided whether to close
or extend those inquiries, the person said. Wells deadlines and
extensions are tracked on a chart that is circulated regularly
to senior enforcement staff, according to the person.  Investigators have likely made decisions about whether to
extend related probes against former  Freddie Mac  executives,
though they aren’t required to notify them. Donald Bisenius, the
firm’s former executive vice president for single-family credit
guarantee, and Anthony “Buddy” Piszel, who was Freddie Mac’s
chief financial officer from November 2006 to September 2008,
both received Wells notices before Mudd, according to public
filings. Richard Syron, Freddie Mac’s former CEO, has also
received a Wells notice, according to two people briefed on the
matter. Bisenius, Piszel and Syron haven’t been accused of
wrongdoing.  Litigation Costs  For individuals the price of uncertainty can be high
because not everyone’s legal costs are covered by their firms.
In Mudd’s case, Fannie Mae is footing the bills, spokeswoman  Amy Bonitatibus  said in an e-mail.  Registered brokers are also required to disclose if they’ve
received a Wells notice. That stays in the broker’s public
filings indefinitely if the probe isn’t formally closed, even if
the case is no longer being actively pursued.  While the Dodd-Frank provision applies to individuals who
have been notified -- not to firms that receive Wells notices --
the SEC’s April 2010 claims against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
gave political traction to the measure.  Goldman Case  The company’s executives said they were blindsided by the
SEC lawsuit, which said Goldman Sachs misled investors in a
mortgage-linked product known as Abacus. After receiving a Wells
notice in July 2009, the firm submitted a response in September
2009 and employees were interviewed in the following months.
Goldman Sachs executives said they thought the case went
inactive. They said they were stunned nine months later when the
SEC filed the suit, which the firm settled for $550 million in
July 2010.  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz said in a report that
the agency didn’t notify Goldman Sachs prior to filing the
lawsuit. According to the report, Goldman Sachs’s counsel called
Khuzami and complained about not having had an opportunity to
settle the claims. Khuzami responded that the SEC had no reason
to believe that the firm was interested in settling, according
to the report.  In testimony for the report, Goldman Sachs’s counsel said
it was “contrary to decades of SEC experience” that the agency
would file a lawsuit without giving the respondent a chance to
propose a settlement.  In 2009, before Dodd-Frank, Khuzami took steps to overhaul
the management of investigations, including hiring the
division’s first chief operating officer to improve case flow.
In a March speech at a securities law event in Phoenix, Khuzami
said the time it takes to file an action fell by 11 percent in
the past two years.  “This trend translates into more timely cases with greater
deterrent impact, and a decrease in the uncertainty for the
subjects of our investigations about their status,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 