-- 
Dollar Gains Before Obama’s Jobs Speech; Euro Slumps on ECB Rate Outlook

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-09-08T11:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/dollar-gains-before-obama-s-jobs-speech-euro-slumps-on-ecb-rate-outlook.html
The dollar strengthened versus the
euro and yen before President Barack Obama unveils proposals to
spur job growth and the U.S. economy, making it less likely that
the  Federal Reserve  will add to monetary easing.  The greenback snapped yesterday’s losses versus the yen and
the euro on prospects Obama’s plans will boost growth. The 17-
nation euro fell against its U.S. peer on speculation European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will signal a less
aggressive stance toward inflation. The Swiss franc weakened
against the euro for a third day as global stocks rose. The
pound rose against most of its peers as the Bank of England kept
its main rate at a record low 0.5 percent.  “To announce a broad program to fight unemployment is
always something that might be perceived as dollar-positive by
the market,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist
at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.4054 per euro at 12:02
p.m. in London. It reached $1.3972 on Sept. 6, the most since
July 13. The greenback was little changed at 77.25 yen. The euro
strengthened 0.4 percent to 108.52 yen. The Swiss franc dropped
0.7 percent to 86.37 centimes per dollar and declined 0.4
percent against the euro to 1.2137.  Obama, facing re-election in 2012, will address a joint
session of Congress today on proposals to speed  job creation 
that may inject more than $300 billion into the economy next
year. Almost half the stimulus may come from tax cuts, including
an extension of a 2 percentage-point reduction in the  payroll
tax  paid by workers due to expire Dec. 31 and a new decrease in
the portion of the tax paid by employers.  ‘Risk of Stalling’  San Francisco Fed President John C. Williams yesterday cut
his growth forecast for the rest of 2011 and said the economy
probably won’t be able to expand enough to bring down a 9.1
percent jobless rate soon.  “The real threat is an economy that is at risk of stalling
and the prospect of many years of very high unemployment, with
potentially long-run negative consequences,” Williams said in a
speech in  Seattle . While the Fed could take new steps to ease
conditions, “these ‘treatments’ won’t make our economic
problems go away and their costs and benefits must be carefully
balanced.”  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, and unemployment remained stuck at 9.1 percent
in August as job growth stagnated. Confidence among consumers
plunged last month to the lowest level in more than two years.  Fiscal Stimulus  “You’re likely to see the Fed carry along as they have
been,” said  Thomas Averill , a director in Sydney at Rochford
Capital, a currency and interest-rate risk management company.
“The real baton for stimulus has now been passed to the fiscal
side of the equation as opposed to the monetary policy side.”  Demand for the euro was limited on speculation the ECB will
lower inflation and growth forecasts and signal a pause in
interest-rate increases at today’s meeting in  Frankfurt .  “The situation surrounding the euro hasn’t changed at
all,” said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in  Tokyo  at
Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank
by market value. “If Trichet downgrades his inflation outlook,
the market will price in a halt in interest-rate increases,
weighing on the euro.”  While all 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
ECB to leave its benchmark rate unchanged at 1.5 percent this
meeting, traders are betting it will cut borrowing costs by 26
basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit Suisse Group AG
index based on swaps shows.  BOE Decision  The pound earlier weakened toward a nine-week low against
the dollar after the U.K.’s Institute of Directors called on the
 Bank of England  to add 50 billion pounds ($79.8 billion) to a
bond-purchase program it should resume immediately. The central
bank maintained its quantitative-easing program at 200 billion
pounds today.  Sterling was little changed at $1.6000. It earlier reached
$1.5913, its weakest level since July 13. The pound strengthened
0.4 percent to 87.84 pence per euro and 0.8 percent to 1.3821
Swiss francs.  Switzerland ’s currency weakened against all of 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg, sliding most versus the  New Zealand
dollar  and Mexican peso. The franc fell by a record against the
euro on Sept. 6 after the  Swiss National Bank  set a franc
ceiling -- the first time such a limit was set since 1978 --
saying it would use “unlimited” quantities of cash to cap the
increase.  SNB Test  “The general consensus is that the SNB is ready to stand
pat and it wouldn’t be smart to try and take them on at the
moment,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA in Geneva. “They’re going to stand their
line and hold the ground.”  The central bank may act to weaken the currency beyond the
ceiling as it attempts to support growth in the export-led Swiss
economy, he said.  “The move from 1.10 to 1.20 won’t significantly relieve
the stress that’s on exporters, so it’s not like it’s going to
change the economic environment drastically,” Rosenstreich
said. “It needs to be higher.”  The Australian dollar trimmed yesterday’s 1.7 percent surge
against its U.S. counterpart after the statistics bureau in
Sydney said that employers unexpectedly shed jobs for a second
consecutive month in August. The number of people employed fell
by 9,700, compared with the median estimate for a 10,000
increase in a Bloomberg News survey. The jobless rate climbed to
5.3 percent, the highest since October.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.3 percent to $1.0627 and
fell 0.3 percent to 82.12 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  