-- 
Euro Rises as Italy Austerity Vote Adds to Region’s Debt Crisis Progress

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-07T21:10:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/dollar-falls-versus-most-counterparts-as-stock-rally-damps-safety-demand.html
The euro rose against the dollar,
snapping the longest losing streak since April 2010, after
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence vote
on austerity measures, adding to progress in addressing the
region’s debt crisis.  The Dollar Index declined as the  Federal Reserve  said its
Beige Book survey found the economy grew at a slower pace in
some regions of the country. Norway’s krone reached an eight-
year high against the euro and the Swedish krona advanced as
investors sought alternatives to the Swiss franc. The euro rose
earlier versus most its major counterparts after Germany’s top
court rejected constitutional challenges to the nation’s
participation in the region’s rescue funds.  “Berlusconi got approval for his austerity package, which
resulted in a lift in the euro-dollar,” said  Kathy Lien ,
director of research in  New York  at online currency trader GFT
Forex. “The fact we’ve had some good news gives the European
Central Bank less reason to turn dovish and that’s going to help
the euro-dollar.”  The 17-nation euro strengthened 0.7 percent to $1.4098 at 5
p.m. in New York. It added 0.2 percent to 108.90 yen. The U.S.
currency dropped 0.5 percent to 77.26 yen.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slid 0.7 percent to 75.423, after dropping 1
percent, the most on an intraday drop since Aug. 15.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 2.9 percent.
Treasury 10-year note yields rose six basis points to 2.04
percent after reaching a record low yesterday.  “Some of the news flow this morning is positive, given the
treacherous backdrop that we’ve had over the past couple of
days,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. “Currencies are
currently being dominated by stocks.”  The Italian Senate approved Berlusconi’s revised austerity
plan, setting up a final vote in the Chamber of Deputies as
 Italy  seeks to stem surging bond yields. The vote took place as
protesters hurled smoke bombs and firecrackers amid a heavy
police presence outside the Senate building, a day after
thousands of Italians protested in a general strike against the
measures.  Swiss Stable  The Swiss franc rose 0.2 percent to 1.20893 per euro, after
its biggest intraday loss ever against the 17-nation currency
yesterday. The currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 85.75
centimes per dollar after falling as much as 8.8 percent
yesterday.  The  Swiss  National Bank said yesterday it will “no longer
tolerate a euro-franc  exchange rate  below the minimum rate of
1.20 francs” and that it’s “aiming for a substantial and
sustained weakening of the franc.” The Swiss currency slid a
record 8.7 percent against the euro after the announcement.  “In light of the move of the SNB to intervene against
Swiss, the number of available safe havens has diminished, and
that is a negative for the euro against other currencies,” said
 Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist in New York at Barclays
Plc in New York. “Investors will be looking to sell the euro
against the dollar and the more stable European currencies such
as the Norwegian krone and Swedish krona. This explains why the
euro has been underperforming while the dollar has sold off.”  Krona Move  Sweden’s krona appreciated against the euro and the dollar
after the central bank said it only “slightly” cut its
guidance for future increases in  interest rates  while signaling
it may raise the benchmark next quarter. The largest Nordic
economy, which relies on exports for half its output, has seen
global recovery prospects deteriorate.  The krona appreciated 0.9 percent to 8.9706 per euro and
strengthened 1.6 percent against the dollar to 6.3625.  Norway’s krone rose 0.4 percent to 5.3853 per dollar and
gained as much as 1.1 percent to 7.4887 versus the euro, the
strongest since February 2003.  Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today
threw out suits targeting the nation’s share of the 110 billion
euros ($154 billion) in loans for  Greece  from euro-region
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  as well as a
separate 750-billion-euro rescue fund approved last year to halt
the spread of Greece’s debt crisis.  Europe Finance  German Chancellor Angela Merkel pledged last week to
consult lawmakers as much as they felt necessary as her Cabinet
agreed on a reworked European Financial Stability Facility that
will raise  Germany ’s share of European Financial Stability
Facility loan guarantees to 211 billion euros.  “A lot of people in the  euro zone  that have been buying
the Swiss franc linked to the European tensions are mainly
interested in something that is quite close regionally, easily
accessible and it’s about wealth preservation rather than
currency appreciation,” said  Thomas Stolper , chief foreign
exchange strategist in  London  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in a
conference call today. “If you buy the franc at 1.20 and the
SNB makes a commitment to keep it at that level it doesn’t
change the safe-haven function of the currency.”  The yen rose against the majority of its major counterparts
after the Bank of  Japan  kept monetary policy unchanged today and
said it would gauge the effects of adding 10 trillion yen ($130
billion) stimulus last month on the yen near a postwar high.  The U.S. currency depreciated against most of its 16 most-
traded counterparts amid speculation Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will signal more monetary easing in a speech tomorrow.
The  Federal Open Market Committee  will gather for a two-day
meeting on Sept. 20.  “Economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace,
though some districts noted mixed or weakening activity,” the
Fed said in its Beige Book survey released today in  Washington .  Canada ’s dollar remained higher against its U.S.
counterpart after the Bank of Canada kept its main interest rate
unchanged and said there’s a “diminished” need for a rate
increase.  The Canadian currency gained 0.7 percent to 98.33 cents per
 U.S. dollar  from 99.05 cents. It touched 99.66 cents yesterday,
the weakest since Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  