-- 
The Beautiful Minds That Created Modern Economics: Sylvia Nasar

-- B y   S y l v i a   N a s a r
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/the-beautiful-minds-that-created-modern-economics-sylvia-nasar.html
For the bottom nine-tenths of
humanity, the world has changed more in the last century and a
half than in the 20 centuries before.  The idea that mankind could master its material
circumstances was born in  Charles Dickens ’s London. Over the
next century and a half, the grand pursuit of economic thinkers
was to overcome scarcity, to loosen the grip of iron necessity
on ordinary lives and minds. The new way of thinking spread
outward from mid-Victorian London like ripples in a pond until
it transformed the lives of every person on the planet.  Here, in a five-part series, are stories of the men and
women who helped speed that transformation -- and in the process
invented an apparatus of the mind that is modern economics.  The Reckoning  On the afternoon of Thursday, May 10, 1866, in the first
week of the boating season, a frightful rumor swirled through
 London . Overend, Gurney & Co., a bank considered by the average
citizen to be as solid as the Royal Mint, had failed.  By 10 the following morning, a horde of “struggling and
half frantic creditors” of both sexes and seemingly all stations
of life invaded the financial district. A correspondent for the
New York Times called it “a more fearful panic than has been
known in the British metropolis within the memory of man.”  Before an extra battalion of constables could be called out
to control the crowd, the British money market froze and scores
of banks and businesses that lived on credit were facing ruin.
“Englishmen have been running mad on speculation,” the Timesman
concluded. “The day of reckoning has arrived.”  Overdue  When news of the panic reached  Karl Marx , the shaggy-haired
German philosopher was in his study in north London pondering a
financial crisis closer to home. His income, which was enough to
put the Marxes in the top 2 percent of British households, never
could keep pace with his outlays, and the rent on their villa
was overdue. So was “ Das Kapital ,” the critique of English
political economy that Marx had claimed for years was “virtually
finished.”  Marx had set out to prove not only that free markets and
democracy didn’t work, but also that they couldn’t work. Even as
the economy’s productive capacity soared and the rich got
richer, he would reveal society’s “law of motion” that made it
inevitable that wages must sink, the middle class must disappear
and the poor must starve. The wealthier the nation became, the
greater the misery of the masses, the ones “designed” for labor
and little else.  The “ Communist Manifesto ,” hastily drafted in a long-ago
year of revolutions, referred to “ever-decreasing wages” and
“ever-increasing burden of toil” as a matter of historical fact.
Ever since, Marx had been trying to prove that the “law of
capitalist accumulation” actually required that wages fall, the
length and intensity of the working day increase, working
conditions deteriorate, the quality of food and other
necessities decline, and the average life spans of workers
shrink.  Unhappily for Marx, the 20 years in which he was dragging
his unfinished book around coincided with the Victorian economic
miracle, an unprecedented surge in real wages and  living
standards , and a wave of middle-class social and political
reform. Now the prospect of economic Armageddon lit a fire under
him. Within days of the Overend, Gurney collapse, he was back at
his desk. By the time he dashed off the words, “The death knell
of capitalist private property sounds,” a real-life doomsday
scenario was unfolding.  Misery and fear spread through London, the center of the
world market and the heart of British industry. An avalanche of
bankruptcies ruined thousands of the newly rich and deprived
many thousands more of their jobs. A cholera epidemic, a freak
freeze and a doubling of bread prices multiplied the hardships.
“What that distress is no one knows,” wrote Florence
Nightingale, the heiress and hospital reformer. Bread riots
broke out, small shopkeepers threatened to arm themselves and
thousands of East Enders battled mounted police in Hyde Park to
vent their frustration and fury at the rich.  ‘A Strange Land’  Popular discontent did not lead, as Marx hoped, to the
overthrow of existing society, but rather to universal male
suffrage. The upsurge in joblessness and distress converted
university students, women, journalists and artists into social
reformers and stimulated the search for ideas that would “put
mankind in the saddle.”  Alfred Marshall, a 23-year-old mathematician who had
escaped poverty for the life of a Cambridge don and gentleman,
was compelled to tramp through the slums “looking into the faces
of the poor.” The sight of “so much want” amid “so much wealth”
prompted him to ask whether the existence of a proletariat was,
as he had been taught to believe, “a necessity of nature.”
Why, he wondered, “should you not make every man a gentleman?”  Feeling that he was “a philosopher in a strange land,”
Marshall took up economics. As he read John Stuart Mill and
other founding fathers, Marshall noticed that many things in
society that they had assumed were fixed were in fact fluid and
subject to change.  Like Marx, they ruled out the possibility that the mass of
humanity could improve its material circumstances. Yet Marshall
observed that the average standard of life, for example, was
higher, not lower, than 20 years before. Managers, white-collar
workers, factory operatives and skilled artisans earned large
premiums over the pay of unskilled laborers. And the fraction of
higher-paid brain workers in the  labor force  was growing while
that of brute workers was shrinking. The world was more amenable
to improvement than they had realized.  Competition, Reconsidered  In contrast to Marx, who had never ventured inside a
factory and had virtually no contact with the society around
him, Marshall made a lifelong study of business enterprises,
unions and charities, which he saw as primary agents of change,
and made close friends among their leaders.  While Dickens compared factories to prisons and Marx saw
work as dehumanizing, Marshall noted that the primary economic
function of the modern company was to raise living standards.
Competitive pressures forced managers to constantly look for
ways to do more, better and faster by adopting new technologies,
improving organization, using resources more efficiently and by
hiring more experienced and better-educated workers.  True, Marx had also emphasized that competition pressured
businesses to increase efficiency. But he overlooked that
competition would also force owners to share the gains from
productivity improvements with employees and consumers. Marshall
concluded that as productivity rose, real wages would too, until
unskilled labor disappeared altogether. That meant that workers
could affect their future by acquiring training, forming unions
or emigrating. Their children’s futures could be improved
through education.  When Marshall traveled around the U.S. in 1875 to see where
modern society was headed, he returned to  England  “more sanguine
with regard to the future of the world.”  Instruments of Mastery  The Panic of 1866 was no death knell -- only the trigger
for a temporary setback, a transient slump. The economy
rebounded, England became a democracy, the average wage
continued to rise instead of dropping back to subsistence, and
Alfred Marshall helped turn the old dismal science into a search
for instruments of mastery. Yet he was troubled by London’s
underclass, whose condition was seemingly impervious to economic
progress. The cause of their poverty seemed to be poverty
itself, with each generation preventing the next from breaking
out. Who was responsible? Who could intervene?  (Sylvia Nasar, a former New York Times economics reporter
and the author of “ A Beautiful Mind ,” teaches journalism at
 Columbia University . This is the first in a five-part series
excerpted from her new book, “ Grand Pursuit: The Story of
Economic Genius ,” to be published by  Simon & Schuster  on Sept.
13.)  -- Editors: Timothy Lavin, Stacey Shick  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a letter
to the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Sylvia Nasar at  szn1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net  or. 