-- 
Health Savings Plans Let Firms Shift More Costs to Workers

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-09-07T14:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/health-savings-plans-let-firms-shift-more-costs-to-workers.html
Businesses are increasing the use of
high-deductible health insurance plans paired with savings
accounts to shift more costs to American workers.  The number of people using high-deductible health insurance
with a savings account option rose to more than 11.4 million as
of January, compared with 10 million a year earlier, a 14
percent increase, according to a June report by America’s Health
Insurance Plans in  Washington . Use of these plans with so-called
HSAs, which generally require consumers to pay more out of
pocket and let them save for medical expenses in their own
accounts, has jumped about 87 percent since 2008, said AHIP, a
trade group representing insurers.  The shift in health care is similar to the move by
employers to 401(k)-type  retirement plans  from traditional
company-funded pensions, said David Tyrie, head of personal
retirement solutions for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s brokerage unit.
Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , administers
health-care accounts, including HSAs, for about 600,000
customers.  “What you’re seeing is employers say we’re going to offer
a high-deductible plan and allow employees the ability to put
money away and make their own choices,” Tyrie said.  Banks and mutual funds firms including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Bank of America,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Fidelity Investments 
who administer HSAs see the savings accounts as an opportunity
because more people may invest funds as balances rise.  More large employers are offering high-deductible plans
with HSAs or making that coverage the only choice for workers as
a way to control costs and prepare for changes in health-care
law, said Helen Darling, president and chief executive officer
of the National Business Group on Health in Washington.  Faster Than Inflation  U.S. employers estimate their health-care costs will
increase at more than twice the rate of inflation in 2012, or an
average of 7.2 percent, according to an August  survey  by the
NBGH, which represents big firms, including 66 of Fortune 100
companies. Employers are attracted to the high-deductible plans
because premiums generally are lower and consumers pay more
attention to how much care costs, Darling said.  The average annual premium for family coverage through a
high-deductible plan and HSA was about $10,248 as of January,
AHIP data show. That compares with an average premium for all
health plans of $13,770, according to a 2010 study by the  Henry
J. Kaiser Family Foundation . Employers paid about 70 percent on
average of total premiums for family coverage, Kaiser data show.  Cadillac Tax  Companies also want to avoid the so-called Cadillac tax
beginning in 2018, Darling said. The Affordable Care Act signed
by President  Barack Obama  in March 2010 applies a 40 percent
levy on employer health-care benefits above $10,200 for
individuals and $27,500 for families.  Health Savings Accounts are tax-exempt accounts owned by
individuals that Congress created in 2003. To contribute,
consumers must be enrolled in a high-deductible health plan.
This year, that means a minimum annual deductible of $1,200 for
single coverage and $2,400 for a family, according to the
 Internal Revenue Service . The monthly premiums generally are
lower than traditional coverage and families generally pay
bills, except for some preventive care, up to the deductible
before insurance covers treatments.  Cash or Invested  Money deposited in HSAs by individuals or their employers
generally isn’t taxed and may be kept in cash or invested.
Contributions can be made with pre-tax dollars and are capped at
$3,050 for an individual and $6,150 for families in 2011,
according to IRS rules. Funds in HSAs may be rolled over from
year to year and accounts are portable if workers change jobs.  Earnings and withdrawals are tax-free if used for qualified
medical expenses, otherwise there’s a 20 percent penalty. A
provision in the health-care overhaul law passed in 2010 now
requires that consumers have a prescription when purchasing
over-the-counter drugs with money from an HSA.  After age 65 or becoming disabled, account holders may take
money out of their HSAs for non-medical reasons without a
penalty and pay ordinary income tax on withdrawals.  Consumers who choose high-deductible insurance and an HSA
should be aware that if they need treatment, the bills before
meeting the deductible “can really hit you hard,” said Mila
Kofman, a research professor at  Georgetown University  and former
superintendent of insurance in  Maine .  The average payment for a hospital stay was about $3,510
per night in 2008, according to the most recent  data  available
from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality in
Rockville,  Maryland .  Hidden Fees  Another concern is account fees. “There are all sorts of
hidden fees, and not so hidden, that you need to be aware of,”
Kofman said. “All the fees add up, which may neutralize any tax
advantage.”  Elda Di Re, 49, who leads the personal financial services
practice for Ernst & Young in New York, said she opted for the
first time this year to use a high-deductible plan with an HSA
for her family’s coverage. She’s saving more than $300 a month
on premiums compared with the traditional plan, gets a tax
deduction for money deposited in the HSA, and funds in the
account can be invested and increase tax free, Di Re said.  “I think of it like a retirement savings account,” she
said. “I like this ability to grow this side fund for future
medical expenses.”  Plan Offerings  Almost three quarters of companies surveyed by NBGH plan to
offer an HSA-type plan next year, compared with 61 percent this
year, and 17 percent will make it the only coverage available in
2012, the report said.  “We’re doing what we can to encourage them all to move to
high-deductible plans,” said Kathy Johnson, senior director of
employee benefits at RSM McGladrey, a tax and financial services
consulting firm with 6,800 employees nationwide.  McGladrey  offers employees two types of high-deductible
health insurance plans with HSAs. About 54 percent of workers
enrolled in the company’s health benefits have opted for the
cheaper monthly premiums, Johnson said. The highest deductible
is $5,400 for a family and the company will match up to $1,800
in contributions to HSAs through that plan in 2012, Johnson
said.  While most HSA account holders keep their savings in cash,
the number of people investing will increase as balances rise,
said Will Applegate, vice president of HSA business development
at Fidelity. About 15 percent of accounts with more than $2,500
at Fidelity have invested in mutual funds or bought stock, said
Applegate. The Boston-based mutual-fund firm administers about
80,000 HSA accounts and generally requires participants to have
at least $2,500 to invest, he said.  Investment Options  Wells Fargo has leveraged its 401(k) division to design
investment options for its HSAs, which have increased more than
300 percent in the past five years, said Elizabeth Ryan, head of
Wells Fargo’s health benefit services. The San Francisco-based
bank manages more than $600 million in HSA assets and serves
10,000 employers.  “This product has had tremendous growth,” Ryan said. “We
plan to again double our assets over the next three years.”  New York-based JPMorgan, which has $1.1 billion in HSA
assets, has seen average balances increase 7 percent to $1,494
as of December, compared with a year earlier, said Craig Vaream,
managing director of J.P. Morgan Treasury Services division. The
average balance of account holders who invest was $7,374, Vaream
said.  Account Fees  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , an insurer, is also administrating
HSAs. OptumHealth Bank, a UnitedHealth unit, administers health
savings accounts that are coupled with high-deductible insurance
plans sold by UnitedHealthcare, said Todd Berkley, the HSA
business leader for OptumHealth.  Banks and insurers administering HSAs may charge fees for
account maintenance, debit-card withdrawals and inactivity,
which consumers should be aware of, said Kofman of Georgetown.
Bank of America, for example, charges a $4.50 monthly fee and
OptumHealth takes $1.50 for each withdrawal from an automated
teller machine. At Wells Fargo, monthly service fees vary and
employers often pay them on behalf of their employees, said
Ryan.  Kathleen Stoll, director of health policy for the nonprofit
consumer advocacy group  Families USA , said she’s concerned that
as employers shift costs, workers may delay getting care because
they’ll have to pay more before insurance kicks in. That may
cause an illness, such as a child’s ear infection, to become
more severe and more costly to treat, Stoll said.  “In the end, we all grow older and sick and we may find
we’ve shot ourselves in the foot,” with this shift to high
deductibles and savings accounts, Stoll said.  Paul Fronstin, director of the health research program at
the  Employee Benefit Research Institute  in Washington, expects
employers will continue to phase-in high-deductible plans with
HSAs as they did with 401(k) accounts.  “The number of employers offering them has nowhere to go
but up,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 