-- 
EasyGroup Seeks Ivory Coast, Nigeria Hotel Openings, Lonrho’s Lenigas Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-07T12:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/easygroup-seeks-ivory-coast-nigeria-hotel-openings-lonrho-s-lenigas-says.html
  Lonrho Plc (LAF) , which operates the
EasyGroup Holdings Ltd. hotel franchise in  Africa , plans to open
budget hotels in Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt
and  South Africa , Executive Chairman David Lenigas said.  Lonrho, a London-based multi-industry company focused on
Africa that gets most of its revenue from agribusiness, said
July 27 that it signed an agreement to operate the EasyHotel
Ltd. franchise and plans to open 50 outlets across the region by
2016. The company has yet to determine the location for the
first hotel, which it plans to open next year,Lenigas said in a
Sept. 5 interview in the company’s London offices.  The hotels will be marketed to local business travelers
rather than international customers, with the earliest bookings
getting a room for $29. The average charge will be around $80 a
room, said Lenigas.  “If you’re coming in from the  United States  from Dallas
you’re going to stay at the Intercontinental,” said Lenigas.
“But there is no market there for the $70 room from a supply
perspective, there’s a huge market for demand.”  Hotels accounted for 5.5 percent of Lonrho’s 107.8 million
pounds ($171.7 million) of revenue in the year through September
2010. The company currently has about 400 hotel rooms under
management across Africa and would like to have up to four
EasyHotel’s open within 12 months, Lenigas said.  EasyGroup is owned by Stelios Haji-Ioannou, who founded
 Europe ’s second-largest discount airline, EasyJet. EasyGroup
spokeswoman Eleni Menikou didn’t immediately return a telephone
call seeking comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  