-- 
EasyJet’s Excessive Jet Ordering Diminishes Carrier’s Profit, Founder Says

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-07T14:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/easyjet-s-excessive-jet-orders-diminish-profit-founder-says.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  founder and No. 1
investor  Stelios Haji-Ioannou  said profit projections from house
broker Credit Suisse show excessive plane purchases are eating
into earnings at  Europe ’s second-biggest discount carrier.  The latest forecast from Credit Suisse suggests EasyJet
will post a profit of about 33 pence a share for the year to
Sept. 30 2012, down 18 percent on the 40 pence projected for the
current 12 months, Stelios, who prefers to be known by his first
name, said today in a statement from his EasyGroup Holdings Ltd.  “This is proof that the additional aircraft purchased by
the board are actually destroying  shareholder value ,” Stelios
said, adding that the plane orders were supported by director
Rigas Doganis, who he is seeking to remove. “More aircraft in
the EasyJet fleet now means lower profits, not higher.”  Stelios, who controls about 38 percent of EasyJet’s stock,
has been at loggerheads with management over expansion plans for
almost three years. He called for more prudence in November 2008
while refusing to sign off on the company’s annual accounts and
is targeting Doganis after David Michels, the airline’s deputy
chairman, quit last month following a similar campaign.  EasyJet needs no more than 180 planes, Stelios said
separately in an interview. The Luton, England-based carrier had
203 jets in its fleet as of June 30, it said in statement July
22, and last placed a new order in January, for 35 planes.  Growth Halt  “The time has come to stop growth because the oil price is
too high and the aircraft are too expensive,” the 44-year-old
entrepreneur said. “You’re trying to find new routes to fly 12
months a year and make an adequate return on capital. It’s
impossible now. There aren’t any more good new routes.”  EasyJet rejects the assertion that aircraft orders have
caused a decline in profitability, spokesman Paul Moore said,
while declining to comment further on Stelios’s remarks.  Credit Suisse cut estimates in an Aug. 24 note to clients,
citing slowing demand likely to impact “most” European carriers.
Analyst Neil Glynn reckons EasyJet will post a pretax profit of
197 million pounds ($315 million) next fiscal year, 12 percent
lower than his previous figure. He rates the stock “neutral.”  Glynn raised his pretax forecast for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,
Europe’s No. 1 low-cost carrier, by 2 percent to 519 million
euros ($729 million) for the year through March while cutting
his estimate for fiscal 2013 16 percent to 429 million euros.  Stelios said in the interview that he has no interest in
returning to the role of chairman at EasyJet, and that neither
does he want to disrupt its day-to-day running.  EasyJet shares rose as much as 4 percent today and were
trading 3.2 percent higher at 332.1 pence as of 2:53 p.m. in
London, paring the decline this year to 25 percent and valuing
the company at 1.43 billion pounds.  Ryanair was trading up 4.5 percent and has lost 18 percent
for the year, giving a value of 4.52 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  