-- 
Economy Trumps Technology on U.S. Lawmakers’ Agenda, Group Says

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-07T17:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/economy-trumps-technology-on-u-s-lawmakers-agenda-group-says.html
The economy and upcoming elections
may distract Congress from legislation to protect consumer
privacy, promote innovation and maintain the Internet’s
openness, a technology-policy group said.  “There’s going to be a laser-like focus on the economy and
certainly on the Republican primary, and both are going to cast
a fairly large shadow over the agenda this fall, but it’s not
the whole story,” Leslie Harris, president of the Washington-
based Center for Democracy and Technology, said today during a
call with reporters.  The attention those issues are getting means the technology
agenda, which includes cybersecurity, copyright, and privacy
bills “has received only sporadic attention,” she said. The
inaction has negative “implications for technology innovation,
for the privacy and free-expression rights of  Internet users  and
ultimately for the Internet’s openness,” said Harris, whose
group promotes civil liberties online.  On cybersecurity, most lawmakers can’t say when
comprehensive legislation will be introduced, Greg Nojeim,
senior counsel for CDT, said during the call. The “best guess”
is that there won’t be a bill in September, and October would be
“ambitious,” he said.  As a  task force  in the House and bipartisan working groups
in the Senate work on cybersecurity bills, a central question is
whether any measure that emerges would allow a “government
authority to shut down or limit  Internet traffic ” over systems
that operate critical infrastructure, Nojeim said.  Protect IP Act  House legislation to bolster intellectual property
protections is expected soon, David Sohn, CDT’s senior policy
counsel, said during the call. In May, the Senate Judiciary
Committee approved a measure called the Protect IP Act, which
targets websites that sell illegally copied music, movies,
pharmaceuticals and consumer products.  The Senate measure would allow the U.S. attorney general to
seek court orders requiring U.S.-based  Internet-service
providers  to block access to infringing sites. CDT sent a letter
objecting to the bill during the Senate markup.  Ordering Internet service providers to block access to
infringing sites may lead other nations to take actions that
“hinder online freedom of expression,” according to the letter
that CDT and 12 other groups sent to the Senate Judiciary
Committee in May.  Congress will also consider online privacy measures
including legislation aimed at limiting law enforcement access
to consumers’ e-mail and location-based information gathered on
mobile devices, Nojeim said.  Debate over whether privacy legislation should include
restrictions on how companies collect, keep and use Internet
users’ information will continue, said Justin Brookman, director
of the CDT’s consumer privacy project.  “The Googles and the Apples of the world have done a
pretty good job,” informing people when they collect
information, Brookman said. The concern is over where that
information goes later, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  