-- 
Medco Bulls Stuck With Losses Even If Takeover Closes: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-07T00:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/medco-bulls-stuck-with-losses-even-if-acquisition-wins-approval-real-m-a.html
Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) ’s most-
bullish investors will be stuck with losses even if  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  wins government approval for its $31.6 billion
acquisition of the pharmacy-benefits manager.  Medco shareholders who purchased the stock at $65.96 -- the
peak since the takeover by Express Scripts was announced on July
21 -- won’t profit if the cash-and-stock deal closes at the
current offer price, which has declined 13 percent to $65.57,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors who owned
shares of  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco the day before
the acquisition was announced have already lost 5.4 percent as
Medco tumbled, the data show.  With the U.S.  Justice Department ’s lawsuit last week to
block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  heightening
concern among some investors that the Express Scripts-Medco deal
will get scuttled, Medco shares are now trading 19 percent below
the bid. That makes it the most likely U.S. takeover of more
than $1 billion to fail, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Tullett Prebon Plc and Havens Advisors LLC are still betting the
deal will withstand a review from the Federal Trade Commission,
which last week made a second request for information.  “The long-only investor who got in early is going to get
burned,” Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “In a situation like this, you
have to be hedged.”  Cash-Stock Deal  Express Scripts  of  St. Louis  agreed to pay Medco holders
$28.80 a share in cash and 0.81 Express Scripts share for each
Medco share held, the companies said in a July 21 statement.
When it was announced, the acquisition valued Medco at about
$34.3 billion, including $4.9 billion in net debt, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Since July 22, when the deal was valued at a high of $75.21
a share, the price tag has fallen to $65.57 as Express Scripts
shares plunged 21 percent, the data show. If the takeover were
to close at the current price, traders who bought Medco stock at
$65.96 on July 22 would lose money.  Medco has fallen 20 percent to $52.79, wiping out $6
billion in market value since July 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The drop exceeded the 13 percent decline
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the same period.
Since the day before the purchase was made public, Medco’s
market capitalization has shrunk by more than $1.9 billion.  ‘Too Much Risk’  “If you got in early, you have to realize there are times
where you make mistakes and things go against you,”  Keith Moore ,
an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The people who
hedged their bets could potentially make their money back, but
it’s more likely that the government is going to have a big
issue with this merger. It’s a huge spread and I’d love to be
able to get excited about it, but there’s too much risk.”  Regulators want to learn more about the combination before
signing off, Express Scripts said in a Sept. 2  filing  with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, disclosing that the FTC
made a second request for information. Medco and Express Scripts
also notified the Justice Department of the transaction.  Together, the two largest companies that handle drug
benefits for corporate and government clients will have a 28
percent market share, according to BB&T Capital Markets. The
acquisition would exceed the $21.7 billion deal that formed  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  in 2007 as the largest in the industry.  Not ‘Gun Shy’  The transaction may have a more difficult time gaining
approval after the Justice Department sued AT&T to block the $39
billion acquisition of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile
USA unit, said MKM Partners’ Moore. The Justice Department said
Aug. 31 that a combination of Dallas-based AT&T and T-Mobile,
which would create the nation’s biggest wireless carrier, would
“substantially” reduce competition.  “The AT&T suit shows that Obama’s antitrust enforcers are
not the least bit gun shy about going to court to stop an anti-
competitive merger like this,”  David Balto , a Washington-based
antitrust attorney and former FTC policy director, said in a
telephone interview.  Balto, who is working with organizations opposing the Medco
takeover, pegged the odds of the deal gaining approval as
currently structured at less than 50 percent and said the second
request may take four to nine months.  Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for Medco, declined to comment
on the regulatory process or the company’s stock movement.  Antitrust Review  “Although the timeline for the antitrust review process is
not fixed, we are confident of a positive review and we
anticipate the merger will close, as expected, in the first half
of 2012,” Brian Henry, a spokesman for Express Scripts, said in
an e-mail. “We believe this merger will further improve patient
health and safety, control costs and, for our clients, foster an
environment that promotes growth and job creation.”  Even though the spread between Medco shares and the deal
price has widened, the FTC’s second request for information
wasn’t a surprise, Bill Kavaler, a New York-based special
situations analyst for Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in a phone
interview. He projects the FTC will approve the purchase.  “Everybody that’s betting on this deal happening was also
betting on this getting a second request,” Eugene Goldenberg,
an analyst at BB&T Capital in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Now it’s primarily going to come down to the FTC
decision.”  Merger arbitragers are still more likely to make a profit
on the Express Scripts-Medco deal than so-called “long-only”
investors who bought shares and didn’t hedge the purchase,
 Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at  Tullett Prebon  in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , said in
a phone interview. Arbitragers will typically sell the acquiring
company’s stock short while buying shares of the target.  Deal ‘Suffering’  “The Medco transaction is suffering right now, but every
arb should have it fully hedged,” Nancy Havens-Hasty, president
of New York-based merger arbitrage fund manager Havens Advisors,
which expects the deal to close, said in a telephone interview.
“Anybody who doesn’t is much more vulnerable.”  Short interest in Express Scripts rose 68 percent since the
acquisition was announced through last week, according to
London-based research firm  Data Explorers . Short selling is the
practice of selling borrowed stock on the bet the price will
decline.  Medco, which had already lost at least $3.5 billion in
contracts this year prior to the takeover, may now be dropped
next year by its sixth-biggest client,  Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of North Carolina . The health insurer’s contract
generated about $1.6 billion annually, Barclays Plc estimated.  ‘Dead Money’  “With the loss of those contracts, that’s going to unnerve
a few people because you just don’t know what the new downside
is,” WallachBeth Capital’s Oshodi said. “Arbitragers and
investors are trying to determine what the new unaffected price
of Medco is.”  Even though investors have lost money on the deal since it
was announced, Tullett Prebon’s Shah said he’s confident it will
pass muster with U.S. regulators and close by mid-2012. By then,
the broader market will likely have recovered, and the deal will
be worth more, he said.  “If you bought it on day one or in the first couple of
weeks before the market meltdown and increased volatility, then
you are down,” Shah said. “It’s maybe somewhat dead money
between now and until we get some clarity. Most of the people
playing this know it’s dangerous to just be long Medco though
without any hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 