-- 
Bearish Hedge Fund Bets May Send U.S. Stocks Lower, BofA’s Bartels Says

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-09-07T17:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hedge-funds-shorting-equities-may-send-market-lower-bofa-s-bartels-says.html
U.S. stocks are likely to extend
declines because hedge funds have leeway to boost bets against
the world’s largest equity market, according to Bank of America
Corp.’s Mary Ann Bartels.  “We still believe that hedge funds have the ability to
significantly short the market,” Bartels, head of technical and
market analysis in New York at Bank of America said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today on “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. “It’s a bearish signal, absolutely.”  The adjusted short interest ratio, a measure of potential
buying pressure, is 1.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 1500
Composite, down from 2.4 at the end of July and below its 10-
year average of 2.4, Bartels wrote in a report dated Sept 5.
While short interest on U.S. equities rose in August, trading
volume surged, pushing down the short interest ratio and
lowering the number of trading days it would take to cover all
short positions in a stock or index.  “Short interest represents a floor,” said Bartels, who
ranked third among analysts who study price charts in
Institutional Investor’s 2010 survey. “If you have a lot of
shorts, you only fall so much, and we don’t have that floor, we
don’t have a safety net on the market.”  The proportion of S&P 500 shares outstanding sold short
rose to the highest level since the end of November last week,
climbing to 3.03 percent on Aug. 29 from 2.37 percent at the
beginning of August, according to New York-based Data Explorers,
which provides research on short sales and stock lending. Short
selling of the gauge reached a three-year high of 5.52 percent
in August 2008.  Net Short  Hedge funds and other large speculators were net short
107,913  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  futures contracts in the week ended Aug.
30, wagering that the benchmark will decrease in value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. The position is the highest since
September 2007, when bearish bets reached a record 127,474
contracts a month before the benchmark equity gauge peaked at an
all-time high, Bloomberg data going back to 1997 show.  “What we’re most concerned about is the banking system in
Europe,” Bartels said. “There is no reason to have a very long
position with the positioning of the charts,” she said. Still,
“the level of shorts is nowhere near where we saw in 2008 and
2009” in terms of potential buying pressure.  Stocks fell yesterday, giving the S&P 500 its longest slump
in almost a month, amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis is
worsening. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities lost as much as
13 percent last month before trimming its retreat to 5.7 percent
after the Federal Reserve said it will act to spur growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  