-- 
Lehman’s Bonus Claims Against Barclays Challenged by Judge

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-07T16:38:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/lehman-bonuses-were-estimate-in-barclays-sale-u-s-bankruptcy-judge-says.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy judge said he doesn’t see how the failed investment
bank was damaged by what Lehman says is  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s failure
to pay $500 million in employee bonuses.  Lehman says Barclays was required to pay $2 billion in
bonuses and paid only $1.5 billion as part of its purchase of
Lehman operations in 2008. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said
at a hearing today that the amount for bonuses was an estimate
and that the transaction was intended to protect Lehman from
employee claims for compensation.  “I don’t see how Lehman was damaged,” Peck said.  The dispute stems from the purchase by Barclays of Lehman’s
North American broker-dealer in the days following the
investment bank’s September 2008 bankruptcy filing. Lehman lost
a bid to recover what it said was an $11 billion windfall that
went to London-based Barclays.  Lehman says it should be awarded $500 million in damages
resulting from Barclays’s failure to meet its obligation to pay
the full bonus amount. The bonus payments were part of the
consideration in the sale, and Lehman is owed $500 million, said
the bankrupt firm’s lawyer, Robert Gaffey.  ‘Barclays Didn’t Pay’  “Lehman is entitled to all the sale consideration paid for
the assets it has indisputably delivered to Barclays,” he told
Peck. “Assets were given to Barclays, and Barclays didn’t pay
for them.”  Peck said Lehman employees were the ones entitled to
payment. Barclays assumed those liabilities from Lehman,
providing a benefit to Lehman even if the bonus payments turned
out to be less than estimated, the judge said. He didn’t say
when he would rule on the dispute.  “If the liability, whatever it is, is off the books how
can there be a damage claim?” Peck said.  Barclays asked Peck to reject Lehman’s claim. It says the
$2 billion was an estimate of the exposure assumed for all
compensation, which wasn’t limited to bonuses. The bank said in
court papers that it paid $1.95 billion in bonus, severance and
related tax payments.  The main case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-
13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ). The lawsuit is Lehman v. Barclays, 09-01731, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 