-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Rebound on China Policy, Interest-Rates Outlook

-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a ,   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-09-07T21:09:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/emerging-market-stocks-rebound-on-u-s-data-asia-rates-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in four days as commodities rallied, a report said
 China  may ease monetary policy and investors speculated central
banks will refrain from  interest-rate  increases.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 2.2 percent to
1,009.75 at 4:51 p.m. in  New York . South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI) 
rose 3.8 percent. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 3.1 percent as  oil
prices  advanced. The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 1.8
percent, its first gain in five days, after the China Securities
Journal said the central bank may ease monetary policy over the
next several months.  Global stocks extended gains after  Germany ’s top court
rejected lawsuits against the country’s participation in
European rescue funds. Industrial production also rose the most
in more than a year in July in  Europe ’s largest economy, the
Economy Ministry said in Berlin.  “News out of China and Germany is helping to lift some of
the anxiety in the market given the depth of the correction over
the past six weeks or so,”  Nick Chamie , head of emerging
markets research at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “That backdrop is conducive to seeing a
rally here, but more meaningful developments on the macro front
need to evolve if this is going to be a sustainable move
higher.”  The emerging-markets index fell 15 percent from July 26
through yesterday.  Benchmark Rates  Poland  left its benchmark rate unchanged today and central
banks in South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and  Indonesia 
will probably do the same tomorrow, according to Bloomberg News
surveys of economists.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398) 
Ltd., China’s biggest lender by market value, advanced 1.2
percent. Benchmark indexes climbed by at least 1.8 percent in
 Mexico ,  South Africa  and Poland on higher commodity prices.  Crude for October delivery advanced 3.9 percent to $89.34 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as a weather system
in the  Gulf of Mexico  threatened to reduce U.S. production. The
FTSE/JSE  Africa  All Share Index added 3.3 percent in
Johannesburg as industrial metals prices gained.  The rand strengthened 0.3 percent versus the dollar and the
ruble appreciated 0.6 percent. Copper increased 2.2 percent amid
threats of strikes at mines in Peru and Indonesia.  Polish Stocks  The WIG20 Index climbed 3.5 percent in Warsaw.  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s only copper producer, rose 3.7 percent.
Stocks kept gains after the central bank left its seven-day
interest rate at 4.5 percent, matching the expectations of all
28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 0.4 percent in Istanbul
as ING Groep NV said Turkish banks were more attractive than
their peers in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa. Turkey’s lira
fell 0.1 percent versus the dollar.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index rose 1.2 percent on
speculation the central bank will leave borrowing costs
unchanged at its policy meeting next week. Slowing growth may
prompt India’s central bank to pause raising rates at its next
meeting on Sept. 16, the Press Trust of India reported
yesterday, citing Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 368, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  