-- 
Eramet to Spend $6 Billion in Indonesia, Minister Says

-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-09-07T07:57:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/eramet-to-spend-6-billion-in-indonesia-minister-says-1-.html
Eramet (ERA)  SA, operator of the world’s
biggest ferronickel plant, plans to invest a total of $6 billion
on the Weda Bay nickel project in  Indonesia , the nation’s
Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said.  “The Eramet project will open economic opportunity in
eastern Indonesia, especially in the fifth economic corridor
covering Papua, Maluku and North Maluku provinces,” Rajasa told
a press conference after a meeting today between Eramet Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Buffet and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The investment would be undertaken in two stages each
costing $3 billion, he said.  Indonesia is trying to lure investors to help accelerate
growth and improve the welfare of 238 million people in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy. Yudhoyono, who plans to double
spending on roads, ports and airports to $140 billion by the end
of his term in 2014, unveiled six economic “corridors” in June
focusing on industries including foodstuffs, energy, plantations,
fishery and mining.  Paris-based Eramet will have spent $450 million on the Weda
Bay project when the final  investment decision  is proposed to
the board of directors by the end of 2012, Buffet said. The
project is in Halmahera in Indonesia’s North Maluku province.  The project, which is partly owned by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and
PT Aneka Tambang, will include a hydro-metallurgical plant,
airport and power plant, Buffet said. Nickel output is estimated
at about 35,000 metric tons a year in the first stage and a
further 30,000 tons in the second stage, he added.  Aneka Tambang gained 2.7 percent to 1,940 rupiah a share in
Jakarta trading at 2:34 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan
 at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ; 