-- 
Merkel Says Germany’s ‘Historic’ Task Is to Bolster Europe, Defend Euro

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-09-07T10:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/merkel-says-strict-terms-on-aid-for-debtor-nations-needed-to-calm-turmoil.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’ll
stick to  Germany ’s approach to fighting the euro-area crisis,
saying that “strict” terms on aid for indebted countries is
the only way to beat the turmoil rocking global markets.  Merkel, in her first speech to parliament since the summer
recess, said Germany’s constitutional court backed her stance in
its ruling earlier today that declared German participation in
bailouts for euro countries legal. She likened  Europe ’s debt
struggle to the task of rebuilding Germany after World War II,
casting the euro as the guarantor of unity.  “The central task of this legislative period is that
Europe must come out of this crisis stronger than it went in,
just as Germany came out of the crisis stronger,” Merkel told
lawmakers. She dismissed joint euro-area debt issuance as the
“wrong answer” to the challenges “that we can easily describe
as historic.”  The chancellor’s speech didn’t show any willingness to
consider further measures to stem the crisis that has spread
from a Greek deficit problem last year to a factor in plunging
global markets. Germany’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  has retreated 29
percent from this year’s high on May 2.  Merkel stressed Germany’s economic prowess, with
joblessness at its lowest since reunification of East and  West
Germany  in 1990, some regions enjoying full employment and “no
signs of a recession” even as “warning signs” cloud the
global economy.  Germany “has not had it this good for ages,” Merkel said.
Even so, “Germany can’t be successful in the long run if Europe
doesn’t do well at the same time.”  Derivatives Rules  While the “real economy” in Germany has reshaped, the
same is not true of financial markets, she said. “That we don’t
have any European directive on derivatives trading is a
failing,” she said. “Germany is keeping up pressure on this
point and will continue to do so.”  Switzerland ’s decision to put a cap on the rate of the
franc amounts to a de-facto link to the euro, showing that “the
euro is the right way,” Merkel said. “The strength of
Switzerland has become its own weakness if it doesn’t integrate
into the global structure.”  For Europeans, the euro “is far, far more than a
currency,” Merkel said. If euro-area countries want to
cooperate more closely in stemming the euro-area debt crisis and
decide to press for “more, stronger Europe,” then changes to
existing European Union treaties “are no taboo,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg. 