-- 
Jammin Java, Chaired by Bob Marley’s Son, Under SEC Probe Over Stock Price

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/mers-lenders-win-dismissal-in-arizona-borrowers-lawsuit-2-.html
Jammin Java Corp. (JAMN) , the gourmet
coffee company whose chairman is the son of the reggae star  Bob Marley , faces a probe by the Securities and Exchange Commission
for possible involvement in a so-called pump-and-dump scheme.  The SEC staff is examining whether online newsletters
touting Jammin Java stock through blast faxes and investor
message boards contained false and misleading information,
according to documents filed Sept. 2 in federal court in
Oakland,  California . The company said in a May SEC filing that
no one at Jammin Java authorized or paid for any stock reports.  The probe was disclosed in a lawsuit by individuals trying
to block SEC subpoenas issued in the investigation.  Jammin Java’s share price rose from 17 cents in December to
$6.35 on May 12, after which it plunged to less than a $1 a
share, the SEC said in the documents.  The jump in the Los Angeles-based coffee wholesaler
coincided with the dissemination of newsletters lauding its
stock, the SEC said. A formal order of investigation was issued
in May directing staff to examine possible securities law
violations by Jammin Java, its officers, partners, consultants
and “other persons and entities,” according to the documents
said. Rohan Marley is the company’s chairman.  ‘Shell Company’  “The increase in Jammin Java’s share price occurred
notwithstanding the fact that Jammin Java’s public filings
during that time period reflected that Jammin Java was a shell
company that had generated no revenues and had an accumulated
deficit of $511,760,” the SEC said in documents.  A pump-and-dump scheme involves touting shares through
false and misleading statements to make profits selling cheap
shares after pumping up the stock price, the SEC said.  Stuart Smith, head of  investor relations  at Jammin Java,
declined to comment yesterday on the SEC documents. He cited a
company regulatory filing that had warned investors of
“unauthorized stock promotion campaigns touting short term
investments in the company’s common stock which are paid for
third parties” without the company’s knowledge. The company
said it “expressly repudiates the promotions.”  Lawsuits filed by “John Doe” plaintiffs who own free
e-mail accounts from Google Inc. seek to block subpoenas to the
search engine company sent to uncover their identities. The
plaintiffs allege the SEC hasn’t demonstrated that they are
connected to the Jammin Java investigation and the subpoenas
violate their free speech rights to anonymously express opinion
on the Internet, according to court filings.  The SEC said in its filing that disclosure of the
identities of the e-mail address owners in a legitimate federal
investigation into potential fraudulent conduct isn’t outweighed
by the free speech rights of the “ John Does .”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t answer an e-mail
seeking comment after regular business hours yesterday.  The cases are John Doe v. SEC, 11-8028 and 11-8029, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter about this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  