-- 
EU Said to Delay Bank Bond Writedown Plans Amid Turbulence

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-07T16:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/eu-is-said-to-delay-bank-bondholder-writedown-plan-amid-market-turbulence.html
The European Union is delaying
proposals for senior bondholders of failing banks to take losses
because the measures may spook investors at a time of market
turbulence and they need more work, according to two people
familiar with the situation.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
will unveil draft legislation on the measures in October at the
earliest, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because negotiations on the proposals are continuing. The
bondholder plans are part of broader proposals for orderly
closure of failing lenders that the European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm, had intended to present this month.  World leaders in the Group of 20 nations are seeking to
agree on measures to wind down failing lenders without the need
for public bailouts. Current market circumstances mean the
commission has to be careful about when it presents the
proposal, the people said.  “The pricing of bank debt spiked” in January when the
commission published a preliminary version of its plans, the
 British Bankers’ Association  said in a  paper  published on its
website today. It is “uncertain” whether a move to a so-called
bail-in regime in which senior bondholders would financially
contribute to bank wind downs “has been fully priced in at this
stage,” the BBA said.  Banks including  Citigroup Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
have said that including writedowns for senior bondholders as
part of the measures may make it more expensive for banks to
attract funding.  The BBA’s paper was a response to a request for views from
the Financial Stability Board, which brings together G-20
regulators.  ‘Mounting Concerns’  The EU move “is part of a broader trend to soften or delay
the imposition of regulatory measures in the face of mounting
concerns about the ability of the financial sector to support
growth,”  Richard Reid , the International Centre for Financial
Regulation’s director of research, said in an e-mail.  As well as senior bondholder writedowns, the commission
plans also include requiring banks to draw up so called living
wills showing how they could be shutdown in a crisis, and
empowering regulators to make legal and structural changes to
lenders.  “We need to make sure that we put in place orderly wind-
down procedures for failing banks which require shareholders and
bondholders to take the hit rather than hard-pressed
taxpayers,” Syed Kamall, a U.K. lawmaker who represents London
in the European Parliament, said in an e-mail.  A spokeswoman for the commission declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 