-- 
EU’s Rehn Says European Economic Growth Prospects Have Worsened

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-07T15:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/eu-s-rehn-says-european-economic-growth-prospects-have-worsened.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn comments on the EU economic
outlook and on a ruling by the German Federal Constitutional
Court throwing out suits targeting  Germany ’s support for the
rescues of distressed euro-area nations.  Rehn spoke to a European Parliament meeting and to
reporters today in Brussels.  On the European economy:  “In the first half of this year, the EU economy continued
its gradual recovery, although recently with a slower pace.
After the strong GDP growth in the first quarter -- 0.8 percent
quarter-on-quarter -- the second quarter recorded slower growth
-- 0.2 percent quarter-on-quarter. And moreover, short-term
indicators for the euro area point to a further moderation of
growth.  ‘‘All in all, the short-term growth prospects have somewhat
worsened compared to our spring forecast. On the other hand,
temporary slowdowns are in fact not unusual in recoveries that
last for many years. In particular, this subdued recovery is not
surprising in the aftermath of the financial crisis, given the
continuing need for financial de-leveraging in the private and
public sector.  ‘‘However, what obviously makes the current situation
worrisome is that the level of unemployment remains elevated and
public finances are vulnerable to any slowdown of the economic
recovery.  ‘‘Stress in financial markets increased over the summer,
leading to substantial volatility and occasional turbulence. The
rough ride in the financial markets is a real test time for the
euro area. The situation is serious and there is no need to
pretend otherwise. Moreover, funding pressures in the EU banking
sector have also risen.  ‘‘What we seem to be going through is a more parallel
performance of financial markets and the real economy. The
financial markets and the real economy now move more in
synchrony, and the continued financial turbulence is spilling
over to and potentially harming the recovery of the real
economy. This underlines the importance of containing the market
turbulence to secure the economic recovery in  Europe .  ‘‘In order to do so, the euro-area summit took very
important decisions on July 21.’’  ‘‘Rapid implementation of these decisions is indeed
essential, crucial for overcoming the debt crisis and restoring
market confidence.’’  On the German court ruling:  ‘‘It’s important that the ruling cleared the way for the
efforts we are doing in order to safeguard financial
stability.’’  ‘‘It was based on very solid legal and constitutional work
and, to my mind, it underlines that safeguarding financial
stability is indeed a very important task for the European
Union.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  