-- 
Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Commodities Rise First Day in Four

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-09-07T06:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/europe-commodity-day-ahead-commodities-rise-first-day-in-four.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Rise First Day in Four as Metals,  Crude Oil  Climb  Commodities gained for the first day in four, led by metals
and crude oil amid concerns about tightening global supplies and
as Asian stocks rose. Corn and soybeans advanced, while gold was
little changed.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVE:  Pawnbrokers Thrive as Rising Gold Price Entices Hard-Up Britons  Pawnbrokers, who arrived in  England  with William the
Conqueror in 1066, are thriving in a spluttering economy as
banks lend less and gold prices soar.  Aluminum Will Stay in Surplus for Fifth Year, Sumitomo Says (1)  The global aluminum market will remain oversupplied in 2012
for a fifth year as new capacity comes onstream amid growing
concerns over global economic growth,  Japan ’s third-largest
trading house said.  Cameron’s Fast Rail Runs Into Tory Roadblock: Freight Markets  Prime Minister David Cameron’s plan to build the U.K.’s
first high-speed domestic rail link, freeing capacity for
freight, faces opposition in his party’s heartland.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rebounds as Mine Strike Threats Deepen Supply Concerns  Copper futures gained for the first day in five on concern
that production may decline amid strike threats at mines in Peru
and Indonesia, worsening a global shortage.  Eramet Plans to Invest $6 Billion in Indonesian Nickel Project  Eramet SA plans to invest a total of $6 billion in an
Indonesian nickel project in Halmahera, North Maluku province,
 Indonesia ’s Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa
said in Jakarta after a meeting today between Eramet Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Buffet with President Susilo Bambang
Yudhoyono.  Jinchuan Sees  China ’s Nickel Output at 440,000 Tons This Year  China’s nickel output may rise to 440,000 metric tons this
year from 332,300 tons in 2010, Wu Jun, vice president of
Jinchuan Group Ltd., said in  Shanghai  today.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Falls for Second Day as Equity Rebound Trims Haven Demand  Gold fell for a second day as a rebound in equities trims
demand by investors seeking to protect their wealth against
declining currencies and economic turmoil.  MINING:  Rio Gem Mine Complies With  Zimbabwe  Law, Impala Platinum Fails  Rio Tinto Group’s  Murowa diamond mine is among 45
operations that have met a plan to increase ownership by black
citizens of Zimbabwe while an Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. unit
has failed to, said Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere .  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Soybean, Wheat Prices Rally as Dry Weather May Hurt Crops  Corn, soybean and wheat futures rallied on speculation that
dry weather in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter of the
grains, may damage crops.  South Australia Total 2011-12 Crop Output Seen 7.66 Million Tons  South Australia’s total crop production is forecast at 7.66
million metric tons in the 2011-2012 season, Rural Solutions SA
said in a report for the state government’s primary industries
department. That compares to a July forecast of 6.75 million
tons. Wheat output is forecast at 3.96 million tons, it said.
That compares to the 3.54 million tons predicted in July.  India ’s Should Allow Sugar Exports From November, Group Says  India, the world’s largest sugar producer after  Brazil ,
should allow exports from November as the nation may have a
surplus of 4 million metric tons for shipments, a producers’
group said.  India’s Sugar Output May Exceed 26 Million Tons,  Cargill  Says  Sugar production in India may exceed 26 million metric tons
in the crop year beginning Oct. 1, Swati Shukla, head of sugar
business at Cargill’s India unit, told a conference organized by
broker and researcher Kingsman SA in  New Delhi  today.  Palm Oil  Inventory Drops in  Malaysia  as Ramadan Slows Harvests  Palm oil stockpiles in Malaysia, the second-largest grower,
probably fell in August from a month earlier as the Muslim
fasting month of Ramadan slowed harvests, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Palm Oil Gains as Soybeans Advance on Lower U.S. Yield Forecasts  Palm oil gained for the first time in three days after
soybeans advanced on forecasts for lower yields and worsening
crop conditions in the U.S., raising concern that global cooking
oil supplies may decline.  Cocoa Arrivals From Brazil’s Bahia Decline 4%, Hartmann Says  Cocoa arrivals from Bahia, Brazil’s biggest growing region,
fell 4 percent from a week earlier, according to analyst  Thomas
Hartmann .  ECONOMIES:  Obama Said to Seek More Than $300 Billion Package to Boost Jobs  President Barack Obama plans to propose sparking job growth
by injecting more than $300 billion into the economy next year,
mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and direct aid
to state and local governments.  SNB Dares Investors With ‘Unlimited’ Swiss Franc Firepower (1)  Investors may have to think twice before taking on Philipp
Hildebrand and his printing press at the Swiss central bank.  Australia ’s Economy Grew More Than Estimated Last Quarter (1)  Australia’s economy expanded more than economists forecast
last quarter, driven by rising consumer spending and a rebound
in exports. The local currency gained by the most in more than a
week.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asia Stocks Rebound From Three-Day Drop; Aussie, Copper Advance  Asian stocks rebounded from a three- day drop that left
valuations at the cheapest level since 2008, and copper rose for
the first time in five days. The Australian dollar gained after
the economy grew at a faster-than-forecast pace and Treasury 10-
year yields climbed above 2 percent.  Oil Gains on Forecast Stockpile Drop as Cyclone Builds in Gulf  Oil advanced from the lowest in more than a week in  New
York  on speculation a storm building in the  Gulf of Mexico  poses
a threat to supply in the U.S. amid shrinking crude stockpiles
in the world’s biggest consumer.  Apple Bears Depart as Jobs Sends Puts to One-Year Low: Options  Prices to insure Apple Inc. shares from losses dropped to a
one-year low after  Steve Jobs , who presided over a 91-fold
increase in the stock, stepped down as chief executive officer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  