-- 
Teva Rebounds on Drug Study Amid Global Rally: Israel Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-08T11:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/teva-rises-on-clinical-trial-as-mellanox-posts-best-gain-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
rose for the first day in four in U.S. trading as the clinical
trial success of a medicine for attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder outweighed concern that the company may lose patent
litigation for its best-selling brand drug.  The American depositary receipts of the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs climbed 2.5 percent yesterday to $40.33,
the most in six trading sessions. The advance helped Teva’s New
York-traded shares narrow their discount to Israeli shares to 4
cents, from 36 cents on Sept. 1.  All but two stocks gained among the 25 stocks on the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli companies
traded in  New York .  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an adapter maker
part-owned by Oracle Corp., surged 6.5 percent, the most among
all members in the index, to a three-week high.  Nice Systems
Ltd. (NICE) , a maker of digital surveillance and monitoring systems,
followed with a 6.2 percent jump, the most in almost four weeks.  The success in Teva’s new drug study is “obviously a
positive,” said Judson Clark, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
by phone from  Des Peres , Missouri. “Investors are overly
focused on the headwinds surrounding the company’s franchise,
and they’re ignoring all the positives going forward. Teva is
well-positioned to benefit from this wave of brand drugs going
generic.”  Teva’s Tel Aviv-traded shares fell 1.3 percent to 146.10
shekels, or the equivalent of $39.70, at 1:34 p.m. today  Global Rally  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index rose 2.3 percent to 84.36
yesterday, the most in a week.  Israel ’s benchmark TA-25 Index advanced 0.1 percent to
1,073.16 today. The gauge has declined 19 percent this year. The
shekel lost 0.4 percent to 3.6804 per dollar in  Tel Aviv .  Results from a mid-stage clinical trial of Teva’s candidate
drug MC01CI for treating adults with attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) met its main efficacy goals,
according to a joint statement yesterday by Teva and Alcobra
Ltd, the collaborator on the medicine development.  Concern the company may lose patent litigation over
multiple sclerosis medicine Copaxone, whose sales made up 22.7
percent of Teva’s $4.21 billion revenue in the second quarter,
contributed to the stock’s 23 percent slide this year.  Copaxone Litigation  Teva, which licensed patents from Yeda Research and
Development Co. for Copaxone, sued  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz in 2008
and Mylan Inc. in 2009 after they separately tried to win
approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market
generic versions before patents expire in 2014. The patent-
infringement trial over the drug started in New York yesterday.  Copaxone, an injected treatment, also faces competition
from the first approved multiple sclerosis pill, Novartis AG’s
Gilenya.  Analysts at  Collins Stewart  LLC and Sanford C Bernstein &
Co. reiterated their recommendations to buy Teva’s stock on
Sept. 6.  “The risk-reward is favorable to Teva’s stock ahead of the
trial,” analysts led by Louise Chen at Collins Stewart in New
York wrote in a research note Sept. 6. Investors are “assuming
that Copaxone will face brand and generic competition near term.
This is the worst case outcome. If this does not happen, the
stock will trade higher on both multiple expansion and upwards
earnings revisions.”  Chen set a price target of $65.  Epilepsy Drug  Teva’s U.K. unit also announced yesterday the start of
generic tablets used to treat epileptic seizures.  Israel posted a 3.2 billion-shekel  budget deficit  in
August, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. The nation’s foreign-currency reserves reached a
record $78.1 billion last month, the Bank of Israel said
yesterday.  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, has 57 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The country is also
home to the largest number of startup companies per capita in
the world.  The nation’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , the Yavne, Israel-based maker of equipment
to test screens of smartphones and tablets, advanced the most in
a week in New York trading. Its stock was given a new
“neutral” recommendation yesterday by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts, with a price target of $13 by December 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  