-- 
Hewlett-Packard Introduces New Desktops as It Plans Spinoff

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-09-07T20:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hewlett-packard-introduces-touch-screen-desktop-pcs-as-it-plans-spinoff.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  plans to
introduce eight new desktop personal computers in the next two
months, including four touch-screen models, ahead of a planned
spinoff of its $41 billion PC unit.  The world’s largest maker of PCs plans to deliver three
TouchSmart models aimed at consumers with starting prices
between $600 and $900 beginning this month. A TouchSmart Elite
computer for small businesses, priced as low as $850, will be
available Sept. 21, the  Palo Alto , California-based company said
today in a statement. The machines let users interact with their
software by touching the computers’ screens.  The company said Aug. 18 it will spin off the Personal
Systems Group, which generated sales of $40.7 billion last year,
as Hewlett-Packard tries to reposition for growth and expansion
in areas such as software. The spinoff may take a year to
complete, Chairman  Ray Lane  told Bloomberg TV last week.  Hewlett-Packard has also said it’s pursuing partnerships or
licensing deals for the WebOS operating system, gained last year
from the acquisition of Palm Inc. Hewlett-Packard is producing a
final run of its TouchPad tablet computer that uses WebOS after
price cuts generated a surge in demand for the discontinued
product. A version with 16 gigabytes of storage sells for $99.  In addition to the new TouchSmarts, Hewlett-Packard plans
two PCs aimed at consumers and two at businesses. The machines,
which won’t feature touch screens, have an “all-in-one” design
that combines the screen and electronics in a single unit.
Hewlett-Packard also plans to announce a new notebook computer
tomorrow, said Marlene Somsak, a company spokeswoman.  Hewlett-Packard rose 51 cents to $24.14 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 43
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  