-- 
Ex-Primary Global Networker Chu Avoids Prison, Gets Two Years Probation

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/ex-primary-global-networker-chu-gets-two-years-probation-for-passing-tips.html
Don Ching Trang Chu, a former
consultant at  Primary Global Research LLC , avoided prison with a
sentence of two years probation for passing confidential
information to the expert-networking firm’s hedge fund clients.  Chu, 57, pleaded guilty in June to conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and conspiracy to commit  wire fraud . He was the
 Taiwan  liaison for  Mountain View , California-based Primary
Global, which links investors with industry experts at public
companies, before he was arrested in November.  Chu, who is cooperating with prosecutors, admitted to being
present at meetings between Primary Global’s clients and
technology-company employees who moonlighted as consultants for
the firm. In the meetings, the consultants disclosed material,
non-public information, Chu said during his guilty plea.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said during yesterday’s
sentencing in  Manhattan  that jail wasn’t warranted for Chu
because of his “minimal” role in the scheme. Chu had faced as
long as six months in prison.  “Your honor, I am extremely sorry for what I have done,”
Chu told Rakoff before being sentenced. “I have had nightmares
since last November. I will make sure I don’t repeat the same
mistakes and ask your honor to forgive me.”  Chu had said the inside information he disclosed was shared
with former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Noah Freeman and Sam Barai, founder of Barai Capital Management LP.
Both have pleaded guilty. Chu said he knew fund managers
intended to use the secret tips to buy securities.  Galleon, Rajaratnam  Chu was accused in connection with one of three alleged
overlapping insider-trading rings that included Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Prosecutors said Chu facilitated
a conversation in July 2009 between Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a
former partner at  San Jose , California-based Spherix Capital
LLC, a Primary Global client, and an unidentified employee of a
publicly traded technology company.  Lee pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the government,
along with his partner, Ali Far. Chu signed an agreement that
required him to cooperate with prosecutors, Rakoff said at the
time of Chu’s guilty plea.  Federal guidelines called for Chu to get no jail time at
all up to as long as six months in prison. The probation
department recommended that Chu be sentenced to only a term of
probation.  “The defendant did not financially benefit from this
conduct and otherwise has had a clear record,” Rakoff said. “I
find this to be one of the very rare instances where the
guidelines range is reasonable.”  ‘Serious Crime’  “There is just no doubt that this is a serious crime that
needs general deterrence,” he said. “But, his role was so
minimal compared to other defendants, so I am persuaded to agree
and impose a sentence of two years’ probation.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  said in court that
“it’s the government’s position that any sentencing that’s
within the guidelines is admissible.”  Rakoff agreed to allow Chu to travel to Taiwan to take care
of his mother, 81, and father, 85.  “I am eager to rebuild my reputation and my honor as
before,” Chu told Rakoff. He said he was anxious to take care
of his parents and to “devote my time to charity and life’s
work.”  Home, Employment  James DeVita , Chu’s lawyer, asked in court papers for a
probationary term that would allow the naturalized U.S. citizen
to travel home to Taiwan and pursue employment.  Chu joined Primary Global in 2004 and helped the company
establish a Taiwan office, DeVita said in court papers. Chu
initially believed that the firm’s actions were “legal and
above board” and didn’t learn that Primary Global employees
weren’t abiding by prohibitions against passing confidential
information to clients until after he began carrying out
supervisorial duties, DeVita said.  Chu, of Somerset,  New Jersey , declined to comment after
court yesterday.  “Mr. Chu is glad to have this behind him and to be getting
back into the good graces of society and of his family,” DeVita
said.  The case is U.S. v. Chu, 1:11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  