-- 
Ex-Taiwan Semiconductor Manager Deserves 46-Month Prison Term, U.S. Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-07T16:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/ex-taiwan-semiconductor-manager-deserves-46-month-prison-term-u-s-says.html
A former  Taiwan  Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. manager who pleaded guilty to being part of an
 insider-trading  scheme involving  Primary Global Research LLC 
deserves a prison term of as long as three years and 10 months,
the U.S. said.  Manosha Karunatilaka, of Marlborough, Massachusetts, who
worked as an account manager for Taiwan Semiconductor, pleaded
guilty in May to accepting about $35,000 to pass material,
nonpublic information about the company’s orders while also
working as a consultant for Primary Global.  An analyst at an unnamed New York-based hedge fund which
used Primary Global’s services spoke to Karunatilaka frequently
from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers filed
yesterday. In May 2009, acting on a recommendation from
Karunatilaka to bet that Taiwan Semiconductor shares would fall,
the fund made a profit of about $1.7 million, the U.S. said.  “For tens of thousands of dollars, he cheated the system
and provided sophisticated stock traders with an unfair
advantage over the average investor,”  Manhattan  assistant U.S.
attorneys Antonia Apps and  David Leibowitz  said in the papers.  Wafer Data  While Karunatilaka has cooperated with the U.S. and
accepted responsibility for his crimes, prosecutors said he
deserves a prison term ranging from 37 to 46 months “to deter
Karunatilaka and other corporate employees from engaging in
insider trading.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan set sentencing
for Sept. 15.  Brad Bailey, Karunatilaka’s lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the prosecutors’ filing.  Taiwan Semiconductor, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, is the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips. It makes the
silicon “wafers” used for microchips, prosecutors said.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at  hedge
funds , technology companies, banks and consulting firms. The
firm connects investors with employees of public companies who
purportedly provide them with insight into specific markets.  Of the 15 people charged in the investigation by Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, 12 have pleaded guilty.
One, Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted at trial in June of securities fraud and conspiracy.  James Fleishman, a manager at Primary Global who has
pleaded not guilty to conspiracy charges, is currently on trial
in federal court in New York.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 