-- 
Texas A&M Accepts Invite to Join Southeastern Conference

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-07T15:21:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/texas-a-m-accepts-invite-to-join-southeastern-conference.html
Texas A&M University  accepted an
invitation to join the  Southeastern Conference  beginning in
2012, creating uncertainty over the future of the Big 12
Conference, which has lost three schools in the last year.  University of  Florida  President  Bernie Machen , chairman of
the Southeastern Conference Presidents and Chancellors, said the
realignment can’t be completed until the Big 12 and all its
schools agree not to take legal action against the Aggies’ new
league.  He said his conference was informed yesterday that “at
least one Big 12 institution” was considering legal action.
Machen didn’t identify the school.  The  University of Colorado  moved to the Pac-12 Conference
and Nebraska moved to the  Big Ten Conference  last year. With
Texas A&M’s departure, the Big 12 is down to nine schools, and
ESPN is reporting that the University of  Oklahoma  is debating
whether to change conferences as well.  In a  letter to fans  dated Aug. 31, Texas A&M Athletic
Director Bill Byrne said the primary reason the Aggies wanted to
leave the conference was the creation of the University of Texas
Longhorn Television Network -- a joint venture with Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPN -- and its decision to show high school football
Games, which might aid in recruiting.  “We rebuffed an attempt to televise high school games on
the LHN, arguing that this type of activity was a clear
violation of NCAA rules,” Byrne said.  NCAA Violation  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  concurred,
ruling in August that televising high school games on school or
conference networks would violate NCAA rules.  “The most recent attempt by ESPN is to take highlights of
high school games as part of new segments. The NCAA is taking a
wait-and-see attitude on the highlights. I disagree with their
stand -- as do many of my colleagues across the country. We
anticipate that ESPN will continue to push the envelope with the
Longhorn Network, regardless of  Texas A&M ’s conference
affiliation.”  Byrne said ESPN was also trying to force conference members
to give up the rights to games played against Texas in Austin.  “The other issue was an attempt to coerce other Big 12
schools to move their football games in Austin to the Longhorn
Network,” he said. “Our understanding from Day 1 was that
every conference school would have the rights to one football
game a year and a handful of basketball games, which has been
our longstanding agreement in the Big 12.”  Calls to University of Texas spokesman John Bianco weren’t
immediately returned. ESPN said in a statement that the network
has “long and valued partnerships in all of college sports, and
those partnerships will continue for many years.”  Flagship Proposal  Byrne said three or four years ago Texas A&M was in talks
with Texas and ESPN about creating a flagship channel. “I liked
the idea,” Byrne said. It never happened.  “Conference realignment is something that has torn me
up,” Byrne said in the post on the school’s Web site.  The Aggies are realigning with one of the most powerful
football conferences in the U.S.  Southeastern Conference schools have won the past five
national football titles and include six schools in the current
Associated Press Top 25 college football ranking: No. 2
 Louisiana State University , No. 3 University of  Alabama , No. 12
University of  South Carolina , No. 14  Arkansas , No. 16
Mississippi State and No. 18 University of Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  