-- 
LightSquared May Degrade Hurricane Tracking, Agencies Say

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-09-08T16:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/falcone-s-lightsquared-needs-more-testing-u-s-board-will-tell-lawmakers.html
Philip Falcone’s LightSquared
wireless service needs more testing because it may degrade
precision services that track hurricanes, guide farmers and help
build flood defenses, U.S. agencies are to tell Congress today.  LightSquared’s signals may disrupt precise gear that reads
data from the satellite-based global-positioning system, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the
Transportation Department and a federal advisory body said in
testimony prepared for a hearing by the House science committee.  “We support further testing of LightSquared’s proposal,”
 Mary Glackin , a deputy under secretary at NOAA, said in the
testimony obtained by Bloomberg News before the hearing.  Concerns include LightSquared’s potential effect on a
satellite system that increases accuracy of hurricane tracking,
Glackin said. Options for mitigating interference would be
limited because the GPS satellites are in orbit and cannot be
modified, she said.  LightSquared is to say its service and GPS can co-exist,
according to testimony by Jeffrey Carlisle, its executive vice
president, submitted to the House Committee on Science, Space
and Technology, which is holding today’s hearing. A House Armed
Services subcommittee is to hold a hearing Sept. 15, with
witnesses to include Defense Department officials and Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.  FCC Approval  LightSquared is seeking FCC approval to build a $14 billion
wholesale network of 40,000 base stations using airwaves
previously reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of
GPS devices, which rely on satellite signals, say LightSquared’s
network for 260 million users would disrupt navigation by
planes, boats, tractors and automobiles.  LightSquared has proposed solutions, including initially
using only part of its airwaves far from GPS users, that will
resolve interference concerns for more than 99 percent of GPS
receivers, Carlisle said in his testimony.  “Further study is needed” on approaches including
LightSquared’s proposal to initially limit its transmissions to
lessen disruption of GPS receivers,  Anthony Russo , director of
the  National Coordination Office  for Space-Based Positioning,
Navigation and Timing, said in testimony submitted for today’s
hearing. Russo’s office coordinates U.S. agencies’ interests in
GPS services.  ‘Severe Harm’  High-precision receivers may still be vulnerable under the
revised proposal, with 31 of 33 failing during a test that
featured LightSquared transmissions on airwaves farther from GPS
uses, Russo said in his testimony. The company “should not be
allowed to commence commercial operations until the identified
problems are resolved,” he said.  LightSquared’s signals would cause “severe harm to
critical high precision applications” including agriculture,
construction, surveying, aviation and science,  Deere & Co. (DE) , the
world’s largest farm equipment maker, told the FCC in an Aug. 22
filing. LightSquared’s proposals for mitigation don’t resolve
the problems, Deere said.  LightSquared is backed by Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, which has invested about $3 billion in the
venture.  The FCC is exploring “technical solutions that will both
protect GPS and allow a new service to launch,” Genachowski,
the agency’s chairman, said at an Aug. 9 news conference. The
agency hasn’t set a deadline for its decision, and is
considering whether more testing may be needed, Julius Knapp,
chief of the agency’s technology office, told reporters Aug. 9.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Delay Tactic’  “Everyone had nine months to do all the testing they
wanted to do,” since the FCC issued preliminary approval in
January, Chris Stern, a Washington-based spokesman for
LightSquared, said in an interview. “If they want more testing
they should be very specific about what exactly it is they want
tested, because testing can always be just another delay
tactic.”  Carlisle said 10 of 38 high-precision receivers “were
resilient to our operations” during tests using transmissions
in LightSquared airwaves farther from GPS service.  LightSquared can keep base stations away from agricultural
receivers in remote locations “for several years” and will
help fund the development of filters so GPS receivers can
disregard LightSquared signals, Carlisle said.  -- Editors: Michael Shepard, Allan Holmes  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  