-- 
Fed Says Economy Grew at a Slower Pace in Some U.S. Regions

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a
-- 
2011-09-07T19:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/fed-says-economy-grew-at-slower-pace-in-some-regions-amid-limited-spending.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the economy
grew at a slower pace in some regions of the country as shoppers
limited their spending and factories curbed production.  “Economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace,
though some districts noted mixed or weakening activity,” the
Fed said in its Beige Book survey released today in Washington.  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke noted last month that the economy
was weaker than anticipated and said policy makers will review
ways to bolster growth and reduce unemployment at their Sept.
20-21 meeting. The central bank chief, speaking in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming , didn’t say what tools the central bank may use.  Bernanke said “only a portion” of the economy’s weakness
stemmed from temporary factors such as a surge in energy prices
earlier this year. Persistent headwinds are also holding back
the recovery, including high unemployment, tight credit and a
flagging housing market, he said.  The Beige Book survey, released two weeks before each
policy meeting, is based on information compiled by officials at
the Fed’s 12 regional banks. Today’s report covers the second
half of July until Aug. 26.  During the survey period,  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, a
drawn out political battle over raising the U.S. debt limit and
a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s 
prompted a decline in U.S. stocks. The  S&P 500  Index fell 7.4
percent from July 15 through the end of August.  Stocks Rebound  Stocks rebounded today, with the S&P 500 rising 2.8 percent
to 1,197.85 at 2:59 p.m. in New York amid speculation President
Barack Obama’s plan for more than $300 billion in economic
stimulus will boost growth.  “Several districts also indicated that recent stock market
volatility and increased economic uncertainty had led many
contacts to downgrade or become more cautious about their near-
term outlook,” the survey said.  Seven of the Fed’s 12 regions offered more downbeat views
of business conditions than in the previous survey.  The Fed’s Atlanta region said the economy there was
expanding at a “very subdued pace.” Cleveland reported “slow
growth” and  New York  described the economy as “sluggish.”
Economic activity in Chicago and Richmond both slowed. Boston
and Philadelphia described their economies as “mixed,”
although the Philadelphia region said its economy was “somewhat
weaker overall.”  Five Regions  The remaining five Fed regions -- St. Louis, Minneapolis,
 Kansas City , Dallas and  San Francisco  -- said their economies
either grew modestly or expanded slightly.  Hiring stalled in August, with employers adding no new jobs
to their payrolls, the worst showing in almost a year, the Labor
Department said last week. The  unemployment rate  remained stuck
at 9.1 percent.  Slow growth has discouraged hiring. The economy will expand
at a 2.3 percent annual rate in the second half of this year,
according to the median forecast of 53 economists polled by
Bloomberg News from Aug. 2 to Aug 10.  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities in
 Charlotte , North Carolina, predicts growth during the second
half of 2011 will be 1 percent. That pace would be slightly
better than the 0.7 percent during the first six months of this
year, the weakest stretch since the recovery began in June 2009.  Consumer spending, which accounts for roughly 70 percent of
the economy, grew “slightly” in most Fed regions, the  Beige
Book  said.  Big-Ticket Items  Boston, Chicago, Kansas City and San Francisco all reported
sluggish sales of big-ticket household goods, such as furniture
and appliances. Merchants in several regions, which weren’t
identified, “thought that heightened consumer anxiety was
weighing on sales.” Meanwhile, evacuations due to Hurricane
Irene disrupted retail sales in New York.  Among U.S. factories, New York, Philadelphia and Richmond
regions said production declined. Manufacturers in Boston and
Dallas reported slower demand from European customers. Textile
makers in the Richmond region said “markets have grown weaker
due to declining consumer confidence.”  Services, which account for almost 90 percent of the  U.S.
economy , grew at a stronger pace last month than forecast by
economists, the Institute for Supply Management said yesterday.  Manufacturing, a key support for the recovery before the
earthquakes in  Japan  disrupted the supply of parts, also
expanded last month, the institute said last week. Both reports
eased concerns the nation is heading for another recession.  The Fed has a “range of tools that could be used to
provide additional monetary stimulus,” Bernanke said in his
Aug. 26 speech at  Jackson Hole .  Bond Buying  Those options include buying more  government bonds  and
extending the average duration of Treasury securities in its
$1.65 trillion portfolio.  Economists including those at Wells Fargo, T. Rowe Price
Associates and  Barclays Capital  predict that the Fed this month
will increase stimulus by replacing short-term Treasury
securities in its portfolio with long-term bonds. The move would
be aimed at cutting interest rates on everything from mortgages
to car loans.  The Fed in a 7-3 decision at its Aug. 9 meeting pledged to
hold its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low at least until
mid-2013 in a bid to get Americans to spend more.  Yields Fall  The action came after S&P lowered the U.S.’ credit rating
to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. While stocks fell after the move, the
government’s borrowing costs decline to record lows as
Treasuries rallied. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell
to 2.04 percent at 3:04 p.m. in New York today, from 2.56
percent on Aug. 5. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
affirmed their top rankings of the U.S.  Charles Evans, president of the Chicago Fed, today said the
central bank should move “aggressively” to reduce unemployment,
even at the cost of temporarily pushing inflation higher.  The Fed’s current commitment to record-low interest rates
should be made contingent on pushing the unemployment rate to
around 7 percent or 7.5 percent, as long as inflation stays
below 3 percent in the medium term, Evans said in a speech in
 London .  Bernanke warned in his Jackson Hole speech that the Fed
alone can’t put 14 million unemployed Americans back to work or
cure the housing market, hobbled by depressed home prices and a
wave of foreclosures.  President Obama is scheduled to speak tomorrow evening to a
joint session of Congress on his plans to create more jobs and
invigorate growth. Bernanke plans earlier in the day to give a
speech on the economy.  The recovery will probably maintain its momentum while not
gaining strength this year, Ronald Sargent, chairman and chief
executive officer of office-supply company Staples Inc., said
last month.  “I’m not an economist at all,” Sargent said in an Aug. 17
conference call with analysts. “But from what I see, we have no
chance at another recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeannine Aversa in  Washington  at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  