-- 
Fed’s Evans Calls for Further Stimulus

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:54:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/fed-s-evans-calls-for-economic-stimulus-to-cut-u-s-unemployment-to-7-5-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank should move
“aggressively” to reduce unemployment, even at the cost of
temporarily pushing inflation higher.  The Fed’s current commitment to record-low  interest rates 
should be made contingent on pushing the  unemployment rate  to
around 7 percent or 7.5 percent, as long as inflation stays
below 3 percent in the medium term, the 53-year-old regional
bank chief said today in a speech in  London .  “Given how truly badly we are doing in meeting our
employment mandate, I argue that the Fed should seriously
consider actions that would add very significant amounts of
policy accommodation,” he said. “Such further policy
accommodation does increase the risk that inflation could rise
temporarily above our long-term goal of 2 percent.”  The speech places the Chicago Fed president among the
“few” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  who,
according to minutes of the FOMC’s gathering in August, favor a
“more substantial move” beyond the central bank’s pledge to
hold rates low for about two years. Evans, among the FOMC’s most
outspoken advocates of easing since last year, voted for the
FOMC’s Aug. 9 commitment to keep the overnight lending rate
between banks near zero through at least mid-2013.  His support for a new trigger to be added to the central
bank’s statement goes beyond the easing publicly supported by
most Fed officials, and is an acknowledgment of the weakness of
the world’s largest economy almost a year after the Fed
committed to a second round of bond purchases to spur growth.  ‘Enormous Risks’  “I’m sure everyone will agree that we seriously don’t want
to be in this position again at this time next year,” the
regional bank chief said at the European Economics and Financial
Centre’s Distinguished Speaker Seminar. One challenge “is to
take actions that respect both the feasibility of what monetary
policy can accomplish and the enormous risks to the future
prospects of the  U.S. economy .”  The economic “outlook has weakened substantially,” Evans
said.  Data released since last week show the U.S. unemployment
rate remained stuck at 9.1 percent last month and payrolls
unexpectedly failed to grow, while confidence among consumers
plunged to the lowest level in more than two years. Unemployment
has remained at around 9 percent or higher since April 2009.  “The economic outlook clearly has deteriorated this
year,” with consumers and small businesses struggling to get
credit and recovery in the real estate markets being
“painstakingly slow,” Evans said.  Additional Stimulus  Policy makers are weighing whether further stimulus is
needed to boost an economy that grew at a 1 percent annual rate
in the second quarter. They debated ways to invigorate the
recovery and hiring at their Aug. 9 meeting, potentially laying
the groundwork for action at their next gathering later this
month.  “ Monetary policy  should be used more aggressively to
increase aggregate demand,” said Evans, one of only two
regional Fed presidents who vote on the FOMC every other year,
along with  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto .  The central bank could add in its statement a new trigger
that would keep the benchmark U.S. interest rate at
“extraordinarily low levels” until unemployment falls to 7.5
percent or 7 percent, so long as medium-term inflation stays
below 3 percent, Evans said.  Inflation Goal  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the personal consumption
expenditures price index excluding food and energy, rose 1.6
percent in July, compared with 1 percent in November when the
Fed launched its $600 billion round of asset purchases known as
QE2 for the second round of quantitative easing. That’s in line
with the Fed’s annual inflation goal of 1.7 percent to 2
percent.  While adding “significant amounts” of further policy
accommodation risks temporarily pushing inflation above the
Fed’s long-term goal of 2 percent, Evans said, “I do not see
our 2 percent goal as a cap on inflation.”  “Rather, it is a goal for the average rate of inflation
over some period of time,” said the regional chief, who became
head of the Chicago Fed in September 2007.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has dropped 12 percent
since July 22, as companies and consumers cut back as a result
of political wrangling in  Washington  over fiscal policy and
mounting fear of a sovereign debt default in  Europe . The  S&P 500 
rose 2 percent to 1,189.09 at 11:45 a.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  