-- 
Fed’s Williams Says U.S. Faces ‘Real Threat’ of Years of High Unemployment

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-07T22:18:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/fed-s-williams-cuts-economic-growth-forecast-for-rest-of-2011.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John C. Williams cut his growth forecast for
the rest of 2011, and said the economy probably won’t be able to
expand enough to bring down a 9.1 percent jobless rate soon.  “The real threat is an economy that is at risk of stalling
and the prospect of many years of very high unemployment, with
potentially long-run negative consequences,” the regional bank
chief said today in a speech in  Seattle . While the Fed could
take new steps to ease conditions, “these ‘treatments’ won’t
make our economic problems go away and their costs and benefits
must be carefully balanced.”  Policy makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee  are
weighing whether further stimulus is needed to boost an economy
that grew at a 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, and
generated no growth to payrolls last month. Data released since
last week show the U.S. unemployment rate remained stuck at 9.1
percent in August, while confidence among consumers plunged to
the lowest level in more than two years.  “Although I remain bullish on the American economy in the
long run, the fact is that we face real difficulties right
now,” Williams, 49, said in the speech to the Seattle Rotary
Club. The world’s largest economy is being held back by
“tepid”  consumer spending  and a “dismal” housing market, and
remains vulnerable to new shocks, such as Europe’s debt crisis.  Growth Rate  The San Francisco bank chief said he expects 2 percent
growth for the final six months of 2011, compared with his 3
percent forecast in July, before the expansion picks up next
year. Such a growth rate “won’t be anywhere near fast enough to
bring down the jobless rate much,” he said, adding that
unemployment will likely stay around 9 percent through December
and above 8.5 percent at the end of 2012.  The economy grew at a slower pace in some U.S. regions as
shoppers limited their spending and factories curbed production,
the Fed said in its Beige Book economic survey released today.
Seven of the Fed’s 12 regions offered more downbeat views of
business conditions than in the previous survey.  Unemployment has remained at around 9 percent or higher
since April 2009. Almost a third of the 14 million unemployed
Americans have been without work for at least a year.  The debate in Washington over the  U.S. budget deficit 
“added one more ingredient to the currents of economic anxiety
that are roiling households and businesses,” Williams said.  ‘Slam’ Markets  Europe ’s debt crisis has the potential to “slam U.S.
financial markets and deal a further blow to already fragile
confidence,” the policy maker said. “A downturn in Europe
could knock the props out from under the U.S. recovery.”  Policy makers debated ways to invigorate the recovery and
hiring at their Aug. 9 meeting, potentially laying the
groundwork for action at their next gathering later this month.  The central bank has the clout to reduce long-term  interest
rates , Williams said to reporters after the speech.  “The 10-year rate is below 2 percent today, so there still
is room for lowering interest rates for longer-term interest
rates,” he said. Yields on 10-year notes increased six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.043 percent in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Record Lows  Minutes of the FOMC’s Aug. 9 meeting show that a few policy
makers favored a “more substantial move” beyond the pledge to
hold rates at record lows for the next two years. Williams’
speech didn’t identify what, if any, new stimulative measures
the  San Francisco  Fed chief might support at the committee’s
next meeting.  “We are not tying our hands by making this announcement”
to keep the overnight lending rate between banks low through at
least mid-2013, Williams said. “We haven’t made a guarantee. We
will alter our policy as appropriate if circumstances change.”  “There’s obviously a range of views,” he told reporters
after his prepared remarks. “I do think my main concern right
now is with the pace of recovery and the high degree of
unemployment.”  In response to audience questions after his speech,
Williams said the Fed is watching for the risk low rates may
have on producing carry trades, and that he doesn’t expect the
euro to replace the dollar as the world’s main reserve currency.
A carry trade refers to borrowing dollars and purchasing higher-
yielding assets in other currencies, taking advantage of record-
low rates in the U.S.  Push Up Inflation  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , speaking earlier today
in  London , said the central bank should move “aggressively” to
reduce unemployment, even at the cost of temporarily pushing
inflation higher.  The Fed’s current commitment to record-low interest rates
should be made contingent on pushing the  unemployment rate  to
around 7 percent or 7.5 percent, as long as inflation stays
below 3 percent in the medium term, the 53-year-old regional
bank chief said.  A temporary rise in the Fed’s preferred inflation gauge
during the 12 months that ended in July should dissipate and
drop to a 1.5 annual pace next year, Williams said. That’s below
the 2 percent level he said he regards as consistent with  price
stability  and a forecast that reflects the fact the economy is
performing “so far below its potential.”  When asked by reporters whether he would be willing to
tolerate higher inflation if it brought down unemployment,
Williams said, “I don’t think there’s a tradeoff. I don’t think
that’s really a choice we can make over the long term.”  “We have to focus on keeping inflation relatively low over
the medium term and again keeping employment as close as we can
to the maximum sustainable level,” he said.  Williams, who has worked in the Fed system since 1994, was
a senior economist for the  Council of Economic Advisers  during
the Clinton administration. The Sacramento native succeeded
 Janet Yellen , now the Fed board’s vice chairman, and will become
a voting member of the rate-setting FOMC next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  