-- 
Feldstein on Taxes Sways Democrats More Than Fellow Republicans

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/feldstein-clout-sways-democrats-as-fellow-republicans-balk-at-tax-proposal.html
In 1961, Martin Feldstein faced a
choice: Become a doctor -- or an economist. He had finished his
bachelor’s degree in economics from  Harvard College  and been
accepted to Harvard Medical School. He went with economics,
enticed by a Fulbright scholarship to study at Oxford University
in England. Once there, he found a way to combine his two areas
of interest, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its October
special issue on the 50 Most Influential people in global
finance. The first paper he published was an economic analysis
of Britain’s National Health Service.  When he returned to the U.S. in 1967, the U.S. public
health programs, Medicare and Medicaid, were just two years old.
Feldstein says it was immediately clear to him that their costs
would rise rapidly.  “Our present system of financing health care provides
inadequate protection, encourages inefficient use of resources
and accelerates the inflation of medical costs,” Feldstein wrote
in an  article  in The Public Interest, a journal of conservative
thought edited by Irving Kristol. While that’s a warning a
politician might have offered in the halls of Congress this past
summer as Democrats and Republicans jousted over the national
debt and  government spending , Feldstein wrote it in 1971, when
Richard Nixon was in the White House.  He was sounding the alarm decades before rising health-care
outlays fully captured national attention. Health spending was
26.5 percent of the federal budget in 2010, up from 7.1 percent
in 1970, Office of Management and Budget data show.  Deficit Fights  Feldstein has helped shape conservative economics by
sticking to a few principles: shrink government spending, cut
tax rates and be very wary of budget deficits. The first two
were mostly embraced in the 1980s by Republican President  Ronald Reagan , who Feldstein served for two years as chief economic
adviser. The third, fighting deficits, proved to be more thorny,
then as now.  Feldstein’s stance on balancing the budget got him on the
cover of Time magazine in March 1984, although the words Monster
Deficit took up more space than his picture. By July of that
year, he was out of the White House, having clashed with
Treasury Secretary Donald Regan, in particular.  While pointing out that tax legislation Reagan signed in
1986 ultimately reduced deficits, Feldstein says the issue was
contentious. “There were people in the administration, on the
political side, who just wished that subject would disappear,
that I would stop talking about it, that somehow the public
wouldn’t notice it,” Feldstein says.  ‘People Listen’  The public, and every politician in Washington, has noticed
the deficit this year. Feldstein, 71, is still talking about it.  “He’s got a vast amount of experience and knowledge across
a whole array of different topics, from  tax policy  to health
care to macroeconomics to  China ,” says  Peter Orszag ,  Barack Obama ’s former budget director, who was in the White House when
Feldstein was on the Democratic president’s Economic Recovery
Advisory Board. “People listen to what he says.”  “Marty Feldstein remains one of the  influential thinkers  on
tax policy,” says  David Malpass , former Bear Stearns Cos. chief
economist. And Alan Simpson, retired Republican senator from
 Wyoming  and co-chairman with Democrat Erskine Bowles of the
president’s deficit-cutting commission, says Feldstein’s views
on spending and taxes carry weight. “When he speaks, you want to
listen,” he says.  Fed Candidate  Feldstein’s name circulated as a possible successor to
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  before President  George W. Bush  tapped  Ben S. Bernanke  in 2006. Feldstein says he talks
regularly with monetary officials, including Bank of  England 
Governor Mervyn King,  New York  Fed President William Dudley, Fed
Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and Bernanke. “I am always interested
in getting his perspective, even if we don’t always agree,”
Dudley says in an e-mail.  The Simpson-Bowles panel, when it completed its work last
December, recommended raising government revenue by eliminating
or restricting so-called tax expenditures: deductions and
credits written into the  tax code  for such things as mortgage
interest and investments in renewable energy. Feldstein says
reductions in tax expenditures were part of Reagan’s 1986 tax
measure and should be included in any deficit fix today.  “There is literally more than a trillion dollars a year --
a year! -- of spending built into the tax code,” Feldstein said
on Bloomberg Television on Aug. 2. “We could go after a large
part of that.”  ‘A Kind of Spending’  Feldstein, who wins praise for presenting economic concepts
clearly, explains tax expenditures this way: “It sounds like a
paradox. But if I buy a solar panel for my house, the government
doesn’t send me a check. It gives me a tax deduction. But that’s
the same thing as sending me a check. So that’s a kind of
spending.”  Restricting tax expenditures could increase revenue without
raising tax rates, Feldstein says. He has proposed that the
benefit any taxpayer can get from deductions and exclusions be
capped, perhaps at 2 percent of adjusted gross income.  In a twist, it’s Democrats who have been most open to the
idea. Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who chairs the
Senate Budget Committee, invoked Feldstein’s name in a floor
speech on July 21 as he argued that the deficit can’t be tackled
with spending cuts alone. “ Martin Feldstein , who is one of the
most conservative economists in the country, has said we have
got to take on these tax expenditures,” he said.  Norquist Pledge  Republicans in Congress wouldn’t agree to higher tax
revenue of any kind during the debt-ceiling negotiations. Anti-
tax crusader Grover Norquist has the signatures of 236
representatives and 41 senators -- all but three of them
Republicans -- on a pledge to oppose tax increases and reject
any change in tax expenditures that would add to the total
amount of money the government collects.  Orszag, who became a vice chairman at Citigroup Inc. after
leaving the White House in 2010, says Feldstein’s economic views
have been left behind by the GOP.  “He was in the mainstream of the  Republican Party  as it
stood in the late 1970s,” says Orszag, who is also a columnist
for Bloomberg View. “As the Republican Party has moved toward
the Tea Party perspective, some of his views, at least from my
perspective, are no longer consistent with that rightward
shift.”  Feldstein plays down the differences between him and his
party, although he says he backs up his ideas with numbers and
will follow where the data lead. “I don’t have an agenda, and
sometimes I annoy my Republican colleagues,” he says.  ‘Core Republican’  Malpass, who in 2010 ran unsuccessfully for the Republican
nomination for  U.S. Senate  in New York, says Feldstein’s
economics are still the party’s. “Marty Feldstein is a core
Republican, a growth-oriented Republican and an economic
leader,” says Malpass, who now runs his own advisory firm,
Encima Global, in New York.  The next test of whether Republicans will support a revenue
increase such as Feldstein has proposed comes with the panel of
12 lawmakers created by the Aug. 2 debt-ceiling agreement.
They’re charged with coming up with a deficit reduction package
that Congress can approve by year’s end. If they don’t, $1.2
trillion in spending cuts kick in, while the tax code stays the
same.  Republicans had to make clear in the debt-ceiling talks
this summer that controlling spending is most important,
Feldstein says. The time wasn’t right for the party to support
limits on tax expenditures, he says. “That has to wait for the
negotiations that are the second part of the recent deal -- if
not longer.”  Recession Risk  In addition to being a deficit hawk, Feldstein is an expert
on when recessions begin and end. For the better part of 30
years, he served as president of the  National Bureau of Economic
Research , the nonprofit group in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that
establishes dates for the business cycle in the U.S.  In late August, Feldstein put the odds of a new  recession 
at more than 50 percent. A sick housing market is at the root of
the slow growth, he says. Feldstein argues that the government
should help borrowers who owe more than their home is worth,
backing loans that would reduce principal while ratcheting up
the recourse a lender has when a borrower fails to pay.  “People are seeing their house values fall month after
month,” he says. “If you stop that, if you reverse that, then
people will think, ‘Ah, I can spend.’” If you don’t, the economy
will be weak for years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  