-- 
Finland May Abandon Greek Bailout If Collateral Not Granted, Katainen Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-07T12:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/finland-may-abandon-greek-bailout-if-collateral-not-granted-katainen-says.html
Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said his country may not contribute to a second Greek
bailout package if demands for collateral in exchange for new
loans aren’t met.  Such an outcome “remains a possibility,” Katainen told
reporters after delivering a speech in Helsinki today. “It
depends on the collateral issue.”  Finland  is at the center of a collateral dispute that
threatens to stall Greece’s second rescue package and exacerbate
Europe’s debt crisis. Katainen had earlier this month pledged to
find a model that satisfies the AAA rated nation’s insistence on
extra assurances its bailout funds be repaid without putting
other euro members or creditors at a disadvantage.  “The collateral issue is a small detail in a larger
package,” Katainen told reporters. “We’re looking for a
solution. But we can’t wait forever, as the issue must be
resolved in the next few days.”  The euro pared gains and was trading 0.3 percent higher
against the dollar at 1.4040 at 1:19 p.m. in  London  after having
risen as much as 1.1 percent earlier in the day.  Greek 10-year yields climbed above 20 percent for the first
time. The yield difference, or spread, between Greek 10-year
bonds and similar-maturity German bunds widened to a record
1,817 basis points, or 18.17 percentage points. Two-year note
yields jumped as much as 111 basis points to 53.42 percent.  Multiple Threats  The deadlock over Finland’s collateral demands is just one
of multiple threats to euro-region stability. In Greece, the so-
called Troika of the  International Monetary Fund , the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank  have delayed their next
economic review as the government in  Athens  predicts a deeper
recession. In  Italy , the euro region’s third-largest economy,
commitment to austerity measures shows signs of wavering.  Finland still wants to be a part of Greece’s bailout,
Katainen said in the speech.  The northernmost euro member “must earn its influence
inside the European Union,” he said. “Finland’s success
depends on the success of the EU.”  Finland, which was forced to abandon an earlier bilateral
arrangement with Greece that gave the Nordic country cash
collateral, must now find a deal that protects the IMF’s
priority creditor status. The Washington D.C.-based fund, which
has provided a third of the bailout loans given to Europe so
far, would oppose any deal that overlooks its rights, four
people with direct knowledge of the matter said last week.  ‘Fatal’ for Bailout  The clause on collateral, enshrined in the July 21
decisions by EU leaders, sparked a torrent of criticism after it
was unveiled on Aug. 16. Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter
warned Finland’s deal threatened to “blow up” the region’s
rescue mechanism, while Michael Meister, senior finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats, said such accords would be “fatal” for the bailout.  A meeting of finance chiefs from three of the euro area’s
AAA rated countries failed to break the deadlock yesterday,
Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  said.  “Technical” issues remain unresolved, De Jager told
reporters in Berlin late yesterday after he met with German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Finnish Finance Minister
Jutta Urpilainen. Any Finnish accord needs to be approved by all
euro members.  Finland’s share of the second Greek rescue is 1.94 percent
of the total estimated euro members’ contribution of 73 billion
euros ($102 billion) that will be made through the European
Financial Stability Facility. The Nordic nation gave Greece a
1.5 billion-euro bilateral loan in the first bailout.  ‘Can’t Afford to Fail’  Europe  can’t allow itself to keep failing in its efforts to
enforce fiscal responsibility and end a debt crisis that shows
signs of deepening, Katainen said.  “The best medicine for the euro area crisis would be a
transparent program from each country with concrete measures and
a schedule for balancing the budget, reducing debt and
increasing competitiveness,” Katainen said. “Italy, Spain and
 France  are drawing up such programs and I hope these programs
win the markets’ trust. We can’t afford to fail anymore.”  Joint liability such as the introduction of common euro
bonds is no answer, he said.  De Jager said that the next tranche of money can’t be paid
out to  Greece  unless the Greek government complies with the
terms of its aid package, echoing comments made to German
lawmakers by Schaeuble.  “What’s holding up everything in the present situation is
Greece and whether or not they are compliant in the current
program,” De Jager said. “We are very confident that if it is
on the table we will solve” the collateral dispute, which
relates to the second Greek bailout, not the current aid
package. “Much more urgent is the issue of compliance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpojanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 