-- 
For Medicare Savings, Send a Negotiator to the Pharmacy: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/for-medicare-savings-send-a-negotiator-to-the-pharmacy-view.html
President  Barack Obama  has his eye
on Medicare’s prescription-drug program as one place to find
significant savings in the federal budget.  It’s a big target, given that the price tag is expected to
reach $68 billion this year, rising to $175 billion by 2021. A
new federal  report  comparing Medicare with Medicaid demonstrates
there’s ample room for savings.  Medicaid gets much larger rebates from drugmakers than
Medicare does, according to the report. Looking at 100 brand-
name medicines that cost Medicare the most in 2009, the
inspector general for the  Department of Health  and Human
Services found that the median rebate to states for Medicaid
payments for these medicines was three times the size of rebates
to Medicare. For 68 of these drugs, Medicaid’s rebate was at
least twice as large as Medicare’s.  Why can’t Medicare mandate rebates as Medicaid does?
Because in creating Medicare’s  Part D  prescription-drug program
in 2003, Congress expressly forbade it. Medicare gets back only
as much as can be negotiated by the private insurers that
contract with the program. And their negotiating power is
limited, because they lack the authority to restrict the list of
medicines they cover. It’s difficult to bring drugmakers to the
bargaining table unless they are presented with the choice of
lowering their prices or seeing their medicines dropped from the
formulary.  Rebates Required  For Medicaid, in contrast, federal regulations require that
pharmaceutical companies pay rebates on drugs amounting to at
least 23 percent of the average wholesale price (on drugs
distributed to retail pharmacies) -- plus an additional amount
if the drug’s cost has risen faster than consumer prices have.  Because Medicare cannot demand such rebates, it should at
least be able negotiate drug prices. This would be the ideal way
for Medicare to keep prices low. After all, with 35 million
beneficiaries in the Part D program, Medicare is essentially one
of the world’s largest retail drug buyers. Like any big
purchaser in the private sector, it should be able to negotiate
healthy discounts.  Such bargaining works for the Department of  Veterans
Affairs . The VA buys drugs at prices 40 percent lower than those
paid by Part D plans, according to  Austin Frakt , a health
economist at  Boston University , who has compared the two
agencies’ drug-buying strategies.  But an important reason the VA negotiates so effectively is
that it restricts the list of drugs it recommends to patients.
The VA’s formulary includes only 59 percent of the top 200
drugs, while Medicare’s prescription-drug plans cover, on
average, 85 percent of them.  Little Bargaining Power  Without a more restricted formulary, Medicare doesn’t have
the bargaining power to get its prices as low as the VA’s. And
even though the VA has demonstrated that its limited formulary
works well -- its patients do not go without the drug treatment
they need -- both the powerful drug-industry lobby and Medicare
recipients are opposed to restricting the drugs available
through Medicare Part D.  There is another way to save Medicare money on drugs -- one
whose political prospects, while not rosy, are at least in the
realm of the possible. That is to require drugmaker rebates for
medicines prescribed to people known as dual-eligibles.  These are the 9 million elderly or disabled people on
Medicare who also qualify for Medicaid. Dual-eligibles are
extraordinarily poor. In 2007, 57 percent of them had annual
incomes of less than $10,000, and only 6 percent had incomes
higher than $20,000. They are also among the sickest people
covered by either program: Although they represent only 15
percent of people on Medicaid and 21 percent of those on
Medicare, the dual-eligibles account for more than 35 percent of
expenditures in both programs.  Until 2006, Medicaid covered the  prescription drugs  for
dual-eligibles, and its big rebates came into play. But starting
in 2006, these beneficiaries were switched to Medicare Part D.
That change could essentially be undone.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia  is  proposing  that
drugmakers provide Medicaid-level rebates for drugs dispensed
through Medicare Part D to all beneficiaries who are dual-
eligibles or qualify for a low-income subsidy. The  Congressional
Budget Office  has said such a change could save Medicare $112
billion over the next 10 years.  That, at least, would be a significant start toward
reducing the  budget deficit  and closing the unnecessary gap
between Medicare and Medicaid on drug payments.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 