-- 
Funding at BNP, Societe Generale Is ‘Skewed’ to Short Term, Barclays Says

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-07T08:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/french-banks-funding-is-skewed-to-short-term-barclays-says.html
French lenders  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,
Societe Generale SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are more geared
toward short-term funding compared with banks such as Deutsche
Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to Barclays Capital.  “French bank funding structures appear skewed to short-
term wholesale, light on longer-term debt, although not off the
scale,” London-based Barclays Capital’s analysts Jeremy Sigee
and Kiri Vijayarajah wrote in a note today. “Some credit
investors seem to have been spooked by recent SocGen
disclosures.”  Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest lender, reduced
its short-term funding in dollars by 26 percent as the
sovereign-debt crisis led U.S. money market funds to lend less
to  Europe ’s banks.  Dollar funding fell to 53 billion euros ($74.6 billion) by
mid-August from 72 billion euros at the end of June, the Paris-
based bank said in a presentation on its website dated Aug. 30.
Its total short-term funding needs shrank 9.5 percent to 134
billion euros in the same period.  Societe Generale (GLE)  has lost more than half of its market
value this year in Paris trading amid funding concerns and the
European sovereign crisis. BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank,
has declined about 37 percent in 2011, while  Credit Agricole ,
the third biggest, has fallen about 40 percent.  “The funding concerns on the French banks originated from
their apparent large exposures to troubled sovereigns,” the
Barclays Capital analysts said. “Overall, these sovereign
exposures remain manageable.”  Based on current bond prices, aggregate additional
markdowns on Greek, Portuguese, Irish, Italian and Spanish
sovereign-debt holdings would be about 3.8 billion euros for BNP
Paribas, 939 million euros for Credit Agricole and 816 million
euros for Societe Generale, the  Barclays Capital  analysts
estimated.  “Marking sovereign exposures to market would cause
relatively limited damage to tangible book values,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 