-- 
FSB’s Plans for Failing Banks Lack Cooperation, U.K. Lenders Say

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-07T09:56:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/fsb-s-plans-for-failing-banks-lack-cooperation-u-k-lenders-say.html
U.K. banks are calling on global
regulators to revise plans for the orderly closure of failing
lenders, saying the proposals wouldn’t ensure national
regulators work together to handle cross-border crises.  The Financial Stability Board’s proposals published in July
“leave too much scope for some home regulators to potentially
act in their own interests rather than in the interests of
stability as a whole,”  Angela Knight , the chief executive
officer of the  British Bankers’ Association , said in an e-mailed
statement today.  World leaders at the Group of 20 nations asked the FSB to
agree on measures for winding down failing banks avoiding wider
repercussions for the financial system. Such resolution
processes can lead to either a bank being broken up and its
assets sold on or a lender being resurrected with a smaller
balance sheet with higher  capital ratios .  Measures in the FSB paper include requiring banks to draw
up so-called living wills indicating how they could be closed in
a crisis, and requiring a failed bank’s senior bondholders to
take losses to cover the costs of shutting down its operations.  The FSB rules need to be “clear, consistent and
authoritative with a clear and sufficient time frame to enable
all countries to put in place measures similar to those that the
U.K. has already taken,” said Knight. The London-based BBA,
which represents lenders in the U.K., was responding to the
FSB’s request for comments.  The FSB coordinates the work of national regulators from
G-20 nations and sets tasks for global standard-setting
organizations such as the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 