-- 
Galliano Anti-Semitic Stain May Be Lasting

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-08T08:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/galliano-anti-semitic-stain-may-be-lasting-even-if-he-s-cleared.html
John Galliano will have a hard time
erasing the image of his drunken anti-Semitic slurs from the
public’s mind even if he is cleared by a French court today of
criminal charges stemming from other related incidents.  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  fired Galliano, its head designer, after
a video of him saying “I love Hitler” emerged following a
complaint to police claiming he verbally attacked a couple at a
Paris cafe. While the video wasn’t included in the case against
him, it was shown at trial and seen around the world, making a
comeback difficult, luxury analyst Luca Solca said.  “The visibility of his behavior was so high that it is
probably going to be an issue in most places,” said Solca,
global head of European research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in
Paris. Even if he’s acquitted, it’s “a stain that is going to
be somewhat difficult to remove.”  The Gibraltar-born designer, 50, joined Dior in 1995. He
was credited for revitalizing Dior’s image, bringing in younger
customers and making the brand  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC) ’s second most-profitable within 10 years. Galliano blamed his
heavy workload for pushing him to abuse alcohol and sleeping
pills. He entered addiction treatment in February and said at
his trial he couldn’t remember what happened at the cafe.  Under French sentencing rules on hate speech Galliano faces
a maximum 22,500-euro ($31,600) fine and six months in prison if
found guilty. Prosecutor Anne de Fontette sought a fine.  ‘Brilliant’  Dubbed “l’enfant terrible of fashion” by Women’s Wear
Daily, Galliano could return to the industry eventually, Solca
said. Sidney Toledano, Dior’s chief executive officer, praised
him as “brilliant” at a show held in Paris just three days
after Galliano was fired.  The designer won’t come to court for the judgment today,
and his lawyer Aurelien Hamelle declined to comment before the
verdict.  In his June testimony, Galliano said he was sorry for “the
sadness this affair has caused” and repeatedly said he couldn’t
remember what had happened at the cafe. Three patrons accused
him of verbally attacking them. Witnesses gave contradictory
testimony on whether he used racial and anti-Semitic terms.  The “particularly odious character of the behavior and
statements by  John Galliano ” in the video prompted the company
to act rather than await the outcome of the police probe, Dior
said in a March 1 statement.  Olivier Bialobos, a spokesman for the fashion house, which
has yet to name a replacement for Galliano, didn’t return calls
and e-mails for comment ahead of the court decision.  “The public sometimes likes humiliating high-standing
figures and then forgiving them and getting them back into the
limelight,” Solca said, citing the case of golfer  Tiger Woods ,
whose marital infidelities cost him sponsorships and preceded a
rankings slump. “Time heals a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 