-- 
German Industrial Production Surged Most in More Than a Year

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-07T10:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/german-industrial-production-surged-most-in-a-year-on-late-school-holidays.html
Industrial production  in  Germany 
surged the most in more than a year in July as late school
holidays boosted factory output.  Production jumped 4 percent from June, when it dropped 1
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. That’s the
biggest gain since March 2010. Economists had forecast an
increase of 0.5 percent, the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year, output rose 10.1
percent when adjusted for working days.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, will expand “in the
region of 3 percent” this year, the Bundesbank reiterated last
month after growth slowed to a near standstill in the second
quarter. While unemployment fell for a 26th month in August,
confidence among consumers, investors and businesses worsened as
the region’s debt crisis threatened to derail the recovery.  “German companies have a high backlog of orders that will
keep production going,” said  Andreas Rees , chief German
economist at UniCredit MIB in Munich, who forecasts growth of
0.5 percent in the third quarter. “I don’t see companies
canceling orders to a large extent but if financial market
uncertainty continues, some firms may postpone investments.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.4076 at 12:04 p.m., up 0.6 percent on the day.  Production of  consumer goods  jumped 2.5 percent in July
from the previous month, when it fell 1.1 percent, today’s
report showed. Output of durable consumer goods surged 15.4
percent and production of investment goods rose 7.5 percent.
Intermediate goods output increased 2.3 percent.  ‘Positive’ Outlook  Output gains were “exaggerated” by the fact that fewer
school holidays fell in July, the ministry said. The outlook for
industrial production remains “positive,” though risks have
increased, it said.  Volkswagen AG’s Audi division is hiring staff to increase
car production, including a 57 percent capacity boost for the
69,600-euro ($97,837) A8 flagship sedan. German rivals
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Daimler AG (DAI)  are adding shifts,
shortening breaks and building new factories to meet demand.  Companies may struggle to maintain their output growth as
global demand shows signs of faltering.  German factory orders fell more than economists expected in
July, led by a drop in export demand. Manufacturing slumped in
Europe and  Asia  last month, while recession fears in the U.S.,
the world’s largest economy, have prompted calls for the  Federal
Reserve  to embark on another round of quantitative easing.  German Slowdown  In Germany, economic growth weakened to 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from 1.3 percent in the previous three months as
imports exceeded exports and households cut spending. The 17-
member euro-region economy grew 0.2 percent in that period.  “Low growth in the second quarter taken by itself is no
evidence yet that the German economy has lost robustness due to
weaker foreign demand and increased uncertainty,” the
Bundesbank said on Aug. 22.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
posted fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates as European demand weakened.  Siemens AG (SIE)  and BASF AG,
two of Germany’s largest companies, reported second-quarter
earnings that fell short of analysts’ expectations.  “The upswing in industry has lost considerable momentum
since the start of the year,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “This makes much lower growth
likely for the overall economy in the second half of the year
compared to the first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  