-- 
German Stocks End Little Changed After ECB Cites Economy Risks

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-08T16:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/german-stocks-rise-for-first-day-in-five-infineon-rwe-advance.html
German stocks swung between gains
and losses all day as European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said euro-region economic risks have intensified.
The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  ended the session little changed.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rose after confirming its profit targets
for the year.  Daimler AG (DAI)  fell as German exports dropped in July.
K+S AG slid as Morgan Stanley cut its recommendation on the
fertilizer producer.  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  rose after Commerzbank AG
advised buying shares in the consumer-products company.  The DAX rose less than 0.1 percent to 5,408.46 at the 5:30
p.m. close in  Frankfurt , after shifting between gains and losses
at least 10 times during the session. The broader HDAX Index
rose 0.2 percent.  The economy faces “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks,” Trichet said at a press conference
in Frankfurt today after the ECB left its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent. The ECB cut its growth forecasts for this year and
next, and Trichet said inflation dangers are “broadly
balanced.” Last month those risks were on the “upside.”  “We are in a deflationary world so the ECB should stop
talking about anchoring inflation and start lowering rates,”
said Alberto Espelosin, head of analysis at investment company
Ibercaja Gestion SGIIC SA in Zaragoza,  Spain . “It’s not helpful
that all central banks around the world are acting in support of
markets and the ECB keeps its anti-inflationary rhetoric. They
should have sent a strong message to the market.”  Investors have increased bets that the ECB will cut its key
rate by the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show. All
57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted the key
rate would be unchanged today.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank rose 1.3 percent to 24.89 euros. The nation’s
biggest bank reiterated its full-year operating pretax profit
target of 10 billion euros ($14 billion) and said it completed
85 percent of its funding plan by the end of August, according
to an investor presentation published on its website.  Daimler, maker of the Mercedes Benz cars, dropped 1.9
percent to 33.62 euros. MAN SE, the truckmaker that gets 80
percent of revenue outside of its home market, dropped 0.9
percent to 57.65 euros.  German exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal
changes, fell 1.8 percent from June, when they dropped 1.2
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast an increase of 0.5 percent, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
slipped 0.3 percent from the previous month, when they advanced
0.3 percent.  K+S fell 1.5 percent to 46.09 euros. Morgan Stanley cut its
recommendation to “underweight” from “equal-weight,” citing
a “lack of relative attractiveness on valuation grounds.”  Beiersdorf, maker of Nivea cream, gained 1.7 percent to
41.38 euros, a third advance. The shares were raised to “buy”
from “hold” at Commerzbank, which cited the outlook for the
company’s profitability and said they may reach 50 euros apiece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  