-- 
Karlsruhe Court Says Euro Rescue Challenge Rejection No ‘Blanket’ Approval

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-07T15:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/german-euro-rescue-challenges-rejected-by-court.html
Germany’s top court cleared the way
for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition to participate in the
current euro-area rescue plans, while saying it must seek some
additional parliamentary approval for payouts under the funds.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe threw out
three suits targeting Germany’s share of the 110 billion-euros
($155 billion) in loans for  Greece  from euro-region governments
and the  International Monetary Fund  as well as a separate 750
billion-euro rescue fund approved last year in an effort to
prevent Greece’s debt crisis from spreading.  The ruling will aid Merkel’s efforts to gain support for
participation in a new round of European Financial Stability
Facility programs. She pledged last week to consult lawmakers
after her Cabinet agreed on a reworked plan that would raise
 Germany ’s share of EFSF loan guarantees to 211 billion euros
from a current 123 billion euros.  The court said its ruling today shouldn’t be seen as
“blanket” authorization of future rescue packages and the
government must seek approval from the parliament’s budget
committee for the individual guarantees it assumes in each
bailout under the current EFSF.  “Parliamentary decisions about taxing and spending are a
central element of democratic self-government under the
constitution,” Andreas Vosskuhle, president of the court, said
in the ruling. “As representatives of the people, the elected
members of parliament thus also need to remain in control over
elementary budgetary decisions.”  ‘Absolutely Confirmed’  In a speech to lawmakers in Berlin, Merkel said the ruling
“absolutely confirmed” her approach of offering aid to
indebted countries in exchange for debt reduction commitments.
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters that “the
question of whether it’s unconstitutional will hopefully be put
to rest once and for all.”  The judges stressed the principles of self-responsibility
while observing solidarity, transparency and the approval of
parliament, Merkel said. “That’s exactly the path we’ve
taken,” she said.  The euro rose as much as 1.1 percent after the ruling
before paring its gains. It was up 0.3 percent at $1.4047 as of
4:50 p.m. in Berlin.  The court said it rejected the suits because it found that
lawmakers kept enough powers to control the government. Also the
requirement to have the parliament’s budget committee clear
individual guarantees Germany assumes under the current EFSF
beefs up that control. Parliament didn’t deplete its right to
adopt the budget and control its implementation, thus it didn’t
disregard the principle of democracy, according to the court.  170 Billion Euros  The approximately 170 billion euros of possible guarantees
Germany may assume under last year’s packages wasn’t so high as
to undermine parliament’s autonomy in the future, they said.
Lawmakers have a broad appreciation of what is financially
bearable and the court said it needs to respect their position.  Lower-house lawmakers plan to hold a first reading of a new
EFSF bill tomorrow before it goes to a final vote on Sept. 29.  Norbert Barthle , a lawmaker from Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said the court’s comments that the EU may not
be made into a “liability union” would mean that joint euro-
area bonds would be illegal under current law. Common borrowing
by the countries in the euro area is being studied by the EU as
a tool to tackle the debt crisis.  The ruling “seems to further entrench the German
government position that Euro bonds are a no-go, by warning that
Germany should not assume other countries’ liabilities,” said
Raoul Ruparel, an analyst at think tank Open  Europe .  Paying the Bill  Lawmakers can’t establish permanent mechanisms that would
lead to Germany paying the bill for decisions made by other
countries, the judges said in the  ruling . EU treaties also ban
such mechanisms, according to the court.  Plaintiffs in the suit included law professor Karl
Schachtschneider, economists Joachim Starbatty, Wilhelm Hankel
and Wilhelm Noelling, former Thyssen AG Chief Executive Officer
Dieter Spethmann and Peter Gauweiler, a lawmaker from the
Bavarian sister party of Merkel’s Christian Democrats.  “The court bears the historic responsibility for the
destruction of the euro -- and even more so: for the destruction
of the EU,” said Schachtschneider. “The ruling is a blow,
especially for the poor in Germany, as the court declines to
protect the value of our money, which will hit the poor most.”  The plaintiffs argued German participation in the rescue
packages undermines parliament’s power and violates the right to
democratic representation as well as the protection of property.  If constitutional limits on rescue approvals are exceeded
in the future, Germans can sue again, the judges said. The
plaintiffs have unsuccessfully turned to the court before in an
attempt to block German participation in EU treaties, including
the introduction of the common currency.  There are still dozens of cases pending against the rescue
packages at the court. The judges will use today’s ruling as
guidance for handling the other suits.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 