-- 
MGIC, Radian Rally on New Policy Sales as Competitors Falter

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-09-07T20:55:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/mgic-leads-mortgage-insurer-rally-as-sales-climb-after-competitors-falter.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  and  Radian
Group Inc. (RDN) , the two largest U.S. mortgage insurers, rallied as
investors bet the firms will boost sales after rivals faltered.  MGIC rose 59 cents, or 26 percent, to $2.88 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Radian, based in
Philadelphia, climbed 15 percent to $3.49.  MGIC’s main unit wrote $1.3 billion in new policies in
August, an 8 percent increase from the prior month, the
Milwaukee-based insurer said today in a statement. Stronger
mortgage insurers may be benefiting as rivals including  PMI
Group Inc. (PMI)  and  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI)  were  forced  by
regulators to stop selling policies, Radian Chief Executive
Officer S.A. Ibrahim said today.  “While it’s unfortunate that two worthy competitors are
not writing business anymore, for those of us writing business
still, it means there’s more business to write,” Ibrahim said
today at a conference in New York held by KBW Inc.  PMI and Old Republic were forced to halt sales this year
after failing to meet regulators’ capital requirements. Radian
didn’t disclose policy sales today.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer
that backs mortgages through its United Guaranty unit, advanced
8.9 percent.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , which sells life insurance
and mortgage protection, jumped 8 percent. MGIC, Radian, New
York-based AIG and Genworth are all down by at least 45 percent
since Dec. 31 while PMI plunged more than 90 percent this year.  ‘Ample Opportunity’  “We will have ample opportunity” with some competitors
out of the market, Patrick Sinks, MGIC’s chief operating
officer, said at the KBW conference. “We will go after it
aggressively.”  MGIC’s Mortgage Guaranty Insurance subsidiary, which pays
lenders when homeowners default and foreclosure fails to recoup
costs, said the number of primary delinquent loans fell to
183,338 at the end of August from 185,093 a month earlier.
Overall delinquencies have dropped at Radian since June 30,
Ibrahim said an in interview today, without providing figures.  “We’ve peaked out on delinquencies,” Sinks said.  Contracts protecting against MGIC’s default for five years
fell 2.8 percentage points to 28.5 percent upfront as of 4 p.m.,
according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to 5 percent
a year, meaning it would cost $2.85 million initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of MGIC debt.  Contracts on Radian, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
eased 3.1 percentage points to 33.8 percent upfront, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  