-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Pay Plan Hurts Shareholders, Lawyer Contends

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-09-07T18:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/goldman-sachs-pay-plan-hurts-shareholders-lawyer-contends.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
compensation plan, which almost doubled top executive  Lloyd Blankfein ’s pay last year, unfairly rewards the investment
bank’s employees at shareholders’ expense, a lawyer for
investors said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has
lost $50 billion in market value since 1999 while the company
has paid out billions in compensation to the firm’s 31,000
employees, including Blankfein, its chairman and chief executive
officer,  John Harnes , an attorney for investors who have sued
over the pay plan, argued today.  Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , “is being run for the
benefit of employees rather than shareholders,” Harness told
Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III. The judge heard
arguments on whether shareholders’ suits seeking to recoup
executive compensation should be thrown out and said he’d rule
later.  The firm, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007, was
pilloried by politicians and labor unions for its compensation
practices after getting taxpayer aid during the financial
crisis. In July, Goldman Sachs officials set aside $8.44 billion
for the company’s compensation pool in the first six months of
this year, according to its website. That was 9 percent less
than in the same period in 2010 as revenue tumbled 11 percent.  $19 Million Compensation  Blankfein’s $19 million compensation for 2010, which
included a $5.4 million cash bonus, was almost double the prior
year’s award even as Goldman Sach’s profits fell. Blankfein and
other firm executives agreed to forgo cash bonuses in 2009 and
take restricted stock grants as compensation to mute criticism
of the firm’s pay practices.  Lawyers for the  Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority , a Goldman Sachs shareholder, argue the firm’s
lucrative compensation system is wasteful and rewards employees
for taking risks that hurt the firm’s stock price.  Harness noted Goldman officials received billions in pay
and bonuses last year while the firm settled claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that executives misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime
mortgages.  The firm agreed to pay $550 million, the largest penalty
ever levied by the SEC against a Wall Street firm, to resolve
regulators’ claims that marketing materials about the
investments had “incomplete information.”  CDOs in 2007  Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDOs in 2007, as the
U.S. housing market faltered, without disclosing a hedge fund
helped pick the underlying securities and then bet against the
investment vehicles, the SEC said in the suit Goldman settled.
The bank didn’t admit wrongdoing as part of the accord.  Such “wrongful conduct has cost shareholders billions to
date and is likely to cost billions more,” Harnes argued on
behalf of Septa. Philadelphia-based Septa is the nation’s fifth-
largest public transportation system, according to its website.  Investors should be permitted to move forward with their
suit, which seeks to hold Goldman Sachs directors responsible
for the firm’s flawed pay plan and for not properly overseeing
the company’s employees, he added.  Any recovery as a result of Septa’s so-called derivative
suit will be returned to the company’s coffers rather than given
to the transportation authority.  Risk-Taking  Gregory Varallo, Goldman Sachs’s lawyer, countered
investors haven’t provided any evidence that directors engaged
in wrongdoing by creating the pay plan or encouraged excessive
risk-taking by the firm’s traders and bankers.  Shareholder court filings seek to paint the investment bank
as some kind of “vast criminal enterprise,” Varallo told
Glasscock. Yet, investors can’t point to one illegal act
committed by a Goldman Sachs director or employee, he said.  The investors want the judge to decide “how much risk” an
investment bank should take and “how much is too much”
compensation for taking those risks on behalf of shareholders,
Varallo added.  “We don’t believe that’s a judge’s job,” the lawyer
added. Delaware Chancery Court judges decide cases without a
jury.  The case is In re the  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Shareholder
Litigation, 5215, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  