-- 
Google EngiNERD Cuts Stress by Bouncing Tennis Balls to Federer

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/google-enginerd-cuts-stress-by-bouncing-tennis-balls-to-federer.html
Armando Atienza’s resume lists his
seven years at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and a stint at  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  It
also highlights his two-week summer job -- U.S. Open ballboy.  Atienza, 31, is in his ninth season on court at the year’s
final Grand Slam tournament, one of 254 ballboys and ballgirls
picked from about 500 candidates. His resume, which says he’s an
“engiNERD” at Google, describes the part-time work: “Catch
tennis balls and throw them back as fast as possible.”  The New Jersey native started working as a ballboy at the
tournament while in high school at St. Peter’s Prep in Jersey
City, and continued even after moving to  San Francisco  to work
for Google, the biggest Internet search company.  “I have a very stressful job, and I ended up having the
Google doctor telling me I need to exercise more and de-
stress,” Atienza said in a telephone interview. “I can’t think
of a better way of ending the summer than watching really good
tennis matches.”  Atienza has worked on court in matches involving champions
from  Pete Sampras  to  Roger Federer . He brings towels to players,
holds umbrellas for them during changeovers and sometimes even
has to provide on-court extermination services.  During a third-round match this past weekend between 24-
year-old Briton  Andy Murray  and 29-year-old Spaniard  Feliciano Lopez , a moth briefly held up play when it landed near the
baseline on Murray’s side of the court. Murray was unable to
flick the insect away with his racket, and a ballboy failed to
grab the intruder by hand.  Atienza, who was working along the net, grabbed a towel,
ran over and scooped up the moth, allowing play to resume.  Site Reliability Engineer  A site reliability engineer at Google, based in  Mountain
View ,  California , Atienza bridges the gap between software
engineering and system administration -- helping to overcome
problems that occur in the company’s systems.  “My group, we fix things that break down in unpredictable
ways,” he said. “The thing that makes the group interesting is
that people have these crazy analytical skills that seem to get
better under pressure. It has helped me tremendously as a
ballperson. It’s easy to program as a ballperson. You throw
something random that happens, and none of the ballboys know
what to do.”  Atienza graduated with an electrical engineering degree in
2002 from  The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and
Art in New York , and worked as an intern at  Bankers Trust . He
was an analyst in Deutsche Bank’s graduate training program from
2002-04, including a stint in London learning about currency
swaps and other financial transactions.  He moved to California in June 2004 to take the engineering
job for Google, and comes back to the Open when he can --staying
with his family in  Jersey City  and commuting to  New York ’s
National Tennis Center.  Our Next Armandos  Tina Taps, director of ballboys and ballgirls at the U.S.
Open, said Atienza’s experience makes him invaluable on the
court and as a mentor to younger colleagues.  “Armando is a great athlete,” Taps said in an interview
at the Open. “He’s lean, he’s fast, he has great awareness, he
has good hands. We want the rookies we select to be our next
Armandos.”  Atienza, who has worked two men’s finals at the U.S. Open,
said some players -- such as 30-year-old Federer of  Switzerland 
and 31-year-old American  James Blake  -- are especially nice to
ballpersons. Not all are as pleasant.  “Other players require more attention, and then there are
players who are absolutely disastrous to work with and
inconsiderate,” he said. “There are players who take their
towel, look right at you, and then drop it on the ground.”  Not About Money  Atienza said he earns about $8.25 an hour as a ballboy and
Amanda Korba, a U.S. Tennis Association spokeswoman, said the
starting pay for the job is 50 cents less. Atienza declined to
disclose his salary at Google, and Jordan Newman, a Google
spokesman, said in an e-mail that the company doesn’t disclose
compensation.  It’s not about money for Atienza, who said working as a
ballboy allows him to feel like a teenager again.  “I don’t take jobs to necessarily get paid a certain
amount of money, I do them because they’re fun,” he said.
“When I’m here I don’t think of anything else, I think of a
time when life was easier. It’s so refreshing to come back and
feel like you’re in high school again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at the  U.S. Open  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  