-- 
Greek, Spanish Lenders Slide in Confidence Ranking, WEF Says

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-07T13:01:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/greek-spanish-lenders-slide-in-confidence-ranking-wef-says.html
Business confidence in Greek and
Spanish banks declined as both countries face unresolved debt
problems, according to the  World Economic Forum .  Executives in Greece and  Spain  said the soundness of their
financial institutions has deteriorated, with the former falling
36 places to 106th and the latter dropping 30 positions to 73rd
in an annual world ranking compiled by the Geneva-based forum.  “It’s not surprising that business leaders in some
European countries have developed a more negative outlook with
regard to the stability of their banks,” said Jennifer Blanke,
the forum’s lead economist. “They are likely thinking about
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crises, as well as more general concerns
about the functioning of financial markets.”  Banking shares in Europe plunged on Sept. 6 to their lowest
level since March 2009 as concerns about the creditworthiness of
 Greece , Spain and Italy roil financial markets. Those fears have
increased since the forum’s survey of more than 14,000
executives in 142 countries was completed in the spring.  The executives, which only comment on the health of banks
in their own countries, still ranked Greece above the U.K.,
which rose 22 places to 111th. The U.S. rebounded for the first
time since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
climbing 21 places to 90th.  “Confidence in U.S. financial institutions is still not
where it was before the crisis, but it’s picking up,” said
Blanke.  Canada was perceived to have the healthiest banks for a
second straight year, followed by  South Africa  and  Panama . Irish
lenders held onto the bottom spot in the ranking, below Iceland
and Ukraine.  The poll contributed to the World Economic Forum’s
competitiveness report, published earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  