-- 
Gulf Gasoline Climbs on Speculation of Delayed Oil Deliveries

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-09-07T19:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/gulf-gasoline-climbs-on-speculation-of-delayed-oil-deliveries.html
Gulf Coast  gasoline’s premium to
futures widened for the first time in four days on speculation
that Tropical Storm Lee delayed crude oil deliveries and slowed
refinery production.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast rose 0.5 cent to 1 cent a gallon above futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:47 p.m., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery rose 7.99 cents to
$2.9075 a gallon.  “There was a slowdown in refineries as Tropical Storm Lee
passed through the Louisiana coast and there were some delays in
crude oil deliveries,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston, said in a telephone interview.
“Refineries had to cut production a little bit.”  Almost 37 percent of oil production from the  Gulf of Mexico 
is still shut after Lee passed through the area, according to
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement.  The National Hurricane Center is tracking a new area of low
pressure in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico that has a 70
percent chance of becoming a tropical depression today or
tomorrow.  “It looks like it might just end up going into Mexico, so
we’re not expecting any impact along the northern Texas Gulf
Coast,” Lipow said.  Texas Refinery  Total SA (FP) , Europe’s biggest refiner, was restoring
operations at the 240,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur refinery in
Texas after an operational upset in the sulfur recovery unit,
Jennifer Walsh, a refinery spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Chicago  strengthened
0.75 cent to a premium of 11.75 cents over futures after falling
8 cents yesterday.  “Seems like Chicago just can’t get a break,” Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “All year it’s been hit with these
spikes.”  The premium for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
 Los Angeles  weakened for the third day, narrowing 8.12 cents to
17.88 cents above futures, on speculation that refiners
switching to winter-blend fuel will boost supply in the market.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Midwest, or Group 3, fell a second day, dropping 2.75 cents to
13.38 cents a gallon versus futures. The premium for the same
fuel in New York Harbor York weakened 0.13 cent to 8.25 cents
above futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  