-- 
Libya’s New Leaders Plan to Review $150 Billion in International Contracts

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/libya-council-to-review-150-billion-of-contracts-with-international-firms.html
Libya’s new leaders will be re-
evaluating about $150 billion in contracts with international
companies that were under way when the conflict that led to
Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster began, according to a U.S. official.  Ambassador to Libya Gene Cretz said that, while the
National Transitional Council has said that it intends to honor
many of the contracts, especially those with  oil companies , the
group “will have to go back, review them, see which ones are
operative, see which ones have to be redone, see which ones have
to be discarded completely.”  Cretz spoke yesterday at the  National Press Club  in
Washington on challenges facing Libyans as they begin the work
of remaking their country.  Before the conflict began, the business environment was
“booming,” the ambassador said. “They needed everything from
A to Z, from roads to airports, which tells you, in a sense, the
deprivation under which this country suffered even with all this
oil wealth.”  Those needs will now be compounded by the damage wrought by
months of fighting and the bombing campaign by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Cretz said he expects the international community will move
quickly now to lift UN restrictions on businesses in  Libya . “I
think that you’ll see actions at the UN over the next several
days,” he said.  Lifting Restrictions  “We hope that will result in the lifting of the various
sanctions and will kind of take off the restrictions on an
international level,” he said, referring to other countries
wanting to get back into Libya. “It’s not just us.”  The chairman of Libya’s National Oil Company, Nuri
Berruien, said in a Sept. 5 interview with the Financial Times
that Libya will respect oil contracts entered into under the
Qaddafi regime.  Still, the range of existing contracts “will have to be
rationalized at one point or another,” Cretz said. “Some of
them may be good, some of them may be continued, some of them
may be ridiculous. There’s been a lot of incompetence,
certainly, and there’s been a lot of corruption.”  Several countries are already angling to protect their
companies’ interests.  Italy’s Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said yesterday
that the NTC has guaranteed existing contracts with Italian
companies. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman said on Sept. 6
that Beijing hopes Libya’s new government will honor their
existing contracts and protect their interests.  TNC leaders said that day that relations with  China  would
suffer if reports were confirmed that Chinese state companies
offered to sell Qaddafi $200 million worth of arms during the
rebellion.  Russian’s Foreign Ministry also expressed hopes on Sept. 1
that the NTC would honor previously signed contracts.  Both China and  Russia  attended the first Friends of Libya
group meeting in Paris on Sept. 1, where members discussed how
best to help the new leaders get Libya running again.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  