-- 
Libyan Fighters Move to Tighten Noose Around Qaddafi-Loyalist Strongholds

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-09-08T09:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/libya-fighters-occupy-town-close-to-qaddafi-loyalist-stronghold-of-sirte.html
Forces from the Libyan  National
Transitional Council  claimed control of a town near Muammar Qaddafi’s birthplace of Sirte even as the elusive leader taunted
them in an audio recording and said he was still in the country.  The fighters moved into Waddan, 225 kilometers (140 miles)
south of Sirte, a member of the NTC forces, Farouk Ben Hamida,
said in an interview yesterday. The area around Waddan has been
the focus of bombing by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
which said 20 targets have been destroyed around the nearby town
of Hun since Sept. 2.  Since Qaddafi’s opponents took control of Tripoli, the
capital, last month, the transitional authorities have been
trying to restore stability and make plans to build a
functioning government. They’ve been unable to proclaim a full
victory because of their inability to find Qaddafi and enter the
few remaining towns that are home to some still loyal to him.  “NATO will be defeated because its financial resources are
not sufficient to continue bombing  Libya ,” Qaddafi said in an
audio recording from  Syria ’s Arrai television that was
rebroadcast by  Al Arabiya .  More than six months of fighting to end Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule have reduced oil output and disrupted power supplies in the
country with  Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Libya’s new leaders will be reevaluating about $150 billion
in contracts with international companies that were under way
when the conflict began, according to U.S. Ambassador to Libya
Gene Cretz.  Scrutinizing Contracts  The NTC has said that, while it intends to honor many of
the contracts, it “will have to go back, review them, see which
ones are operative, see which ones have to be redone, see which
ones have to be discarded completely,” Cretz said in remarks at
the  National Press Club  in  Washington .  The NTC is in talks with tribal elders for their forces to
peacefully enter Sirte and the loyalist-held town of Sabha, the
site of a major military base south of the capital. Negotiations
with elders in Bani Walid for NTC fighters to take control in
the loyalist-held town have stalled.  “There is no idea until this time when we might enter the
town,” Ben Hamida said of Bani Walid. “Nobody knows exactly
what is going to happen.” The fighters have said in recent days
that a core of loyalist militiamen hold the town center.  Law and Order  Abdallah Kanshil, head of the NTC negotiating team involved
in talks with Bani Walid’s elders for a peaceful handover, told
them Sept. 6 that the NTC forces will respect law and order and
won’t seek revenge for acts carried out under Qaddafi’s rule.  The town is the stronghold of the Warfalla, one of Libya’s
major tribes.  Qaddafi’s son Saif Al-Islam has been seen in Bani Walid and
is hiding in a cave in the area, “stepping out every now and
then in the company of his bodyguards and regime supporters,”
Kanshil told Al Jazeera television.  Thousands of anti-Qaddafi fighters advanced on Sept. 5 to
positions within 15 kilometers of Bani Walid, ready to enter
with force if the talks broke down.  In his audio message, Qaddafi urged loyalists to keep
fighting and denied that he had fled to  Niger  or  Venezuela .  Ex-Officials in Niger  Niger has detained “senior members” of Qaddafi’s
government who fled to the neighboring country in vehicles Sept.
5, and is monitoring them, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. Qaddafi wasn’t in the convoy, Niger’s
interior minister said.  A group of senior loyalists, including former intelligence
chief Mansour Daw, was welcomed into neighboring Niger for
“humanitarian reasons,” Niger’s interior minister, Abdou Labo,
said Sept. 6.  In an interview yesterday with the  BBC , Niger’s Foreign
Minister Mohamed Bazoum said Niger has “no means to close the
border” with Libya because it’s “too big.”  Nuland said the U.S. has urged Niger to confiscate any
weapons or wealth that might belong to the Libyan people. The
U.S. has also contacted other African countries, including Mali,
Mauritania and Burkina Faso, to urge them to secure their
borders and detain any fleeing Qaddafi officials, Nuland said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata, Libya, at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 