-- 
Time Warner, Daimler Plan Bond Sales as U.S. Issuance Revives

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-07T14:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/time-warner-daimler-plan-bond-sales-as-u-s-issuance-revives.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable-television operator, and a unit of German
luxury car maker  Daimler AG (DAI)  are among companies marketing at
least $4.8 billion of U.S. bond offerings as issuance revives.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and ketchup-maker H.J. Heinz Co. are
also planning bond sales as soon as today, according to people
with knowledge of the transactions, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. Combined with yesterday’s
sales of $2.9 billion, issuance is set to surpass the $4 billion
of offerings last week, which was the least this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies are resuming bond sales after the slowest month
of offerings since May 2010, lured by borrowing costs at about
record lows and investor demand for high-grade corporate debt.
Investment-grade issuance in the U.S. may reach $80 billion this
month, according to Bank of America Corp. strategists, as
investors seek less risky assets.  “There is a heightened demand for stronger credits,” said
 Rajeev Sharma , a  money manager  in  New York  at First Investors
Management Co., where he helps oversee $1.5 billion of
investment-grade debt. “With rates where they are, anyone that
wants to come to market that hasn’t is definitely taking
advantage of that.”  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds were 3.65
percent yesterday after touching a record-low of 3.45 percent on
Aug. 4, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S.
Corporate Master index, which has data going back to October
1986.  Benchmark Sales  Time Warner, the New York-based cable operator that ranks
second to Comcast Corp., may issue 10- and 30-year notes in
benchmark size as soon as today; Daimler Finance North America,
a unit of Stuttgart-based Daimler, also plans a benchmark sale
of two-year floating-rate notes, and 3-, 5- and 10-year fixed-
rate debt, according to people with knowledge of the
transactions. Benchmark typically means at least $500 million.  Toronto-Dominion, the second-biggest Canadian lender after
Royal Bank of Canada, plans to issue 3- and 5-year covered bonds
in benchmark size, while Pittsburgh-based Heinz may sell $500
million of 5- and 10-year notes in its first offering since
2009, said people with knowledge of those transactions.  “You’re going to see investors gravitate to more safe-
haven type names,” Sharma said.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the biggest oil services company, Xcel
Energy Inc. and Wisconsin Electric Power Co., are also planning
bond offerings, Bloomberg data show.  Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s biggest dialysis
services provider, is planning a sale of high-yield debt in
euros and dollars to fund acquisitions and refinance debt, the
 Bad Homburg , Germany-based company said in a statement today.  The offering comes after a dearth of speculative-grade bond
issuance in August, with sales of $967 million representing the
slowest since December 2008, as economists slashed growth
forecasts and unemployment holds above 9 percent.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  