-- 
Times Journalist Arrested in Hacking Case

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T09:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/times-journalist-arrested-in-hacking-case.html
London  police probing phone hacking
at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid arrested a journalist
who has worked at the Times and Evening Standard in London, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The reporter is Raoul Simons, a sports editor for News
Corp.’s  Times newspaper , who was put on leave last year,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak about the case. Simons was
suspended after an audio recording emerged in which the private
investigator at the center of the scandal told him how to hack
into mobile-phone voice mails, the person said.  Simons, who joined the Times in August 2009 from the London
 Evening Standard , is the 16th person arrested since the
 Metropolitan Police  began a new probe of hacking at the World in
January. The  Guardian  newspaper separately said its reporter,
Amelia Hill, who has written extensively about  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
phone hacking, was questioned recently by police investigating
leaks inside the force.  “Journalists would no doubt be concerned if the police
sought to criminalize conversations between off-record sources
and reporters,” the Guardian said in an e-mailed statement.  The police, who didn’t confirm the identity of the arrested
35-year-old man, said yesterday he was detained on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept voice-mail messages. He was later
released on bail.  Simons was deputy football editor at the Times when he was
suspended last year, the person said. Simons is still employed
by the newspaper and is on extended leave pending a review of
his conduct, the person said.  Billionaire Owner  Oliver Lloyd, a spokesman for the  Daily Mail  and General
Trust Plc, which owned the Evening Standard when Simons worked
there, declined to comment.  Andrew Mullins, the managing director of the Evening
Standard, declined to comment. The paper is now majority-owned
by Russian billionaire  Alexander Lebedev .  News International spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  declined to
comment. The  BBC  previously reported Simons’s arrest.  Simons is heard in a recording being instructed by private
detective  Glenn Mulcaire  about how to hack into a mobile phone,
the person said. Mulcaire was paid by the News of the World to
hack into celebrities’ voice mails and was jailed in 2007 after
pleading guilty to the violations.  The police investigation, and revelations by the Guardian
that the News of the World hacked the voice mail of a murdered
school girl, led to News Corp.’s decision to close the tabloid
and scrap a planned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) 
Authorities are also probing whether police officers were paid
for news and whether journalists hacked computers for stories.  Cleared Reporter  Simons is the second journalist arrested in the probe who
never worked at News of the World. Police said in July that it
found no wrongdoing by a reporter at the U.K. Press Association
arrested the month before.  A London police detective investigating the hacking was
arrested last month over claims he leaked information about the
case to the media. U.K. newspapers have on several occasions
published details of phone-hacking arrests before public
announcements were made.  Four former executives at News Corp.’s U.K. unit testified
before Parliament this week, including two men who challenged
testimony given to lawmakers in July by  James Murdoch , the
company’s deputy chief operating officer, about details
surrounding his knowledge of the scandal.  Other arrests include former News of the World editors
Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson  and former managing editor
Stuart Kuttner. The only reporter jailed for working with
Mulcaire is the tabloid’s former royal affairs reporter,  Clive Goodman , who pleaded guilty to hacking charges in November 2006.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg  News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  