-- 
IMF to Cut Irish Growth Forecasts as Outlook Worsens for Trading Partners

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/imf-to-cut-irish-growth-forecasts-as-outlook-worsens-for-trading-partners.html
The  International Monetary Fund  will
cut its Irish economic growth estimate for this year and next as
the outlook for its main trading partners, the euro region, U.S.
and U.K. “worsened substantially.”  The Washington-based fund will lower its 2011 gross
domestic product forecast for the country to 0.4 percent and
2012 projection to 1.5 percent as part of its world economic
outlook this month, it said in a report today. The IMF had been
forecasting growth of 0.6 percent and 1.9 percent, respectively.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in an interview
yesterday that the global economy had begun to move against the
nation, after spurring growth in the first half of the year. The
country’s trade surplus widened to a record in June, driven by
exports of dairy, medical and pharmaceutical products.  “Exports have been strong, although recent declines in new
export orders could indicate softer export growth ahead,” the
IMF, which is contributing 22.5 billion euros ($31.6 billion) to
Ireland’s bailout, said.  The impact of slowing growth on Ireland’s debt outlook is
“modest” and is expected to be offset by an agreement in July
to cut the  interest rate  on the European part of its bailout,
the IMF said. Ireland is on target to reach the fund’s deficit
target of 10.5 percent in 2011, the IMF said.  Since the end of June, Irish securities with a duration of
more than 1 year have returned 21 percent, the highest among the
26 government debt markets tracked in indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  Ireland was forced to seek a rescue from the European Union
and the IMF in November as a banking crisis overwhelmed the
government. The state hasn’t sold a benchmark bond since August
2010.  The IMF said “market financing is assumed to increase
modestly in 2012 and to expand in 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible f
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  