-- 
Indian Blast Kills 11 Near New Delhi High Court in Worst Attack Since 2008

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 
2011-09-07T16:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/indian-blast-kills-nine-injures-at-least-45-near-new-delhi-s-high-court.html
A bomb that may have been hidden in
a briefcase killed at least 11 people and injured 47 outside New
Delhi’s  High Court , the worst attack in India’s capital in three
years.  Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told parliament it
was too early to identify those who carried out the bombing.
Intelligence agencies had warned  Delhi police  in July of a risk
of a terrorist attack “emanating from certain groups,” he
said. Authorities have received a claim of responsibility from
the Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami militant group, the  Press Trust of
India  reported.  “I appeal to the house and the people of the country that
we must remain resolute and united,” Chidambaram told
lawmakers. “We should never be intimidated by terrorist groups,
we are determined to track down the perpetrators of this
horrific crime and bring them to justice.”  Today’s attack was the worst in  India  since July, when 25
people were killed in the financial capital of Mumbai as three
bombs ripped through the city during the evening rush hour. At
the location of the blast in Delhi today, ambulances evacuated
the wounded and the area was sealed off by armed police.  “It was a devastating scene,” said Mayank Misra, 27, a
lawyer at the court. “I saw bodies, people with broken arms and
legs and flesh on the floor.”  The U.S. condemned the bombing “in the strongest terms”
and extended its deepest condolences, State Department spokesman
 Victoria Nuland  said in a statement. The U.S. “continues to
monitor the situation, including the safety and security of our
citizens, and stands ready to offer any and all assistance.”  High Alert  The Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami,  or HuJI , is an Islamic
militant group originally from  Pakistan  that Indian officials
say used  Bangladesh  as a base for attacks in India, notably in
2007 and 2008, according to the New Delhi-based Institute for
Conflict Management. The Indian and U.S. governments have
declared it a terrorist organization.  Delhi was put on high alert as Chidambaram said
investigations had begun into who planted the high-intensity
bomb that was most likely concealed in a briefcase. A small
device detonated in the court’s car park in May, with no
injuries. Police said at the time the blast was deliberate,
although no suspects were arrested and no motive for the attack
was given.  “This is a cowardly act of a terrorist nature,” Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in televised comments from
Bangladesh, where he is on a two-day visit. “This is a long war
in which all political parties, all the people of India stand
united so the scourge of terrorism is crushed.”  Security Failures  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index had advanced 1.2
percent by the 3:30 p.m. close as overseas investors bought
shares amid speculation the central bank may halt its record
series of interest-rate increases.  Shyam Sharma, a 45-year-old lawyer at the Delhi court,
criticized Delhi’s police for failing to impose tougher security
following the earlier incident. He said the police had failed to
carry out checks on people coming into the court as they lined
up for entry passes at the main gate.  “This is a lapse of Delhi Police security,” Sharma said
in an interview outside the court as paramedics collected the
injured. “It could happen again tomorrow.”  Arun Jaitley, a leader of the opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party , urged parties to unite to fight terrorism as he expressed
concern over India’s inability to prevent bomb attacks. “Have
we become so vulnerable that terrorist groups can almost strike
at will?” he said in the upper house of parliament.  Indian Mujahideen  The explosion at about 10:15 a.m. is the deadliest in New
Delhi since five bombs struck the city in September 2008,
killing 26 people and injuring 133. Indian Mujahideen, a group
believed to recruit members within India, said it was behind the
blasts.  Indian Mujahideen  is an Islamic militant group that emerged
in 2008 to also claim responsibility for bomb attacks in the
cities of Jaipur and Ahmedabad. While the group may get support
from Pakistan, it is an Indian network comprising men who may
have been radicalized by anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat state in
2002, according to a government-backed think-tank in  New Delhi ,
the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses.  July’s bombings in Mumbai were the worst terrorist attack
in the country since 10 gunmen laid siege to the city over three
days in November 2008, killing 166 people. India blamed the
Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group for the earlier
raid and broke off ties with its neighbor. Peace talks resumed
earlier this year.  In June, federal investigators charged five Hindu activists
for their involvement in the 2007 bombing of a Pakistan-bound
train service that killed 68 people, an attack previously blamed
on Muslim extremists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  