-- 
India’s 10-Year Bonds Decline a Second Day on Inflation Concern

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-07T11:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/india-s-10-year-bonds-decline-a-second-day-on-inflation-concern.html
India ’s 10-year bonds dropped for a
second day on speculation the central bank will boost borrowing
costs next week for a sixth time this year to slow increases in
food prices.  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including rice and wheat rose 10.05 percent in the week ended
Aug. 20 from a year earlier, the fastest pace in four months, a
government report showed on Sept. 1. India’s relatively fast
economic growth may encourage the  Reserve Bank  of India to lift
its repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 8.25 percent at a
meeting on Sept. 16, said J. Moses Harding, an executive vice
president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB)   “Inflation concerns persist and growth is also robust,”
Mumbai-based Harding said. “Domestic factors are still bearish
for bonds although some expect the central bank to temper its
hawkish language due to global headwinds.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.31 percent as of the
5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate has increased 39 basis points this year, the
most after  Vietnam  among  Asia ’s local-currency debt markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility in global commodity prices continues to be a
“threat to price stability” in India, Deepak Mohanty, an
 executive director  at the RBI, said last week. Asia’s third-
largest economy grew 7.7 percent in the three months ended June
30, beating economists’ forecast for a 7.6 percent increase in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The government is committed to moderating inflation rate,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said today.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
was little changed at 7.63 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  