-- 
Indonesia May Tax Shipments of Raw Minerals, Minister Says

-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-09-07T09:47:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/indonesia-may-tax-exports-of-mineral-ores-minister-hidayat-says.html
Indonesia  is considering imposing a
tax on exports of mineral ores and concentrates such as nickel,
copper and iron ore before their shipment in non-processed form
is banned in 2014, Industry Minister Mohamad Hidayat said.  A tax would encourage domestic processing of the metals,
Hidayat said in Jakarta today. The government is discussing the
plan with local administrations, he said, without saying when a
tax may be imposed.  “At first the rates won’t be high,” Hidayat told
reporters. “Towards 2014, we will tighten the verification
process of any ore exports, imposing higher duties to prevent
large-scale” shipments, he said. The country will also set up a
so-called domestic market obligation to secure supplies for the
nation’s needs, he said.  Indonesia, the largest exporter of thermal-coal and tin, in
2009 issued a mining law aimed at controlling mining output and
sales as well as limiting environmental damage in  Southeast
Asia ’s biggest economy. The tax and export-ban policies are
expected to lure investors to build smelting and processing
plants in Indonesia, Hidayat said.  Under government plans, coal with a heating value of less
than 5,700 kilocalories a kilogram would need to be upgraded or
blended with a higher-grade variety.  For copper, only about 30 percent of concentrate output of
2.8 million metric tons a year is processed domestically,
Hidayat said. Indonesia sells all the 15 million tons of bauxite
a year it produces a year overseas, daunting investors
interested in building alumina plants in the country, he said.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine in
Papua province and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’ Batu Hijau mine in West
Nusa Tenggara are the biggest and second-largest producers of
copper in Indonesia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 