-- 
IRS Amnesty Leaves Some Offshore Deadbeats Taking Their Chances

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/irs-amnesty-leaves-some-offshore-deadbeats-taking-their-chances.html
An Internal Revenue Service deadline
for U.S. taxpayers holding undisclosed offshore bank accounts to
qualify for reduced penalties has kept tax lawyers surprisingly
busy in recent weeks.  The IRS  offshore voluntary disclosure initiative  is the
second and likely last chance for thousands of U.S. taxpayers
with hidden offshore holdings to qualify for a partial amnesty
on penalties and back taxes. The deadline is Sept. 9.  “People are still coming in this morning,”  Mark Matthews ,
a Washington-based partner in Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, told
Bloomberg Government in a telephone interview yesterday. “I
wasn’t expecting it.”  Unlike in the earlier disclosure program, which ended Oct.
15, 2009, crowded  law firm  waiting rooms don’t necessarily mean
clients are taking advantage of this partial amnesty. The
current program is less generous and that’s causing some tax
filers, particularly those with smaller offshore accounts, to
take their chances with the IRS, some lawyers said.  “I have substantially fewer clients signing up and a much
higher percentage of people who come to talk to me about this
and decide not to participate,” Matthews, a former IRS deputy
commissioner, said in a telephone interview.  It’s been a similar story at  Caplin & Drysdale  where
several lawyers and support staff labored through the weekend of
Aug. 27-28 as the remnants of  Hurricane Irene  lashed the
Washington area, according to  Scott Michel , the firm’s
president.  Fewer Disclosures  Between 350 and 400 clients made disclosures in the first
program and only one third as many have come forward so far in
this initiative, Michel said in a telephone interview.  Matthews estimated a similar proportional drop-off at his
firm.  The scramble to decide whether to disclose offshore assets
comes as U.S. and Swiss authorities continue negotiations on a
deal for more information from Swiss banks.  The first iteration of a special disclosure program began
in March 2009 as part of an effort to crack down on offshore  tax
evasion  promoted by UBS AG, the largest bank in  Switzerland . By
the time it ended, about  15,000 filers  had come forward with
accounts from 60 countries.  The IRS hasn’t said how much revenue the first program
generated. The current initiative “may represent the best
possible deal for many taxpayers seeking to get right with the
U.S. tax system,” IRS spokesman Dean Patterson said. “They can
avoid potential criminal charges and pay less in penalties than
they otherwise would.”  ‘Most Significant’ Program  IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman in February said the first
2,000 cases settled from the 2009 initiative yielded about $400
million. At least 3,000 offshore account holders came forward
after the end of the first program and became part of the new
initiative when it was announced on Feb. 8.  Regardless of how many people sign up by the Sept. 9
deadline, the two amnesty initiatives will be “the most
significant voluntary disclosure program in the history of the
 United States ,” Caplin & Drysdale’s Michel said. It’s unlikely
the IRS will offer another program because that would undermine
the agency’s credibility, he said.  “When they say, ‘Now we really mean it,’ it’ll be like the
boy who cried ‘wolf,’” Michel said.  It is legal for U.S. citizens to have offshore holdings,
and many do as a consequence of owning a home or being employed
overseas. Taxpayers must disclose offshore accounts that exceed
$10,000, and they are subject to U.S. tax.  Potential Clients  Unlike other tax practitioners, William Sharp, a partner
with Sharp Kemm P.A. in Tampa,  Florida , hasn’t seen potential
clients waffling at the prospect of making a disclosure. Sharp
thinks that is because his nine-lawyer firm has a Zurich office
and attracts a clientele that is motivated enough to travel to
Switzerland to consult with bankers before coming to his office.  Sharp said a significant number of his clients are opting
out of the disclosure process because it doesn’t allow for
reduced penalties if the taxpayer contends he didn’t willfully
avoid disclosure.  “’I inherited money from my Aunt Mathilde in  Austria  and I
didn’t find out about it until two years ago.’ That’s the kind
of fact pattern we’re looking for in the opt-out,” Sharp said
in a phone interview.  Such taxpayers enter the program to obtain a letter
granting them conditional clearance from criminal prosecution.
While not ironclad, “it is somewhat comforting to have that in
the file,” Sharp said.  Full IRS Examination  Clients then can pursue a full IRS examination and an
appeals process that can lead to  U.S. Tax Court .  IRS spokesman Patterson said that opting out of the
initiative after coming forward is an alternative, “but it does
not provide any of the certitude that comes with the OVDI
process.”  Some lawyers said they noticed a different demographic mix
considering the second amnesty initiative.  “The first program was very Eurocentric,” Larry Horn, a
lawyer with Sills, Cummis & Gross P.C. in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
said in a telephone interview. “The taxpayers were mostly of
European origin, with maybe about 10 percent Asians mixed in.”  In the current amnesty, Horn said his clientele is “90 to
95 percent Indian Americans,” spurred by a U.S. government
filing in April against London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  seeking
information about U.S. citizens or residents who may have held
accounts in  India  to hide assets from the IRS.  This time, Horn said undisclosed sums are smaller than in
the 2009 initiative.  “In the old program, there were numerous clients with
holdings in excess of $10 million in Swiss banks,” he said.
“We’re not seeing that in this program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  