-- 
Israel 2020 Bond Yield Rises Most in 2 Weeks on Turkey

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-09-07T13:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/israel-2020-bond-yield-rises-most-in-2-weeks-on-turkey-correct-.html
(Corrects period of Israel- Turkey  trade figure in sixth
paragraph of story originally published Sept. 6)  Israel ’s benchmark government bonds
fell, pushing the yield up the most in more than two weeks, amid
heightened risk perception for holding local assets as tensions
with Turkey escalated.  The yields on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit due
January 2020 and 5.5 percent bond due in January 2022 rose nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage points, to 4.5 percent and 4.7
percent, respectively, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The
shekel fell 1 percent to 3.6735 per dollar at 5:44 p.m., after
earlier weakening to 3.6813, the lowest level since Feb. 14. The
currency was the worst performer among the 10 most-active
Europe,  Middle East  and Africa currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Turkey suspended military relations last week and expelled
Israel’s ambassador over Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
refusal to apologize for the deaths of activists on a ship that
sought to break an embargo last year and take aid supplies to
the  Gaza Strip . Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said
today his government will further constrict relations with
Israel and suggested he soon may visit the Gaza Strip.  “The perception of credit risk for Israeli assets is bound
to increase because of the deterioration of ties with Turkey
bringing more uncertainty to the geopolitical situation and the
economy,” said Shuki Arditi, a bond trader at Leader Capital
Markets Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Rising Risk  Credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring government
debt against non-payment for five years, have risen 5.5 basis
points since Sept. 1 when a United Nations report on the
flotilla was released, heightening tensions between the two
countries. The swaps were at 165.5 yesterday, according to
London prices from CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  warned yesterday
that a further breakdown of commercial ties with Turkey, the
country’s biggest trading partner in the region, could be costly
for the economy. Trade between the two countries grew to $1.36
billion in the first four months of 2011 from about $1 billion a
year earlier, according to figures posted on the Jerusalem-based
Central Bureau of Statistics’ website.  Slowing Growth  Local economic growth may ease in the second half, Fischer
said Aug. 30. Expansion slowed to an annualized 3.3 percent in
the second quarter from a revised 4.7 percent in the previous
three months. The central bank maintained its main lending rate
at 3.25 percent for a third month on Aug. 29 as inflation eased
and amid concern geopolitical risk, slowing U.S. growth and the
sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe  may hurt the economy.  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, increased for the first
time in eight days, climbing 11 basis points to 2.88 percent.
The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects market expectations
for inflation over the time period, slid two basis points to 209
implying an average annual inflation rate of 2.09 percent. The
yield on the CPI-linked bond due in June 2013 increased 11 basis
points to 0.97 percent.  The Tel-Bond 40 Index of corporate bonds fell 0.8 percent
to the lowest since Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Sharon Wrobel} in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  