-- 
Italy May Need New Budget Package Next Month, Baldassarri Says

-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-07T13:46:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/italy-may-need-new-budget-package-next-month-baldassarri-says.html
Italy  may need a new budget-
adjustment plan next month because a 54 billion-euro ($76
billion) austerity package to be voted on today won’t convince
the  European Central Bank  to continue buying the nation’s bonds,
the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee said.  “How long can the ECB continue to buy Italian Treasury
bonds?” Mario Baldassarri said in an interview in Rome today.
“We may need another adjustment in three, four weeks which will
be the real answer to the European Commission and to markets.”  A revised austerity plan passed by Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet last night faces a confidence vote in the
Senate at 8 p.m. The package includes an increase in value-added
tax by one percentage point to 21 percent, a 3 percent levy on
incomes over 300,000 euros and a higher  retirement age  for
women. It amends a plan passed by the government last month to
balance the budget in 2013, which was drafted to convince the
ECB to buy the country’s bonds amid a surge in bond yields.  To ensure ECB continued, Italy may have to pass another
package with more “spending cuts and not tax increases,
structural reforms in terms of liberalization, privatizations,
sales of public buildings and so on,” Baldassarri said.  The current plan relies excessively on projected proceeds
from the fight against  tax evasion , the lawmaker added.  “You cannot say ex-ante how much tax revenues will be, you
can say that only ex-post, in three or four years, whenever you
get evaders and you make them pay taxes,” he said.  Once the Senate passes the budget plan, the measure will
have to be approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the lower house
of Parliament. That vote could come as soon as this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  