-- 
J&J Vaginal Surgical Mesh Faces FDA Panel as Number of Lawsuits Increase

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-08T20:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/j-j-s-vaginal-mesh-to-be-weighed-by-fda-advisory-panel-as-lawsuits-climb.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and rival makers
of transvaginal meshes told Food and Drug Administration
advisers they agreed on the need for more safety studies of the
implants as well as labeling changes to warn of potential risks.  Manufacturers including J&J and  Endo Pharmaceuticals
Holdings Inc. (ENDP)  proposed that new versions of the devices require
clinical trials before they can be sold and existing implants be
tracked for safety. That stopped short of a recommendation from
FDA staff last month that the mesh be reclassified as high risk
and face even more regulatory controls.  Transvaginal mesh is “not the optimal solution for
everyone but it will be for some,” Piet Hinoul, a director of
medical affairs for J&J’s Ethicon unit, told the FDA panel at a
hearing in Gaithersburg, Maryland, today.  More than 75,000 women received vaginally implanted meshes
last year to buttress weak pelvic muscles that fail to support
internal organs. Patients claiming the meshes led to internal
injuries have filed almost 500 lawsuits against two of the
manufacturers,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J and C.R. Bard
Inc. of  Murray Hill , New Jersey.  The panel of outside advisers is meeting  today and tomorrow 
on whether mesh devices are safe and effective. If not,
companies may be required to provide more data to keep their
products on the market. Most were approved under an abbreviated
FDA process known as 510(k) that required manufacturers to show
only that they were similar to already cleared devices.  ‘Moderate-Risk’  The FDA can continue approving meshes as “moderate-risk”
devices while requiring additional safety studies or labeling
changes, said Ginger Glaser, a senior director for Endo
Pharmaceuticals, based in  Chadds Ford ,  Pennsylvania .
Reclassifying them as high-risk would put even greater burdens
on companies, including approvals of manufacturing procedures,
plant inspections and longer review times, she said in an
interview at the hearing.  While acknowledging the need for studies, manufacturers
think existing studies have already shown the devices safe and
effective, said J&J’s Hinoul.  “Serious adverse events that are mesh-specific are very
low,” he said.  While the advisory panel won’t take formal votes this week,
the FDA will poll the panel of researchers and physicians on
whether to reclassify the devices and gather thoughts on how to
conduct clinical studies, said  Karen Riley , an agency
spokeswoman, in a telephone interview yesterday. It’s unclear
when the FDA will make a final decision on the devices, she
said.  J&J fell 48 cents to $64.95 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Bard declined 64 cents to $93.57 and
Endo Pharmaceuticals fell 53 cents to $30.75.  FDA Control  Reclassifying would give the FDA control over clinical
trials the companies must conduct, Julia Corrado, a clinical
reviewer for the agency, told the panel. Keeping the devices in
the 510(k) system “would mean a new device only needs to be as
good as a device currently on the market and we are concerned
that is not good enough,” she said.  More clinical trials are needed to establish whether the
benefits of the meshes outweigh their risks, said Denise Elser,
a Chicago-area physician speaking for the American Congress of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists. The  Washington , D.C.-based
group, with 56,000 members, would also like to see a registry to
follow patients already with implants, she said at the hearing.  National surgeons’ groups told the panel the devices should
be used in limited numbers and only by well-trained physicians
on carefully chosen patients.  Appropriate Training Needed  “At this time, the use of transvaginal mesh to repair”
weakened pelvic muscles “should not be widespread,” said
Edward Varner, president of the Society of Gynecologic Surgeons.
“It should only be performed by surgeons with appropriate
training.”  He also said that credentialing the surgeons would be “a
huge political issue,” and that there weren’t “enough well-
trained pelvic surgeons to take care of the problem.”  The FDA is weighing a U.S. Institute of Medicine report in
July urging it to scrap the 510(k) process for moderate-risk
devices. The current system allows devices like the mesh implant
to enter the market if manufacturers show they are
“substantially equivalent” to others already for sale. The IOM
said a new process should be devised that provides reasonable
assurance of the safety and effectiveness of moderate-risk
devices.  Effectiveness ‘Not Demonstrated’  “The clinical effectiveness of surgical mesh for
transvaginal repair of pelvic organ prolapse has not been
demonstrated,” said William Maisel, deputy director of the FDA
Center for Devices and Radiological Health, in a telephone
interview. “We believe proper studies would need to be done.”  While the mesh has been used for more than three decades,
mainly for hernias, its use “has evolved over the past few
years” as manufacturers expanded into other conditions, Herbert
Lerner, an acting director in the FDA’s device-approval center,
told the panel today. “As industry modified surgical mesh for
these indications, none of the mesh has been evaluated for
clinical data.”  Adam Slater , the  New Jersey  attorney who represents about
100 women who have sued J&J or Bard in New Jersey state court,
said the agency is “at an important crossroads” over how to
protect patients.  “The 510(k) process utterly failed to protect the
thousands of women who were implanted,” Slater wrote to the
advisers. “Now the FDA now has the opportunity to at least
protect women on a going-forward basis.”  Recall ‘Too Extreme’  A recall of the devices would be too extreme, said another
pelvic surgeon,  Andrew Sokol , an associate professor at
Georgetown University School of Medicine in Washington. He
helped conduct a clinical trial of transvaginal mesh that found
a 15.6 percent erosion rate after three months. Still, he said
that the devices have their benefits for some women.  “We do these surgeries all the time without risk,” said
Sokol. “Thousands and thousands of these surgeries are done
without complications. The data is still emerging. It’s easy to
react but what needs to be done are good studies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in Gaithersburg, Maryland, at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  