-- 
Jahwa United Declines on Resumption After 9-Month Trading Halt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-07T04:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/jahwa-united-declines-on-resumption-after-9-month-trading-halt.html
Shares of  Shanghai  Jahwa United Co.,
a cosmetics and household goods maker, fell the most in five
years in Shanghai today after a nine-month trading suspension
was lifted.  Jahwa United fell as much as 11 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since July 24, 2006, to 33.19 yuan before trading
at 33.80 yuan at the 11:30 a.m. break. The stock was halted in
December as its state-owned parent, Shanghai Jahwa Group, was in
talks to sell its 29 percent stake.  The Shanghai Composite Index has lost 12 percent since Dec.
3, the last day Jahwa United traded before its suspension. The
cosmetics maker today said the Shanghai government plans to sell
its 100 percent stake in Shanghai Jahwa Group for 5.1 billion
yuan ($782 million) through an auction starting today, according
to a statement to the stock exchange.  “It’s a catch-up decline after the suspension of trading
as the market has fallen by more than 10 percent during the
period,” Liu Jinhu, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Sealand
Securities, said in a phone interview. “The company’s
fundamentals are still very good.”  Shanghai Jahwa Group is looking to sell its 29 percent
stake in Shanghai Jahwa United to fund expansion into luxury
products and the acquisition of foreign brands, Ge Wenyao,
general manager at the parent and the unit’s chairman, said in
an interview Aug. 23. The group plans to sell assets including
the stake to a Chinese investor, he said.  The stake sale will help free Shanghai Jahwa United, maker
of Herborist brand beauty products and GF men’s cosmetics, from
government rules that bar it from investing in other industries,
Ge said. It aims to compete with foreign cosmetic makers such as
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , he said.  Jahwa Group also plans to invest in food, jewelry, watches
and the boutique hotel sector, which have higher margins and it
will also look to acquire overseas cosmetic brands, Ge had said.  Shanghai Jahwa had a 1.6 percent share of  China ’s beauty
and personal care products market, which is expected to surge 58
percent to 255 billion yuan in 2015 from 2010, according to
London-based researcher Euromonitor International.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  