-- 
U.S. Job Openings Rose in July as Slower Hiring Signals Lack of Confidence

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-07T14:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/job-openings-in-u-s-rose-59-000-in-july-to-3-23-million.html
Job openings in the U.S. rose in
July for a third month, while a slowdown in hiring showed
businesses lacked the confidence to take on new staff.  The number of positions waiting to be filled climbed by
59,000 to 3.23 million, according to Labor Department figures
issued today in  Washington . Hiring decreased by 74,000 to 3.98
million.  Payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest showing
since September 2010, while revised data last month showed the
world’s largest economy grew at a 0.7 percent annual pace in the
first half of 2011. Concern the recovery is faltering may cause
employers to delay hiring plans even further.  “We see more of the same: very weak labor demand, very
weak hiring,” Henry Mo, a senior economist at Credit Suisse in
 New York , said before the report. “It’s very clear the
financial turmoil has dampened both consumer and business
confidence. I wouldn’t be surprised if businesses continue to
hold off on hiring and even downsize original hiring
intentions.”  Job openings increased 1.9 percent in July from a revised
3.17 million in June that was higher than initially reported,
the data showed.  The gain in vacancies was led by manufacturing and trade,
transportation and utilities.  Today’s report helps shed light on the dynamics behind the
monthly employment figures. The absence of  job creation  in
August followed an 85,000 gain the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed Sept. 2.  Discharged Workers  Employers discharged 1.7 million workers in July, down from
1.77 million in June, the report also showed. Total separations,
which include firings, retirements and those who left their jobs
voluntarily, decreased to 3.92 million from 3.99 million a month
before.  In the 12 months ended in July, the economy created a net
1.1 million jobs, representing about 47.8 million hires and
about 46.6 million separations, today’s report showed.  Compared with the 13.93 million Americans who were
unemployed in July, today’s figures indicate there were more
than four people vying for every opening, up from about two when
the last recession began in December 2007.  The number of jobless rose to 13.97 million in August,
while the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent, the Labor
Department reported last week.  Debate in Washington over the budget and mounting fear of a
default in  Europe  caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
plummet 17 percent from July 22 to Aug. 8, making companies and
consumers more pessimistic. The lack of hiring is one reason why
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month said the
central bank still has tools available to stimulate growth.  Bernanke on Economy  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Bernanke said Aug. 26 at the  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, central bank
symposium. “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has
been much less robust than we had hoped.”  Banks have been among companies announcing the biggest
dismissals.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we can
control” amid market turmoil, said Chief Executive Officer  Brian
T. Moynihan  on Aug. 19.  President  Barack Obama  may press Congress for tax cuts that
would exceed his past proposals as well as some of the offerings
from House Republicans to strengthen his hand in talks on
measures to boost the  U.S. economy , according to a person
familiar with the discussions.  With Obama set to lay out his plans in an address tomorrow
to Congress, the administration is focusing on cuts targeted at
middle-income Americans to spur  consumer spending , which
accounts for 70 percent of the economy, said the person, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  