-- 
John Edwards Asks U.S. Court to Dismiss Charges in Campaign Violation Case

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/john-edwards-asks-u-s-court-to-dismiss-charges-in-campaign-violation-case.html
John Edwards , the former U.S.
presidential candidate accused of accepting illegal campaign
contributions to hide an extramarital affair, asked a federal
judge to dismiss the case, saying it’s driven by “politics.”  The former North Carolina senator sought to dismiss the
charges, saying prosecutors abused their authority, the grand
jury proceedings were flawed and the indictment failed to state
an actual crime, according to documents filed yesterday in
federal court in Greensboro, North Carolina.  “This case is about politics,” lawyers for Edwards said
in court papers. “In this prosecution, a major figure in the
 Democratic Party  has been brought down and, as it turns out, a
Republican U.S. Attorney with political ambitions of his own has
used this high-profile case to his personal benefit.”  Edwards, who was Democrat  John Kerry ’s running mate in the
2004 election, was the subject of a two-year investigation into
whether he used more than $925,000 in contributions to conceal
his relationship with filmmaker Rielle Hunter. Edwards, who
fathered a child with Hunter, withdraw in January 2008 from the
race against now-President  Barack Obama  to be the Democratic
nominee.  Prosecutors allege the donations, which came in 2007 and
2008, were part of an effort to prevent public revelations that
would undermine his presidential campaign.  U.S. Attorney George Holding announced his campaign for
Congress a month after filing charges against Edwards, something
he “undoubtedly” had been planning at the same time he was
preparing the indictment, Edwards’s lawyers said in court
papers.  Rough-and-Tumble  “Politics can be a rough-and-tumble business where
partisan interests collide, but that is not supposed to be true
of the criminal justice system,” the Edwards lawyers wrote.  Holding, who no longer serves as U.S. Attorney, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail after business hours
seeking comment.  The indictment highlights “uncharted territory,” as no
court in 100 years of campaign finance law has held that the
conduct Edwards is charged with violates the Federal Election
Campaign Act, according to yesterday’s filings. The court would
also have to find that Edwards had “fair warning” that his
conduct would violate the law, according to court papers.
Without those findings, “the government’s entire case fails,”
his lawyers said.  ‘Should Be Dismissed’  The motions filed in court “demonstrate that the
indictment should never have been brought in the first place and
now should be dismissed by the court,” lawyers Abbe Lowell, Jim Cooney and Wade Smith said in an e-mailed statement. Lowell
replaced former White House lawyer Greg Craig on the case last
month.  Edwards previously asked the court to push back his October
trial date.  Jessica Smith, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on yesterday’s filings.  The Federal Election Act limits the amount individuals may
contribute to candidates. The most an individual could
contribute in the 2008 presidential primary was $2,300. Edwards
accepted about $725,000 from one person and more than $200,000
from another, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of  North Carolina  (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 