-- 
Julius Says BOE May Favor Extending Stimulus ‘Gradually’

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 
2011-09-07T10:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/julius-says-boe-may-favor-extending-stimulus-gradually-1-.html
Former  Bank of England  policy maker
DeAnne Julius said officials may choose to extend monetary
stimulus “gradually” as above-target inflation deters some
from voting for more asset purchases.  “I’d be surprised,” Julius said in an interview with
Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” program
in  London  today when asked if the Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee will extend stimulus at a meeting tomorrow.
“Inflation is an issue here, so that will prevent a number of
members on the MPC from voting for additional stimulus.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. see the Bank of
England restarting bond purchases as early as this week as a
faltering recovery and rising bank funding costs outweigh
inflation that is more than double its target. U.K. policy
makers start a two-day policy meeting today, a month after some
members debated whether the economy needs more support.  “I imagine they’d do it gradually,” Julius said when
asked how she saw the bank expanding its emergency 200-billion
pound ($320 billion) bond-purchase program. “They’d put in
another 50 billion pounds. They’d wait and see” and may add
more when they publish new quarterly economic forecasts.  Additional stimulus would likely have a short-term impact
on financial markets, the former policy maker said. “I think it
would have more symbolic value than anything else,” she said.  “The first doesn’t really matter too much if it’s 50
billion pounds or 100 billion pounds, but that will give a
little positive jolt to the market,” she said. “But my own
expectation is that jolt will dissipate very quickly.”  All 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
Bank of England will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent tomorrow. The central bank will also
leave the bond-purchase plan on hold, according to all but one
of 41 economists in a separate poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  