-- 
Kenyan Finance Minister Met Bank Chief Executives Over Shilling’s Weakness

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-07T13:28:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/kenyan-finance-minister-met-bank-chief-executives-over-shilling-weakness.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  is seeking to mend rifts with commercial bankers caused
by allegations that speculative trading by them weakened the
shilling to a record low, a Treasury official said.  Kenyatta has convened three meetings with chief executive
officers of Kenyan lenders since last month that were also
attended by Central Bank of  Kenya  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, said
the official who declined to be identified because the outcome
of the discussions hasn’t been made public.  Some of the participants in the talks included
representatives from  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) ,  Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Ltd. (SCBL)  and  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , the official
said. He didn’t provide further details. Ndung’u declined to be
interviewed when approached by reporters at a conference today
in Nairobi.  Standard Chartered Chief Executive officer Richard Etemesi
said in an e-mailed response to questions that he was “away”
most of August and he personally didn’t attend any meetings with
the  Finance Ministry . The other banks didn’t immediately respond
to voicemail and e-mailed requests for comment.  Kenya’s shilling, which hit a 17-year low of 95.10 against
the dollar on Aug. 9, has weakened 14 percent this year as the
cost of importing food and fuel helped push up inflation to 16.7
percent in August, more than triple the central bank’s target.  Speculative Trading  Ndung’u has restricted liquidity to stem speculative
trading, which he cited as the reason for the shilling’s
decline, and said on June 23 he may take unspecified action
against some banks.  A central bank investigation showed that in the week to
June 16, five lenders took $260 million overseas, while at the
same time the volume of borrowing from the central bank rose,
suggesting arbitrage had taken place, Ndung’u said. Four banks
had “very large overseas positions,” he said.  Last month, the central bank applied a penalty charge on
loans from its overnight discount window in an effort to deter
investors from tapping the bank as a normal source of funds.
That money was being misused for speculation that weakened the
shilling, rather than for emergencies as intended, Ndung’u said
in an interview on Aug. 18.  The bank reversed some of that increase on Aug. 29 after
interbank lending rates soared. The cost of obtaining funds from
the overnight window has fallen to 11.76 percent from as high as
31.4 percent on Aug. 26 before the newest revisions to the
rate’s calculation were introduced.  Central Bank ‘Wavering’  Kenyatta’s intervention may indicate an effort by the
government to restore market confidence in monetary policy after
the central bank’s “wavering” confused investors, said Ben Nyamweya, a Nairobi-based independent financial analyst. While
the central bank has taken steps to restrict liquidity, it has
kept its benchmark rate unchanged since May, when it was raised
25 basis points to 6.25 percent.  “In a situation where there is a breakdown of communication
then you can feel that the minister of finance can bring
objectivity to the table, and bridge this divide,” Nyamweya said
by phone today from Nairobi. “The central bank certainly needs
to bring more clarity.”  Costlier borrowing has led to commercial banks charging
more for loans extended to consumers and businesses, even as
President Mwai Kibaki and other government officials have called
for them to offer cheaper credit to stoke economic growth.  Rates Increased  Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. (BCBL) , the country’s second-biggest
lender by market value, increased its base lending rate by 1
percentage point to 14.75 percent as of Sept. 1. Other Kenyan
lenders who have reviewed their lending rates include Diamond
Trust Bank Ltd., Kenya Commercial Bank and NIC Bank Ltd.  Kenyatta on Aug. 25 called for the restoration of monetary
stability. The central bank’s monetary policy committee is
holding a special meeting on Sept. 14 to review efforts to
defend the shilling and contain inflation. The currency traded
at 94.15 against the dollar by 3:33 p.m. in Nairobi today.  Kenyatta’s meetings with commercial bank chief executives
officers was reported in the Nairobi-based Star newspaper today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
3510 or  smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 