-- 
Google Said to Be Raided by South Korean Antitrust Regulator

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-07T12:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/korea-antitrust-regulator-said-to-raid-google.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Seoul office was
raided by  South Korea ’s antitrust regulator as part of a probe
into whether the owner of the world’s largest search engine
unfairly blocked competitors in the mobile-search market, a
person familiar with the investigation said.  The on-site investigation at Google’s office resulted from
April complaints filed by  NHN Corp. (035420)  and  Daum Communications
Corp. (035720) , South Korea’s two largest Internet search companies, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the probe
isn’t public. Robin Moroney, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Google,
and Kwag Se Boong, a Seoul-based spokesman for the Fair Trade
Commission, declined to say whether the raid took place.  South Korea joins the U.S. and some European countries in
increasing scrutiny of Google, which owns Android, the most used
operating system for smartphones. The company has denied the
claims by NHN and Daum, which together control more than 90
percent of South Korean Web queries, that Google blocks carriers
and manufacturers from embedding search applications in Android
devices.  “We will work with the FTC to address any questions they
may have about our business,” Moroney said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Android is an open platform. We do not
require carriers or manufacturers to include Google Search or
Google applications on Android-powered devices.”  Reuters reported on the raid yesterday, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  Android Certification  Google has prevented South Korean phone manufacturers from
including Web search applications made by other companies by
delaying Android certification for handset makers that do so,
Seongnam-based NHN said in April.  Daum learned about Google’s practices while trying to have
its applications installed and has evidence to prove its claims,
the Seoul-based company said in April.  Google also previously faced scrutiny from regulators in
other Asian countries including  China  and  Australia , as the U.S.
company expands its operations in the region. The Chinese
government objected to Google’s practice of automatically
redirecting users of the Google.cn search-engine service to an
unfiltered site in  Hong Kong , the company said in June 2010.  Google’s Internet license in China was renewed by the
government after a regular annual review,  Wang Lijian , a
spokesman at the Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology, said today.  Australian police last year probed Google’s Street View
mapping service for possible breaches of data-security laws.  Google’s Seoul office has been searched by the police at
least twice since August last year amid investigations into
whether the company illegally collected wireless Internet data
and location information from Android smartphone users.  Android-based smartphones account for about 43 percent of
the global market as of the second quarter, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone controlled about 18
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  