-- 
Federer, Djokovic to Meet in U.S. Open Semifinals as Rain Delays Finals

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T03:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nadal-confronts-u-s-open-about-weather-play.html
Roger Federer  beat Jo-Wilfried Tsonga to set up a semifinal meeting with Novak Djokovic at the
U.S. Open, which pushed both singles finals back a day because
of rain delays.  After two days of washouts at the National Tennis Center in
New York, Federer waited out a 93-minute first-set interruption
before finishing off a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 win over Tsonga, the 11th
seed from France.  The five-time champion moves on to face top-seeded Djokovic,
who advanced when fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic retired with a
hamstring injury. It will be the third time in this year’s four
Grand Slam tournaments that Federer and Djokovic will play for a
spot in a final.  Three-time U.S. Open champion  Serena Williams  and top-
seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  will meet in the women’s semifinals
after straight-set wins today, while  Rafael Nadal ,  Andy Murray ,
 Andy Roddick  and  John Isner  all won men’s fourth-round matches.  Even though organizers completed all 10 matches on today’s
schedule, they said the women’s championship is now set to
conclude on Sept. 11 with the men’s final a day later. It will
be the fourth straight year the tennis season’s final Grand Slam
event will enter a third week.  Samantha Stosur, the No. 9 seeded woman from  Australia , and
unseeded German Angelique Kerber also reached the women’s
semifinals with wins today.  Bubble Trouble  While rain only interrupted Federer’s win today, the match
between 21st-seeded Roddick and David Ferrer was delayed an hour
and moved to a new court because water was bubbling up on the
playing surface in Louis Armstrong Stadium. The No. 2 court was
shut down until further notice.  Federer, the No. 3 seed from Switzerland, avenged losses in
his previous two matches against Tsonga, including a
quarterfinal defeat at Wimbledon where he blew a two-set lead.  That wasn’t the case this time for Federer, who now has to
get past Djokovic to reach a seventh  U.S. Open  final in eight
years. Djokovic held a 7-6 (7-2), 6-7 (3-7), 6-0, 3-0 lead when
Tipsarevic couldn’t continue.  Federer won his last meeting against Djokovic on the clay
courts at the  French Open . Djokovic won in straight sets at the
Australian Open, which has hard court surfaces like the U.S.
Open and has claimed three of four meetings between the two this
year. Djokovic, who won this year’s Australian Open and
Wimbledon, also beat Federer in the semifinals at the 2010 U.S.
Open.  Roddick, Isner Win  Roddick of the U.S. wound up beating the fifth-seeded
Ferrer of Spain 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 on the 584-seat Court 13 to
reach the quarterfinals. Isner advanced to his first Grand Slam
quarterfinal with a 7-6 (7-2), 3-6, 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-4) win
over Gilles Simon of  France .  Roddick celebrated by walking the length of the court while
slapping hands with fans who lined the boundaries.  Prior to today, Roddick hadn’t played a U.S. Open contest
outside the 23,000-seat Arthur Ashe Stadium in more than nine
years. He said today’s experience included hearing “some Van Morrison wannabe playing music,” someone screaming in the
courtyard, a man scaling a nearby fence and a couple of people
giving commentary from the service line.  “I didn’t think Court 13 was in my future, but I probably
could have promised you if it ever came to that I was just going
to call it quits,” Roddick said, drawing laughter, at a news
conference.  Roddick Vs Nadal  Roddick next faces Nadal in the quarterfinals after the
defending champion and No. 2 seed from  Spain  beat Gilles Muller
of Luxembourg 7-6 (7-1), 6-1, 6-2. The Spaniard came back to win
the first set after play was suspended yesterday with Muller
leading 3-0.  Williams, a three-time champion from the U.S., beat
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia 7-5, 6-1.  Williams, seeded 28th after two injury-filled seasons, will
next face Wozniacki of  Denmark , who beat  Andrea Petkovic , the No.
10 seed from Germany 6-1, 7-6 (7-5) after her match also was
moved to Court 13.  Stosur beat second-seeded Vera Zvonareva of Russia 6-3, 6-3
to advance to a semifinal meeting with Kerber, who topped Flavia Pennetta, the No. 26 seed from  Italy , 6-4, 4-6, 6-3.  Murray, the No. 4 seed from Britain, beat American wild
card Donald Young 6-2, 6-3, 6-3 on the Grandstand court. The
match resumed today with Murray trailing 2-1 in the first set
after about 20 minutes of action took place yesterday.  Young made 53 unforced errors compared with 17 for Murray,
who will face Isner, the 28th seed, in the quarterfinals.  “I didn’t put my best foot forward and play the way I’ve
been playing,” Young said at a news conference. “To get up
every day, getting ready to play and not playing, it’s kind of
emotionally draining.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 