-- 
National Australia Shares Jump on Plan to Sell Most Bank Branches in U.K.

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-09-07T06:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/national-australia-gains-on-sale-speculation.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
nation’s biggest lender to companies, rose the most in almost a
month in Sydney trading on speculation that a potential sale of
its U.K. branches will boost return on equity.  National  Australia , based in  Melbourne , gained 3.6 percent,
the biggest increase since Aug. 10, to A$22.94 in Sydney while
the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index advanced 2.7 percent. The stock
is the best performer among the nation’s so-called four-pillar
lenders this year.  NBNK Investments Plc (NBNK) , the  investment company  founded by
Lloyd’s of London Chairman  Peter Levene , is in talks to acquire
NAB’s Clydesdale and  Yorkshire  units, a person familiar with the
negotiations said yesterday. A sale would raise National
Australia’s return on equity to 16.7 percent from 15.5 percent,
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Craig Williams  estimated.  Exiting the U.K. “would deliver a nice kicker for NAB,”
Melbourne-based Williams said in a note to investors. “NAB
management has classified its U.K. business as a ‘financial’
asset rather than a ‘strategic’ asset. It regards the U.K.
banking market as clearly less attractive than its home
markets.”  National Australia has more than 300 retail branches in the
U.K. with about 2.7 million customers at the Clydesdale and
Yorkshire banks, according to its  website . The lender said last
month when it reported earnings for the quarter ended June 30
that its U.K. banking businesses “coped well with the slow
credit environment.”  ‘More Competition’  National Australia yesterday referred to comments
previously made by Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne that
the lender would consider alternatives to expanding its British
operations.  “There is a lot of debate in the U.K. market at present
about the future shape of the U.K. banking industry with a
common theme being that the U.K. market would benefit from more
traditional banks and more competition,” Clyne has said. “Our
number one priority is and has always been to grow the business
organically but in this climate it is also only natural that we
would look at other options available to us.”  The analysis on return on equity, a measure of how well
reinvested earnings generate extra profit, assumes the sale
would be at book value, which was estimated at about 2.76
billion pounds ($4.4 billion) for the first half of 2011,
Citigroup said. The proceeds may be returned to shareholders
through a capital return or special dividend, Williams wrote.  That “would further support our buy recommendation,”
Williams said.  Buying Market Share  London-based NBNK wants to acquire the Clydesdale and
Yorkshire banks as a first step to bidding for more than 630
branches from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , said the person, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
The talks are in an early stage and may not succeed, the person
said.  Shares of NBNK, which issued a statement yesterday that it
was in talks for an acquisition, were suspended from trading
until it publishes documents related to the takeover or the
negotiations are concluded. The investment company didn’t name
the seller, and a spokesman declined to comment beyond the
statement.  NBNK raised 50 million pounds in August 2010 to make
acquisitions and form a “substantial” consumer bank with a 4
to 6 percent share of the British banking market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  