-- 
New York Synagogue-Bomb Plotter Laguerre Payen Sentenced to 25 Years

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-07T16:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/new-york-synagogue-bomb-plotter-laguerre-payen-sentenced-to-25-years.html
A Haitian immigrant convicted last
year of participating in a plot to bomb  New York  synagogues and
shoot heat-seeking missiles at U.S. military planes was
sentenced to 25 years in prison.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan sentenced
Laguerre Payen today to what she had ruled was the minimum
required prison term, saying it is “sufficient, probably
greater than necessary” to punish the crime.  McMahon imposed the same sentence on Payen’s three co-
conspirators in June. Payen’s sentencing was delayed for a
psychiatric evaluation.  The four men from Newburgh, New York -- Payen, James Cromitie, Onta Williams and  David Williams  -- were found guilty
in October of crimes including conspiracy to use weapons of mass
destruction against the U.S.  A jury convicted the four of planning to bomb the Riverdale
Temple, a Reform synagogue in the Bronx borough of New York, and
the nearby Riverdale Jewish Center, an Orthodox synagogue, in
May 2009. They also sought heat-seeking missiles to fire at
aircraft at the Stewart Air National Guard base in Newburgh, the
U.S. said.  Samuel Braverman, Payen’s attorney, disagreed with a pre-
sentencing report that called his client’s mental health claims
“unsupported.” He said Payen has been diagnosed as
schizophrenic by several doctors. Braverman requested that the
judge ask the U.S. Bureau of Prisons to place Payen in a
facility with a medical center so his mental condition can be
treated.  ‘Totally Unnecessary’  To place Payen in a prison where communication with other
inmates and outsiders is restricted would be “totally
unnecessary and cruel,” Braverman wrote. “The silence of
solitary confinement would, in the end, be fatal.”  The trial of the four men was delayed last year after Payen
refused to leave his cell, forcing U.S. marshals to bring him to
court in a wheelchair. The proceedings resumed after McMahon
determined he was malingering.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  