-- 
New York Proposes Throttle on Marcellus Shale Gas Drilling

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-09-07T22:36:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/new-york-proposes-marcellus-shale-construction-window-to-pace-drilling.html
New York ’s state environmental
agency proposed moderating development of the natural-gas rich
Marcellus Shale to ease the stress on small towns and rural
communities from a drilling boom that may last 30 years.  Some well permits may include time limits on construction
to relieve pressure on housing, schools, roads and other
government services from an influx of workers, the Department of
Environmental Conservation said today in a  final draft  of an
environmental impact statement on methods used to extract gas
from shale deposits.  The state is poised to issue permits to tap into the
Marcellus Shale formation next year, once it adopts rules
developed in a three-year review. New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said during his campaign last year that
drilling will create jobs, “but only if it is safe.” Since
taking office in January, he has pushed regulators to complete
the environmental review.  Jobs created by gas production in New York’s portion of the
Marcellus may add as much as $2.5 billion in annual wages
statewide by the time drilling peaks in 30 years, the state
agency forecast today. The industry may employ as many as 24,795
workers at the peak of development, with another 29,174 jobs
created indirectly, according to today’s report. Based on
industry estimates, gas production might last 60 years, it said.  Adverse Impacts  Today’s report added an analysis of the socioeconomic
impact of drilling to an earlier draft examining water use and
disposal. In a process called hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
producers force millions of gallons of chemically treated water
underground into each shale well to fracture rock and let gas
flow.  While issuing permits for drilling, state regulators will
consult with energy companies and communities to strike a proper
pace for development in the Marcellus and “mitigate adverse
impacts at the local and regional levels,” the agency report
said.  Population growth  associated with the drilling boom may
create extra stress on local communities by increasing demand
for housing and community services.  “Where appropriate, the department would impose specific
construction windows within well construction permits in order
to ensure that drilling activity and its cumulative adverse
socioeconomic effects are not unduly concentrated in a specific
geographical area,” the report said.  Draft permit rules were handed to Cuomo in July. The state
will take comments through Dec. 12 on the environmental analysis
released today.  Leases and Royalties  About 84 trillion cubic feet of undiscovered, technically
recoverable gas lie in the Marcellus Shale under New York and
seven other states, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said Aug. 23.  In  Pennsylvania ’s portion of the Marcellus Shale, which
stretches from  Tennessee  to New York, drilling has been a
financial windfall for some large landowners who receive lease
payments and gas royalties paid by companies such as  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)   Environmentalists and some businesses, including Brewery
Ommegang in Cooperstown, New York, want fracking banned as a
threat to drinking water.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is studying the
effects of fracking on drinking water. A committee advising U.S.
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said Aug. 11 that gas companies risk
causing serious environmental damage unless they commit to best
practices in engineering.  The New York study leaves “a boatload of unresolved
issues,” Eric Goldstein, an attorney at the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  in  New York City , wrote in a statement released
by the environmental group, which advocates more government
controls on gas drilling. “Fracking should not move forward in
New York unless and until it is demonstrated that New Yorkers’
health and environment would be protected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 