-- 
New IEA Chief Says No Need for Another Oil Stockpile Release

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/new-iea-chief-says-no-need-for-another-oil-stockpile-release.html
The  International Energy Agency 
won’t ask its members to tap their emergency oil stockpiles
again because supplies have risen over the summer, the new head
of the energy adviser to 28 industrialized nations said.  “I don’t think there is any reason to do that given the
present situation - no, no, no,” Maria van der Hoeven, the 61-
year old executive director of the Paris-based IEA, said in an
interview yesterday. She began her four-year term on Sept. 1,
succeeding Nobuo Tanaka from  Japan .  The IEA coordinated the release of 60 million barrels of
oil in June to offset lost supplies from Libya, where fighting
between anti-government rebels and forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  all but shuttered the country’s crude exports. Brent
crude fell 8 percent in the two days after the announcement of
the intervention, the third use of reserves in the agency’s
history. Prices have since recovered and are threatening to damp
faltering global economic recovery.  “Three objectives were met: there is higher supply on the
markets, most market indicators like forward price structure,
the sweet-sour differential, refining margins have moved in a
direction that should ensure better supply of markets into the
autumn,” Van der Hoeven, the former Dutch minister of economic
affairs, said.  Sweet-sour differential refers to the price gap between
more expensive light, low-sulfur crudes and heavy, high-sulfur
blends. Most of the Libyan supplies were of the prized grade.  ‘Repair OPEC Ties’  The oil release came two weeks after the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries failed to reach an accord on
production increases at a meeting in Vienna. The IEA took
similar actions in 2005 in the wake of  Hurricane Katrina  and
during the Persian Gulf War in 1991.  One of the director’s biggest challenges will be “to
repair ties with the producing countries, and in particular,
with OPEC,” Claude Mandil, a former IEA chief, said by
telephone from Saint Quentin-de-Chalais,  France , Sept. 6.
Mandil, who held the agency’s top job from 2003 to 2007,
currently sits on Total SA’s board of directors and advises the
French government and European Commission on energy issues. “A
lot has to be done,” he said.  There was no need for the oil release, OPEC Secretary
General Abdalla El-Badri said at that time. ``I hope the IEA
will refrain from using this practice,'' he said on June 27. 
``Stocks are supposed to be for emergency use only, not 
commercial activity.''  Rising Energy Costs  IEA members face rising energy costs amid projections that
global economic growth will slow by banks such as Morgan Stanley
and HSBC Holdings Plc.  Brent crude  has gained 22 percent since
the start of the year to trade at $115.15 a barrel as of 3:56
p.m. yesterday on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  “Market fundamentals remain a primary driver of price
direction,” Van der Hoeven said. Libya’s production, which
averaged 1.7 million barrels a day in January, won’t be restored
to full levels until at least 2013, she said.  The IEA’s priority is to improve dialog with energy
producers and non-IEA countries, particularly in emerging
markets where fuel demand is growing, Van der Hoeven said.  “When the IEA was started it really was a rich man’s club
of oil-consuming countries of established, industrialized
democracies,” she said. “It still is, but the world is
changing. There will be new established and industrialized
democracies in 10 years or more so you have to see to it that
you have good open contacts with these countries.”  OECD Membership  The agency is unlikely to enlarge its membership to include
developing nations, given the requirement of members to join the
IEA’s parent organization, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the need for members to hold a
certain level of emergency oil stockpiles.  China ,  India ,  Russia ,  Brazil ,  Mexico ,  Chile  and  South
Africa  are among the countries invited to attend the IEA’s
meeting with energy ministers in October, she said.  Van der Hoeven is at least the second woman to lead an
international organization this year after  Christine Lagarde 
was appointed managing director of the International Monetary 
Fund in July. The IEA itself has been led by a woman once 
before, Helga Steeg of  Germany , between 1984 and 1994.  “It doesn’t matter whether you are a man or a woman, it
just depends on how you go about your job,” Van der Hoeven
said. “I know quite a number of people I am going to work with
now because they are former colleagues or I met them during
working visits with the various countries so that gives me an
advantage.”  Nobuo Tanaka , who finished his term as director last month
after overseeing the stock release, said the post was enjoyable
and stressful.  “The best thing about the job is that energy security is
so important and there’s a lot of focus on what the executive
director says,” Tanaka said in a phone interview yesterday from
 Tokyo , where he is consulting on nuclear energy for the
Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.  “She may make a certain impact on the global economy but
at the same time that is a disadvantage. If you make sloppy
words that has a messy impact on the markets,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  
 Lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  