-- 
Nigeria May Raise Key Interest Rate if Inflation Fails to Stay Below 10%

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-07T15:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nigeria-may-raise-key-interest-rate-if-inflation-fails-to-stay-below-10-.html
Nigeria’s central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said policy makers are ready to keep raising
 interest rates  if inflation fails to remain below 10 percent.  The central bank of Africa’s biggest oil producer is “not
celebrating yet” after inflation eased to 9.4 percent in July,
the slowest pace in more than three years. The bank is still
concerned about “stubbornly high”  core inflation , Sanusi said
in an interview in Hong Kong today.  “I would like to wait and see if the drop is sustainable
or a blip,” Sanusi said. “We’ll wait to see if it’s a trend.
If it isn’t a trend, we may have to continue tightening.”  Turkey ,  Brazil  and some other central banks have cut
lending rates in the past month, concerned about  Europe ’s debt
crisis and slowing global growth. Sanusi’s comments underscore
how Nigerian policy makers are committed to keeping a lid on
inflation, which has averaged about 11 percent since the start
of 2007.  “We certainly are determined to show inflation does not
get out of control,” Sanusi, 50, said.  Nigeria’s benchmark rate has been increased four times this
year to 8.75 percent to rein in inflation and support the naira.
Inflation data for August, which is due to be published next
week, may be little changed from July, remaining slightly below
10 percent, Sanusi said.  The central bank is scheduled to make its next interest
rate decision on Sept. 20.  Currency Peg  Sanusi said the bank will probably continue to maintain its
currency peg even as oil prices slide.  Nigeria  has been drawing
down foreign-currency reserves to keep the naira within a band
of 3 percentage points above or below 150 per dollar. The Abuja-
based central bank has failed to meet dollar demand at 17
consecutive currency auctions, held biweekly.  “We’ve seen a lot of demand pressure, but we think that’s
temporary,” said Sanusi. “So long as we’re in the band,
frankly we don’t worry. We don’t have to meet each and every
demand at the official window. There is an  interbank market  and
there are generous funds.”  The naira fell to 153.15 per dollar at an auction today,
the weakest level since a June 22 sale, after the central bank
sold $400 million, less than the $438 million demanded by
lenders, the bank said in an e-mailed statement. In interbank
trading the naira fell for a third day, declining 0.3 percent to
156.15 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in Lagos.  ‘Little Choice’  “The  Central Bank of Nigeria  will hike the monetary policy
rate even if inflation remains in single-digits in coming
months,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in e-mailed comments today.
“Given the magnitude of the pressure on the naira in both the
official CBN and interbank forex markets in recent months, the
central bank has little choice but to tighten liquidity
conditions further.”  Nigeria’s foreign-currency reserves have slid 11 percent to
$32.3 billion in the year to Sept. 2, even as the country’s
benchmark Bonny Light crude oil gained about 51 percent. The oil
price has fallen 10 percent since its 2011 high on April 8.  Renaissance Capital  said on Sept. 1 there’s a 40 percent
probability that the naira could be devalued to 155 per dollar
in 2012 as oil prices fall and the government increases spending
on roads and railways, boosting imports.  “A central bank governor never says never, but the
fundamentals don’t point to that at the moment,” Sanusi said,
referring to a  currency devaluation . “We haven’t reached a
point where we think we can’t sustain exchange rates at the
levels where they are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  