-- 
Nobel Winners Write Obama Opposing Pipeline

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-07T20:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nobel-winners-write-obama-opposing-pipeline.html
Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the Dalai Lama and six other Nobel Peace Prize winners urged fellow
laureate, President Barack Obama, to reject  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed $7 billion pipeline across six U.S. states.  Rejecting the Keystone XL pipeline would provide “a
tremendous opportunity” to begin a transition “away from our
dependence on oil, coal and gas and instead increase investments
in renewable energies and energy efficiency,” the eight said in
a letter  posted  on the website of the Ottawa-based Nobel Women’s
Initiative today. “This will be your legacy to Americans and
the global community: energy that sustains the lives and
livelihoods of future generations.”  The women’s initiative is a nonprofit organization formed
by six female Nobel Prize winners to work on peace and justice
issues.  A State Department  report  last month said that the Calgary-
based company’s pipeline, carrying oil from Alberta, Canada, to
the Gulf Coast, has low environmental risks. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton will decide this year whether to approve the
project, based on whether it’s in the U.S. national interest.  Environmentalists  oppose the pipeline, citing greenhouse-
gas emissions and risks of a spill along the 1,711-mile (2,753-
kilometer) route. More than 1,200 pipeline protesters were
arrested as they sat on the sidewalk outside the White House in
the past month.  Alberta oil is separated from sand and clay in a process
that uses intense heat, releasing more greenhouse gases than
pumping conventional crude.  The letter was signed by Mairead Maguire and Betty Williams
of Ireland; Adolfo Pérez Esquivel of Argentina, Tutu of South
Africa, the Dalai Lama of Tibet, Rigoberta Menchú Tum of
Guatemala, José Ramos-Horta of East Timor, Jody Williams of the
U.S. and Shirin Ebadi of Iran.  Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ; 