-- 
Nomura Sees Most Japan IPOs in Three Years as Market Rebounds After Quake

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-09-08T01:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nomura-sees-most-japan-ipos-in-three-years.html
Initial public offerings in Japan
will climb to the most in three years as investors regain
confidence sapped by a record earthquake, according to  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , the top-ranked arranger of Japanese stock sales.  At least 15 Japanese companies will probably announce debut
share sales from Oct. 1, bringing the number of IPOs to 35 to 40
by the end of the year, exceeding last year’s 22 and the 19 in
2009, said Masaharu Kambe, head of Nomura’s IPO department.
Medical research ventures, game makers, manufacturers and solar
energy firms are among companies preparing offerings, he said.  Japan’s equity capital market has begun to recover, with
nine companies selling shares in IPOs from the end of May after
an 11-week hiatus in the aftermath of the March 11 disaster.
RaQualia Pharma Inc., a drugmaker, is among businesses that held
first-time sales after postponing the offerings following the
catastrophe.  “The market may be starving for fresh companies with good
prospects,” Kambe, 48, said in an interview in Tokyo. “The
earthquake caused a sense of stagnation, though the scale was
much smaller than the financial crisis in 2008. Businesses are
making progress on rebuilding and earnings are recovering.”  Kambe didn’t say how much the 15 companies will seek to
raise, and he declined to comment on any deals involving Nomura.  Dai-Ichi Life  Companies have raised 33 billion yen ($428 million) from
IPOs in  Japan  in the first eight months of this year, 97 percent
less than the 1.06 trillion yen from the same period a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year’s
sales were led by Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., which raised
about 1 trillion yen from what was at the time the world’s
biggest IPO in two years.  So far this year, 16 companies have sold shares in IPOs in
Japan. Those stocks have gained an average 12 percent since they
were first publicly offered to investors, Bloomberg data show.
By comparison, the 135 enterprises that debuted on U.S.
exchanges in 2011 declined 7.5 percent from their offered prices.  Tokyo-based Nomura arranged the country’s most successful
IPO of the year. Shares of Morpho Inc., a developer of image
processing technologies that raised 867 million yen in July,
have more than doubled since they were offered to the public for
2,250 yen. They traded at 4,900 yen on the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange
as of 10:40 a.m. in Tokyo.  KLab Undeterred  KLab Inc., an application provider, says the March quake
and tsunami didn’t deter it from a goal of listing on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange this month. The company said this week that it
will offer shares to investors from Sept. 7 to Sept. 13 for
1,540 yen to 1,700 yen.  “The earthquake didn’t affect our listing plan as we don’t
have goods and factories, unlike manufacturers,” Takashi Fukuda,
who heads business planning at KLab, said in an interview.
“More companies with unique business models in areas like
social media,  information technology  and the internet will go
public to enhance their credibility and reputation.”  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-largest
brokerage, is arranging the sale for KLab, which produces
content including a  game  for mobile phones that lets players
take the role of a hostess in a gentlemen’s club.  Daiwa is also optimistic local stock-market fundraising
will withstand financial volatility driven by  Europe ’s sovereign
debt woes and a U.S. economic slowdown. Some companies still
have an appetite for funding or acquisitions to improve
profitability, Yoshifumi Otsuka, head of  equity capital markets 
at the Tokyo-based firm, said in an interview last month.  JAL, Tokyo Metro  Japan Airlines Co., Tokyo Metro Co. and Tokyo Stock
Exchange Group Inc. are among companies that have signaled
intentions to offer shares to the public. Nikko Asset Management
Co. began choosing banks to manage an IPO, three people familiar
with the plan said in July.  Tokyo Stock Exchange, operator of Japan’s largest equity
market, is pressing ahead with preparations for an initial
offering even after profit tumbled following the quake, Chief
Executive Officer  Atsushi Saito  said in July.  Overall share sales in Japan have declined this year as the
stock market slides amid three quarters of economic contraction.
Japanese equity and equity-linked sales totaled 1.37 trillion
yen in the first eight months, down from 3.86 trillion yen in
the same period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
benchmark Topix index of shares has lost 16 percent this year.  Nomura is the No. 1 arranger of Japanese IPOs this year by
the number of completed offerings, according to Bloomberg data
as of Sept. 6. The bank handled seven share sales, followed by
Daiwa, Mizuho Securities Co. and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. with three each. Daiwa topped the ranking by
amount raised, managing IPOs that amassed 18 billion yen.  “There’s more to come,” said Nomura’s Kambe, who is in
charge of 90 employees in Tokyo, Nagoya and  Osaka . “I feel a
breeze blowing of companies that have new services and
technologies. Japanese companies can’t be underestimated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  