-- 
Noonan Says Ireland May Cut 2012 Forecast

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-07T08:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/noonan-says-ireland-may-cut-2012-growth-forecast-on-slowdown-1-.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the government may lower its economic forecast for
next year as slowing global growth hurts exports.  Ireland may cut its 2012 gross domestic product growth
projection to “marginally” below 2 percent from 2.5 percent,
Noonan said in an interview late yesterday in Galway, western
Ireland. The new forecast, due for release next month, would
mark the second reduction to 2012 projections since Ireland’s
European Union-led bailout in November.  “The mark-back seems to be about” 0.5 percentage point
“and we certainly can cover that in terms of fiscal
adjustment,” Noonan said. “It is not so long ago since  Germany 
was growing at 4 percent and it seems to have slowed. The U.S.
seems to have paused as well but I don’t think we’re going into
a double-dip recession.”  Ireland has pushed through 21 billion euros ($29.6 billion)
of budget cuts since it entered recession in 2008, following the
collapse of a domestic real-estate bubble. The finance minister
of six months said he may seek a “bit more” than 3.6 billion
euros of spending cuts and tax increases in 2012 to ensure
Ireland hits its deficit target of 8.6 percent of GDP from 10
percent this year.  Export Growth  Ireland’s economy has relied on global demand to bolster
export growth as consumers hold back spending. The country’s
trade surplus widened to a record in June, driven by exports of
dairy, medical and pharmaceutical products. Ireland’s central
bank forecast economic growth of 0.8 percent this year, the
first expansion since 2007, on the assumption that rising
exports will help counter a slump of domestic demand.  Irish 10-year yields have dropped to 8.7 percent from 14.04
percent on July 18.  “The agreed government position is that we’d get to a
target of 8.6 percent and we would need to change policy to go
beyond that,” Noonan said. “But I am not ruling it completely
out because circumstances are changing very rapidly in  Europe  at
present.”  Dermot O’Leary, chief economist at Dublin-based  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin, said a reduction of 1 percentage point
would “impact the  budget deficit  by 0.4 percentage point.”
That’s why the fiscal adjustment will need to be increased to at
least 4 billion euros, or 2.6 percent of GDP, to meet the
targets for next year, he said.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  signaled in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE Radio today that the government may
renegotiate income tax targets set as part of Ireland’s 85
billion-euro aid package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  