-- 
Nuclear Is ‘Necessary’ to Meet Power Demand, New IEA Chief Says

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-07T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nuclear-is-necessary-to-meet-power-demand-new-iea-chief-says.html
Nuclear power, which Germany and
Switzerland plan to exit following Japan’s Fukushima disaster,
is needed to meet world energy demand and cut carbon emissions,
according to the head of the International Energy Agency.  “We need it,” Maria van der Hoeven, the agency’s
executive director, said in an interview in her Paris office
days after taking the helm of the adviser to 28 energy-consuming
nations. “Nuclear power is necessary for our energy future.”  The share of atomic power globally will increase from 6
percent in 2008 to 8 percent in 2035, the agency forecast in its
2010 World Energy Outlook, published in November before Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant was devastated by a March 11
earthquake and subsequent tsunami. Demand for electricity is
expected to grow faster than any other form of energy, with a
tripling in China over the period, the report said.  The Japanese crisis triggered public protests in Europe
against atomic power and prompted Chancellor Angela Merkel of
Germany, one of 14 European Union nations that generate nuclear
energy, to decide to permanently halt all reactors by 2022.
Switzerland, a non-EU member, also decided to phase out atomic
power and Italy scrapped a project to develop reactors.  The IEA’s upcoming outlook,  to be published  in November,
will examine the effects of a “low-nuclear scenario,”
according to Van der Hoeven. “It will show what will happen if
nuclear is not going to be part of the energy mix anymore.”  “What we see in Germany is that there will be greater coal
and gas and imports from France of nuclear energy,” said the
former Dutch economy minister, who will be based in a country
that relies on nuclear output from 58 reactors for more than
three-quarters of its needs.  France has criticized the German decision. French ministers
and lawmakers have said the resulting lower generating capacity
will make Germany more reliant on French nuclear power, possibly
putting strain on European power markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London 
 Lnguyen35@bloomberg.net ;  Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  