-- 
NYC’s John Liu Refuses to Detail $32 Million in Pension Costs

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/nyc-s-liu-keeps-32-million-in-pension-costs-secret-as-openness-has-limits.html
New York City Comptroller  John Liu ,
who campaigned for office pledging transparency in his
supervision of municipal pensions, won’t provide records on $32
million in “organizational costs” that his biggest fund paid
to money managers.  The $41.8-billion New York City Employees Retirement
System, whose 347,000 members are the most of any U.S. municipal
retirement fund,  reported  $28.8 million in such expenses for
private-equity investments and $3.1 million for real estate in
the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. That’s enough money to pay
almost 1,000 retirees their average annual  pensions  of $33,000.  Documents describing the payments “are derived from
information from private-equity companies and real-estate
partnerships which if disclosed would cause substantial injury
to the competitive position” of the firms and therefore are
exempt from  New York ’s freedom of information law, Phillip Hom,
the comptroller’s records access officer, said in an Aug. 11
letter. Bloomberg News had requested details of the expenses.  Private-equity firms, which pool money from investors to
buy companies, fix them and sell them for a profit, have sought
to keep their business models hidden, even when working for
pension funds that manage money for the public. At least  11
states  have enacted laws limiting access to details about the
firms’ tactics and portfolio companies, and in New York, the
freedom of information law grants an exception for trade
secrets, or proprietary business strategies.  “The organizational costs are start-up payments to each of
about 100 private-equity funds in which the New York employees’
pension system invests along with other institutional investors,
such as legal fees and travel expenses for managers,” Larry Schloss, Liu’s chief investment officer, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “The costs are shared proportionately among the
investors depending on the size of their commitment to each
fund.”  Placement Agents  Liu’s office wouldn’t detail the expenses or say whether
placement agents -- middlemen who refer private-equity firms to
pension funds and who have been at the center of scandals in New
York and  California  -- got any of the money.  Liu’s decision to withhold specifics is ill-advised, said
 Arthur Levitt , a former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Inquiries about who received payments from
the pension fund “are fair and legitimate,” he said.  ‘Complete Transparency’  “Municipal pension funds should operate in an environment
of complete transparency,” said Levitt, a board member of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP. “They represent the
interests of thousands of municipal employees, many of whom are
relatively unsophisticated investors. The public interest is
served by the comptroller giving a response to such questions.”  While public pension funds hold back some details about
private-equity firms they use, it’s unusual for a fund to break
out such organizational payments as a separate category from
management fees, said Tim Friedman, head of U.S. operations for
Preqin Ltd., a London-based private-equity research firm.  “Is it an individual?” Friedman said. “Or is it a
company? If it was an individual, God knows what’s going on.”  Many funds record such expenses as part of their private-
equity management fees, and it’s unclear whether they would
disclose them if asked. The other four funds Liu supervises
don’t break out separate organizational costs.  Liu, 44, a Democrat, was elected after vowing to open the
operations of the five  New York City  employee pension funds the
comptroller supervises to public scrutiny. His pledges followed
a scandal in which a former Democratic city and state
comptroller,  Alan Hevesi , admitted getting almost $1 million in
payments and favors for himself and his friends from investment
firms in return for hiring them to manage pension assets.  Banning Gifts  Liu  banned  gifts to comptroller’s office staff, mandated
disclosure of contacts between investment managers and his
employees and required firms to disclose fees paid to middlemen.
He also created  websites  with information on city contracts and
advocated webcasts of pension board meetings.  “The New York City pension funds have taken unprecedented
steps toward increasing transparency and are now among national
leaders in this area,” Michael Loughran, Liu’s spokesman, said
in an Aug. 19 e-mail. “We remain committed to building on our
achievements but will not release any information that is
regarded as a trade secret, the disclosure of which could hurt
the performance of the systems’ portfolio and, ultimately, city
taxpayers.”  Loughran said the comptroller wasn’t available for an
interview.  As of May 31, the five New York funds Liu supervises had
 $121 billion in assets , including $7.35 billion in private
equity and $2.6 billion in real estate.  Fired Managers  Liu’s refusal to divulge private-equity and real-estate
payments isn’t the first time the comptroller has declined to
make public information about the pension system’s actions. Only
after Bloomberg News filed requests under New York’s Freedom of
Information law did Liu disclose the identities of at least 10
money managers he fired for poor performance.  In response to one such request, the office disclosed in
September 2010 that the fund had terminated Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Breeden Capital Management, headed by former
SEC chairman  Richard Breeden , in May of that year. Liu didn’t
want to embarrass the firms, his spokeswoman, Sharon Lee, said
at the time.  Unlike funds in some states, New York City’s pension system
doesn’t publicly post data on the performance of individual
private-equity firms managing its assets. Liu has vowed to post
those figures online by December 2012.  Robert Freeman, executive director of the New York State
 Committee on Open Government , said records on the pension
system’s payments to private-equity and real-estate firms don’t
qualify as trade secrets and must be disclosed under the
freedom-of-information law.  ‘Painfully Simple’  “It’s painfully simple,” Freeman said. “In New York, and
in all likelihood much of the rest of the nation, records that
indicate how the government spends public money are public.”  Bloomberg News is appealing the comptroller’s decision to
keep the information secret.  For the New York City Employees Retirement System, private-
equity firms account for half of $175.3 million in investment
expenses, while those firms managed just 7 percent of assets.
The fund represents 347,000 clerks, accountants, social workers,
corrections officers and sanitation workers.  In addition to the $28.8 million in organizational costs,
the fund paid $58.8 million in management fees to 98 private-
equity firms in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. These
firms held $2.6 billion of the fund’s $35.4 billion in net
assets.  New York’s four other funds represent teachers, school
administrators, firefighters and police. The five city funds had
$426.8 million in investment expenses in fiscal 2010, according
to New York’s  comprehensive annual financial report .  Not Enough Assets  New York’s pension program doesn’t have enough assets to
cover its obligation to current and future retirees. To help
make up the difference, the city will spend about  $8.4 billion 
of its $66 billion budget this fiscal year, or one in five tax
dollars, to pay pension benefits.  Citing these costs, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  last
year created a Pension and Investment Office in the city Finance
Department, and appointed Ranji Nagaswami, a former  fund manager 
with AllianceBernstein Holding LP, as its chief  investment
adviser . He chose Carolyn Wolpert, a former attorney in the city
Law Department, as chief pension administrator.  Marc LaVorgna , a spokesman for the mayor and the pension
officials, said Nagaswami and Wolpert weren’t available to
discuss the comptroller’s decision to withhold information about
the $32 million in costs. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP.  Openness about the investments and costs of New York
pension funds is especially important given the lack of market
experience of the retirees who count on them, Levitt said.  “Because of the nature of that constituency, transparency
is essential,” Levitt said. “Nontransparency leaves investors
in the dark, and that is not constructive with respect to
maintaining fair and open markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net  and
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 