-- 
Save Habitats by Giving More Land to Solar Power: Robert Glennon

-- B y   R o b e r t   G l e n n o n
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/obama-s-weakness-leading-to-republican-overreach-ramesh-ponnuru.html
One might think this would be a good
time to be in the solar power business in the U.S. After all,
federal and state subsidies are reducing the costs of installing
solar energy systems, and renewable portfolio standards in 29
states require electric utilities to generate some portion of
the energy they deliver from renewable sources.  Yet in the past month, three U.S. solar power companies
have gone bankrupt -- most recently Solyndra Inc. of  California .
Solar power hasn’t become a major player on the nation’s energy
stage.  The industry faces a number of difficulties. The weak
economy has made it challenging to secure financing for new
plants. Chinese competition is aggressive. Creating new solar-
power generation facilities in the U.S. has been difficult
partly because water, needed to run most large-scale plants, is
scarce in the sunny desert Southwest where it makes most sense
to build them.  But the biggest challenge for expanding solar energy use in
the U.S. is to find the enormous tracts of land it will need.  A 1,000-megawatt power plant fueled by natural gas, coal or
nuclear fission occupies less than 1,000 acres. Solar, in
contrast, needs thousands of acres. A concentrated solar power
plant uses a steam cycle to spin a turbine, which generates
electricity, and each one of these requires 6,000 acres. As for
photovoltaic plants, whose cells directly convert solar
radiation into electrical current, each one requires about
12,000 acres.  Limited Capacity  Even these large numbers don’t fully capture how much land
is needed, because they don’t take into account solar’s limited
production capacity. A typical fossil-fuel power plant works
around the clock at 90 percent capacity. A solar plant can’t
match that, because darkness and inclement weather restrict its
output to about 20 percent to 30 percent. So it takes three or
four solar plants to generate as many megawatt hours of
electricity as can be produced by one fossil-fuel plant.  This is why we can’t expect to draw enough energy from
solar systems constructed on city rooftops to replace fossil-
fuel generated power. Two ambitious photovoltaic projects in
 Southern California  in 2009 and 2010 succeeded in installing
only a few hundred megawatts of solar capacity. While this is
nothing to sneeze at, it’s about the same amount that just one
large concentrated solar-power plant would generate. To get the
amount of power we need, solar plants will have to be spread out
on enormous tracts of land.  Consider what this means, for instance, in California,
where the state government has set a goal of generating 33
percent of its electricity from renewable sources. To get all
this power from solar energy would require building solar plants
on at least 270 square miles of land.  California is a big state, to be sure, but solar companies
have so far found it difficult to find even the five or six
square miles needed for a single plant. Private land is
appropriate for solar- power plants , especially low-quality
farmland. But few farmers own the amount of contiguous land
needed, which means solar companies must negotiate with multiple
landowners in order to secure enough land.  For this reason, land owned by the federal government is
vital. Of course, some kinds of federal land aren’t well-suited
for solar development. National parks, monuments and forests are
obviously inappropriate.  But some lands controlled by the Bureau of Land Management
could work -- particularly those that have been severely
degraded by past uses, such as gravel pits or mine tailings.
However, it has proven difficult to obtain the agreement of all
stakeholders that specific parcels of federal land are
appropriate for solar plants.  Arizona  Land  In Arizona, for example, where sunlight is plentiful, the
bureau controls 12 million acres. Yet, a two-year effort by the
BLM to identify possible sites for solar-power plants on its
land in Arizona yielded consensus on only 25,000 acres. Every
acre of the bureau’s land in Arizona seems to have at least one
environmental organization or citizen’s group that wants to
preserve it.  American Indian lands offer another potential option for
solar projects. However, many reservations are remote from the
urban centers that need more power, so building there would mean
also constructing new high-capacity transmission lines, which
would require still more land.  Rooftops, agricultural land, severely degraded public lands
and Indian reservations will provide some space for solar power.
But even collectively, these options aren’t enough to wean the
country from electricity generated by fossil fuels. If we are
serious about significantly increasing the percentage of the
nation’s power generated by solar energy, we must locate a large
number of solar plants on low-value public lands.  Southwestern deserts provide accessible and truly
appropriate areas for building solar power plants. For example,
the  Mojave Desert , located in the triangle of southern  Nevada ,
southeastern California and western Arizona, occupies about
54,000 square miles, much of it controlled by the BLM. High-
quality habitat, as well as valuable recreational and scenic
land, has already been preserved. Much of the rest is scrub
desert, which provides only marginal habitat for threatened and
endangered species. It makes sense to locate solar plants on
this land, especially along interstate highways and in areas
already bisected by high-voltage transmission lines and trampled
from decades of grazing cattle and driving off-road vehicles.  Environmental groups have opposed the bureau’s granting of
permits for solar-power plants on these marginal lands because
surveys have disclosed small numbers of important species,
particularly the threatened desert tortoise. This opposition is
understandable because all undisturbed land is habitat for some
species. But not all habitats are crucial for the protection of
endangered and threatened species.  Failure to act aggressively to develop renewable energy
sources means allowing global  climate change  to continue apace.
The potential effects would devastate the very species that
environmental groups wish to protect.  The future of solar power in the U.S. is in doubt. In 2009,
it produced only about 0.02 percent of the nation’s power. If we
are serious about making solar energy a viable option, we must
invest in the land necessary to make that happen.  (Robert Glennon, a professor of law at the  University of
Arizona , in Tucson, is the author of “Unquenchable: America’s
Water Crisis and What to Do About It.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Glennon at  glennon@law.arizona.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  