-- 
Obama Faces 27-Week Jobless Rise as This Century Is Different

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-07T17:45:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/obama-confronts-27-week-unemployment-increase-as-this-century-is-different.html
President  Barack Obama , under
pressure from Republican lawmakers and constituents to reduce
the highest jobless levels in more than a quarter century, faces
a more persistent, underlying challenge: long-term unemployment.  He will lay out his plans in a speech tomorrow to help
bring down a jobless rate stuck around 9 percent or higher since
April 2009. One hurdle is finding employment for people who’ve
been out of work more than half a year as their ranks swell to
the largest since the Great Depression.  “He needs to come up with a plan that is doable and gets
passed by Congress,” said  John Silvia , chief economist of  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “An
unemployment rate of 9 percent has been associated with not
getting re-elected” and “it’s going to be difficult for him to
overcome that.”  Ronald Reagan  is the only U.S. president since World War II
to win re-election with a jobless rate above 6 percent. Obama’s
approval rating was 43 percent in a Sept. 2-4 Gallup daily poll,
down from 68 percent in January 2009 during his first three days
in office; 50 percent disapproved of the job he’s doing.  “Part of it’s not his fault,”  Jim Glassman , a senior
economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  New York , said of Obama.
Still, “it’s counterproductive for him to blame the past.” If
his message is “going to be on revving economic growth up,
making things easier for businesses, lightening the tax burden
on businesses, you’d be surprised at how favorable the response
would be.”  ‘No Mystery’  “There’s no mystery in the jobs situation,” Glassman
added. “Companies won’t hire unless they have a reason if they
don’t have the business.”  The dilemma for Obama is developing policy responses for a
problem that some economists, including Silvia and researchers
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond in  Virginia , say is
rooted in hard-to-fix, structural forces such as increased
global competition and people’s lack of the right skills. Any
solutions likely will need to “increase the ability and
willingness of the unemployed to find work,” Richmond Fed
researcher Thomas A. Lubik said in a Sept. 2 telephone
interview.  Unlike recessions of the previous century, the 18-month
contraction that began with the collapse of the subprime-
mortgage market in 2007 and ended in June 2009 hit employees in
almost every industry with equal force.  Sustained Decline  It also produced the first sustained decline on record of
the employed labor force, which fell to 139.6 million last month
from about 145 million in August 2008, reflecting a larger
number of people who have given up on looking for work.  The share of long-term unemployed as a percentage of
overall joblessness peaked at 46 percent in May 2010 in the
aftermath of the recession and has remained stalled at or above
42 percent every month since March 2010. That compares with the
historical average of 15 percent from 1960 to 2010 and a
previous peak of 26 percent set in June 1983 following the 1981-
1982 slump, according to Lubik, a senior economist, and Andreas
Hornstein, a Richmond Fed vice president, who have  studied the
shift .  With about a third of all unemployed out of work for more
than a year, “the past offers some dismal prospects for the
near-term future,” Hornstein said in the telephone interview.
“Saying that what we are experiencing now is just another
jobless recovery looks like an understatement.”  Moved in Lockstep  For much of the past 50 years, the percentage of people out
of work for at least 27 weeks moved in lockstep with the overall
 unemployment rate , according to data from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, Haver Analytics and calculations by Hornstein and
Lubik. That correlation began to change in the 1990s, when the
ranks of the chronically unemployed began to fall more slowly
during recoveries, the Richmond Fed researchers said.  A primary cause of the shift is a decline in the so-called
exit rate, or rate at which someone without a job returns to
work, Hornstein and Lubik said. The odds of finding a job within
a month of becoming unemployed during recessions have dropped to
20 percent from more than 40 percent in 2000, they concluded in
a brief this month.  One reason is globalization, beginning with the acceptance
of Japanese vehicles in the U.S. and then propelled by the  North
American Free Trade Agreement  in 1994 and  China ’s entry into the
 World Trade Organization  in 2001, according to Silvia.  Improving Productivity  Improving productivity among U.S. companies, along with a
greater use of capital and technology, also has led to a reduced
need for labor in industries that were traditionally accustomed
to less competition, he said.  Another component is the collapse of housing prices that
began in 2006 and 2007. This has made it harder for property
owners to move to areas with new opportunities, contributing to
higher levels of structural unemployment, Silvia said.  A revival in building helped spur previous recoveries,
typically contributing as much as 0.75 percentage point to
growth of gross domestic product adjusted for inflation,
Glassman said. Construction, which accounted for as much as 5.7
percent of payrolls in 2006, now has fallen to 4.2 percent.  The industry remains “dormant,” Glassman said. “Builders
put up too many houses during the real-estate speculation of the
last decade and we need time to absorb this.”  The economy lost a total of 512,000 payroll jobs in the
year after the recession ended, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on Labor Department data. That compares with
239,000 in the 12 months after the July 1990-March 1991
contraction and 562,000 in the year following the March 2001-
November 2001 slump.  Net Zero Growth  Employment unexpectedly stagnated in August, producing a
net payroll growth of zero, the first time that’s happened since
February 1945. The jobless rate stayed at 9.1 percent, according
to data from the Labor Department released Sept. 2.  “What is different this time is the recession has been
much deeper than the previous two,” Lubik said. “We still
think this recovery is likely to be another jobless recovery,
but on a much larger scale. The unemployment rate and share of
long-term unemployment are going to come down very, very
slowly.”  Fed officials have tried to spur growth by holding the
target for the U.S. benchmark interest rate near zero since
December 2008 and are pledging to keep it there through at least
mid-2013. They’ve also expanded the central bank’s balance sheet
to more than $2.8 trillion. Meanwhile, Fed researchers have said
they are focused on determining how much of the elevated
unemployment rate is amenable to further central-bank actions.  Role of Congress  With Lubik and Hornstein concluding structural forces have
caused a large share of the increase in long-term joblessness,
“this would require labor-market policies that the Fed can’t do
anything about,” Lubik said. “That would have to be the role
of Congress.”  Obama is scheduled to appear before a joint session of the
House and Senate tomorrow, with a plan to spark job growth by
injecting more than $300 billion into the economy next year,
mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and direct aid
to state and local governments, according to people familiar
with the administration’s deliberations. Republicans, who
control the U.S. House, have signaled resistance to new spending
that would add to the federal  budget deficit .  Lisa Epperson, a 32-year-old mother of two from  Dallas ,
said she has sent out more than 400 resumes since January, when
she was laid off from a part-time job paying $9 an hour as a
Levy Restaurants cashier.  Job Applications  She’s applied to fast-food chain  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  three or
four times and, as a former certified nursing assistant and
dietary aide, also has tried the Methodist Health System.  While she’s gotten one or two calls back for interviews in
the past month, Epperson said none led to work. Now she’s in the
process of obtaining two online degrees from the University of
Phoenix in psychology.  “I’m a little frustrated,” Epperson said. “I feel like
the older you get, the harder it becomes for you to get a job.
I’m not getting my chance even though I’m going back to school,
so I don’t know what the future is going to hold for everybody
else. Personally I think Obama is doing the best he can. I
really don’t know if there’s anything he can say that will
help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  