-- 
Oil Industry Urges Boost in U.S. Spending to Speed Drill Permits

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/oil-industry-urges-boost-in-u-s-spending-to-speed-drill-permits.html
Lobbyists for oil producers  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  are pushing Congress to increase
funding for the U.S. agency that reviews and issues drilling
permits.  Approving more drilling or mining on public land would help
boost domestic oil and gas production by more than 75 percent in
the next two decades, boosting U.S. employment and the Treasury
receipts, according to a report released today by the  American
Petroleum Institute  in Washington.  “Ultimately we need that energy, so we need more
capability in the permitting,”  Jack Gerard , chief executive
officer of the industry group, said in an interview. “We have
advocated for them to have an increased budget.”  President  Barack Obama , who will unveil his plan to boost
job growth in the American economy tomorrow, has proposed ending
$46.2 billion in oil and gas subsidies to lower the  budget
deficit , a step that Gerard says would be a mistake.  Instead, more staff at the Interior Department would help
get permits approved through the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, Regulation and Enforcement, which would lead to more
royalties paid by oil and gas companies and more economic
activity that would provide more tax revenues, Gerard said.  “We pay more than our fair share,” Gerard said. “We want
to create jobs and generate even more revenue.”  Drilling Permits  The permit process tightened after a BP Plc well ruptured
last year, spilling more than 4 million barrels of oil into the
Gulf of Mexico. The industry says that drilling approval is too
slow. The U.S. has issued an average of two deep-water permits a
month since May, compared with an average of about seven deep-
water permits a month in the previous three years, according to
data released on July 28 by Greater New Orleans Inc., a business
development group in  Louisiana .  The Obama administration says that while there have been
some delays in drilling approvals, its data show more approvals
than the industry contends. For shallow-water wells, permits
averaged seven per month since late last year, compared with
eight a month in 2009, according to Melissa Schwartz, a
spokeswoman for the bureau. Since February, 37 unique wells were
approved in deep water, Schwartz said in an e-mail.  Obama has proposed cutting the budget of the offshore-
drilling bureau in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, while the
Republican-controlled House of Representatives was considering
legislation that would have increased that funding before it
took a break for August recess, according to API.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  