-- 
Oil Rises as Storm Threatens Gulf

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-07T20:38:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/oil-in-new-york-rises-on-forecast-supply-decline-as-storm-threatens-gulf.html
Crude oil climbed the most in four
weeks in  New York  as a weather system threatened to reduce U.S.
production from the  Gulf of Mexico , where shut-ins from last
week’s storm probably curbed stockpiles.  Futures rose 3.9 percent as the disturbance in Mexico’s Bay
of Campeche strengthened. The Energy Department may report that
inventories fell 2 million barrels last week as Tropical Storm
Lee shut output, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Oil also
rose on speculation President  Barack Obama  will announce plans
for more than $300 billion in measures to boost the economy.  “A new storm is building up strength, which is giving the
market a boost,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas
Commodity Futures Inc. in New York. “The API report tonight and
the DOE report tomorrow will probably show a crude draw. There’s
also optimism that President Obama will announce additional
stimulus in his upcoming speech.”  Crude oil for October delivery rose $3.32 to settle at
$89.34 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since Aug. 10. Oil has gained 21 percent in the
past year.  Prices climbed from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 2.97 million barrels to 349.2 million.
October oil gained $3.54, or 4.1 percent, to $89.56 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement advanced $2.91, or 2.6
percent, to end the session at $115.80 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe Exchange. The European benchmark contract was at
premium of $26.46 to U.S. futures, compared with yesterday’s
record $26.87 based on settlement prices.  DOE Report  The Energy Department will release its weekly stockpile
data at 11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington . Both reports are a day
late because of the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 5.  The report will show that gasoline supplies decreased 1.4
million barrels in the week ended Sept. 2, according to the
median of 15 responses in the survey. Analysts were split over
whether stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, slipped or increased last week.  Gasoline for October delivery rose 8.54 cents, or 3
percent, to settle at $2.908 a gallon in New York.  “The expectation that U.S. stock levels will be down due
to shut-ins in the Gulf of Mexico and the missing barrels from
 Libya  are keeping prices up,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “Oil is stronger than all the
other markets around the world, so if there are signs the debt
crisis cannot be overcome, I see a bigger downside for oil. But
at the moment, oil is supported.”  Tropical Disturbance  The disturbance in the Bay of Campeche is showing “signs
of organization” and may strengthen into a tropical cyclone in
the next two days, the National Hurricane Center  said  at 11 a.m.
New York time. The bay, where conditions are conducive for
storms, holds rigs and platforms owned by  Petroleos Mexicanos .  About 36.9 percent of U.S. oil production and 18.1 percent
of natural gas output from the Gulf of  Mexico  has been halted
after Tropical Storm Lee passed through the region, the  Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said
today. The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of the country’s natural gas production.  “We’re moving higher on short-term headlines,” said
Stephen Schork, president of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based
Schork Group Inc.  Address to Congress  President Obama will address Congress tomorrow amid
unemployment that remains at 9.1 percent more than two years
after the recession’s official end. He plans to propose sparking
job growth, mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and
direct aid to state and local governments.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 2.9 percent to
1,198.62 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 2.5
percent to 11,414.86.  The dollar fell 0.7 percent to $1.4099 against the euro
after  Germany ’s top court rejected constitutional challenges to
the nation’s participation in the region’s rescue funds. A
falling U.S. currency bolsters the appeal of dollar-denominated
raw materials such as oil.  Libya may take at least 18 months to restore oil production
to prewar levels because of delays in establishing political
stability and the advanced age of the country’s oilfields,
according to Bank of America Corp. The loss of the country’s
barrels has reduced the availability of light, sweet crude oil,
in  Europe , which bolstered Brent prices.  ‘Optimistic’ Projections  Estimates by Libya’s National Transitional Council that
output can be restored to about 600,000 barrels a day within
weeks are “optimistic,”  Francisco Blanch , Bank of America’s
New York-based head of commodities research, said in an e-mailed
report dated yesterday.  Libyan oil output slumped to 45,000 barrels a day in August
from 1.59 million barrels in January, according to a Bloomberg
News survey, after the revolt to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year
rule disrupted pumping.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 593,480
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 547,932
contracts yesterday, 19 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 