-- 
Olympian Carl Lewis Loses Court Bid to Run for New Jersey State Senate

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-08T02:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/olympian-carl-lewis-s-name-can-t-appear-on-new-jersey-state-senate-ballot.html
The name of Carl Lewis, the Olympic
track-and-field gold medalist, can’t appear on the November
ballot for a New Jersey state senate seat, a federal judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Noel Hillman in Camden, New Jersey,
said Lewis’s constitutional right to equal protection won’t be
violated if he’s kept from running. New Jersey Secretary of
State Kim Guadagno, a Republican who is also lieutenant
governor, ruled in April that the 50-year-old athlete was
ineligible to run because he didn’t meet a four-year residency
requirement.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Philadelphia had temporarily
barred that ruling, saying Lewis’s name could appear on the
ballot as a Democratic candidate in the uncontested Eighth
Senate District primary election in June. The appeals court told
Hillman to consider whether the residency requirement violated
Lewis’s constitutional rights.  “The durational residency requirement does not in any way
discriminate against plaintiff or deprive him of fundamental
rights,” Hillman ruled yesterday. “The restriction is not
permanent, but limited to a relatively short temporal period.”  William M. Tambussi , an attorney for Lewis, filed a notice
of appeal of today’s decision in district court.  ‘Not Unexpected’  “Today’s decision was not unexpected given the district
court’s prior ruling,” Tambussi said. “The decision is
inconsistent with the Third Circuit decision,” he said,
referring to the Philadelphia appeals court.  Guadagno refused to certify Lewis as a candidate for the
November election, saying in an Aug. 15 letter to three county
clerks in the district that she stood by her initial decision.
The ballots for the November race are scheduled to be printed by
Sept. 18.  Lewis grew up in New Jersey before moving to Texas and
California. He has been campaigning to represent a district that
has traditionally elected Republicans. Incumbent Dawn Marie Addiego, a Republican, was appointed to fill the vacancy left by
Phil Haines, who was tapped for a judgeship.  The nine-time Olympic gold medalist argued that he bought a
home in New Jersey in 2005, which made him a state resident. He
got a state driver’s license in 2006 and became a volunteer
assistant track coach at Willingboro High School, his alma
mater, in 2007.  Guadagno said the record showed Lewis didn’t buy his
current home until Nov. 16, 2007, eight days after the cutoff.
She also argued that Lewis certified he was a California
resident each time he voted there in three elections in 2008 and
one in 2009.  The federal case is Lewis v. Guadagno, 1:11-cv-02381, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden). The appeal is
Lewis v. Guadagno, 11-2109, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 