-- 
London Police Make 16th Arrest in News Corp. Hacking Probe

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T15:32:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/london-police-make-16th-arrest-in-news-corp-phone-hacking-probe.html
London police probing phone hacking
at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid arrested a 35-year-old
man at his home today, while the  Guardian newspaper  said one of
its own reporters has been questioned over leaks in the case.  The man was detained on suspicion of conspiring to
intercept voice-mail messages and later released on bail,
 Metropolitan Police  said in a statement. He is the 16th person
arrested since a renewed probe of the newspaper began in
January. The Guardian separately said its reporter Amelia Hill,
who has written extensively about the case, was questioned
recently by police investigating leaks from inside the force.  “Journalists would no doubt be concerned if the police
sought to criminalize conversations between off-record sources
and reporters,” the Guardian said in an e-mailed statement.  The police investigation, and revelations by the Guardian
that the News of the World hacked the voice mail of a murdered
school girl, led to News Corp.’s decision to close the tabloid
and scrap a planned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY) 
Authorities are also probing whether police officers were paid
for news and whether journalists hacked computers for stories.  A London police detective investigating the hacking was
arrested last month over claims he leaked information about the
case to the media. U.K. newspapers have on several occasions
published details of phone-hacking arrests before public
announcements were made.  Murder Victim  The 190-year-old Guardian took down the News of the World,
Britain’s best-selling Sunday newspaper, by exposing that the
Rupert Murdoch-owned tabloid hacked the voice mail of murder
victim Milly Dowler.  Four former executives at News Corp.’s U.K. unit testified
yesterday before Parliament, including two men who challenged
testimony given to lawmakers in July by  James Murdoch , the
company’s deputy chief operating officer, about details
surrounding his knowledge of the scandal.  A spokesperson for New York-based News Corp.’s U.K. unit
declined to comment.  Previous arrests include former editors and journalists who
worked at the newspaper when private detective  Glenn Mulcaire 
was paid to hack into celebrities’ voice mails. Former News of
the World editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson  and former
managing editor Stuart Kuttner are among those that have been
questioned by police this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  