-- 
One-Man Lobby Dimon Presses Washington to Ease Bank Regulations

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/one-man-lobby-dimon-presses-washington-to-ease-bank-rules-influential-50.html
The event was a June 8 American
Bankers Association conference on international economics in
Atlanta, and the keynote speaker was Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke . During a question-and-answer period,  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , waited
patiently while several other bank executives threw polite
queries at the central bank head, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its October special issue on the 50 Most Influential
people in global finance.  (For a slide show of the Bloomberg Markets Most
Influential 50,  click here .)  When his turn came, Dimon spent several minutes reeling off
positive changes in the financial system since 2008, suggesting
that the new global  capital requirements  under Basel III and the
rules being formulated under the Dodd-Frank legislation are
overkill.  “We know there are 300 rules coming,” he told Bernanke.
“Has anyone bothered to study the cumulative effect of all these
things?”  The implication was that the Fed, which will enforce the
new rules for big banks such as  JPMorgan (JPM) , hadn’t studied the
impact -- which Bernanke said was true. “It’s just too
complicated,” he said.  The Dimon-Bernanke encounter touched off a cloudburst of
commentary in the financial community.  Taking on Bernanke  “Jamie is really the only bank CEO who has the clout to
take on Bernanke like that,” says  Paul Miller , a former examiner
for the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and an analyst at
FBR Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  “It wasn’t a radical question,” says H. Rodgin Cohen,
senior chairman of New York law firm  Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP,
which represents numerous Wall Street firms. “It was the fact
that he had the courage to speak out at all.”  The financial crisis ended the careers of several Wall
Street CEOs -- men such as Bear Stearns Cos.’ James Cayne and
 Hank Greenberg  of American International Group Inc. It helped
cement the reputation of Dimon, 55, as the most powerful banker
in the  United States  -- and perhaps the world.  When Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  needed someone to
save Bear Stearns from collapse in March 2008, he turned to
Dimon, according to Paulson’s book “On the Brink” (Business
Plus, 2010). And Dimon answered the call when  Sheila Bair ,
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., was searching
for someone to take over Washington Mutual Inc., the largest
U.S. thrift.  “Jamie is a talent,” Paulson told Bloomberg Television last
year, lauding Dimon as a strong leader who was able in little
time to pull together a difficult deal to save Bear Stearns.  Secretary Dimon?  The comments led to speculation that Dimon might eventually
replace  Timothy Geithner  as President Barack Obama’s Treasury
secretary.  Dimon, who was fired from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  by his longtime
mentor Sandy Weill 13 years ago, emerged from the financial
crisis a born-again hero. His bank took $25 billion in aid from
the  U.S. Treasury  out of patriotic duty, not because it needed
the money, he often says. Much like his company’s namesake John Pierpont Morgan, Dimon was heralded as the lender of last resort
when other institutions faced a run on their assets.  “There’s nothing canned about Jamie Dimon,” says Anthony Scaramucci, founding partner of SkyBridge Capital LLC and a
fellow alumnus of Tufts University. “That honesty and freshness
makes him real to his employees, makes him real to the press,
makes him real to politicians. He’s a no-bulls--t kind of guy.
He’s the top dog.”  Sarkozy Tiff  Dimon’s gentle combat with Bernanke wasn’t the first time
the CEO has confronted a public figure. He sparred with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  over what Dimon called irrational bank
rules at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , in
January. Sarkozy bridled.  “Don’t be accusatory of us,” Sarkozy said during a panel
discussion.  With a record $17.4 billion in earnings last year, JPMorgan
has emerged as the U.S.’s most profitable bank, and the world’s
third most profitable, after  Industrial & Commercial Bank  of
China Ltd. and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  In 2012, the bank
will likely surpass  Bank of America Corp.  as the largest U.S.
lender by assets.  Dimon has not been without his challenges. His WaMu
purchase saddled the bank with tens of billions of dollars of
toxic mortgages, while Chase bank’s own home-equity loans have
also been spilling red ink. And JPMorgan has paid about $300
million in fines and forfeited another $647 million in future
investment fees to settle criminal and civil charges related to
the sale, before Dimon took over, of derivatives to
municipalities, including near-bankrupt Jefferson County,
 Alabama .  An Alabama Ally  JPMorgan neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Notwithstanding Jefferson County, Dimon has an ally in
Alabama. While the JPMorgan CEO was grilling Bernanke, Spencer Bachus, an Alabama Republican and chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, was already preparing a hearing to
question whether new regulations “could put American companies
at a competitive disadvantage and harm our economy,” Bachus said
in a press release.  That’s one of the points Dimon has made in his criticism of
Dodd-Frank.  Going forward, Dimon’s advantage is that he keeps
meticulous track of every detail of the huge bank’s operation,
Cohen says.  “It’s not the charm or the charisma that sets him apart,”
Cohen says. “It’s the depth of knowledge that he has of all
aspects of the institution he runs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 