-- 
Optimum Coal Says Mercuria Energy Now Owns 5.71% of South African Company

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-07T17:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/optimum-coal-says-mercuria-energy-now-owns-5-71-of-south-african-company.html
Mercuria Energy Asset Management BV
bought a 5.7 percent stake in  South Africa ’s  Optimum Coal
Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., target of a proposed takeover offer from rival
commodities trader Glencore International Plc.  Optimum disclosed the holding in a statement to the
Johannesburg stock exchange today. Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore earlier said it had increased its holding in Optimum to
24.7 percent from 23.9 percent by buying stock at 38 rand a
share ($5.32), a price that values the company at about $1.3
billion.  Glencore first announced a holding in Optimum last month
and said Sept. 1 it had proposed a cash offer of 34 rand a share
for South Africa’s fourth-largest coal exporter. A unit of
closely held Geneva-based Mercuria said in February 2010 it had
signed an agreement to market Optimum’s uncommitted export-
quality coal for at least 10 years.  “Mercuria would probably like to protect its marketing
agreement” and that’s why it’s increasing its Optimum
shareholding, Henk Groenewald, a portfolio manager at Coronation
Fund Managers in  Cape Town , which owns Optimum stock, said by
mobile phone today.  Patrick Prendergast, communications director for Mercuria
Energy Trading, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment on
his office phone or by e-mail outside of normal business hours.  Geneva-Based Trader  Optimum didn’t say how much Mercuria paid for the shares in
the coal producer. Its shares rose 1.3 percent to 37.50 rand by
the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg.  Glencore said last week it had secured agreements that may
expand its holding to 43.5 percent in Optimum, which owns mines
and port capacity.  Mercuria trades oil and energy products in more than 50
countries, the Geneva-based company says on its website. It sold
almost 92 million metric tons of crude oil and refined products
last year.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, advanced 6.2 percent to 405.75 pence in London trading
by the 4:30 p.m. close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  