-- 
Craigslist May Have ‘Lobbied’ for EBay Subpoena, Lawyer Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-16T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/oracle-tells-judge-settlement-talks-with-google-over-patents-warranted-.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s lawyer said Craigslist
Inc. may have “lobbied” for a criminal subpoena issued in a
federal probe into allegations the online auctioneer stole
confidential information from Craigslist.  The criminal subpoena issued last week and served on EBay
means the exchange of documents and information in Craigslist’s
lawsuit against EBay should be put on hold, EBay lawyer Mark
Lambert said at a hearing yesterday in state court in San
Francisco.  The online classified company claims in the lawsuit that
 San Jose , California-based EBay used proprietary information
from Craigslist to start a competing online ad site when the two
companies were negotiating over EBay buying a stake in
Craigslist. After winning two rulings that the case can proceed,
Craigslist is seeking to move ahead with discovery, where the
two sides exchange documents and interview witnesses.  “We believe they lobbied for” the subpoena and put it in
newspapers yesterday, Lambert said at the hearing. “It names
lots of individuals and creates tremendous uncertainty.”  “This is something that they took to the authorities, it’s
of their making,” Lambert told Superior Court Judge Richard Kramer, who is presiding over the civil case. “It’s a game
changer.”  ‘Alleged Criminal Activities’  The Sept. 7 grand jury subpoena to Craigslist seeks
information pertaining to “incidents where EBay employees
engaged in alleged criminal activities and misconduct focused
around the misappropriation of proprietary/confidential
information from Craigslist.”  It lists a February 2005 incident in which EBay founder
Pierre Omidyar allegedly requested information from EBay and
instructed employees to use Craigslist metrics to compare its
growth rates with those of EBay’s competing website called
Kijiji.  Anyone named in the subpoena may want to hire a lawyer and
may be unwilling to respond to civil subpoenas in the case,
Lambert said.  Michael Clyde, an attorney for Craigslist, told Kramer that
the criminal subpoena should have no impact on the civil case.  “There’s no reason why we can’t finally get started with
discovery in this case,” he said.  The subpoena “will not cause complete cessation of
anything,” Kramer said. It will be taken into account in
fashioning a discovery plan, he said. The judge scheduled the
next hearing in the case for Oct. 18.  EBay said Sept. 13 that the company is cooperating with the
U.S. Justice Department investigation.  “We will cooperate with any inquiry related to the
disputes between EBay and Craigslist,” Amanda Miller, an EBay
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “EBay believes that
Craigslist’s allegations against EBay are without merit.”  The civil case is Craigslist v. EBay, 475276, Superior
Court of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter about this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  