-- 
Orioles Win 5-4 in 11 Innings to Snap Yankees’ Run of Six Victories

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/orioles-win-5-4-in-11-innings-to-snap-yankees-run-of-six-victories.html
Mark Reynolds hit a run-scoring
single in the 11th inning as the Baltimore Orioles broke the New
York Yankees’ six-game winning streak with a 5-4 victory.  Reynolds was 0-for-5 with four strikeouts at Yankee Stadium
last night before he drove in Matt Angle for the winning run.  The Yankees committed four errors in the game, including a
fielding mistake by second baseman Eduardo Nunez in the 11th
that allowed Angle to reach base.  The Yankees (87-55) have won eight of their past 10 games
for the best record in the American League and lead the Boston
Red Sox by 2 1/2 games in the AL East. The Red Sox lost 11-10 to
Toronto last night in the third of four games against the Blue
Jays.  The Yankees took a 2-1 lead in the bottom of the first
inning on a two-run double by Alex Rodriguez.  After the Orioles scored three unanswered runs, New York
rookie catcher Jesus Montero tied the game with a two-run single
in the fourth.  The game lasted four hours, 23 minutes and followed New
York’s 5-3 victory over the Orioles in a game that ended at 2:15
a.m. local time yesterday following a four-hour rain delay.  The Yankees and Orioles will play a make-up game in
Baltimore today before New York heads to Los Angeles and Seattle
for three-game series against the Angels and Mariners.  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, the Blue Jays trailed 8-6
until a five-run eighth inning. Two runs were scored on bases-
loaded walks and three on Edwin Encarnacion’s double to give
them the win over the Red Sox.  Justin Verlander picked up his 22nd win of the season
yesterday for Detroit, pitching the Tigers to an 8-6 win over
the Cleveland Indians, while Oakland’s Guillermo Moscoso came
within four outs of a no-hitter in a 7-0 win over Kansas City.  The Tampa Bay Rays beat the Texas Rangers 5-4 as Desmond Jennings hit a solo home run in the bottom of the 10th inning.  -- Editors: Dex McLuskey, Erik Matuszewski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  