-- 
Tax Code Has Upside-Down Rewards for Good Behavior: Peter Orszag

-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/orszag-tax-code-has-mixed-rewards-for-good-behavior.html
As the supercommittee created
by Congress to cut $1.5 trillion from the federal deficit
over the coming decade begins its work, one thing that is
said to be on the agenda is  tax reform .  Given the complexities involved in a broad-scale overhaul
of the tax system, don’t hold your breath that we’ll see
anything comprehensive enacted this year.  If the committee wants to bring about constructive tax
reform that is a bit less ambitious, however, here’s an
idea: Change the tax breaks that are meant to encourage
people to do good things -- such as save for retirement,
buy real estate, get health insurance or give to charity --
into flat-rate credits that aren’t affected by the
taxpayer’s income. After all, it makes no sense, in terms
of economic efficiency or simple fairness, to have the size
of such incentives depend on earnings.  Consider the current deductions for retirement saving.
If a person with a high income contributes $1 to his 401(k)
plan, he saves 35 cents in income taxes. The contribution
is excluded from his taxable income, so his tax is reduced
by the amount of the contribution multiplied by the
marginal tax rate. And, this year, 35 percent is the
marginal rate on taxable incomes of more than $379,150.  A middle-income person contributing the same amount to
a 401(k) would save only 15 cents in income taxes. So the
system provides a smaller incentive for the middle-income
person to save for retirement.  It would be better if both people got the same tax
break per dollar. This is an idea that  Gene Sperling ,
President  Barack Obama ’s national economic adviser, has
previously  embraced  -- as did the bipartisan  deficit
commission  led by former Senator Pete Domenici and  Alice Rivlin , who was President  Bill Clinton ’s budget director.  Matching Contribution  In a  2006 paper , Jonathan Gruber of the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , William Gale of the  Brookings
Institution  and I laid out a specific way to make it work.
We proposed replacing the current deduction for retirement
saving with a 30 percent matching contribution from the
federal government for every dollar put into a tax-
preferred retirement account. Under such a system, if the
high-income person saved $1, the government would add 30
cents to the account, and if the middle-income person made
the same $1 contribution, the government match would also
be 30 cents. (Our proposal had some additional bells and
whistles, but that was the gist.)  Here’s the kicker: The available evidence suggests
that when high-income households make a contribution to a
tax-preferred retirement account like a 401(k), the dollars
deposited are very likely to have been saved anyway (in a
taxable account). The dollars contributed by lower- and
middle-income families, by contrast, are less likely to
have been saved absent the tax benefit.  So if our goal is to use the  tax code  to encourage
retirement saving, rather than just push people to shift
dollars from one account to another, the current system is
precisely upside-down. It offers larger per-dollar tax
incentives to big earners, who disproportionately respond
by shifting savings they would have kept anyway into a tax-
advantaged account. To encourage more saving, per-dollar
tax incentives should be larger at the bottom than at the
top.  A flat credit rate doesn’t quite go that far, but it
moves in the right direction.  What should the credit rate be? Estimates from the Tax
Policy Center, a joint venture of Brookings and the  Urban
Institute , suggest that a 30 percent credit would be about
equivalent, in terms of  tax revenue , with the current
deduction. The differences show up when you look at the
changes by income level. Roughly three-quarters of American
households face a marginal tax rate of 15 percent or less,
and for them, a 30 percent match rate would represent a
significantly bigger incentive to save. Households in the
35 percent marginal tax bracket, on the other hand, would
face a diminished impetus to save for retirement.  As a result, the  Tax Policy Center  estimates that
about a third of households in the middle fifth of the
 income distribution  would enjoy an average benefit of
almost $500. And about 40 percent of those in the top 1
percent would suffer an average loss of about $5,500.  Given the need for revenue, it might be even better to
set the credit rate lower, at a level that still holds
harmless those in the 15 percent marginal tax bracket. For
this, the credit rate would have to be about 18 percent. To
see why, consider how much it would cost, after taxes, for
a household in the 15 percent marginal tax bracket to
accumulate $1.18 in a 401(k). Under the current system,
that $1.18 would cost $1 after tax, since 15 percent of
$1.18 is 18 cents. Under the new system, the household
could also deposit $1, which wouldn’t reduce income taxes
but would trigger an 18 cent match from the government, so
again the after-tax cost of the $1.18 in the account would
be $1.  Larger Savings Incentive  The Tax Policy Center estimates suggest an 18 percent
match rate for retirement savings would raise about $400
billion in revenue over the next decade. And the result
wouldn’t increase marginal tax rates. Furthermore, it would
make the tax break more economically sensible while
providing an equal or larger savings incentive for three-
quarters of households. We could do worse.  This type of reform could easily be  extended  to tax
incentives for other things. The tax code provides more
than $5 trillion a decade in incentives intended to
encourage socially valued activities, including not only
retirement saving but also homeownership, health insurance
and charitable contributions. Most of these are also linked
to a household’s marginal tax bracket, so that higher-
income taxpayers receive larger per-dollar incentives than
lower-income taxpayers.  This approach is justifiable when a tax break is aimed
at accurate measurement of income -- as is the case for
deducting business expenses. For deductions that promote
socially valued activities, though, it makes little sense.
It is not only unfair, but also economically inefficient --
absent some evidence that high-income people are more
responsive to the tax break or generate larger social
benefits when they do respond. In most cases, neither of
these conditions passes the laugh test. All such tax breaks
should be made into flat credits that don’t depend on
income.  Since the change would make our tax system both more
efficient and fairer, Republicans and Democrats alike
should support it. Sorry to say, though, in this era of
hyper-polarized politics, I wouldn’t count on it.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 