-- 
Most Influential 50 in Global Finance List: Bloomberg Markets

-- B y   R o b e r t   S .   D i e t e r i c h
-- 
2011-09-07T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/most-influential-50-people-in-global-finance-full-list-bloomberg-markets.html
Ray Dalio, founder of Bridgewater
Associates LP, boasts 15 percent annualized returns over two
decades for his main hedge fund and 25.3 percent this year
(through Aug. 31) amid extraordinary economic turmoil. He runs
more money than any of his macro rivals.  These are the sort of distinctions that have landed him on
Bloomberg Markets magazine’s first annual list of the 50 Most
Influential in global finance.  Dalio also turns out to be an interesting character, making
his money based on a set of investment principles (which he
won’t share) and running his firm based on a set of management
principles (which he does).  The Bloomberg Markets LIST has 49 more fascinating folk. We
have defined our 50 as the people who matter most in global
finance: those whose comments move markets; whose deals set the
value of companies or securities; whose ideas and policies shape
corporations, governments and economies. We have focused on
people who matter right now rather than those who have been
influential over the course of a long career, although some
clearly meet both criteria. (For a slide show of the Most
Influential 50,  click here .)  Influence isn’t something that can be measured with a
single yardstick. We used several. We canvassed Bloomberg News’s
global network of reporters and editors, located in 146 bureaus.
We examined how often a person’s name appears in news stories on
the Bloomberg Professional service. We consulted the rankings
that Bloomberg Markets publishes over the course of each year,
such as our features on the most-accurate economic forecasters
and most-profitable hedge funds.  Dimon’s Clout  There are episodes in which clout is on display for all to
see. Such was the case when Jamie Dimon, at a bankers’
conference in Atlanta in June, questioned Ben S. Bernanke about
the possible harm of the financial regulations and higher
capital standards the government is imposing. Who but Dimon has
the stature to challenge a Federal Reserve chairman in that way?  Like the markets themselves, influence can be fickle.
Christine Lagarde, already a force in the European sovereign-
debt crisis as France’s finance minister, increased her stature
when she became managing director of the International Monetary
Fund. The job came open only because of the fall from grace of
her countryman, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who had been accused of
attacking a hotel maid in New York.  Deficit Hawk  Economist Martin Feldstein, a deficit hawk for four
decades, finds himself at the center of the political debate
over budget austerity that has swept across the developed world.
And yet the former adviser to President Ronald Reagan is also
seeing that some of his tax proposals are getting a better
reception from Democrats than from fellow Republicans.  Indian billionaire Mukesh Ambani, perhaps best known
outside his country for his 27-story home in Mumbai (with three
helipads and a 50-seat movie theater), embodies the rise of
emerging markets in the past decade. After patching up a feud
with his brother Anil, Mukesh is being courted by politicians
and investment bankers alike -- a sign that he, like the 49
other people on our list, has secured a place among the world’s
most influential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Dieterich in New York at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  