-- 
Intelligence Chairman Urges White House Action on Libyan Weapons

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/house-intelligence-chairman-worries-terrorists-may-obtain-libyan-missiles.html
Lethal weapons “are already
moving” out of arsenals once controlled by Libyan dictator
 Muammar Qaddafi  and the U.S. must “do more” to find and
destroy the weapons before terrorists get them, the chairman of
the House Intelligence Committee said.  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, said in
an interview at the Bloomberg Washington bureau yesterday that
he has approached the White House with concerns that al-Qaeda
will acquire Libyan weapons, especially shoulder-fired anti-
aircraft missiles.  “We need to be doing more to secure these weapons systems
now,” said Rogers, 48, a former Army officer and FBI special
agent. While he is not proposing unilateral American military
action, he said the U.S. has “special capabilities. There is
nobody better who can get their hands on this stuff, account for
it and render it safe.”  There is evidence that a small number of Soviet-made SA-7
anti-aircraft missiles from Qaddafi’s arsenal have reached the
black market in  Mali , where al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is
active, according to two U.S. government officials not
authorized to speak on the record.  Rogers said that the window to secure loose weapons “is
rapidly closing.” The congressman said he has had “productive
talks” with the administration in which he has urged the White
House to swiftly dedicate more resources and work with NATO
allies and the Libyan National Transitional Council on the
problem. “I wouldn’t wait weeks,” he said.  ‘Not Aggressive Enough’  In  Iraq , the U.S. was “not aggressive enough” in
safeguarding munitions that “ended up killing lots of Iraqis
and U.S. soldiers too. I don’t want to make that same mistake,”
Rogers said.  Libya ’s “systems are even more lethal,” he said.  Asked about Rogers’ comments, National Security Council
spokesman Tommy Vietor said the U.S. has been for years
“concerned about the full range of potential proliferation
challenges in Libya. Since earlier this year, we have actively
engaged with our international partners” and the Libyan
National Transitional Council to secure those weapons.  Vietor stressed that “sensitive elements of Libya’s
nuclear program” were removed from the country between 2004 and
2009 and “we have been monitoring known missile and chemical
agent storage facilities since the start of this conflict and
will continue to do so.”  Libya’s chemical stocks -- 11.3 metric tons of mustard
agent and 845 metric tons of chemical precursors -- are stored
in non-weapon form inside steel containers and secure bunkers in
a remote part of Libya, according to a White House fact sheet.  ‘Just Don’t Know’  Rogers said Qaddafi may not have disclosed all his
biological and chemical weapons. “We just don’t know. There had
been Sarin gas and other things,” he said.  The disintegration of Qaddafi’s four-decade dictatorship
has created opportunity for looters to sell missiles to
terrorists seeking to attack military or civilian aircraft.
Rogers said he fears there may not be enough time for a buyback
program, in which operatives find sellers and offer high prices.  Libya, postwar, may quickly face economic hardships that
make illicit weapons sales especially attractive, Rogers said.
“Here’s my fear: All these weapons become cash commodities.”  Army General Carter Ham, head of the U.S. military’s Africa
Command, told the Senate Armed Services Committee in April that
Libya once had as many as 20,000 surface-to-air missiles. “Many
of those, we know, are now not accounted for, and that’s going
to be a concern for some period,” he said.  Black Market Sales  The Soviet SA-7 and SA-7b, an updated model, are the main
shoulder-fired missiles in Qaddafi’s arsenal. The units sell on
the black market for several thousand dollars, though the price
fell as low as $500 when  Saddam Hussein ’s weapons were looted
and flooded the market after the 2003 U.S. invasion, according
to a 2004 report from the Federation of American Scientists.  The U.S. is providing $3 million to two international
humanitarian organizations specialized in removing weapons and
munitions, Manchester, U.K.-based MAG International and the
Swiss Foundation for Mine Action in Geneva.  The two groups, which are training Libyans in removing
conventional weapons and munitions, have been in eastern, rebel-
held Libya since May, and will move into western Libya as
security improves, according to the White House.  So far, the teams have cleared more than 450,000 square
meters of land and destroyed 5.8 tons of munitions, including
five shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles, according to the
administration.  The U.S. also is deploying two specially trained
contractors to track down and destroy shoulder-fired anti-
aircraft missiles, according to an official who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly on the subject.  NATO aircraft have kept Qaddafi’s vast military and
industrial complex, including Libya’s two main chemical weapons
depots at Sebha and Rabta, under constant surveillance since the
rebellion began in February, according to the two U.S.
government officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  