-- 
House Vote on Tariff Preferences May Help Advance Trade Accords

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-08T10:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/house-votes-to-renew-tariff-preferences-for-developing-nations.html
Stalled free-trade agreements with
 South Korea , Colombia and Panama may advance after the U.S.
House of Representatives voted to renew tariff preferences on
goods from developing nations that expired last year.  The legislation would exclude duties on imports such as
silver jewelry, radial tires and raw materials from 129 nations
through July 2013. The bill, approved yesterday by voice vote,
also provides refunds of tariffs paid this year on imports that
were duty-free until the preferences lapsed in December. The
measure moves to the Senate.  House action on the  Generalized System of Preferences  sets
in motion efforts to end a stalemate between Congress and
President Barack Obama over the trade deals. Obama wants
Republicans to back extending aid to workers who lose their jobs
to overseas competitors before he sends Congress the trade
accords. The Senate will use the preferences bill as a vehicle
to renew the aid, known as Trade Adjustment Assistance.  “It’s going to start a chain reaction that will lead to
some very important things happening,”  William Reinsch ,
president of the  National Foreign Trade Council  and a former
Commerce Department official under President  Bill Clinton , said
in an interview. “It’s phase one of this elaborate kabuki that
they’ve developed” to get the trade deals considered.  The plan will let the Senate have the first vote on the
worker-benefits program, which would otherwise need to originate
in the House because all revenue bills start in that chamber.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday he would add the worker aid to legislation
that renews the tariff preferences.  “I think we have a way forward,” Reid said. “We’re going
to get Trade Adjustment Assistance done before we do the trade
bills. Otherwise, we won’t do the trade bills.”  Trade, Aid  The administration signaled in July that it planned to
combine renewing worker aid and the South Korea trade deal into
a single bill. Republicans objected, demanding a chance to vote
separately on each component.  U.S. companies have used the trade-preferences program to
buy lower-cost equipment, raw materials and  consumer goods  from
overseas. Since Jan. 1, those companies have had to pay duties
on about 4,800 items.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  are among the companies that sought an
extension of the program.  More than $22.6 billion in goods entered the U.S. duty-free
under the preferences in 2010, according to the U.S.
International Trade Commission. The program’s lapse was costing
U.S. companies about $1.8 million each day in added tariffs,
said Daniel Anthony, director of government relations for the
 Coalition for GSP .  ‘Renewed Quickly’  “Although we know this is the first step in a process,
it’s important to get this step out of the way so that people
can move ahead with their business knowing this will be renewed
and renewed quickly,” Anthony said in an interview.  Republican lawmakers including Senator  Charles Grassley , an
Iowa Republican, yesterday urged Obama to send the trade bills
for a vote. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has said the trade
agreements would prevent the loss of 380,000 jobs.  “Nothing has been done and the  United States  is losing its
leadership in what we’ve done for 60 years in world trade,
leading the rest of the world,” Grassley said yesterday at a
news conference. “The status quo has to end.”  The bill is  H.R. 2832 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  