-- 
Oxford Academic’s Report Key for British Banks After $96 Billion Sell-Off

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/oxford-academic-key-for-u-k-banks-after-96-billion-sell-off.html
John Vickers, the  Oxford University 
economist charting the future of U.K. banks, has already
contributed to a 60 billion-pound ($96 billion) slump in the
market values of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   His recommendations, published next week, will help decide
whether the sell-off continues.  Since the government-appointed  Independent Commission on
Banking ’s first report in April, the market capitalization of
RBS has been cut by 23 billion pounds, or 48 percent, Lloyds by
20 billion pounds, or 47 percent, and Barclays by 17 billion
pounds, or 46 percent, up to the close of trading in London
yesterday. The final report is due on Sept. 12.  “The ICB has definitely had a negative impact on U.K. bank
stocks,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, a banking analyst at MF
Global Ltd. in London. “Analysts and investors are hoping for
some clarity from Vickers” or the effects will be “very
negative,” he said.  Vickers, 53, a former  Bank of England  chief economist, and
his four fellow commissioners will probably tell Britain’s
biggest banks they must hold more capital, insulate consumer
units against collapse, so-called ring-fencing, and ensure
taxpayers don’t fund the costs of bank bailouts, according to
the  April report .  As much as 25 billion pounds of the drop in British bank
market capitalization can be accounted for by investor concern
about the ICB conclusions and other regulatory risk, Citigroup
Inc. analysts including Leigh Goodwin said on Aug. 31. The
taxpayer’s shareholdings in RBS and Lloyds have fallen by about
10 billion pounds as a result of the ICB’s interim proposals,
the analysts said.  Future Profitability  At stake is the future profitability of Britain’s lenders.
The commission’s proposals could reduce U.K. bank earnings in
2012 by an average of 28 percent because of increased funding
costs and prompt further asset sales and capital raisings,
JPMorgan Cazenove analysts said on Aug. 31. Banks and their
lobbyists have said the plan would put the industry at a
competitive disadvantage that could force them to relocate
overseas.  European banks have also fallen since April, amid concern
that the continent’s sovereign debt crisis will hit lenders. The
decline among the 46-member Bloomberg 500 Banks Index since the
ICB report to yesterday is 35 percent  “If you take out the ICB effect, you would have expected
U.K. banks to have outperformed their European peers
significantly,” Raikundlia said, given that the U.K. is not a
member of the euro.  ‘Need to Deleverage’  “Concerns over ring-fencing and the subsequent impact on
business models have been a major factor in the de-rating of
domestic U.K. banks, but ongoing funding issues, the need to
deleverage and significant Irish exposures have also played a
part,” said Jonathan Tyce, senior analyst for the Bloomberg
Industries European banking team in  London .  The commission said in April that the largest consumer
banks should have a core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, of at least of 10 percent and that Lloyds
should sell more assets beyond its planned disposal of 632
branches. While the scope of its proposed ring-fence for
consumer units is still being considered, such units must be
able to function and investment-banking activities be able to
fail safely, the commission said.  Plan Endorsed  The two parties in the coalition government have endorsed
the idea of ring-fencing, leaving open the issue of when to
implement the decision. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in July he will wait for the final report before
deciding how much extra capital British banks should hold beyond
the 7 percent core Tier 1 ratio required by the Basel III
agreement.  The report will be presented to the Cabinet banking
committee, which can accept or reject the findings.  A person with knowledge of the discussions said last week
that banks won’t be compelled to implement the ICB’s proposals
until 2015 at the earliest because the issues are complex. Banks
and industry lobbyists have argued that any new rules should be
postponed because of the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  On Sept. 5, Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club estimated that
the ICB proposals may cut British gross domestic product by 0.3
percent and force companies to pay 1.5 percent more on loans.  A parliamentary Bill to implement ICB recommendations will
need to be approved by both the House of Commons and the House
of Lords before it can receive assent from  Queen Elizabeth II 
and become law. The  process  normally lasts several months after
it has secured a place on the government’s legislative
timetable.  ‘Hard Line’  “I would expect that Vickers will stick to a relatively
hard line,” said Simon Willis, an analyst at Daniel Stewart
Securities Plc in London “But then the likelihood is it gets
diluted in some way or other, or its time frame is extended such
that the ultimate impact is lessened.”  The proposals should be “phased in over a number of
years,” said  Andy Lynch , who manages about $1.9 billion
including bank stocks at Schroder Investment Management Ltd. in
London and who said he was speaking in a personal capacity. “In
the long term, it makes sense to protect retail depositors and
reduce the risk to the economy, but as any doctor will tell you,
if you have a patient who’s ill, you don’t send them immediately
out to run a marathon.”  Vickers’ team also includes Martin Wolf of the Financial
Times,  Bill Winters , the former co-chief executive officer of
JPMorgan’s investment bank, Martin Taylor, formerly CEO of
Barclays, and Clare Spottiswoode, the former head of the gas
regulator Ofgas.  ‘Unequivocal’ Assurances  Two months ago, a British parliamentary committee urged the
ICB to give greater consideration to the risks of erecting
firewalls around lenders’ retail units and said it hadn’t
thought enough about breaking up institutions that are too big
to fail.  In May, Vickers told a House of Commons committee that he
had received “unequivocal” assurances from the government that
his commission’s independence would not be compromised.  “ John Vickers  seems to have dug his heels in and I think
he’ll go with what he thinks is right,” Simon Willis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  