-- 
Japan Automakers Seen Boosting Shipping Lines Amid Slump: Freight Markets

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-09-08T12:27:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/toyota-boosts-japan-ship-lines-amid-bulk-slump-freight-markets.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor
Co.’s efforts to make up production lost after Japan’s March 11
earthquake will benefit local shipping lines suffering from
lower rates for hauling commodities and containers.  Nippon Yusen K.K. and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., Japan’s
largest shipping lines and the world’s biggest operators of car-
carrying vessels, expect to haul 3.8 million vehicles in the six
months ending March, the highest half-year tally in at least
five years. That may help them post annual profits even as they
forecast declines for their cargo-box and dry-bulk units.  “The one thing that’s supporting their business is car
carriers,” said Janet Lewis, a Hong-Kong based Macquarie Group
Ltd. analyst. “Dry-bulk is at an abysmally low level and
container ships are making a loss.”  Car shipments have avoided a rates plunge as new entrants
have been shut out of the market by long-term contracts, the
need for specialized ships and automakers’ concerns about damage
to vessels. The world’s five biggest car-carrying lines, which
also include  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , Wilh. Wilhelmsen ASA
and a Wilhelmsen-Hyundai Motor Group venture, control about 70
percent of the global market, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “It’s very difficult for lines to enter the Japanese and
South Korean markets because local companies are so strong,”
said Huang Xiaowen, managing director of China Shipping
Container Lines Co., part of China’s second-largest sea-cargo
group. The group operates car carriers in China, he said.  Exports Tumble  Japan’s auto exports tumbled following the March quake,
which damaged plants and disrupted power supplies. Shipments
plunged a record 68 percent in April, followed by a 41 percent
drop in May and a 10 percent decline in June.  The fall in Japan production contributed to Nippon Yusen,
Mitsui O.S.K. and K-Line all slumping to losses in the quarter
ended June. It has also helped cause them to slide more than the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average’s 14 percent drop in Tokyo trading this
year. Nippon Yusen is down 38 percent, Mitsui O.S.K. has
declined 43 percent and K-Line has fallen 48 percent.  Nippon Yusen rose 0.9 percent today to 225 yen. Mitsui
O.S.K. gained 0.3 percent and K-Line fell 0.5 percent.  The shipping lines, all based in Tokyo, declined to give
profit and sales figures for their car-shipping businesses. K-
Line didn’t give a forecast for car shipments.  Toyota, the nation’s biggest carmaker, exported 47 percent
of group domestic production this year through July, based on an
Aug. 30  statement .  Nissan  sold 62 percent overseas in the period.
The carmakers also ship vehicles made at plants in other
countries including Thailand and India.  Production Increases  Japanese vehicle exports may rebound as automakers are
returning domestic plants to full capacity. Toyota has said it
intends to resume full global production by the end of next
month.  The industry is boosting output “like we never have
before,” Toshiyuki Shiga, the head of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said last month.  Toyota needs to increase domestic production 14 percent
from a year earlier in the final five months of 2011 to hit its
full-year production target, based on company statements. It
raised its 2011 goal to  3.49 million  on Aug. 2. Including
affiliates Hino Motors Ltd. and Daihatsu Motor Co., the Toyota
City, Japan-based company made 1.69 million vehicles in the
first seven months.  Nissan similarly needs a 14 percent boost in the August-
March period to meet its 1.2 million production target for the
current fiscal year, according to Bloomberg calculations.  ‘Strong Rebound’  Wilhelmsen, Europe’s biggest car-carrying line, saw a
“strong rebound” in Japan shipments in June, Chief Financial
Officer Benedicte Bakke Agerup said by e-mail. She didn’t give
specific details.  “The Japanese car producers have shown an impressive
performance in getting production and export back to almost pre-
tsunami levels,” she said.  The shipping line expects “moderate growth” across its
business in the six months ending December, she said. Shipments
rose 12 percent to 18.8 million cubic meters in the second
quarter. That includes Lysaker, Norway-based Wilhelmsen’s main
fleet and Eukor Car Carriers Inc., a venture with Hyundai Motor.  Wilhelmsen, which operates ships for carrying cars and
trucks, has dropped about 30 percent in Oslo trading this year.  The three big Japanese lines all expect to rebound from
their fiscal first-quarter losses to post full-year profits.
Nippon Yusen forecasts net income of 5 billion yen, Mitsui O.S.K.
predicts 17 billion yen and K-Line expects 2 billion yen.  6,500-Vehicle Ship  Nippon Yusen’s operating profit will probably be 23 billion
yen, with its car-unit contributing 12 billion yen, according to
Macquarie’s Lewis. The company had 118 car ships in its fleet of
827 vessels at the end of March, the largest of which could
carry about 6,500 vehicles. It plans to expand its car-carrier
fleet to  130 ships  by March 2017.  “The Japanese shipping lines’ car-carrier operations will
provide bigger sales than expected earlier this year,” said
Ryota Himeno, an Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.
analyst. “That’s going to help offset declines at their bulk
business.”  Dry-bulk rates have tumbled about 40 percent in a year,
based on the benchmark Baltic Dry Index, as expansion in the
global fleet outpaces China’s demand for shipments of iron ore
and coal. Overcapacity has also hit container rates. The three
Japanese lines were among shipping companies that delayed the
introduction of peak-season surcharges on Asia-U.S. routes as
economic concerns damped spending on flatscreen TVs and sneakers.  Earnings Declines  The car units will fail to completely offset the decline in
earnings at the larger dry-bulk and container units this fiscal
year. Nippon Yusen and K-Line are both forecasting 94 percent
declines in net income in the period, while Mitsui O.S.K. is
predicting a 71 percent slide.  Still, the lines are likely to retain their grip on the
auto-shipping market over next few years. Only 89 new car
carriers are on order worldwide and they have a capacity equal
to 14 percent of the existing global fleet, according to
Clarkson Plc. The dry-bulk backlog stands at 2,833 ships or 41
percent of current capacity, according to the shipbroker’s data.  “The operators in the car-carrying business have a lock on
the market,” said Osuke Itazaki, an analyst in Tokyo at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. “They’re sure to benefit as the number of
vehicles carried increases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  