-- 
Malaysian Palm Oil Inventory Drops as Ramadan Slows Harvests

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-09-07T10:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/palm-oil-inventory-output-decline-in-malaysia-as-ramadan-slows-harvests.html
Palm oil stockpiles in  Malaysia , the
second-largest grower, probably fell in August from a month
earlier as the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan slowed harvests,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Inventories fell 5 percent to 1.9 million metric tons last
month from 2 million tons in July, according to the median
estimate in a survey of three analysts and two plantation
companies this week. Stockpiles were 1.71 million tons a year
earlier, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, which is
scheduled to publish the official estimates on Sept. 12.  Falling inventories may help stem a 23 percent drop in
prices from a 35-month high of 3,967 ringgit ($1,330) a ton on
Feb. 10, and raise costs for users including Nestle SA and
Unilever. Futures may average 3,220 ringgit a ton in 2011, Choo
Yuen May, director-general of the board, said on Aug. 8.  Production is “lower than July because of the fasting
month and Eid celebrations” Arhnue Tan, senior investment
analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn., said. Exports will be
“flattish” as a gain in shipments to  China  will counter a
decline in exports to Pakistan and  India , she said.  Output probably declined 4.6 percent to 1.67 million tons
in August from a month earlier, while shipments were little
changed at 1.73 million tons, the survey showed.  Plantation laborers would have worked fewer hours during
Ramadan, which began Aug. 1 and preceded the Eid festival on
Aug. 30. Markets were closed in Indonesia and Malaysia, the
largest growers, during most of last week for the holidays.  ‘Productivity Dropped’  “Most people would have started going back home a week
before, so last month’s productivity would have dropped,” Ivy Ng, an analyst with CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone
from Kuala Lumpur. “It’s difficult to repeat the same high
growth every single month, so that led to slightly down
production in August.”  Output of  palm oil , used mostly in food, was at 1.74
million tons, 1.75 million tons and 1.75 million tons in May,
June and July respectively. This compares with 1.39 million
tons, 1.42 million tons and 1.52 million tons recorded in the
same months last year, according to data from the board.  Palm oil output probably gained 8.2 percent to 12 million
tons in the eight months through August from a year earlier,
according to the survey. Production may increase to 18.3 million
tons in 2011 from 17 million tons last year, according to
board’s Choo. Output typically peaks between July and October.  November-delivery futures climbed 1.9 percent to close at
3,042 ringgit a ton in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The most-active
contract has gained 16 percent in the past year.  Exports  Exports fell 0.6 percent to 1.62 million tons in August
compared with the previous month, surveyor Intertek said Sept.
2. Shipments dropped 0.5 percent to 1.62 million tons in August,
Societe Generale de Surveillance estimated on Aug. 29.  “Although exports started very strong at the beginning of
August, I think the reason why it ended on a flat note was
because towards the later part of the month, people started
going off for their holidays and trading became less, and ships
were not operating,” Ng said. “In September, the reverse will
be true, as exports will start off slow because people are
coming back from their holidays.”  Output will be higher this month as workers return to work,
Ng said. Stockpiles in September may be “flattish to slightly
up” as demand may drop amid efforts by Indonesian suppliers to
boost exports ahead of a new tax structure which may reduce
Malaysian shipments, she said.  Indonesia  will cut the maximum  tax rate  for crude palm-oil
exports starting in October while imposing a much lower rate for
products to help the domestic industry, Deputy Agriculture
Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said on Aug. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 