-- 
Philippine Bond Yields Rise From Record Low on Inflation Worry

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-07T09:47:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/philippine-peso-falls-a-third-day-on-plan-to-boost-dollar-demand.html
Philippine 10-year bond yields
climbed from a record low on speculation rising oil costs and a
possible increase in commuter-train fares will stoke inflation.
The peso advanced.  Rail fares in the capital  Manila  will have to rise to allow
the government to cut subsidies, President  Benigno Aquino  said
today. Local units of Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp.
raised fuel prices this week, the Philippine Star reported.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will keep its overnight borrowing
rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a third straight meeting
tomorrow, according to all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “ Oil prices  are still rising and reports of a possible
rail fare hike may pose some doubts whether we’re really out of
the woods on inflation,” said Malou Liwag, senior vice
president for treasury marketing at  Philippine National Bank  in
Manila.  The yield on 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.75 percent,
according to Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.’s fixing rate.
It reached 5.70 percent yesterday, the lowest since Bloomberg
started collecting the data in 1998.  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 42.255 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency has advanced 3.7
percent this year.  Policy makers will consider the impact of  Switzerland ’s
decision to impose a ceiling on the franc at tomorrow’s meeting,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in an email today.
Yesterday, he told reporters that regulations may be liberalized,
including allowing companies with dollar requirements to buy
without previously advising the regulator. The measures will
increase demand for the U.S. currency and help temper gains in
the peso “to a certain extent,” he said.  “It’s a signal the appreciation of the peso may be hurting
some sectors of the economy,” said Joey Cuyegkeng, an economist
in Manila at ING Groep NV. “Exports are weak and consumption
isn’t as fast as expected. We’re seeing downgrades in growth
forecasts, not just in the  Philippines  but other economies as
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 