-- 
PhosAgro to Renegotiate Indian Accord to Match Prices of Rivals

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-09-07T11:00:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/phosagro-to-renegotiate-indian-accord-to-match-prices-of-rivals.html
OAO PhosAgro,  Europe ’s largest maker
of phosphate fertilizer, seeks to renegotiate an Indian supply
deal to match the price won by competing producers from  North
America , according to Chief Executive Officer Maxim Volkov.  “We hope to achieve a similar price,” Volkov said today
on a conference call. Its charges currently use a formula based
on Tampa Bay, Florida prices, he said, without elaborating.  PhosChem, a trader representing  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  of the U.S. and
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan, agreed Sept. 1 to supply  India 
with diammonium phosphate at $677 a metric ton in the second
half, up more than 10 percent on the prior six months. PhosAgro
said today it more than doubled first-half net income to 10.7
billion rubles ($362 million) from a year before as prices rose.  The company, the biggest Russian producer of the commodity,
competes with producers including Mosaic and  Morocco ’s  Office
Cherifien des Phosphates  to supply regions from Asia to Latin
America. Moscow-based PhosAgro’s sales rose 35 percent to 48.8
billion rubles in the half and the margin on earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was more than 36
percent, Bloomberg calculations based on company data show.  “We see continued tightness in soft commodities markets at
least through the end of the year supporting fertilizer prices
and volumes globally as farmers invest in maximizing crop
output,” Volkov said in a statement today. Saudi Arabian Mining
Co.’s Maaden Phosphate unit, which began output in June,
“hasn’t to date caused disruption to the market.” Maaden may
have exported as much as 500,000 tons this year, he said.  PhosAgro sold $565 million of shares in an initial public
offering in  London  during July and August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  