-- 
PIC to Use Part of Its $140 Billion in Assets to Boost South African Jobs

-- B y   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-09-07T08:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/pic-to-use-part-of-its-140-billion-in-assets-to-boost-south-african-jobs.html
The Public Investment Corp.,
 Africa ’s largest pension fund manager, will invest in education
and training projects as it switches focus to take on an
increased developmental role in an effort to cut unemployment.  The PIC, which manages 1 trillion rand ($140.4 billion)
mostly for the Government Employees Pensions Fund, wants to use
its size to spur growth in South Africa, where one in four
people is without a job. The money manager, which has a dual
mandate of development and commercial investments, targets an
overall return of South African inflation plus 3 percent.  “The GEPF wants to influence the economy so that the
returns are within their control,” PIC Chief Executive Officer
Elias Masilela said yesterday in an interview in Durban,  South
Africa . “Investment must increase efficiency and productivity
and create jobs.  Only then can the GEPF be guaranteed of a safe
return.”  The PIC will invest funds from the government pension fund
into the improvement of infrastructure, such as roads and
telecommunications, as well as education and housing, that can
be used to make workers more productive, he said.  “Investment can no longer be simply about a return on
investment,” Masilela said. “We need to invest in the economy
in order to make it grow.”  Private companies are the main driver of jobs and not the
government, which should rather invest in capital programs. “We
also need to look at the reduction in costs of production,
including the cost of labor,” he said.  ‘Greatest Challenge’  The Pretoria-based  money manager  will also look at
increased coordination and partnerships with other government
entities, such as the  National Empowerment Fund  and the
Industrial Development Corp., to boost funding and training for
small businesses, targeting younger people without work or an
education, Masilela said. More than half of people between 15
and 24 are unemployed, according to  Statistics South Africa .  “Our great challenge here in South Africa is to get the
youth sufficiently educated and trained, and then employed,” he
said. “I’m not looking at formal employment, I’m looking at
them doing it for themselves.”  The PIC will also continue to boost its investments in
Africa, with 5 percent of its funds under management allocated
to the rest of the continent.  “South Africa is not operating in isolation,” he said.
“As we do business as a country we will make sure that we have
an impact elsewhere on the continent and we will also be
influenced by what happens elsewhere in Africa’s economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niki Moore in Johannesburg at 
 nmoore19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  