-- 
Pimco Hires Three From Thornburg in Global Expansion of Stock Fund Effort

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-07T16:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/pimco-hires-three-from-thornburg-in-global-expansion-of-stock-fund-effort.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
hired two managers and an analyst from Thornburg Investment
Management and named Neel Kashkari head of global equities as it
builds its stock funds.  Brad Kinkelaar, who left Thornburg at the end of 2008, will
reunite with that firm’s Cliff Remily and Matt Burdett to start
a Pimco strategy focusing on global dividend-paying stocks, the
 Newport Beach , California-based firm said today in a statement.
Kashkari, who was hired in December 2009, will lead the equity
portfolio committee that brings together the firm’s global
research.  Pimco, which manages about $1.3 trillion in assets, has
gathered $4 billion in its stock funds since Kashkari joined as
head of new investment initiatives. Under Chief Executive
Officer Mohamed El-Erian and founder  Bill Gross , the firm has
also expanded into exchange-traded funds and taken over the
distribution of its products from parent Allianz SE in Munich,
 Europe ’s biggest insurer.  Pimco plans to open two funds that focus on dividend-paying
stocks, the firm said today in a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The Pimco Dividend and Income Builder
Fund will put at least 50 percent of assets in dividend stocks
all over the world and will have the ability to invest in bonds.
The Pimco EqS Dividend Fund will allocate at least 75 percent of
its assets to income-generating stocks.  ‘Measured and Deliberate’  “We’re only focusing on strategies where we think we have
an edge,” Kashkari said in a telephone interview. “We set
about this in a measured and deliberate way, ruling out
acquisitions and deciding to hire the best talent in the
industry.”  Kinkelaar, until his exit from  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based
Thornburg, co-managed the Thornburg Investment Income Builder
Fund, which invests in dividend-paying stocks. Remily most
recently was a co-manager of the $9.2 billion fund, and Burdett
was an equity analyst focusing on income strategies. The
Thornburg Investment Income fund returned an average of 5
percent annually in the five years ended Sept. 2 to beat 98
percent of peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Kashkari’s direction, Pimco has hired more than two
dozen investment professionals for its stock unit. Kashkari, 38,
is a former Treasury Department official who headed the
taxpayer-funded $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  New Normal  The biggest of Pimco’s new funds is the $1.9 billion  Pimco
EqS Pathfinder Fund (PATHX) , which is run by Anne Gudefin and Charles
Lahr, former portfolio managers at Franklin Resources Inc. The
fund, which opened in April 2010 and buys stocks the managers
deem cheap based on yardsticks such as earnings, advanced 2.8
percent in the past year, lagging behind 82 percent of peers,
Bloomberg data show. This year, it declined 4 percent through
last week, beating 83 percent of rivals.  Pimco, which has more than 90 percent of its assets in
bonds, in March started its first funds under Maria Gordon, the
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. portfolio manager hired last year to
begin an emerging-markets stock group.  The firm has said it will pursue equity strategies with a
global focus. That’s in line with Pimco’s “new normal”
philosophy adopted in May 2009 to describe an era of lower
returns, heightened  government regulation , a diminishing clout
for the U.S. in the world economy and a bigger role for
developing nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  