-- 
Potential for Gulf Storm Grows as Heat Rises in California

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-07T12:24:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/potential-for-gulf-storm-grows-as-heat-rises-in-california.html
The potential for a tropical system
to develop in the Bay of Campeche has grown, although it remains
to be seen if the system will hit Mexico or follow a track
similar to last weekend’s Tropical Storm Lee, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  Computer models are in better agreement that a storm will
grow out of the system in the bay, Rogers said today in a note
to clients. The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami gives it
a  60 percent chance  of developing into a tropical system in the
next two days.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. About 60.5 percent of Gulf
oil and 41.6 percent of gas were still shut in yesterday because
of Lee, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement said.  “The storm may either go west into  Mexico  or track north
into the north-central Gulf into the area hit by Lee last
weekend by Sunday or Monday,” Rogers said from Bethesda,
Maryland. “The short timing should keep this on the weaker
side, but it must be watched closely.”  Rogers said western heat “is still the main show.”
Temperatures are forecast to reach 99 degrees Fahrenheit (37
Celsius) today in  Los Angeles , about 24 degrees above normal,
according to the  National Weather Service  in Oxnard,  California .  Temperatures may reach 104 in  Pasadena  and 98 degrees in
 Sacramento , the weather service said.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast for Sept. 12 to Sept. 16,
Rogers said California will return to more seasonal weather
while  Texas  will start to heat up again. High temperatures will
center on Texas and Oklahoma, as well as the northern Rocky
Mountains, from Sept. 17 to Sept. 21, according to Rogers’ 11-
to 15-day forecast.  Power plants use about 30 percent of the nation’s natural
gas supplies, according to the Energy Department, and hot or
cold weather can increase demand for heating and cooling. Gas
futures rose for the first time in three days yesterday on
forecasts for hotter-than-normal U.S. weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  