-- 
Qatar’s Shares Rise a Second Day on Salary, Pension Increases; Oil Gains

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-07T14:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/qatar-s-shares-rise-a-second-day-on-salary-pension-increases-oil-gains.html
Qatar’s benchmark stock index rose
for a second day after the Persian Gulf country issued a decree
to raise salaries and pensions for its nationals. Oil advanced.  Doha Bank QSC (DHBK) , the nation’s fourth-biggest publicly traded
lender by assets, and Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC rose to their
highest levels in almost seven months. The  QE Index (DSM)  increased
0.7 percent, the most since Sept. 4, to 8,398.28 at the 1 p.m.
close in Doha. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of regional shares
advanced 0.8 percent.  The move “will definitely boost sentiment in Qatar,” said
Ahmed Talhaoui, head of asset management at Abu Dhabi-based
Royal Capital PJSC. “These increases are massive and it could
set a precedent” for the rest of the region, he said.  The basic salary and pensions of Qatari civilian employees
were increased 60 percent as of Sept. 1, the state-run Qatar
 News Agency  said yesterday. Military officers received a 120
percent raise and military personnel of other ranks received a
50 percent increase, the state-run news agency said.  The move comes after unrest across the  Middle East  and
North Africa this year unseated leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and
led to an armed conflict in Libya and deadly clashes in Yemen
and Syria. Demonstrators are demanding civil rights, higher
living standards and the removal of entrenched regimes.  Spending Plans  Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah earlier this year ordered
sweeping increases in government spending, including $67 billion
on housing, to prevent protests in the kingdom from gathering
pace.  Oil advanced on speculation a storm building in the Gulf of
Mexico poses a threat to supplies in the U.S. amid shrinking
crude stockpiles in the world’s biggest consumer. Crude for
October delivery gained as much as 3 percent to $88.63 a barrel
in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Saudi
Arabia and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Doha Bank jumped 3.9 percent to 61.2 riyals, the highest
since Feb. 15.  Commercial Bank of Qatar (CBQK)  advanced 1.6 percent to
83.5 riyals, the highest since Feb. 21.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index retreated 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s BB
All Share Index gained 0.2 percent. Kuwait’s gauge rose 0.8
percent and Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.2 percent. Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.2 percent, while Saudi Arabia’s
Tadawul All Share Index increased 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  