-- 
Rand Strengthens First Day in Five Against Dollar as Stocks, Metals Rally

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-07T13:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/rand-gains-first-day-in-five-to-dollar-as-equities-commodity-prices-rally.html
The rand appreciated for the first
day in five against the dollar as gains in stocks and metal
prices and the  Swiss National Bank ’s decision to cap the franc’s
rate boosted demand for riskier assets. Bonds declined.  The rand strengthened as much as 1.6 percent to 7.0718 per
dollar, its biggest increase this month.  South Africa ’s currency
traded 0.4 percent stronger at 7.1595 as of 3:37 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It climbed 0.2 percent to 10:0345 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks rose for the first time in four days
and prices of industrial metals including copper, nickel and
aluminum advanced after the Swiss central bank yesterday pledged
to use “unlimited” quantities of cash to defend its franc
ceiling. South Africa’s benchmark stock index snapped a three-
day decline, led by BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
mining company, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the second-
biggest luxury-goods company, whose five-month sales beat
analysts’ estimates today.  “The tide of the recent bearish growth trade seems to be
turning,” Tradition Analytics strategists led by Johannesburg-
based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note. “All the
monetary inflation that is going on globally will, ultimately,
begin to boost stocks and commodity prices” and be “a net
supportive factor for the rand”.  Reserves Data  The rand extended gains after the central bank reported its
foreign-currency and gold reserves advanced 2.7 percent in
August. Gross gold and foreign-currency reserves rose to $51.45
billion from $50.11 billion in July, the Pretoria-based  Reserve
Bank  said on its website. The median estimate of eight
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for gross reserves to
climbed to $50.9 billion.  The increase was “primarily due to a higher  U.S. dollar 
gold price and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other
major currencies,” the central bank said, indicating it didn’t
boost its currency purchases in the market last month, when the
rand weakened 4.1 percent versus the dollar.  South Africa’s currency maintained its advance after the
German Constitutional Court rejected challenges to  Germany ’s
participation in euro-region financial rescue packages, helping
to boost appetite for riskier assets.  Bonds declined for the first time in five days, snapping a
rally that drove four-year borrowing costs to 6.346 percent, the
lowest on record. The yield has plunged 105 basis points since
July 1 as investors bet the central bank will cut its key
 interest rate  as global growth slows.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 dropped 58 cents to 124.50
rand, driving the yield up 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 6.478 percent. The decline was the biggest since Aug.
24. The yield may rise as high as 7.10 percent in coming weeks,
Tradition said.  “The market has gotten particularly one-sided on the long
local bond trade and as a result, in our view, a correction is
needed,” Tradition wrote. The central bank “will be unlikely
to cut before inflation begins to come off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  