-- 
Rate-Cut Bets Shrink for Fifth Week on Economic Growth: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-08T02:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/rate-cut-bets-smallest-in-month-as-growth-beats-forecast-australia-credit.html
Traders are reducing bets on an
interest-rate cut in October for a fifth week after the
Australian economy grew faster than forecast and the central
bank said the nation is well placed to withstand global turmoil.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said
yesterday policy makers have the flexibility to “maintain
steady settings” while markets are unstable. Rising consumer
spending and a rebound in exports drove the economy’s 1.2
percent growth in the second quarter, versus the 1 percent gain
predicted by economists, the statistics bureau said yesterday.  The yield on the October cash-rate future rose to 4.57
percent today from 4.525 percent at the end of last week, after
Stevens on Sept. 6 held the cash rate at 4.75 percent. On Aug.
9, the contract was at 3.84 percent. The two-year bond yield
fell 12 basis points to 3.65 percent as of 11:58 a.m. in Sydney,
paring yesterday’s biggest increase in seven months, after a
government report showed the jobless rate unexpectedly climbed.
 Australia  is the only developed nation where all government
notes yield less than the central bank’s key interest rate.  “Up until the second quarter it looks as though the
economy was doing very well,” said Paul Bloxham, chief
economist for HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA
official. “The labor market shows that the economy looks as
though it’s slowing a bit into the third quarter. On the basis
of what we’ve seen so far, we don’t expect the RBA to be
changing direction.”  Australian sovereign bonds have returned 10.3 percent this
year, the best among 21 developed nations tracked by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies.  Household Spending  Household spending, which accounts for 55 percent of
Australia’s economy, rose 1 percent in the second quarter,
adding 0.5 percentage point to GDP growth, yesterday’s report
showed. The nation’s household savings ratio declined to 10.5
percent in the three months through June from 11.7 percent in
the first quarter, the highest since the second quarter of 2009.  Private consumption was “the main upside surprise” in
yesterday’s report,  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities Inc., said in a note to clients. “Now
that the temporary soft patch is firmly in the rear-view mirror,
we expect investment and exports to continue driving the economy
to above-trend growth over the coming year.”  The economy will expand 4.3 percent in 2012, the fastest
pace since 2007, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
U.S. growth will reach 2.35 percent and Europe will expand 1.4
percent, the surveys show.  Commodity Exports  Australia’s economy is being driven by commodity exports
including iron ore and coal, with mining investment in the 12
months to June 30, 2012, projected at A$82.1 billion ($87.3
billion), 45 percent higher than a year prior, the government
said last week.  Business profits advanced last quarter by more than double
economists’ estimates as resources and utility companies
benefited from higher prices, a Sept. 5 report showed.  “RBA officials are a long way from abandoning their core
belief that the mining investment boom is unusually large, and
that it is resilient to the current troubles in markets,”
 Stephen Walters , a Sydney-based economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said in a research note after Stevens’ speech yesterday.  Household Caution  Households watching global and local events “may continue
their precautionary behavior” and help weaken demand, Stevens
told the Western Australian Chambers of Commerce and Minerals &
Energy in Perth.  “If so, that may act to curtail the upward trend in
inflationary pressures that has, up to this point, appeared to
be in prospect,” he said.  Retailers and factories are getting hurt by a 15 percent
gain in the currency in the past year that cuts export income.
BlueScope Steel Ltd., Qantas Airways Ltd. and Westpac Banking
Corp. announced plans last month to trim their workforces, and
fiscal concerns in the U.S. and  Europe  are also weighing on
confidence.  Australian employers unexpectedly cut workers for a second
straight month in August, the statistics bureau said today in
Sydney. The jobless rate rose to 5.3 percent, the highest since
October 2010, from 5.1 percent.  Consumer Prices  Bond investors are estimating Australian consumer prices
will rise at an annual 2.55 percent pace over the coming five
years, according to the gap between indexed government debt and
bonds that aren’t linked to inflation.  To help contain resource-fueled price pressures, Stevens
boosted borrowing costs in seven quarter-percentage-point steps
from October 2009 to November last year.  He held the key rate at 4.75 percent for a ninth straight
meeting on Sept. 6, citing “unsettled” international markets.  “It is too soon to see much evidence of a concrete impact
of these events on the global economy,” Stevens said yesterday.  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG are among banks to cut forecasts
for global growth as the sovereign crisis that began in  Greece 
spreads to larger European economies and threatens the region’s
common currency, while U.S. job growth stagnates.  U.S. 10-year Treasury yields fell to a record low 1.9066
percent on Sept. 6. The equivalent Australian note offered 229.5
basis points of additional yield today.  Bondholder Protection  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, fell 0.7 percent to $1.0588 in Sydney today.  The rate Australian banks pay to borrow from each other
rose one basis point to 4.85 percent at the 10:08 a.m. Sydney
fixing, according to the Australian Financial Markets
Association. The spread between the bank bill yield and the rate
to swap floating interest payments for fixed ones, a key gauge
of banks’ reluctance to lend, widened to 33 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on corporate debt or speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 4 basis points to 168 basis points as
of 10:42 a.m. in Sydney, according to Credit Agricole CIB
prices. The risk benchmark reached 180.7 basis points on Sept.
6, the highest since July 2009, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. One basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own company bonds in
Australia instead of similar-maturity government debt rose 2
basis points to 223 basis points, or 2.23 percentage points,
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Australian Corporate & Collateralized Index.  The gap matches the widest since December 2009, the index
shows. That’s frozen the market for new bond sales by non-
financial companies in Australia, with the A$150 million sale of
notes on July 8 by a local unit of Volkswagen AG the last such
offering, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 