-- 
Australia’s Stevens Signals Willingness to Hold Rates Amid Growth Slowdown

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-09-07T02:07:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/rba-s-stevens-signals-willingness-to-keep-australia-interest-rates-on-hold.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  signaled a willingness to keep  interest rates  on
hold while the nation’s consumers retrench and global financial
markets create instability for the “foreseeable future.”  “Periods of sudden increases in anxiety within
international financial markets are moments when, if at all
possible, it is good to be in a position to be able to maintain
steady settings,” he said in prepared remarks today in Perth.  In his speech, Stevens said households watching global and
local events “may continue their precautionary behavior for
longer than otherwise” and help weaken demand compared with the
central bank’s August forecasts. “If so, that may act to
curtail the upward trend in inflationary pressures that has, up
to this point, appeared to be in prospect,” he said.  Australian households are saving more as assets including
stocks and houses decline in value after the RBA raised rates to
a developed-world high of 4.75 percent. Stevens held rates
yesterday at that level for a ninth straight meeting, citing
“unsettled” international markets.  “It is too soon to see much evidence of a concrete impact
of these events on the global economy,” he said today.  Responding to questions from the audience, Stevens said
policy makers need to keep an open mind on the timing and
direction of any decision to change rates. He declined to
speculate on the near-term outlook for monetary policy.  Mining Boom  A 23 percent increase in the local dollar in the past two
years, spurred by a boom in mining investment to meet demand
from India and  China , is hurting the manufacturing and tourism
industries.  Stevens reiterated the observation by his deputy, Ric Battellino, last month that in the past year economic growth
seems to be turning out slower than expected and underlying
inflation higher.  “A key question is whether that is just the vagaries of
statistical noise and lags, or whether it is telling us that the
combinations of growth and inflation available to us in the
short term are less attractive than they seemed a few years
ago,” he told the Western Australian Chambers of Commerce and
Minerals & Energy today.  The central bank’s two preferred measures of annual
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter.
The RBA aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  Inflation  The central bank has relied on the local dollar’s strength
to temper gains in consumer prices. The currency reached $1.1081
on July 27, the highest level since it was freely floated in
1983.  Australia  is undergoing what Stevens and other economists
call a structural change -- a shift in productive capacity to
the mining and energy industries while the stronger currency
hurts education, tourism and manufacturing exporters.  Clouding the outlook is concern the world’s largest economy
is slowing. Employment in the U.S. unexpectedly stagnated in
August as employers became less confident in the strength of the
recovery, and the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent, according to
a Sept. 2 report.  In  Europe , there’s little sign of a rebound.  France ’s
economy stalled in the second quarter,  Germany ’s expanded 0.1
percent and the U.K.’s gross domestic product grew 0.2 percent.
Joblessness is rising from  Russia  to  Belgium .  ‘Complex Forces’  “More than at most times in my professional life,
Australia’s economy faces a very unusual, and powerful, set of
complex forces,” Stevens said today.  Australian employers added 41,400 jobs during the first
seven months of the year, the weakest January-July period since
2003, as a rising currency hurts manufacturers including
BlueScope Steel Ltd.  Even so, Stevens said Australia is in a good position to
face the present challenges, with record-high terms of trade,
unemployment near 5 percent, a stable financial system and
“respected” sovereign credit globally.  “We have our problems, but with some good sense and
careful judgment we ought to be able to navigate what lies
ahead,” he said.  After Stevens spoke, a government report released in Sydney
showed Australia’s GDP expanded 1.2 percent in the three months
through June, faster than the 1 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after a revised 0.9 percent
contraction in the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net 
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  