-- 
Three Tells EU of Possible Exclusion From U.K. Mobile Venture

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-07T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/three-tells-eu-of-possible-exclusion-from-u-k-mobile-venture.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three unit
said it raised concerns with the European Union over its likely
exclusion from a U.K. mobile-phone payment venture set up by
bigger rivals including  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Vodafone,  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 and Everything Everywhere,
owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , have said
they will request the European Commission’s blessing for a joint
venture to help banks and advertisers access services which will
let people buy items from groceries to clothes with a swipe of
their smartphone.  Stephen Lerner, Three’s general counsel, said the smallest
of the U.K.’s four main operators told the commission that a
“cozy collaboration” between its bigger rivals would shut it
out of the venture. The EU’s merger control authority “should
not allow this type of collaboration to go forward under any
circumstances,” he said in an e-mailed statement today.  After losing out to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in offering
online application stores, the companies have sought to
accelerate the development of additional services. By banding
together, the U.K.’s three largest mobile operators are aiming
to drive revenue and boost smartphone sales.  The proposed venture will benefit customers and
“dramatically speed up the introduction of mobile advertising
and payment services,” Vodafone, Telefonica and Everything
Everywhere said in response to Three’s discussions with
regulators.  The companies expect to make a formal submission later in
the year to ask the EU to rule on any competition concerns with
the deal, they said in an e-mailed statement.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for Brussels-based EU
antitrust agency, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 