-- 
Gold Price’s Drop May Prolong 11-Year Bull Run, Top U.K. Fund Manager Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-07T07:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/retreat-in-gold-prices-may-extend-11-year-bull-run-top-u-k-investor-says.html
Gold’s temporary retreat from record
prices may help prolong the precious metal’s 11-year bull run as
speculators abandon the market, the manager of the U.K.’s best-
performing investment trust said.  “It wouldn’t surprise me at all if it went down, and
there’s a small part of me that would welcome it, because it
would make the long-term trend more sustainable,” said  Will Smith , co-manager of the CQS Group’s City Natural Resources
Trust. “We’re looking at speculative demand being washed out.”  Gold is in the 11th year of a  bull market  in  London , the
longest winning streak since at least 1920, as investors seek to
diversify away from equities and some currencies. The metal is
up 29 percent this year, outperforming global stocks,
commodities and Treasuries. Bullion slipped 2.3 percent to
$1,833 an ounce by 8:07 a.m., headed for a second daily decline
after reaching a record $1,921.15 yesterday. Gold climbed 12
percent in August, its best monthly advance since November 2009.  Smith’s City Natural Resources High Yield trust was the
U.K.’s best-performing investment trust with assets of more than 
250 million pounds ($400 million) in 2010, returning 85 percent,
according to data compiled by Morningstar Inc. The trust, which
has about 262 million pounds of assets, is also the best in its
12-member peer group over the past three years, having risen 114
percent, Morningstar said. That beat BlackRock Inc.’s World
Mining Trust, which returned 19 percent in the period.  “A move back down to $1,650 would make the trend much more
sustainable,” said Smith, 51, who joined New City Investment
Managers in 2008.  Smith, who holds about 29 percent of his fund in gold
equities, sees gold stocks as the best way to respond to rising
prices after they failed to match bullion’s performance.  ‘Great Margins’  “Gold companies used to trade at big premiums -- not
anymore,” Smith said. “The equities have great margins now.
The generalist looking for earning momentum would have to look
at the equities.”  Miners of precious metals are trading at their lowest share
prices relative to profit in almost three years. The benchmark
Philadelphia Gold & Silver Index of companies including Barrick
Gold Corp., Newmont Mining Corp. and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
traded as low as 14 times earnings last month, from an average
of about 27 times profit in the past five years.  Smith expects bullion prices will continue to rise in the
long term until there is a return to  interest rates  above
inflation and growth in developed economies, and a “credible
solution” is found to the sovereign debt and deficit crisis.  “In the absence of a solution to one, or preferably all of
those, we feel that gold has got a really important part to
play,” he said.  A slump in uranium stocks, along with mining equities, has
dragged the fund about 15 percent lower this year. Uranium has
plunged since an earthquake and tsunami triggered a nuclear
meltdown in  Japan  in March. Companies that mine the ore make up
about 13 percent of the fund.  “Right now can you have a sensible debate about uranium?
It’s still a bit early,” said Smith. “We don’t see that a
great deal has changed on the demand side. New mines are going
to require higher prices quite frankly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 