-- 
Richemont Sales Rise on Increased Asian Demand for Jewelry

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-07T15:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/richemont-five-month-sales-rise-on-increased-demand-in-asia-for-luxury.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
second-biggest luxury-goods company, reported sales that beat
analysts’ estimates as Asian consumers bought more Vacheron
Constantin timepieces and Cartier jewelry.  Revenue rose 29 percent in the five months through August
from the year-earlier period, the Geneva-based company said
today in a statement. That beat the 18 percent average estimate
of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. While operating profit
this year will be “significantly higher,” net income will be
“broadly in line” with last year’s level, Richemont said.  Sales rose 46 percent in the Asia Pacific region, where
growing numbers of millionaires are fueling demand for high-end
goods. Wealthy Chinese consumers own about four luxury watches
on average and  Cartier  is their most preferred jewelry brand,
according to the  Hurun Wealth Report . Richemont said it sees no
signs that demand in  China  is weakening.  “The company is probably opening more stores in Asia
Pacific than anticipated and they’re not saying they see signs
of a slowdown, which is positive,” Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said in a phone interview.  Richemont rose 3.18 francs, or 7.3 percent, to 47.05 francs
in Zurich trading today, extending yesterday’s 4.5 percent gain.  ‘Cautious Optimism’  While Richemont faces “the future with cautious
optimism”, the company said the remainder of the year is
“difficult to predict.”  “The problems of fiscal deficits generally and euro zone
difficulties in particular are likely to act as a drag on
business prospects for companies in the period ahead, especially
if growth markets are affected,” Chief Executive Officer Johann Rupert said in the statement.  Yesterday’s decision by the  Swiss National Bank  to cap the
franc’s rate against the euro was a “very brave move”, Rupert
said after the company’s annual shareholder meeting in Geneva.  “It’s exemplary; I just hope it doesn’t cost too much,”
the CEO said. “When you have a situation where people seek
safety, the Swiss franc is a natural harbor.”  The bank said it won’t tolerate an  exchange rate  below 1.20
francs per euro. The Swiss currency dropped more than 8 percent
against the euro yesterday. Rupert declined to comment on the
1.20 franc level.  PPR, LVMH  Net income in the current financial year will be affected
by the strong franc, which will lead to a “translation” loss
on Richemont’s cash balance, the company said. Net cash was 2.6
billion euros at the end of August. Full-year profit also will
be hurt because the previous period included a 101 million-euro
($142 million) accounting gain stemming from the purchase of
online fashion retailer Net-A-Porter, Richemont said.  Excluding currency shifts, Richemont’s sales increased 35
percent. The company, which reports earnings in euros, doesn’t
release profit growth for the first five months of the year.  PPR SA, the French owner of the Gucci brand, and  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  predicted in July that sustained
demand for luxury products this year.  Revenue in Richemont’s watch division climbed 28 percent,
above analyst estimates of a 21 percent gain. The maker of
Jaeger-LeCoultre timepieces got about a quarter of sales in the
12 months through March from specialist watchmakers.  Revenue from Richemont’s jewelry unit increased 34 percent,
double the 17 percent average estimate. The division generates
about half the company’s sales. Richemont also gets revenue from
businesses including Net-a-Porter and Alfred Dunhill, the
London-based maker of  leather goods , fashion and lighters.  Richemont prefers to invest in its existing businesses,
Rupert said when asked about the company’s interest in making
more acquisitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  