-- 
Trichet May Resist Rate-Cut Calls as Debt Crisis Tightens Money Markets

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-08T11:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/trichet-may-resist-rate-cut-calls-as-debt-crisis-tightens-money-markets.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  will probably resist calls to cut the
benchmark interest rate today and may opt instead to increase
the supply of cash to euro-area banks as the region’s debt
crisis worsens.  Policy makers meeting in Frankfurt will keep the key rate
at 1.5 percent, according to all 57 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The ECB may lower its inflation and growth
forecasts, signaling rates are now on hold after two increases
this year.  The spreading debt crisis is sapping confidence in European
banks and driving up market borrowing costs, prompting
economists such as Nouriel Roubini and Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz to urge the ECB to quickly reverse its rate tightening.
Economists who closely watch the ECB say it is more likely to
use other tools first, such as reintroducing 12-month loans to
banks or even lowering the rate it pays on overnight deposits.  “The situation is very, very bad, the money markets have
almost stopped functioning,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The debate
in markets has moved to rate cuts but I doubt it will happen,
and one way to buffer the inevitable disappointment would be to
reintroduce the 12-month tender.”  The ECB announces its rate decision at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes later.
Separately, the  Bank of England  kept its key rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent and maintained its bond-purchase program at
200 billion pounds ($320 billion).  Focus on Growth  Central banks around the world are refocusing on supporting
growth. Yesterday alone the  Bank of Canada  said there is a
“diminished” need for it to raise  interest rates , Sweden’s
Riksbank abandoned a planned increase and the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  signaled it is prepared to keep rates on hold.  Fears of a renewed global recession have caused stocks to
tumble around the world and forced Japan and  Switzerland  to
intervene to stop their currencies appreciating as investors
seek havens. Manufacturing slumped in  Europe  and  Asia  last
month, while weak growth and stubbornly high unemployment in the
U.S. have fueled calls for the  Federal Reserve  to embark on a
third round of quantitative easing. U.S. President Barack Obama
will today propose a more than $300 billion stimulus plan to
lawmakers in  Washington .  Economic Projections  The ECB will cut its forecasts for growth and inflation
when it issues new economic projections today, said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
in  London . It may lower its 2012 growth estimate to 1.4 percent
from 1.7 percent and its inflation forecast to 1.6 percent from
1.7 percent, he said.  Trichet said on Aug. 29 that the bank was reviewing its
assessment of inflation risks, which in last month’s policy
statement it described as being “on the upside.”  “The language will probably shift to neutral on inflation
and downside risks to growth, which is enough to flag that the
ECB is on hold,” said Laurent Bilke, a former ECB economist now
working for Nomura International in London. “That is the
intermediate step before they would even consider any easing. It
is very unlikely that the ECB would do a massive U-turn so soon.
That is just not how it operates.”  While euro-area growth slowed more than economists forecast
in the second quarter, to 0.2 percent from 0.8 percent in the
first, inflation at 2.5 percent remains in breach of the ECB’s 2
percent limit.  ‘Biggest Mistake’  The central bank raised rates in April and July to combat
price pressures. Since then, the debt crisis that had already
engulfed  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland has spread to Italy and
 Spain , the region’s third and fourth-largest economies, forcing
the ECB to start buying Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug. 8.  Investors have increased bets that the ECB will cut its key
rate by the end of the year, Eonia forward contracts show.  “The ECB made its biggest mistake in its history hiking
rates this year,” Roubini, co-founder and chairman of Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said in an interview on Sept. 6. “They’ve
created more sovereign debt problems. They’ve created more
banking problems.”  The Euribor OIS spread, a measure of banks’ reluctance to
lend to each other, rose to 79 basis points yesterday, the
highest in almost 2 1/2 years.  Deposit Rate  Juergen Michels, chief euro-region economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said the economic outlook is not gloomy enough
to prompt rate cuts and the ECB is more likely to introduce new
measures to keep banks awash with cash, perhaps as soon as
today. That could include an additional six-month loan or
reintroducing a 12-month operation, he said.  Policy makers could also look at cutting the deposit rate
to push down market borrowing costs and increase the penalty
banks incur when they park cash with the ECB rather than lend it
to other institutions. The deposit rate is currently at 0.75
percent, compared with the 0.87 percent overnight rate on money
markets.  The ECB will be more inclined to choose other measures than
rush into lowering its key rate, said  Nick Kounis , head of macro
research at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The situation would
have to deteriorate significantly to move toward rate cuts,” he
said.  The ECB has reversed direction before. It raised its
benchmark in July 2008 before embarking on the most aggressive
easing in its history in October after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a global recession. Deutsche
Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said on Sept. 5
that current market conditions remind him of that time.  “The experience of late 2008 indicates that the ECB can
change course very quickly,” said Cailloux, who sees a 40
percent chance that the ECB will cut rates by year-end. “Given
how quickly the situation has deteriorated over the past month,
we do not believe the ECB will be in a position to provide much
credible forward-looking guidance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  