-- 
RIM, Apple, Location-Based Programs: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-07T11:54:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/rim-apple-location-based-programs-intellectual-property.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker
of the BlackBerry smartphone, should consider selling itself or
spinning off its patents to boost investor returns after a slump
in its stock price, shareholder  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  said.  RIM should create a committee of four or five independent
directors to study those options, Jaguar Chief Executive Officer
Vic Alboini said yesterday in an interview. Alboini, who
declined to disclose the size of Jaguar’s RIM stake, said his
proposal has the support of several large shareholders who
collectively hold less than 5 percent of the Waterloo, Ontario-
based company.  RIM has come under pressure from investors to make
strategic changes after its stock lost almost half its value
this year amid market-share losses to Apple Inc. and Google Inc.
Northwest & Ethical Investments LP in June called for a split of
the roles of chairman and CEO, shared by  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , to shake up leadership.  Toronto-based Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant
bank that invests in undervalued small-cap companies, has been
active in the past to pursue its goals.  Hudbay Minerals Inc. (HBM) 
agreed in 2009 to cancel its C$672 million ($534 million)
takeover of  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  after Jaguar’s Alboini rallied
shareholders to oppose the bid.  Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment.  Patents  Senate Votes to End Debate on Patent Overhaul Legislation  The Senate yesterday agreed 93-5 to limit debate on a
motion that would send patent reform legislation for a full
vote. Yesterday’s action moves the Senate closer to passing H.R.
1249, which would overhaul present law by granting patents to
the first to file, rather than the first to invent. The
legislation would also allow the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office to control its funding.  For more on the legislation, click here.  Samsung Puts New Tablet on Hold as Apple Wins Court Order  Samsung Electronics Co. lost a chance to showcase its
latest tablet computer at one of the world’s largest electronics
shows after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a second injunction blocking Galaxy
Tab sales in Germany.  Samsung, Apple’s closest rival in tablet computers, pulled
the just-unveiled Galaxy Tab 7.7 out of the  IFA  consumer-
electronics show in Berlin after a Dusseldorf court on Sept. 2
granted Apple’s request to ban sales and marketing of the
product,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, said
by telephone.  Samsung and Apple, maker of the iPad, are involved in legal
disputes across three continents, as Apple -- also one of the
biggest customers for the South Korean company’s chips and
displays -- claims the Galaxy devices copied its iPhone and
iPad. Last month, the Dusseldorf Regional Court granted Apple a
temporary sales ban on the earlier Galaxy Tab 10.1 model in 26
of the 27 European Union member countries.  “Samsung respects the court’s decision,” Chung said
yesterday, adding that the company believes it “severely limits
consumer choice in  Germany .” Samsung will pursue all available
options, including legal action, to defend its intellectual-
property rights, he said.  Apple May Have to Show IPad Sales to Bar Samsung in  Australia   Apple Inc. may have to reveal iPad and iPad 2 sales figures
in the U.K. and U.S. to improve its chances of barring Samsung
Electronics Co. from selling the Galaxy 10.1 tablet computer in
Australia, a judge said.  Apple’s claim that the Samsung tablet’s release in
Australia will hurt iPad sales may carry little weight if it
doesn’t provide the numbers, Federal Court Justice Annabelle
Bennett said in Sydney Federal Court yesterday.  Bennett said she wouldn’t force Apple to release the sales
numbers and denied Samsung’s request for them. Apple aims to
block Samsung sales of the Galaxy 10.1 in Australia, claiming
the tablet computer infringes its patents.  Apple is seeking an injunction on Samsung sales in
Australia until the patent suit is resolved. Samsung wanted the
sales figures to show that the U.K. and U.S. release of the
Galaxy 10.1, which runs  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system,
had little effect on iPad sales.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
NSD1243/2011, Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Apple-S3 Graphics Patent Case Findings to Be Reviewed By ITC  A finding that Apple Inc.’s Mac OS X computer system
violates patents held by S3 Graphics Co. will be reviewed by the
U.S. International Trade Commission.  The commission said in a  notice  on Sept. 2 that it will
review “in its entirety” ITC Judge James Gildea’s July 1
determination that some Apple Macs infringed two S3 patents
related to graphics chips, while the mobile platform for the
iPhone didn’t infringe. The Washington-based trade agency laid
out 13 questions it wants answered, including some related to
patent validity and licenses S3 has with  Intel Corp . and Nvidia
Corp.  Phonemaker  HTC Corp. (2498) , which agreed to buy closely held S3
for $300 million less than a week after the ruling, is counting
on a victory to bolster its patent battles with Apple. HTC and
Apple are part of a struggle among smartphone makers, including
Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.,
looking to fight copycats and thwart competition in a market
projected by researcher IHS Inc. to be $206.6 billion this year.  HTC lost a case in July in which a commission judge
determined that some of the company’s devices running on Google
Inc.’s Android operating system infringed two Apple patents.
Cupertino, California-based Apple has an additional complaint
filed in July that also targets HTC’s Flyer tablets. HTC has two
cases it brought against Apple at the Washington-based trade
agency, one submitted last year and another last month.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment.
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC,  Asia ’s second-biggest maker of
smartphones, had no immediate comment.  The case In the Matter of Certain Electronic Devices with
Image Processing Systems, 337-724, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  Privacy  Location-Based Programs Used by 28 Percent of Adults, Pew Says  Location-based programs for computers and mobile phones,
such as navigation and social-networking applications, are used
by 28 percent of all U.S. adults, according to a national
 survey .  About 55 percent of smartphone owners use location-based
services to obtain driving directions or recommendations on
nearby businesses, while 12 percent use a “geosocial” service
such as Foursquare or Gowalla to “check in” to locations and
share that information with friends, according to the survey
released yesterday by the  Pew Research Center , an independent,
nonpartisan public opinion research group based in Washington.  The survey represents Pew’s most expansive look at how
people access location-based services, Kathryn Zickuhr, the
report’s lead author, said in an interview. The results,
published through the Pew Internet & American Life Project, were
based on a national telephone survey of 2,277 adults between
April 26 and May 22.  The report coincides with increased scrutiny by lawmakers
in Washington on the protection of consumer information online,
including location data gathered from smartphones and other
mobile devices.  Apple Inc. and Google Inc., makers of software used in
millions of smartphones, defended their handling of user
location data at a series of congressional hearings earlier this
year, saying they don’t track individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in  New York  at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 