-- 
Trina Solar, Roth & Rau, Day4 Developing Energy-Efficient Panels

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-09-07T17:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/trina-solar-roth-rau-day4-developing-energy-efficient-panels.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  developed a solar
unit with “record” output, and  Roth & Rau AG (R8R)  and  Day4 Energy
Inc. (DFE)  created a module with increased power efficiency as cell
makers compete to produce greater energy at lower cost.  The module made by Roth & Rau and Day4 has a 19.3 percent
efficiency, a gauge of the amount of sunlight converted into
power, Day4 said in a statement today. Changzhou, China-based
Trina said its panel had peak output of 274 watts and set a
“world record,” according to a statement on its  website .  The output would give a cell-level efficiency of about 18.7
percent, according to a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst.  Cell makers are seeking to squeeze more power from panels
to generate electricity at lower cost. Modules are typically 14
to 15 percent efficient, meaning the latest announcements from
Day4 Energy and  Trina Solar  are “incrementally positive news,”
said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC. in  New York .  “They need to keep demonstrating their ability to improve
efficiency,” Chew said. “The key question is how much they
cost.”  Agnieszka Pozniak, a spokeswoman for Vancouver-based Day4,
said it was too early to give a price as the module isn’t yet
ready for production. The company previously made units with
14.7 percent efficiency and now licenses its technology to other
panel makers rather than building its own products, she said.  Trina Solar didn’t give a price for its module and Thomas Young, a company spokesman, didn’t respond to requests for
comment sent by e-mail and left by voicemail message.  Roth & Rau is based in Hohenstein,  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 