-- 
Ringgit Little Changed Ahead of Export Data, Policy Rate Review

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-09-07T09:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/ringgit-slides-for-third-day-ahead-of-export-data-rate-review.html
Malaysia’s ringgit was little
changed as economists predicted the central bank will leave
borrowing costs unchanged at a review tomorrow as export growth
likely slowed.  Overseas shipments rose 6.6 percent from a year earlier in
July, after having increased 8.6 percent in June, according to
the median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg survey before
official data due later this week.  Bank Negara Malaysia  will
leave its benchmark overnight rate at 3 percent tomorrow,
according to all 18 economists in a separate survey. The ringgit
has dropped 0.4 percent this month on speculation  Europe ’s
lingering debt crisis will damp demand for emerging-market
assets.  “The unresolved crisis in Europe and expectations of
slower domestic export growth are weighing on sentiment,” said
Akira Banno, a treasury adviser in Kuala Lumpur at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. “The ringgit is trying to find a
comfortable level to settle down.”  The ringgit held at 2.9830 per dollar as of 5:01 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is now a new uncertainty about prospects for
recovery and growth across the globe, partly because of the
inability of the U.S., Europe and  Japan  to address their public
debt and employment problems,” International Trade and Industry
Minister Mustapa Mohamed told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today.
This has “affected business and investors confidence around the
globe. Our economic fundamentals are strong, healthy and
resilient.”  Malaysia’s government bonds gained as a sale calendar shows
the treasury will sell November 2016 Islamic notes later this
month. The yield on the 4.262 percent securities due September
2016 declined one basis point, or 0.01 percent, at a record low
3.29 percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  