-- 
Growth Risk Means Favor Asian Defensive Stocks, Bank of America’s Kim Says

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-09-08T03:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/risk-of-bigger-stock-selloff-exists-bank-of-america-s-kim-says.html
Investors should favor “defensive”
utility and telecommunications shares in Asia whose earnings may
be sheltered from a slowdown in the world’s biggest economies,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s head of Asia Pacific research said.  There’s a risk of more selling in regional stocks, Hunsoo Kim at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit said in an interview
in Seoul yesterday. Merrill was rated first for Asia research in
2011 by Institutional Investor magazine. Kim, based in Hong
Kong, was visiting Seoul for an annual Korea conference hosted
by Merrill.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 8.6 percent last month,
the most since May 2010, on signs the U.S. economic recovery is
faltering and concern that Europe’s debt crisis will spread.
Utility and telecommunications gauges within the MSCI index lost
less than 3 percent in August, the best performers among 10
industry groups.  “We’re taking a defensive stance, and we acknowledge there
are risks out there,” Kim said, without naming individual
stocks nor giving an index forecast. “There’s going be less
growth most likely next year, and markets reflect that.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.1 percent as of 12:22
p.m. Seoul time. The gauge declined 12 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 4.7 percent drop by the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 17 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600
Index. Stocks in the Asian gauge trade for 12 times estimated
earnings, compared with 11.7 times for the S&P 500 and 9.6 times
for the Stoxx 600.  U.S. Outlook  Another round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing,
in the U.S. is unlikely to happen in a “major” way, and even
if it does, it may not necessarily resolve problems of the
world’s largest economy, Kim said. The U.S. economy posted zero
jobs growth last month, a government report on Sept. 2 showed.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to
speak on the U.S. economic outlook later today. The central
bank’s policy makers voted on June 22 to conclude a $600 billion
bond-buying program as scheduled and maintain its balance sheet
near record levels. The Fed pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its target
interest rate near zero until at least mid-2013.  “We’re not sure about the effectiveness of such policy to
really get the U.S. back on track,” said Kim. “It didn’t
create jobs, and at the end of the day, you cannot solve debt
issues by creating more debt.”  Best Performers  Debt issues in Europe pose bigger risks to markets as
creating a political consensus on what to do won’t be easy, Kim
said. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi won a confidence
vote yesterday in the nation’s Senate on austerity measures.
Challenges to Germany’s participation in euro rescue funds were
rejected by the nation’s top court yesterday, which said the
government must seek some parliamentary approval for any future
bailout payments.  The best performing utility stock in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index for August was Japan’s Shikoku Electric Power Co., which
climbed 12 percent. China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the country’s
No. 2 mobile-phone company, and SK Telecom Co., South Korea’s
largest mobile-phone operator, were the top performing
telecommunications shares, with gains of more than 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  