-- 
Roche Drug for Unapproved Use May Save $1 Billion, U.S. Says

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-07T16:17:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/roche-drug-for-unapproved-use-may-save-1-billion-u-s-says-1-.html
Medicare could have saved $1.1
billion in 2008 and 2009 by expanding use of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
cancer drug Avastin to treat an eye disease, a low-cost option
unapproved by U.S. regulators, an audit found.  The U.S. should consider such “off label” uses when
reviewing coverage policies for Medicare, the federal health
program for the elderly and disabled, the Department of Health
and Human Services said in a  report  today.  Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, is fighting two
Democratic senators’ efforts to expand Avastin’s use for wet
age-related macular degeneration, a leading cause of blindness
affecting more than 1 million Americans. The company makes a
drug, Lucentis, for the condition that’s approved by the Food
and Drug Administration and is 40 times more expensive.  Medicare is evaluating its policies and “will seek
additional authorities as necessary,” said Marilyn Tavenner,
Medicare’s principal deputy administrator, in a July 15 response
to the findings included in the report.  The inspector general for HHS found Medicare beneficiaries
could have saved $275 million in copayments by using Avastin
exclusively rather than Lucentis in 2008 and 2009.  Medicare covers Avastin at a cost of less than $50 a dose
compared with $2,000 for each injection of Lucentis,  Jonathan Blum , deputy administrator at the agency, said during a Senate
Aging Committee hearing.  Senators’ Efforts  Democratic Senators  Herb Kohl  of Wisconsin and  Sherrod Brown  of Ohio have pushed the Medicare program to declare
Avastin necessary to fight wet age-related macular degeneration.  Medicare can’t take cost into account in making such
determinations and doesn’t have to issue the recommendations.  Roche points to studies at  Duke University  and the  Johns
Hopkins University  based on Medicare claims data that show use
of Avastin, approved for  colon cancer , for the eye condition
increases the risk of stroke and death in seniors. Roche funded
the Johns Hopkins study.  The FDA  warned  Aug. 30 that repackaged Avastin injections
caused at least 12 serious eye infections in the Miami area.
Some patients were completely blinded as a result.  Five other people taking Avastin were blinded last month at
the Veterans Affairs medical center in  Los Angeles , the New York
Times reported Sept. 2.  Avastin is Roche’s top-selling drug, generating 14 percent
of the company’s revenue with global sales of 6.46 billion Swiss
francs ($8.03 billion) last year. Lucentis cost $1.1 billion to
develop in 11 years. The treatment generated $1.4 billion in
sales last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An FDA advisory panel turned down Avastin’s use in  breast
cancer  in June because the treatment didn’t work as well as the
agency expected and can cause deadly bleeding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 