-- 
Tropical Storm Nate Forecast to Strengthen as Lee Drenches U.S. Northeast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-08T12:31:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/tropical-storm-nate-forms-as-three-systems-now-churning-in-atlantic-ocean.html
Tropical Storm Nate, one of three
active weather systems in the Atlantic basin, was forecast to
grow stronger today in Mexico’s Bay of Campeche, the National
Hurricane Center said.  Nate, with winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour, was
about 125 miles west of Campeche, Mexico, according to an NHC
 advisory  at 8 a.m. New York time. Nate, which along with
Hurricane Katia and Tropical Storm Maria is churning over
tropical waters, is forecast to turn north tomorrow and may
strengthen into a Category 1 hurricane with winds of 75 mph.  Remnants of Tropical Storm Lee caused heavy showers and
snarled traffic today in the U.S. Northeast and mid-Atlantic
states, the NHC also said.  Katia , bearing 90 mph winds, is now
325 miles west of Bermuda and will pass between the island and
U.S. East Coast later today and swing northeastward far off
Maine and Nova Scotia this weekend, the NHC also said.  Computer models suggest Nate, almost stationary now, may go
ashore in Mexico south of its oil- and gas-producing region or
near Brownsville, Texas, said Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at
the commercial forecaster MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland.  “The latest model runs keep it south of the producing
region but I don’t think we can write it off just yet by any
stretch of the imagination,” Hartman said yesterday.  There is a chance the storm may go farther north, which
would threaten U.S. rigs and platforms in the western Gulf of
Mexico. The Bay of Campeche holds rigs and platforms owned by
Petroleos Mexicanos. The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil
output and 6.5 percent of the country’s natural gas production.  Nate, Maria, Katia  Nate became the 14th storm to form in the Atlantic region
this June-November hurricane season, hours after Tropical Storm
Maria.  Maria is about 760 miles east of the Windward Islands with
winds of 50 mph. It’s moving west at 23 mph, according to the
Miami-based  hurricane center . A tropical storm watch is in
effect for Antigua, Barbuda, Nevis and St. Kitts.  “It’s in an environment that isn’t conducive to explosive
strengthening,” said Dennis Feltgen, a spokesman for the NHC.
“In fact, we have it as a tropical storm through the end of the
five-day forecast period.”  The statistical peak of the six-month Atlantic hurricane
season is later this week. This year has produced storms at a
faster rate than 2010, when 19 named systems moved through the
basin. The 14th storm didn’t form until Sept. 29 last year.  Feltgen said the activity is in line with pre-season
forecasts for an above-average storm season. A typical season
produces 11 named systems, according to the hurricane center.  Atlantic History  Since 1995, when the Atlantic entered a warming phase, the
seasonal average has been 15, said Jeff Masters, co-founder of
 Weather Underground Inc . in Ann Arbor, Michigan.  The only things that have kept storm numbers down since
then are El Nino events, warmings of the central Pacific Ocean,
Feltgen said. El Nino creates wind shear in the Atlantic that
tears at storms. The most active hurricane season on record was
2005, when 28 storms formed.  “If we continue on this pace, we are going to challenge
2005,” said Masters, who used to fly on National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration hurricane reconnaissance planes.
“That would make three of the last six years among the top five
busiest hurricane seasons on record.”  Masters said the basin may be entering an era in which 20
storms a year becomes common.  Maria, Katia  Maria’s forecast path shows it passing near the northeast
coast of Puerto Rico in three days and east of the Bahamas on
Sept. 12 as a tropical storm.  Hurricane Katia is moving north off Bermuda, where a
tropical storm watch is in effect, the hurricane center said in
 an advisory  at 8 a.m. Eastern time.  Katia is forecast to curve northeast and gain speed tonight
and tomorrow as it moves between the island and the U.S. East
Coast on a track that may take it just north of the U.K. early
next week.  Katia is producing dangerous surf conditions along much of
the East Coast. It is a Category 1 storm on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale. A system becomes a named storm
when its sustained winds reach 39 mph, and a hurricane when
winds hit 74 mph.  With all the storm activity, the Energy Department may
report that oil inventories fell 2 million barrels last week as
Tropical Storm Lee came ashore on the U.S. Gulf Coast, causing
heavy flooding, and shut output, according to a Bloomberg News
survey.  Northeast Drenched  Remnants of Lee continued to cause heavy rain and
thunderstorms across the mid-Atlantic states and southwestern
New England, the NHC said today in an advisory. As much as 6
inches of rain may fall and cause “serious flash floods and
mudslides” in an already soaked area, it said.  Rain has worsened morning commuters’ travel and also
wrecked havoc for a second day at the U.S. Open in New York
City.  About 36.9 percent of U.S. Gulf oil production and 18.1
percent of natural gas output remain shut following Tropical
Storm Lee, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  