-- 
Tropical Storm Maria Joins Katia in Atlantic

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-09-07T18:33:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/tropical-storm-maria-joins-katia-in-atlantic-as-storm-develops-in-gulf.html
Tropical Storm Maria formed in the
Atlantic, the 13th named system of the 2011 season, as Hurricane
Katia weakened on its path around Bermuda.  Maria developed about 1,305 miles (2,100 kilometers) east
of the Lesser Antilles with maximum winds of 50 miles per hour,
moving west at 23 mph, according to an advisory from the
 National Hurricane Center  at 11 a.m. Eastern time.  “We got the 13th named storm of the season and it’s in an
environment that isn’t conducive to explosive strengthening,”
said  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for the hurricane center. “In
fact, we have it as a tropical storm through the end of the
five-day forecast period.”  A low-pressure system over the southwestern  Gulf of Mexico 
off the Yucatan Peninsula is showing “signs of organization”
and has a 70 percent chance of becoming a tropical depression
within two days, according to the center. An Air Force Reserve
hurricane hunter aircraft is scheduled to investigate the system
today.  That disturbance would have the greatest near-term threat
to oil and gas interests in the Gulf, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist at the commercial forecaster MDA EarthSat Weather
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Crude oil and natural gas futures climbed in  New York  as
the system threatened to reduce U.S. production from the Gulf.  Gulf Energy  The Bay of Campeche, where conditions are conducive for
spinning up strong storms, holds rigs and platforms owned by
 Petroleos Mexicanos . The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil
output and 6.5 percent of the country’s natural gas production.  The statistical peak of the six-month Atlantic  hurricane
season  comes in three days, and this year has produced storms at
a faster rate than 2010, when a total of 19 named systems roared
through the basin. The 13th storm didn’t form until Sept. 23
last year.  Feltgen said the activity is in line with pre-season
forecasts for an above-average storm season. A typical season
produces 11 named systems, according to the hurricane center.  Since 1995, when the Atlantic entered a warming phase, the
seasonal average has been 15, said  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground Inc . in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  El Nino  The only things that have kept the storm numbers down since
then are El Nino events, warmings of the central  Pacific Ocean ,
Feltgen said. El Nino creates wind shear in the Atlantic that
tears at storms.  The most active hurricane season on record was 2005, when
28 storms formed. That year, the 13th storm, also named Maria,
arrived on Sept. 1.  “We have the 13th named storm and the 14th on the way
before the halfway point of hurricane season,” said Masters,
who used to fly on National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration hurricane reconnaissance planes. “That gives me
some concern.”  Masters said he doesn’t see anything to stop the current
production of storms in the Atlantic. He said the basin may be
entering an era where a total of 20 storms a year becomes
commonplace.  “If we continue on this pace, we are going to challenge
2005,” Masters said. “That would make three of the last six
years among the top five busiest hurricane seasons on record.”  Maria’s Path  Maria is forecast to pass north of  Puerto Rico  on Sept. 11
as a tropical storm.  Hurricane Katia’s top winds weakened to 85 mph from 90
earlier today as it moved about 325 miles southwest of  Bermuda ,
where a tropical storm watch is in effect, the hurricane center
said in  an advisory  at 2 p.m. Eastern time. Katia is expected to
curve northeast past the island, steering clear of the U.S. East
Coast, on a track that may take it north of the U.K. early next
week.  Katia is currently a Category 1 storm on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale. A system becomes a named storm
when its sustained winds reach 39 mph, and a hurricane when
winds hit 74 mph.  Crude oil futures rose as much as 4.3 percent as the
disturbance in the Bay of Campeche strengthened. The Energy
Department may report that inventories fell 2 million barrels
last week as Lee shut output, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Oil also rose on speculation President  Barack Obama  will
announce plans for more than $300 billion in stimulus.  Natural gas futures gained as much as 2.5 percent.  Power
plants  use about 30 percent of the nation’s natural gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  About 36.9 percent of U.S. Gulf oil production and 18.1
percent of natural gas output have been halted by Lee, the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  