-- 
RBC Backed Away From Canadian Acquisitions, CEO Nixon Says

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-07T14:34:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/royal-bank-backed-away-from-canadian-acquisitions-chief-executive-says.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest bank, has backed away from recent Canadian takeover
opportunities because they didn’t meet the company’s goals,
Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon said.  “They were inconsistent with our domestic distribution
strategies and our margin and risk objectives,” Nixon said
today at a banking conference in Toronto hosted by Scotia
Capital. He didn’t say which companies were involved.  Royal Bank, which gets more than half of its earnings from
Canadian banking, will continue to look for ways to expand its
asset base in  Canada , Nixon, 54, said. Royal Bank will also use
market turmoil to make “strategic acquisitions” in areas such
as wealth management and investment banking, he said.  “We are monitoring the challenging competitive landscape
closely, watching for opportunities to accelerate our growth in
core businesses, geographies and client segments while
maintaining a conservative approach in recognition of very
unstable economic conditions in the  United States  and  Europe ,”
Nixon said.  He reiterated a previous comment that the global banking
sector faces “significant headwinds” driven largely by fiscal
and economic challenges in the U.S. and Europe.  “In this environment, it is our objective to ensure that
we are well-positioned to grow our earnings and to take
advantage of global dislocations without putting us at extreme
risk from uncontrollable external shocks,” Nixon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  