-- 
Russian Hockey Team’s Jet Crash Kills 43; Medvedev to Visit Site

-- B y   T o r r e y   C l a r k ,   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-08T06:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/russian-passenger-plane-carrying-ice-hockey-team-crashes-kills-36-people.html
The death toll from the crash of a
Russian plane carrying the Lokomotiv Yaroslavl hockey team rose
to 43 as all but two of the people on board were killed.  Lokomotiv player Alexander Galimov is in critical
condition, according to Yaroslavl Governor Sergey Vakhrukov’s
press service. An airplane crew member -- identified as
Alexander Sizov on the  Kontinental Hockey League  website -- was
also hospitalized.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who was scheduled to host a
global policy forum in the region where the plane crashed, has
changed his plans and will visit the site today. The plane, a
Soviet-era Yakovlev-42 aircraft, had failed to gain altitude
when taking off from the Tunoshna airport in the Yaroslavl
region about 300 kilometers (186 miles) north-west of Moscow on
the opening day of the KHL season.  “We have been hit by a deep sorrow,” Alexander Medvedev,
the head of the league and an OAO Gazprom executive, said on
national television.  Lokomotiv, a three-time national champion, was coached by
former  Detroit  Red Wings assistant Brad McCrimmon, a 52-year-old
Canadian, and its roster lists former National Hockey League
players Pavol Demitra, who played for the St. Louis Blues and
 Vancouver Canucks ; Josef Vasicek, Karel Rachunek and Karlis Skrastins.  The plane crash is a blow to the fledgling Russian league,
which started in 2008 and has attracted players including former
New York Rangers winger Jaromir Jagr, the ninth-leading scorer
in NHL history. The accident happened just after 4 p.m. local
time yesterday at a tributary that feeds into the Volga.  The Entire Team  “The whole team was on the plane,” Vladimir Malkov,
Lokomotiv’s spokesman, said in comments broadcast on state
television. There were eight crew members on board, Yelena
Kalabushkina, a spokeswoman for the Emergency Ministry said by
phone.  Demitra spent his last two years in the NHL with the
Vancouver Canucks, after stops in Ottawa and  Minnesota .  “Pavol was dedicated and passionate about his young family
and the game of hockey,” the Canucks said in a statement on the
team website. “Pavol was a valued teammate and member of our
organization and will be sorely missed.”  The KHL is made up of 24 teams, split between two
conferences, in Russia,  Belarus ,  Latvia  and  Kazakhstan .  The league and the NHL have been at odds in recent years
over the KHL attempting to entice NHL players to break their
contracts and join the Russian league.  League Tensions  Tensions between the league peaked before 2008-09 season
when the KHL signed right wing Alexander Radulov, the 15th
overall pick in the 2004 NHL draft, away from the  Nashville
Predators  while he was still under an NHL contract.  Swedish national team ice-hockey goaltender Stefan Liv was
also on the team. The KHL website said that McCrimmon, a
Canadian, was on the plane, as were two members of the 2010
world champion  Czech Republic  team, Jan Marek and Vasicek.
Alexander Karpovtsev, a member of the 1994  Stanley Cup  winning
New York Rangers team, and Igor Korolev, who played 12 seasons
in the NHL, were assistant coaches.  Player Alexander Galimov is in critical condition with
burns over 80 percent of his body, Governor Sergey Vakhrukov’s
press service said by telephone. An airplane crew member --
identified as Alexander Sizov on the  KHL  website -- was also
hospitalized, Vakhrukov said.  The plane was developed during the Soviet era by the
Yakovlev Design Bureau, and has been in commercial service for
more than 30 years. Eight Yak-42s have crashed with 570
fatalities since they entered service in 1975, the  New York
Times  reported.  Several Accidents  The aircraft has three rear-mounted  jet engines  and
typically flies as many as 120 passengers. It has been involved
in several crashes, including an accident involving a Ukrainian
plane which killed all crew and 60 Spanish peacekeeping soldiers
near the Black Sea city of Trabzon. A probe has been opened into
the cause of today’s accident, according to the Russian
Investigative Committee.  The plane was headed to Minsk, Belarus, for a game today,
according to the KHL website. Alexander Medvedev canceled
yesterday’s opening KHL game in  Russia ’s Bashkortostan region.  Club supporters piled as much as two meters of flowers,
scarves, and flags on tables at the arena. Outside, fans made a
shrine with candles and more scarves. In Yaroslavl, cars honked
their horns in mourning.  ‘Lokomotiv is Everything’  “Lokomotiv is everything for Yaroslavl,” said Oleg
Mayorov, a 35-year-old singer in a disco-ska band who came to
the arena with his wife and two daughters to pay their respects.
“This is the only thing that unites everybody in the city.”  McCrimmon played 18 seasons as a defenseman in the NHL for
Boston, Philadelphia, Calgary, Detroit, Hartford and Phoenix.
The Plenty, Saskatchewan, native won the Stanley Cup with
Calgary in 1989.  McCrimmon was in his first year with Lokomotiv, which he
joined in May, 10 days after resigning from his assistant coach
job with the  Red Wings .  Karpovtsev, along with Rangers’ teammates Sergei Nemchinov,
Sergei Zubov and Alexei Kovalev, were the first Russian-born
players to have their names engraved on the Stanley Cup.  Two former Jersey Devils were part of the team, the NHL
franchise said in a statement on its website.  “Alexander Vasyunov, who played for us last season, was an
outstanding young man and a gifted athlete,” President Lou Lamoriello said in the statement. “Captain Karel Rachunek
skated for us in 2007-08. Both were members of the Devils
family.”  NHL, Czech Republic  Rachunek, 32, played in NHL with three teams. Skrastins,
37, played in NHL with four teams including last season with the
 Dallas Stars .  Salei, 36, was the first-round pick of the Anaheim Mighty
Ducks in the 1996 NHL draft. He played for four teams including
last season with the  Detroit Red Wings . Jan Marek, 31, never
joined an NHL team. He played in the Czech Republic and Russia
after being drafted by the Rangers in 2003.  Josef Vasicek, 30, played on three teams, most recently the
 New York Islanders  in 2007-08. Demitra, 36, signed with
Lokomotiv in 2010 after 847 games in 16 seasons with five teams,
including the  Ottawa Senators .  “This tragedy represents a catastrophic loss to the hockey
world -- including the NHL family, which lost so many fathers,
sons, teammates and friends who at one time excelled in our
league,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a statement.  Manchester United  Lokomotiv Yaroslavl joins  England ’s Manchester United
soccer club and the Marshall University football team as sports
teams affected by accidents.  United’s plane crashed taking off from a refueling stop in
Munich on a trip back from a 5-4 victory over Red Star Belgrade
in February 1958. Twenty-two people were killed, including seven
players, and another player died of his injuries 15 days later.  Seventy-five people were killed in November 1970 as a plane
carrying  Marshall’s football team  crashed while attempting to
land in Huntington,  West Virginia . Most of the team, the
coaching staff, flight crew and supporters were killed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Tunoshna, Yaroslavl Region, Russia at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  