-- 
Russia Ready to Support Palestinian Statehood at United Nations

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-07T06:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/russia-ready-to-support-palestinian-statehood-at-united-nations.html
Russia  is ready to back a
Palestinian bid for statehood at the  United Nations  General
Assembly later this month, Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said.  “If the Palestinians appeal to the United Nations to
recognize their statehood, Russia will give its support,”
Bogdanov said yesterday in response to e-mailed questions from
Bloomberg News. The Palestinians have the right to form a viable
state living in peace with  Israel , he said.  The move won’t erase the need for a negotiated settlement
with Israel and Russia stands ready to host leaders from the two
main Palestinian factions to assist efforts to form a unified
administration of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Bogdanov
said.  Leaders of Fatah, the secular group that rules the West
Bank, and Hamas, an Islamist faction that controls the  Gaza
Strip , signed an agreement in Cairo on May 4 to set up a joint
interim government that would serve for a year and pave the way
for new elections. Talks on implementing the agreement have
stalled over a dispute about Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, whom
Hamas is seeking to replace.  “We believe a rapid achievement of Palestinian unity is
one of the key factors needed to drive forward the Palestinian-
Israeli peace process,” Bogdanov said.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.,
European Union and Israel and the Israeli government has said it
won’t enter into talks with the Islamist group unless it
renounces violence, recognizes Israel’s right to exist and
agrees to honor past peace agreements.  The Middle East peace Quartet -- the U.S., UN, EU and
Russia -- is trying to restart peace negotiations between Israel
and the Palestinians.  Negotiations broke down in September 2010 after Israel
refused to extend a 10-month partial freeze on construction of
settlements in the  West Bank . Palestinians say they won’t
negotiate while building continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  