-- 
Russia Says No Plans to Build New Atomic Stations in Iran

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-07T16:09:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/russia-says-no-plans-to-build-nuclear-power-stations-in-iran-after-bushehr.html
Russia  isn’t currently planning to
build any new nuclear stations in  Iran  after operations start at
the Persian Gulf state’s first atomic plant in Bushehr, Deputy
Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said.  The Bushehr power plant is due to be fully operational
soon, Bogdanov said yesterday in a written reply to e-mailed
questions from Bloomberg. It’s “premature” to speak about
further plans for Russian-built atomic facilities in Iran.  Russia last month made proposals to break the impasse over
Iran’s disputed nuclear program under which the country would
cooperate more closely with the  United Nations ’ atomic watchdog
and be rewarded by gradual removal of international sanctions.  Iranian officials welcomed the Russian initiative as talks
between Iran and the five permanent members of the UN Security
Council plus  Germany  remain stalled since January. Iran favors
the step-by-step approach advocated by Russia and will consider
the plan, Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said Aug. 17
after talks in Moscow.  The UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency has been
probing Iran’s nuclear work since 2003, when it was disclosed
that the government had hidden atomic research for two decades.
The U.S. and its European allies have accused Iran of seeking to
build a nuclear weapon, while the country says its program is
for civilian energy production.  The U.S. and European Union are still assessing the Russian
proposals, Bogdanov said.  Additional Protocol  Iran won’t sign up to the so-called Additional Protocol
allowing for tougher IAEA inspections, the head of the Iranian
Atomic Energy Organization, Fereydoun Abbasi, was quoted as
saying yesterday by the ISNA news agency.  The Persian Gulf state in mid-2010 came under a fourth set
of UN sanctions, which Russia supported. Russia, a veto-wielding
member of the  Security Council , has said it won’t back new
sanctions against Iran.  Russia’s ambassador to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, Dmitry Rogozin, plans to visit Iran Sept. 26-27 to
meet senior officials and discuss U.S. plans to establish a
missile defense shield.  “For me it’s vitally important as a result of these talks
to get a full picture about the intentions of our partners,
ranging from Iran to the U.S. and NATO,” Rogozin said today in
an interview in Yaroslavl, central Russia. “This will allow us
to take a correct decision.”  Russia complains that the missile shield, which the U.S.
says is needed to guard against threats from countries such as
Iran, will blunt its nuclear deterrent. Its criticism escalated
in May, when the U.S. agreed to station interceptor missiles at
a Romanian air base as part of a system that will also include
facilities in  Poland , another former Soviet-bloc country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  