-- 
Saks, Nordstrom Say Luxury Sales Firm

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-09-07T17:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/saks-nordstrom-say-luxury-sales-firm.html
So far so good in the luxury sector,
say top executives of  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , as stock
markets lurch up and down amid global economic uncertainty.  Saks Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove and Nordstrom
Chief Financial Officer Michael Koppel say sales at their luxury
chains are holding up and that they are sticking to their
forecasts. They made their comments at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. conference in  New York  today.  The stock markets have dropped less in recent months than
they did in 2008, the executives said. The current sales
stability contrasts with the revenue freefall that crushed
luxury retailers in the autumn of 2008.  “We do not see the high-end consumer falling apart,”
Sadove, 60, said today. Saks’ most expensive items are selling
particularly briskly, he said.  “So far to date, we have seen some pretty consistent
business,” Koppel said during his own presentation at the
conference. “We get pretty timely feedback in how our customer
is behaving and we have not seen any indication that our
customer is slowing down.”  Market volatility has threatened to end a two-year sales
boom that has buoyed  Saks Fifth Avenue , Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus
Group Inc. and Bloomingdale’s owner  Macy’s Inc. (M)  as their lower-
priced rivals have struggled.  Luxury consumer confidence is tied to stock markets trends
because they affect affluent shoppers’ perception of their own
wealth -- the so-called “wealth effect.”  Prada Totes  Sales at stores open at least a year at the luxury chains
climbed 8.5 percent in the seven months through August from a
year earlier, according to the  International Council of Shopping
Centers , as shoppers continued to buy $1,295 Christian Louboutin
ankle boots and $1,790 Prada totes.  Discounters recorded a 3.3 percent gain in that period, the
New York-based trade group said.  Saks, based in New York, on Aug. 16 forecast growth in
sales at stores open at least a year in the “mid-to-high single
digit” percent range in the second half of the year. Nordstrom
on Aug. 11 projected a 4 percent to 6 percent increase for the
full year, greater than the 2 percent to 4 percent acceleration
it foresaw in May.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  Chief Financial Officer Patrick McGuiness on
Aug. 26 said stock market volatility hadn’t hurt sales, and that
revenue in the current quarter was exceeding estimates. The
luxury jewelry retailer reported that sales jumped 31 percent in
the three months ended July 31.  Saks shares climbed 32 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $9.63 at
12:36 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Nordstrom increased $2.11, or 4.8 percent, to $45.91.  “It hasn’t been nearly as dramatic as we saw last time,”
Koppel said. “If it prolongs over a period of time, and it
causes more slowdown, yeah, it could impact us. But we haven’t
seen it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 