-- 
Salmond Targets Scots Jobs in Attack on U.K. Economic Policy

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T14:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/salmond-targets-scots-jobs-in-attack-on-u-k-economic-policy.html
Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
pledged to create more jobs and clamp down on soccer violence
and alcohol abuse as part of a raft of  legislation .  Salmond, whose pro-independence  Scottish National Party  won
an unprecedented majority in the semi-autonomous Scottish
parliament in May, said he would continue to push for more power
to be devolved to his government to counter what he called the
“voodoo economics of the  London  coalition.”  “Making  Scotland  better is the focus of this government,”
Salmond told lawmakers in Edinburgh today. “The people are
ready to move on to the next chapter of Scotland’s story. We
have won their trust and we will not abuse it.”  The SNP is trying to use its control of the Scottish
Parliament to challenge Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  over their handling
of the U.K. economy. Salmond has been curbing unemployment by
luring employers such as Amazon Inc. and State Street Corp. and
investing in the renewable  energy industry .  A poll published in the Herald newspaper this week showed
support for Scottish independence has overtaken backing for
staying a part of the U.K. for the first time in more than three
years. The proportion of voters wanting Scotland going it alone
was 39 percent, up two percentage points since June, a poll
conducted by TNS-BMRB showed. Opposition to independence fell to
38 percent, seven percentage points lower than in June.  Salmond has promised to hold a referendum in the second
half of the five-year parliament that started in May. He didn’t
give any more details today.  Bills Planned  The Scottish government published  16 planned bills ,
including the creation of a single Scottish police force and
fire service and a crackdown on “violent and bigoted behavior”
at soccer matches. The SNP is also reintroducing plans for a
minimum price for alcohol, a bill that was voted down during the
last parliament when Salmond had a minority government.  The SNP is seeking extra borrowing powers as well as more
control over  corporation tax , excise duties and the  Crown Estate 
to be given to the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh under
legislation known as the Scotland Bill being considered by U.K.
lawmakers.  “We’re waiting for London to show humility and recognize
the democratic mandate of the Scottish people,” Salmond said in
parliament. “The Scotland Bill as it stands fails to make
things better. It fails to give Scotland control over its own
wealth and resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  