-- 
Sanusi Says Nigeria Plans to Get Yuan to 10% of Reserves Soon as Possible

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-07T12:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/sanusi-says-nigeria-plans-to-get-yuan-to-10-of-reserves-soon-as-possible.html
Nigeria  plans to reach a target of
holding 10 percent of its foreign-exchange reserves in yuan “as
soon as possible,” said central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi.  The nation plans to start holding the Chinese currency next
quarter, predicting it will appreciate given the strength of
 China ’s economy, Sanusi said today in an interview in Hong Kong,
adding that the target was set more than a year ago. He said the
yuan will “inevitably” become a  reserve currency  and that
increased convertibility outside China had boosted its appeal.  The $32 billion in Nigerian reserves are now 79 percent
held in U.S. dollars, with the rest largely in euros, Swiss
francs and British pounds.  Asia ’s central banks are also
diversifying their growing reserves into yuan debt. Philippine
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said on Sept. 3 that buying
yuan may be “prudent.”  “Confidence in China doesn’t mean lack of confidence in
America,” Sanusi said. “Europe and America will continue to be
important parts of the world. Having said that, it will be
almost living in a dream world to ignore China. It’s the second-
largest economy in the world and it’s well-managed.”  The yuan, a denomination of the renminbi, was the biggest
gainer in August among Asia’s 10 most-used currencies excluding
the yen, having advanced 0.9 percent versus the dollar as
 Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and a rout
in global equities prompted investors to pull back from riskier
assets.  Yuan for Oil  The foreign-currency reserves of  Africa ’s biggest oil
producer slid 11 percent to $32.3 billion in the year to Sept.
2, according to data from the Abuja-based  Central Bank of
Nigeria . Nigerian benchmark Bonny Light crude gained about 51
percent in the same period. The country relies on crude exports
for 95 percent of its foreign-exchange earnings.  Nigeria may accept yuan payment for China’s oil purchases
in the country and that could be one of the ways to build up the
central bank’s yuan holdings, Sanusi said.  “There’s no reason, based on history, why we cannot for
instance receive renminbi for our sales of oil to China,” he
said. Bilateral trade between China and Nigeria was a record
$7.5 billion last year.  “While Nigeria’s current bilateral trade with China is
much smaller than its U.S. dollar trade in oil, the China-
Nigeria trade numbers are expected to grow in coming years,”
Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of New York-based
DaMina Advisors LLP, a frontier-market risk adviser, wrote in a
report to clients today.  Emerging-Markets Problem  “Sanusi’s actions underscore a growing problem that all
central banks in Africa and other major emerging markets will
face in the coming years as their trade with China increases,”
Spio-Garbrah wrote. “More African countries are expected to
follow Nigeria’s lead in coming months -- probably Angola,
 Algeria  and  South Africa .”  Nigeria’s central bank has been intervening to keep the
naira within a 3 percentage-point band above or below 150 per
dollar to help check inflation. Sanusi said the growth outlook
for Nigeria is “robust” and that he doesn’t see a big decline
in  oil prices . He said he is determined not to let inflation get
out of control and that the August rate was probably the same as
July’s 9.5 percent and below 10 percent.  He also visited Beijing, where he signed a memorandum of
understanding with China’s central bank to foster cooperation.
Sanusi said he plans to seek a swap agreement with China and a
license to buy bonds in  Shanghai ’s interbank market. He said he
prefers holding yuan over gold in his nation’s reserves.  Central banks in  Hong Kong  and  Thailand  won approval this
year to trade in China’s interbank bond market. The Hong Kong
Monetary Authority received a quota to invest in China, Chief
Executive  Norman Chan  said June 24. The Bank of Thailand can buy
as much as 200 million yuan of debt denominated in China’s
currency, Chairman Chatumongol Sonakul said Feb. 24. China
issued draft guidelines in August for foreign direct investment
in the country using yuan raised offshore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 