-- 
HSBC Plans to Cut 3,000 Jobs in Hong Kong Over Three Years

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-08T03:17:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hsbc-plans-to-cut-3-000-roles-in-hong-kong-over-three-years.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, plans to cut about 3,000 jobs over the next three years in
 Hong Kong , or 13 percent of its staff in the city, as part of
global efforts to reduce costs and boost profitability.  The London-based bank is seeking to become more efficient
and will redeploy people whenever possible, a HSBC spokeswoman
who declined to be identified citing company policy, said by
telephone yesterday. HSBC employs 23,000 people in Hong Kong.  HSBC said last month it will shed 30,000 jobs worldwide by
the end of 2013, as part of a drive to reduce costs by as much
as $3.5 billion over the next two years to prepare for stricter
capital rules and tackle surging pay for bankers. Rivals
 Standard Chartered Plc (2888)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among lenders that
said they have no plans to reduce staff in Hong Kong even as
banks shed more than 80,000 workers worldwide this year.  “Hong Kong banks have been expanding in the offshore yuan
business market in the past two years; it’s a new area where
banks are growing,”  Dominic Chan , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
BNP Paribas SA, said by phone today. “In my view, freezing
headcount is more likely than massive job cuts.”  Standard Chartered, the London-based bank that earns most
of its profit in Asia, is continuing to grow and invest across
businesses and markets, Gabriel Kwan, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg. “We
anticipate a net headcount increase on a group-wide basis of up
to 1,000 by the end of the year,” Kwan said.  ‘Priority Market’  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23)  and
 Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  also plan to maintain jobs in the city,
according to e-mailed replies from the lenders. Citigroup has
increased its branches in Hong Kong to 49 from 25 in the last 
two years, and plans to continue to hire for operations 
including consumer banking, spokesman  James Griffiths  said.  “Hong Kong is a priority market for Citi globally and we
will continue to invest across our franchise in Hong Kong to
support our clients,” Hong Kong-based Griffiths said.  The European sovereign debt crisis is prompting lenders
worldwide to slash payrolls. Global banks such as UBS AG and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc have announced more than 80,000
job losses this year, including 65,000 from European-domiciled
firms, according to data collected by Bloomberg Industries.  Shares of HSBC rose 0.3 percent to HK$64.80 in Hong Kong
trading as of 11:14 a.m. local time. Standard Chartered climbed
1.8 percent to HK$168.30. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined
0.5 percent.  Hong Kong Cable Television reported the job cuts yesterday,
citing Peter Wong, HSBC’s Asia-Pacific chief executive officer.  K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s acting financial secretary, said he
spoke to Wong by telephone about the cuts.  “I hope HSBC will minimize the impact of headcount
reductions on Hong Kong,” Chan said yesterday, according to a
government transcript. “Wong told me that HSBC will add people
in line with business growth in Asia-Pacific and mainland
 China .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  