-- 
HSBC Deal With Madoff Feeder Fund Investors Is Rejected by Judge as Unfair

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hsbc-62-5-million-madoff-settlement-rejected-by-u-s-judge.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s proposed
$62.5 million settlement with investors in an Irish fund that
lost their money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme was rejected
by a U.S. judge who called the deal ‘not fair.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Berman in Manhattan said at a
hearing yesterday that he won’t grant tentative approval to the
settlement, announced in June, saying it’s “not fair,
reasonable or adequate, even at this preliminary stage,” for
the investors in Thema International Fund Plc. Thema acted as a
so-called feeder-fund steering money to Madoff’s firm.  The investors sued Thema and other defendants, including
London-based HSBC, which acted as Thema’s custodian, in January
2009. The plaintiffs are seeking to represent all Thema
investors who lost money when Madoff’s scheme was exposed in
December 2008. They claim HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, should
have known Madoff was a fraud.  Among the “obvious deficiencies” Berman identified in
denying approval was a provision setting aside $10 million to
pay the fees and expenses of the investors’ lawyers in pursuing
claims against non-settling defendants outside the U.S.  Lisa Sodeika, an HSBC spokeswoman, didn’t return a phone
message seeking comment yesterday.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
has been called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He’s in a
federal prison in  North Carolina , serving a 150-year sentence.  The case is In re Herald, Primeo and Thema Securities
Litigation, 09-cv-00289, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  Manhattan  federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 