-- 
Harvard Scientists Discover How Cancer Outwits Erbitux Drug

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-09-07T18:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/scientists-discover-how-cancer-outwits-erbitux.html
Harvard University  scientists have
discovered how colon cancer resists effects of the cancer drug
Erbitux, a mechanism that may be overcome by adding certain
treatments used to combat breast tumors.  Researchers from  Harvard Medical School  found that tumors
in which Eli Lilly & Co.’s and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s
 Erbitux  didn’t work well or stopped working had excess activity
in a growth-promoting protein known for its role in breast
tumors. The finding suggests that breast cancer medicines
including Herceptin from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  might be combined with
Erbitux to surmount resistance.  Recent studies are showing how tumors sidestep targeted
cancer drugs by activating other growth-promoting molecules. The
findings may help doctors develop new drug combinations that
squelch the resistance, said Pasi Janne, senior author of the
study and a medical oncologist at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
and Harvard Medical School in  Boston .  “Until now we didn’t know what caused acquired resistance
to Erbitux,”  Janne  said in a telephone interview. “Our hope is
that this will very rapidly translate into clinical trials” of
new drug combinations. The study, done in collaboration with
researchers at Kinki University School of Medicine in  Osaka ,
 Japan  and other universities, is published today in  Science
Translational Medicine.   Scientists studied colon tumor samples from patients who
were treated with Erbitux, as well as tumor cells in the test
tube that resisted Erbitux’s effects.  Cancer-Growth Genes  The research began when Janne and his colleagues generated
lung cancer cells in the test tube that were able to evade the
effects of Erbitux by making additional copies of a growth-
boosting gene called ERBB2, or HER2. The protein made by the
gene is overabundant in some breast cancers and is targeted by
 Herceptin  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Tykerb breast cancer drug.  The researchers decided to investigate whether human colon
tumors also could evade Erbitux by activating HER2. When they
looked at tumor samples from 233 colon cancer patients who
received Erbitux, they found that the 13 patients with excess
HER2 died sooner than other patients who didn’t have excess
HER2. They also obtained tumor or blood samples from 11 patients
whose tumors had progressed after initially responding to
Erbitux. In four of the patients, HER2 levels were higher at the
time of disease progression compared with before treatment.  When the researchers treated animals whose tumors were
resistant to Erbitux alone with a combination of both Erbitux
and a HER2 blocking drug, the tumor growth was held in check
again.  HER2 Overactivation  The findings indicate that overactivation of the HER2
protein may be a way that some colon tumors become resistant to
Erbitux, Janne said. He said he hoped that clinical trials
combining Erbitux with HER2 blocking drugs in advanced colon
cancer patients could begin within six months.  “Maybe we can extend the benefits of Erbitux much
further” by developing drug combinations that attack the
resistance mechanisms, he said. “This has real implications”
for patients.  Bristol-Myers Squibb, based in  New York , reported $662
million in Erbitux sales in 2010.  “The companies will review these data, but cannot provide
further comment about the findings at this time,” Sarah Koenig,
a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Krysta Pellegrino, a spokeswoman for Roche, said that
while the company wasn’t familiar with the research, it thinks
that “the hypothesis is scientifically sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  