-- 
Senator Cornyn Seeks to Trump Obama on Lockheed F-16 Taiwan Sale

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-09-07T20:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/senator-cornyn-seeks-to-trump-obama-on-lockheed-f-16-taiwan-sale.html
Republican Senator John Cornyn of
Texas said he is prepared to write legislation seeking to force
President Barack Obama to go through with the sale of  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-16 fighter jets to Taiwan.  “There is broad support in Congress for F-16 sales to
Taiwan and, if the administration does not do the right thing,
then we will look for an option to change that through
legislation,” Cornyn said in a short interview today.  The Obama administration has committed to deciding by Oct.
1 whether to allow the sale of 66 F-16s to Taiwan. Cornyn, who
is a member of the Armed Services Committee, said he is
concerned the White House will sideline that deal after pressure
from China not to sell arms to Taiwan.  “I am increasingly concerned that we are going to stiff
our key ally Taiwan,” Cornyn said. “We could force the
president’s hand and make him veto it or not as the case may
be.”  Cornyn said he is worried that denying the sale would
“also hurt our domestic manufacturing facility right here in
the United States where jobs are in short supply.”  Lockheed Martin, based in Bethesda, Maryland, builds the F-
16 jet in Fort Worth, Texas. The company has about 2,300 people
building the F-16. Without the sale to Taiwan, orders for the
fighter jet may continue the production through 2013.  China opposes U.S. arms sales to Taiwan, which it considers
a renegade province, and has tried to block sales of the F-16
airplanes to the island. Taiwan President Ma Ying-Jeou and
Taiwan’s supporters in Congress have pressed the U.S.
administration to approve the sale.  The last significant U.S. arms sale to Taiwan was in
October 2008 when President George W. Bush’s administration
proposed a $6.46 billion package including Patriot anti-missile
systems and Apache helicopters, to help the country bring its
military up to date. China retaliated by curtailing military
exchanges with the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  