-- 
Republicans Gain Advantage in 2012 Battle for Senate Majority

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/senate-republicans-favored-to-win-back-control-of-chamber-in-2012-election.html
As the parties prepare for the 2012
congressional elections, Republicans have an advantage in the
fight for control of the  U.S. Senate .  Fewer than a dozen Senate seats now appear to be in play,
and almost all of them are held by Democrats, said  Jennifer Duffy , an analyst at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. Two
Senate Republicans face competitive challenges, Nevada freshman
Dean Heller and Scott Brown of Massachusetts, who in 2010 broke
Democrats’ 60-vote majority bloc after winning a special
election to replace the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a
Democrat.  “Right now, they’re favored to take control of the Senate,
but it’s not a done deal yet,” said Duffy, referring to
Republicans.  Both parties are saddled with high disapproval ratings.
According to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll conducted Aug.
27-31, 82 percent of respondents disapprove of the job Congress
is doing compared with 13 percent who approve. Forty-six percent
of respondents disapprove of the Republicans’ job performance
while 32 percent approve. Congressional Democrats’ disapproval
rating stood at 44 percent in the NBC/Wall Street Journal
compared with 33 percent who approved of their job performance.
The poll has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  In addition, Republicans haven’t recruited candidates yet
in several states, including  West Virginia  and  Pennsylvania ,
where Democratic Senators  Joe Manchin  and Bob Casey respectively
appear to be vulnerable. Crowded Republican primary fields may
create expensive intra-party fights that lift re-election
prospects for some targeted Democratic incumbents, such as
Claire McCaskill in Missouri and Ben Nelson in Nebraska.  Democrats Express Confidence  Guy Cecil, executive director of the  Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee  in Washington, said those developments have
put his party “in a pretty good place” to start the campaign
season. “We’re bullish about our chances of retaining the
Senate, even in a cycle where the map looks initially
lopsided,” he said.  If Republicans hold their House majority, a Senate takeover
would give them control of the legislative agenda and blunt
Obama’s second term initiatives, if he’s re-elected, or buoy the
prospects for a new Republican president. There are 240
Republicans in the House, 192 Democrats and three vacancies. The
Senate has 47 Republicans, 51 Democrats and two independents who
caucus with the Democrats.  Seats on Ballot  In all, there are 33 Senate seats on the ballot next year,
with 23 held by Democrats and 10 by Republicans. The majority of
the races to fill those seats aren’t likely to be competitive.  According to the Cook Political Report and the Rothenberg
Political Report, another Washington-based, nonpartisan analysis
group, Democratic incumbents whose re-elections are most
threatened include McCaskill, Nelson and Montana’s Jon Tester,
who came to office in 2006 with just 49 percent of the vote.  Also, there are six open seats created by retiring
Democrats, including one in North Dakota that Duffy and other
analysts say is almost certain to flip to Republicans and three
others that are rated “toss-ups” by both the Cook and
Rothenberg political reports. Those seats are in  Wisconsin ,
 Virginia  and  New Mexico .  That means Democrats have to defend at least nine
vulnerable seats, and a net loss of four would put Republicans,
who haven’t held a Senate majority since 2006, back in control.  Seats in Play  “There are enough seats in play, and I think the
Republicans are well-positioned to take the Senate next year,”
said  Nathan Gonzales , political editor of the Rothenberg report.  With such high stakes, targeted candidates, such as
McCaskill, are bracing for an explosion of campaign spending.  In 2010, the 10 most expensive races saw rival candidates
raise a combined sum of at least $23 million. The costliest -- a
Connecticut race won by Democratic Senator  Richard Blumenthal  --
produced combined candidate spending of $59 million, according
to the Washington-based, nonpartisan  Center for Responsive
Politics , which tracks political fundraising.  Independent groups, including the relatively new committees
that raise and spend unlimited sums to sway election outcomes,
also are raising money in preparation for taking on major roles.
Those groups showed their strength in a half-dozen Senate races
in 2010, including in  Colorado  where they spent $12 million in
the contest won by Democratic Senator Michael Bennet.  Expand the Field  Both political parties are working to expand the field of
races and shape the contours of the debate. Democrats say the
election will be focused on unpopular budget cuts sought by
Republicans, including a proposal to privatize Medicare.
Republicans insist the contests will become referendums on
Obama’s policies and the lagging economy.  Democrats consider the retirement of Republican Senator Jon Kyl of  Arizona  another opportunity to pick up a seat. Former
Arizona Democratic Party Chairman Don Bivens and former U.S.
Surgeon General Richard Carmona, a declared Democrat now who
served under Republican President George W. Bush, are
considering runs. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , the
Democratic congressman who is recovering from a gunshot wound
earlier this year, is also a potential candidate.  Republicans say Democratic Senators Sherrod Brown of  Ohio 
and Debbie Stabenow of  Michigan  may become vulnerable if the
jobless rate in the Midwest remains elevated.  “There are still a lot of places where the  unemployment
rate  is very high and, frankly, with the president’s sinking
approval ratings, that doesn’t bode well for Democrats running
in those states,” said Senator John Cornyn of  Texas , chairman
of the  National Republican Senatorial Committee .  Brown a Target  Among incumbent Republicans, Brown has so far emerged as
the top target, in part because of the Democratic leanings of
 Massachusetts  voters and because his moderate voting record has
cooled support from the Tea Party movement.  Elizabeth Warren , a
Harvard Law School professor who Obama once considered to name
as the first head of the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, is among those exploring a Democratic bid.  The influence of the Tea Party this cycle appears to be
more muted than in 2010, when the anti-deficit and anti-tax
movement’s candidates defeated Republican frontrunners in
primaries in such states as Delaware and Nevada and paved the
way for Democratic victories in the general election.  Indiana Senator Richard Lugar, the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, is at risk from a Tea Party
insurgence in his 2012 primary, Duffy said. He is facing a
challenge from Indiana State Treasurer Richard Mourdock, who is
supported by the movement. The winner of their primary will face
Democratic Representative Joe Donnelly in the general election.  Fizzling Threat  Other Tea Party threats are fizzling. Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican who is backed by the movement, said
last month he won’t challenge six-term Senator Orrin Hatch.
“Hatch dodged a huge bullet,” Duffy said.  While Senate Republicans say they will look to Obama’s low
approval ratings for an edge, polls show voters also aren’t very
happy with them, said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew
Research Center in  Washington .  Just 22 percent of Americans approve of the job performance
of Republican congressional leaders, according to an Aug 17-21
Pew Center survey of 1,509 adults. Democratic leaders score
slightly better, with 29 percent approving of the job they’re
doing, the poll found.  Kohut said Republicans received lower ratings because the
public disapproved of their handling of this summer’s debate on
raising the U.S. debt ceiling. After failing to reach a broad
deal cutting the deficit, Congress in August voted to lift the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling and create a bipartisan
supercommittee that is charged with identifying $1.5 trillion in
cost savings by November.  Taking a Hit  “They took more of a hit with respect to the debt ceiling
debate,” Kohut said. “Republicans would be in a much-stronger
position with a troubled president if their image were better
and not worse. The climate of opinion isn’t so good for the
Republicans all of a sudden.”  Duffy said the sour mood of voters could become a drag for
both parties.  “We can’t rule out something we’ve never seen before --
which is a truly anti-incumbent election where incumbents in
both parties get hit fairly equally,” Duffy said. “Just
because it’s never happened before doesn’t mean this won’t be
the first time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  