-- 
Senegalese Tax May Cut Sonatel’s Revenue by 10% as More Callers Go Online

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-09-07T11:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/senegalese-tax-may-cut-sonatel-s-revenue-by-10-as-more-callers-go-online.html
A tax on international phone calls
to  Senegal  may cut revenue at  Sonatel (SNTS)  SA, the country’s largest
telecommunications company, by at least 10 percent, said Mamadou
Aidara Diop, a member of the company’s board and secretary-
general of the Labor Union of Sonatel Workers.  Senegalese overseas will likely turn to Internet-based
communication such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype Technologies SA
rather than pay the rates, which came into effect Sept. 1, Diop
said in an interview in Dakar, the capital, Sept. 2.  “People will find alternative methods to call,” he said.
The tax adds 49.2  CFA francs  ($0.10) per minute on calls to
mobiles from outside the country, a 53 percent increase on
previous rates. For calls to landlines, the extra tariff is
75.45 CFA francs, according to a decree from President Abdoulaye Wade that was published on Seneweb.com Aug. 29.  International calls account for as much as 70 percent of
revenue at Sonatel, Diop said. When the government enacted a
similar tax last year, calls from abroad dropped 15 percent, he
said.  Sonatel also operates in Mali, Guinea-Bissau and  Guinea . It
is 42 percent-owned by  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and 27 percent by
Senegal’s government, according to the company’s website, and is
the biggest company on the Abidjan-based Bourse Regionale des
Valeurs Mobilieres with a market capitalization of 1.4 trillion
CFA francs.  Strike, Court Appeal  The labor union at Sonatel may hold a strike later this
month, Diop said. Sonatel is appealing the tax in court,
claiming Wade’s decree did not conform to “legal norms or
international law,” he said, without giving details.  Papa Dieng, a special adviser to Wade, did not answer calls
made to his mobile phone. Ndogo Diaw, director of the Agency for
Regulation of Telecommunications and Postal Services, was not
available, according to a person who answered his phone.  The  tax revenue  will be used to construct public housing
for migrant workers, as well as water wells and internet centers
in rural areas, according to Wade’s decree.  “In reality, this money is not going to enter into the
government Treasury,” Diop said. “Government has said they are
not going to put this into the Treasury, they’re going to put
this into a fund that has been created. But it will not enter
into the control of the  Finance Ministry . There is a problem of
transparency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Dakar via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 