-- 
Serbia May Cut Benchmark Rate as Slowing Economy Helps Curtail Inflation

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-09-07T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/serbia-may-cut-benchmark-rate-as-slowing-economy-helps-curtail-inflation.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
cut its benchmark interest rate today as economic growth slows
and concern about inflation eases.  The National Bank of Serbia will lower the two-week
repurchase rate, Europe’s second-highest behind Belarus, by a
quarter-point to 11.5 percent, according to nine of 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Five expect a half-point
decrease and seven forecast no change. A decision is likely to
be released at about midday in Belgrade.  “The central bank will primarily have inflation in mind”
when it decides, said Ratko Guduric, a deputy director at
Vojvodjanska Banka AD. With the consumer price index falling
since peaking at 14.7 percent in April, policy makers “will
probably choose to ease pressure on borrowing costs,” he said.  Serbia’s economy is slowing as exports lose momentum on
weakening demand in the European Union, the country’s main
market abroad. Growth in the Balkan nation, which aspires to
become a European Union candidate this year, slowed to 2.2
percent in the second quarter from 3.4 percent in the first
three months, according to the central bank.  Central banks across the region have been weighing
faltering growth prospects with price growth concerns. Polish
policy makers kept the seven-day interest rate unchanged
yesterday at 4.5 percent, while Sweden’s Riksbank kept its
benchmark rate at 2 percent citing deteriorating global growth
prospects. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank in Budapest left its main
rate unchanged at 6 percent for a seventh month in August.  Forecasts Lowered  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for
Serbia’s economic growth this year to 2 percent from its
previous estimate of 3 percent this year.  Cutting borrowing costs may weaken the dinar at a time when
the central bank has sought stability in the currency.  “A rate cut would discourage any remaining foreigners from
further carry trades with the dinar” whose appeal has already
faded since the second quarter when the benchmark rate was 12.5
percent, Guduric added. “If they abandon their positions, the
dinar goes down.”  In a carry trade investors borrow in low-yielding
currencies and carry the funds into higher-yielding markets such
as the dinar.  Last month, policy makers unexpectedly held the main rate
unchanged as concerns about the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe
and market turmoil elsewhere outweighed a focus on inflation.
They also cited “fiscal risks” at home.  Consumer prices slowed in July to 12.1 percent, from 12.7
percent in June. Inflation will probably slow to below 10
percent by November, central bank Vice-Governor Bojan Markovic
said last month.  Economists see the dinar at an average of 102.37 to the
euro at the end of September, compared with 102.12 per euro in
last month’s poll. The market expects the rate at 103.1 to the
euro at the end of October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  