-- 
Silvercorp Says Canadian Police Offered to Find Source of Anonymous Letter

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-07T16:08:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/silvercorp-says-canadian-police-offer-to-find-source-of-fraud-claim-letter.html
Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , the Chinese
miner accused in an anonymous letter of an accounting fraud,
said Canadian federal police have contacted the company and
offered to help find who made the allegations.  Two members of the Integrated Market Enforcement Team, an
arm of the federal  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , met with
Silvercorp executives yesterday morning, Chief Executive Officer
Rui Feng said in an interview at the company’s Vancouver
headquarters.  “The RCMP are aware of the situation and offered to help”
determine the source of the letter, Feng said yesterday. He said
the police didn’t elaborate on what assistance they would offer.  The anonymous letter, circulated by e-mail last week,
alleges that Silvercorp reported a profit in calendar 2010 to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission while posting a loss
to regulators in  China , Silvercorp said Sept. 2 in a statement.
The letter was addressed to the Ontario Securities Commission,
Ernst & Young LLP, Silvercorp’s auditors and various media
outlets, Silvercorp said.  Silvercorp denied the allegations and provided tax and
other financial documents related to its Chinese silver mining
operations in its Sept. 2 statement to back up its assertion
that the anonymous accusations are false.  A call by Bloomberg to the RCMP’s IMET office in Vancouver
wasn’t immediately returned.  Tip From Shareholder  Silvercorp had expected allegations of wrongdoing after the
company was contacted by a shareholder, Feng said. Ralph P. Aldis, a San Antonio-based money manager at U.S. Global
Investors Inc., called the company Aug. 16 to say that a U.S.
stock brokerage was spreading information that short seller
Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC was preparing to publish a
report on Silvercorp, Feng said.  Aldis didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call and an
e-mail requesting comment.  Silvercorp executives said they received no response when
they tried to contact Muddy Waters last month. Still they don’t
believe Muddy Waters is involved. Block also denied a connection
to the anonymous letter.  “We had no knowledge of, or involvement in, the letter
sent to Silvercorp,” Block said today in an e-mail request for
comment from Bloomberg. “Regarding the possibility of upcoming
reports, it is our policy not to comment on market rumors.”  Muddy Waters’ allegations of fraud against  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE) , a Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based tree-farm
operator in China, have heightened investors’ concern about
other North America-based companies with operations in China.  Sino-Forest  Sino-Forest’s Canadian shares have plunged 67 percent since
Muddy Waters published a June 2 report alleging that the company
overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest has denied the
allegations and established an independent committee of
directors to examine and respond to the accusations.  Silvercorp said last week that the author of the anonymous
letter said his firm held a short position in Silvercorp’s
shares and intended to make his concerns known through Internet
postings.  Silvercorp cited Sept. 2 a “dramatic” increase in the
short position of its shares. Silvercorp said yesterday it has
contacted the Ontario Securities Commission and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Silvercorp rose 22 cents, or 2.8 percent, to C$8.05 at
11:44 a.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have
fallen 37 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of C$1.41 billion ($1.43 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 