-- 
Smoking Was Cool as Bogie Puffed in ‘Mad Men’ Haze: Commentary

-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/smoking-was-cool-when-bogie-bacall-puffed-in-mad-men-haze-peter-rainer.html
If you spend much time watching old
movies on cable channels like TCM, you may feel the impulse to
open a window and air out the room. No adult, it seems, is
without a cigarette, a cigar or a pipe.  Smoking in movies and TV shows has been drastically reduced
in the past decade with a few notable exceptions like “Mad
Men.” Matthew Weiner, the show’s creator, says it would have
been “a joke” to do the 1960s period show without a haze of
smoke.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported
that scenes of smoking in high-grossing films fell to 1,935
“incidents” in 2009, down 49 percent from a recent peak of
3,967 in 2005. Still, more than half of all PG-13 movies contain
smoking scenes, according to the Center for Tobacco Control
Research and Education.  There’s no denying, however, that smoking is an important
part of movie mythology. It’s hard to imagine screen legends
such as  Humphrey Bogart , Robert Mitchum, Bette Davis or Susan
Hayward without a cigarette or stogie.  Jean-Paul Belmondo almost always had a chunky, unfiltered
Gauloises or Gitanes dangling from his lips. In ‘Breathless,”
“Pierrot le Fou” and so many of his other movies, smoking made
him seem both tough and nonchalant.  There was an element of self-consciousness to Belmondo’s
smoking, as if he were mimicking American movie gangsters. He
made this comparison explicit in “Breathless,” where he
smooths his lips and reverentially gazes up at a poster of
Bogart.  Bogie’s Image  Bogart was wreathed in smoke in his urban tough-guy roles,
exemplified by Sam Spade in “The Maltese Falcon” and Philip
Marlowe in “The Big Sleep.” (As a modern-day Marlowe in Robert Altman’s “The Long Goodbye,” Elliott Gould’s chain-smoking was
a parody and an homage.)  Bogart is equally memorable in “The African Queen,” where
his riverboat rat is coupled with  Katharine Hepburn ’s prim
spinster. His smoking in that film, not to mention his drinking,
is anathema to her. “The African Queen” wouldn’t be nearly as
funny if Bogart never lit up.  Some of Hollywood’s most memorable lines involve smoking.  Who can forget the scene in “Basic Instinct” where a
panty-less murder suspect  Sharon Stone  defiantly lights up in an
interrogation room and sneers at police: “What are you going to
do, charge me with smoking?”  Or a sultry Lauren Bacall leaning against an open door in
“To Have and Have Not” and purring at Bogart, “Anybody got a
match?” (Bogart, a heavy smoker in real life, died of
esophageal cancer at 57.)  ‘Easy Rider’  Then there’s Paul Heinreid in “Now, Voyager,” lighting
two cigarettes in his mouth before handing one to Davis. And
 Jack Nicholson , Peter Fonda and  Dennis Hopper  getting high on
weed around the campfire in “Easy Rider.”  Some movies are almost entirely about cigarettes or
marijuana. The eclectic list includes the satire “Thank You for
Smoking,” the Cheech and Chong comedy “Up in Smoke,” Norman Lear’s “Cold Turkey” and the 1936 anti-drug drama “Reefer
Madness.”  In the end, smoking in the movies has always been more
about attitude than particular moments.  Times change, though.
Nowadays, movie actors are far more apt to whip out a Blackberry
than a cigarette.  I’m not sure this is such a vast improvement. Whether it’s
noise or smoke, it’s still pollution.  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
 Peter Rainer  at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  