-- 
Sol Rises to Three-Year High on Bets Peru Can Withstand Slowdown

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-07T21:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/sol-rises-to-three-year-high-on-bets-peru-can-withstand-slowdown.html
Peru ’s sol advanced to a three-year
high on bets the Andean country’s policy makers will take steps
to bolster the economy should global growth stall.  The sol strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7260 per  U.S. dollar 
at today’s close, from 2.7280 yesterday. The currency earlier
touched 2.7245, its strongest level since April 2008.  Peru has an array of fiscal and monetary tools it can
deploy if the global outlook worsens, central bank President
Julio Velarde told lawmakers yesterday. Though the threat of a
global recession has grown, economic activity in Peru remains
“vigorous,” Velarde said.  “Local agents see Peru is in a solid position,” said
Antonio Diaz, a currency trader at Banco Internacional del Peru
in  Lima . “Despite the external crisis, you don’t see a strong
demand for dollars or changes in portfolios or positions. There
was a big flow of dollars from remittances and exports in the
first half of this year.”  The sol has gained 3.7 percent since April 29, the best
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The Andean country’s central bank forecasts gross domestic
product rising 6.3 percent this year, which Velarde said will be
one of the highest in the region. The figure is below the bank’s
June 17 forecast of 6.5 percent.  The central bank bought dollars in the spot market today
for the first time in a week to temper the sol’s rise. The bank
purchased $110 million paying an average 2.7250 soles per
dollar, it said on its website.  The sol also gained amid speculation U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus plan will boost demand in Peru’s
second-biggest export market.  Obama will ask lawmakers tomorrow to support a plan to
inject $300 billion into the economy mainly through tax cuts,
infrastructure spending and direct aid to state and local
governments as he seeks to curb U.S. joblessness.  China  overtook
the U.S. as the biggest destination for Peruvian exports in the
first half of this year as American companies cut back purchases
on slower economic activity.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 was unchanged at 5.43 percent,
a 10-month low, at 4:53 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond yields may continue to decline this month as the
central bank keeps its benchmark rate on hold for the rest of
this year amid slower domestic growth, said Inteligo SAB, a
Lima-based brokerage, in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  