-- 
SolarCity Gets U.S. Loan Guarantee for $1 Billion Solar Expansion

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-07T21:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/solarcity-gets-u-s-guarantee-for-1-billion-military-solar-plan.html
SolarCity Corp., a closely held
installer and owner of rooftop power systems, was awarded a U.S.
Energy Department loan guarantee that the company says will
allow it to double U.S. residential solar installations.  The loan guarantee is intended to support installations on
military residences and buildings in as many as 33 states.
SolarCity, based in Foster City,  California , is planning a $1
billion, five-year program to install 160,000 rooftop
photovoltaic systems.  The Energy Department’s conditional commitment guarantees
80 percent of a $344 million loan to support part of the
project. The loan is provided by USRG Renewable Finance, an
affiliate of US Renewables Group LLC, in partnership with  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the Energy Department said today in a
statement.  The loan guarantee was necessary to make the initiative
profitable, as SolarCity expands upon an initial installation at
a military base in  Arizona  in 2009, according to Lyndon Rive,
the company’s chief executive officer.  “We thought that we could scale this model onto all the
other military housing,” Rive said today in a telephone
interview. “As we looked at it, the economics just couldn’t
pencil,” because the cost of energy for military housing is
often lower than the traditional cost of energy, he said. The
loan guarantee enabled SolarCity to “get a lower cost of
capital” to help “make solar affordable.”  New Solar Generation  SolarCity’s SolarStrong project may create up to 371
megawatts of new solar generation capacity, Bank of America said
today in a statement. Construction is underway on an initial 4-
megawatt system in  Hawaii , and installations are expected to
follow on military bases in  Nevada ,  Kentucky , California, and
 Texas , the bank said.  The project will help the U.S. Defense Department meet its
goal of providing 25 percent of its energy from renewable
resources by 2025, the Energy Department said.  The loan must close by September to meet the deadline for
the Energy Department’s loan guarantee programs, which haven’t
been extended by Congress. The remaining cost of SolarStrong
will be financed by equity from SolarCity and other investors
that haven’t been announced yet, according to Rive.  The government’s risk is “extremely low” because the loan
only comes into effect after the systems are built and producing
electricity,’’ Rive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  