-- 
Somalia Political Agreement to Help End Famine, Insurgency, President Says

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-09-07T10:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/somalian-political-agreement-will-end-famine-insurgency-president-says.html
Somali President  Sheikh Sharif  Sheikh Ahmed said an agreement reached yesterday to prepare for
elections next year would help the country overcome challenges
including a famine and an insurgency.  “I am very confident if we show unity we can overcome these
challenges and because of the agreements reached today I am
optimistic for the future,” Sheikh Sharif said at a celebratory
dinner in Mogadishu, the capital.  Somali politicians including lawmakers, the heads of the
autonomous states of Puntland and Galmudug and the pro-
government Ahlu Sunna Wal Jama’a militia agreed yesterday to a
so-called road map that will end a transitional administration
formed in 2004. The Western-backed government, headed by Sheikh
Sharif, has failed to end a two-decade long civil war in the
Horn of Africa country.  The agreement marks a “monumental step” forward in bringing
peace to Somalia, Wafula Wamunyinyi, deputy special
representative to the African Union Commission for Somalia, said
in an e-mailed statement today. The signatories must now “focus
on the more difficult work of implementing the tasks,” he said.  The accord was signed after a three-day conference in
Mogadishu, the first “major meeting” in the city in four years,
according to the  United Nations . Security in Mogadishu has
improved after al-Shabaab, the rebel group accused by the U.S.
of having links to al-Qaeda, withdrew its forces last month
after a four-year campaign to oust Sheikh Sharif’s
administration.  Constitution, Elections  In terms of the road map, the country’s 550-member
parliament must be reformed by November 19; a final draft
constitution should be published by May 18 and adopted by July
1; and presidential and parliamentary elections must be held by
Aug. 20, according to a signed copy of the document e-mailed by
the UN Political Office for Somalia today.  Sheikh Sharif, whose government is backed by a 9,000-strong
African Union peacekeeping mission known as Amisom, spoke at a
function attended by participants in the conference, where a
local band provided entertainment by playing patriotic songs.  “Due to the brave efforts of the Somali National Army and
our brothers Amisom we are able to enjoy a night like this in
Mogadishu,” Sheikh Sharif said.  Tens of thousands of people have died in Somalia this year
and 750,000 more are at risk of starvation amid a famine that
exists in at least six regions of southern Somalia, according to
the UN. The number of people requiring food assistance has
increased to 4 million, or 53 percent of Somalia’s population,
from 3.7 million people in July, the UN said on Sept. 5.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the fall of Mohamed Siad Barre’s dictatorship in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 