-- 
Sony’s Plump Tablet Ditches Skinny IPad Look: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-07T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/sony-tablet-ditches-ipad-s-skinny-is-better-look-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s new Tablet S captures
much of what’s good and much of what’s frustrating about the
one-time king of consumer electronics.  Not content to stamp out just another cookie-cutter iPad
clone, Sony has come up with a distinctive design. The tablet
also incorporates ties to the company’s vast collection of
content, including movies and music. It even runs PlayStation
games.  Yet, as with so many things Sony these days, the Tablet S
sounds much more appealing than the reality turns out to be: Its
good ideas are undermined by its execution.  The Tablet S, currently available for order and in stores
next week, runs the “Honeycomb” operating system,  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s tablet-optimized version of its Android mobile-device
software. At $500 for a 16-gigabyte, Wi-Fi-only model and $600
for 32 gigabytes, it’s priced the same as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad 2
and Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy Tab 10.1, the best of the
current crop of Android tablets.  The Sony’s 9.4-inch screen is just a bit smaller than the
iPad’s, and, at approximately 1.3 pounds, the Tablet S is
actually a touch lighter: 598 grams, versus 601 grams for the
iPad. There’s no mistaking it, though, for an iPad, a Galaxy Tab
or any of the legions of other Honeycomb tablets cramming the
aisles at Best Buy.  Rounded Wedge  Leaving to others the competition to produce the thinnest,
flattest device, Sony has created a sort of rounded-wedge case
for the Tablet S. The metaphor is a folded-over magazine, with
the teardrop-shaped thick side acting to prop the device up
slightly when laid horizontally for typing or to watch a movie.  The shape takes some getting used to. It felt quite natural
when I was holding it vertically, particularly if I was reading
a book or online magazine. In landscape mode, though, I
initially had a hard time. If the thin side was down, the thick
part tended to dip. I eventually came to prefer holding it with
the thick edge down -- opposite the way I positioned it when I
wanted to tap out an e-mail.  Ultimately, I didn’t mind the shape and even give Sony
extra credit for trying to, as Apple used to exhort us, “think
different.” My real problem isn’t what they did, but how they
did it.  Cheap, Plasticky  Achieving its light weight, for example, means a case that
feels cheap and plasticky on the sides and back. The on-off
switch and volume controls are poorly placed along an inside
edge. Plugging in the charger is difficult: You have to align
its protruding tabs just so, and I kept accidentally yanking the
cable out when I picked up the device or tried to use it while
charging. And the pull-out door covering the micro USB port and
SD card slot feels like it’s just waiting to break off.  The brain of the Tablet S is  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ’s Tegra 2 dual-
core processor, the same chip that powers the Galaxy Tab. Yet
the pre-production unit I was testing felt appreciably more
sluggish than the Galaxy when scrolling through windows or
launching applications.  Like the Galaxy, it has Flash -- as in the  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE)  software for viewing many Web videos and animations. But it
has no flash -- as in a light for its rear-facing camera when
you shoot stills or video. (There’s a front-facing camera as
well, for video chatting.) I was easily able to get a full day’s
use from the Tablet S battery, but at 8 hours, it isn’t quite up
to the iPad 2’s 10.  Universal Remote  Unusually for a Sony product, I found more to like on the
software front. The S includes an app that turns it into a
super-duper universal remote control for your various home
audio-visual devices. I was able to control not just Sony
products but also a Panasonic TV and Motorola set-top box with
minimal effort.  The Tablet S’s performance felt considerably zippier when I
was playing games than when I was doing more mundane tasks.
You’ll be able to download PlayStation games directly to the
device, and it comes with two pre-installed, the vintage “Crash
Bandicoot” and “Pinball Heroes.”  Here’s some news you can use on the latter: Be sure to hold
the tablet with the fat side down or to the right, to keep your
thumbs from accidentally hitting the Home button in a flipper
frenzy.  The pre-production model I was using couldn’t access Sony’s
Music Unlimited and Video Unlimited services, so I couldn’t tell
you how well they work. Ditto for the app that turns the Tablet
S into an e-book viewer compatible with Sony’s line of Reader
devices; it wasn’t yet available.  The S is Sony’s first tablet, but not its last. The company
is getting ready to introduce another, the P, with an even more
unusual design: twin screens that fold up like an oversize
eyeglass case. In a world of all-but-indistinguishable Android
devices, it’s good to see Sony innovating and taking risks. But
style points don’t overcome practical shortcomings.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 