-- 
South Korea’s Lee Fails to Sell Tax Proposal to Party as Popularity Drops

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-07T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/south-korea-s-lee-fails-to-sell-tax-proposal-to-party-as-popularity-drops.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
failed to sell a tax cut plan to his own political party,
underscoring how Lee’s faltering popularity is damaging his
leadership ahead of elections next year.  The government agreed with the ruling  Grand National Party 
to drop the proposals, the finance ministry said in a statement
today. The plan had called for lowering the corporate tax rate
to 20 percent from 22 percent to bring it closer to the levels
of Asian neighbors, and cutting the top income tax rate.  Lee’s approval rate has fallen to less than half its level
when he took office in Feb. 2008, as accelerating inflation and
a widening wealth gap fueled public discontent. Abandoning the
planned tax reductions could weigh on an economy that’s at risk
of a slowdown due to weakening overseas demand.  “The ruling party made a political and populist decision
to win the elections as most people believe that the tax cuts
would only benefit a few rich people,” said Lee Sung Kwon, an
economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “The corporate
and income tax cuts would have boosted the economy amid growing
concerns about a slowdown.”  South Korea ’s government also said today it plans to charge
foreign investors a 14 percent tax on interest income from so-
called kimchi bonds, or foreign currency-denominated bonds
issued by the nation’s government agencies and companies. Local
investors already pay the tax, whose rate is in line with that
for won bonds. The tax will take effect on Jan. 1, 2012, if it’s
approved by parliament.  Chamber of Commerce  The  Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry  said the scuttling
of the plan to reduce taxes may hurt local companies.  “We regret the decision to drop the tax cut plan, which
should be negative for our companies’ competitiveness in global
markets and foreign  capital investment ,” the organization said
in a statement today. “It will also undercut the people’s trust
in the government policies and reduce the room for corporate
investment.”  Lee’s approval rate stood at 34.4% last week, compared with
76% in the first week he took office in Feb. 2008, according to
Realmeter, a polling company in Seoul. Parliamentary elections
will be held in April and the presidential election will be in
December next year.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board will
meet tomorrow to decide whether to raise  interest rates  for a
fourth time this year to curb inflation. The board will probably
leave the policy rate at 3.25 percent for a third month as
global economic uncertainties mount, according to 14 of 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The remaining four
predict an increase.  Surging Inflation  Consumer prices jumped 5.3 percent from a year earlier last
month, the fastest increase in three years, as food costs
climbed. Inflation in South  Korea  has exceeded the Bank of
Korea’s 4 percent target ceiling every month this year.  At the same time, in a sign of the fallout from a weakening
global economy, industrial production rose less than expected in
July, and confidence among manufacturers and consumers fell,
reports last month showed.  The  International Monetary Fund  said the South Korean
government should introduce measures that let more of its
citizens benefit from economic growth.  “Policies that help expand the sources of growth beyond
the tradables sector, thereby creating a second engine of
growth, would allow the benefits of growth to be shared more
broadly,” the IMF said in a  report  dated July 14.  Asian Tax Rates  South Korea’s top corporate tax rate of 22 percent compares
with  Hong Kong ’s at 16.5 percent and 17 percent in both Taiwan
and  Singapore , said Jang Jae Hyung, a director at the nation’s
 finance ministry . The government had also planned to reduce the
top income tax to 33 percent from 35 percent.  The government expects to retain about 2.8 trillion won
($2.6 billion) in  tax revenue  by scrapping the planned
reductions, the finance ministry said.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan pledged at a parliamentary
committee meeting on Sept. 1 to balance the budget by 2013,
faster than the previous plan of 2013 or 2014.  The government also plans to expand tax incentives to
companies for hiring new workers, the ministry said. Tax
deductions for facilities investment will be terminated while
taxes on  capital gains  from financial products including those
involving derivatives will be legislated, the ministry said.  The proposals will be submitted to the National Assembly
for approval late this month, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  