-- 
Soybeans, Corn Decline on Weakening Overseas Demand for U.S. Supplies

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T20:11:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/soybeans-corn-decline-on-weakening-overseas-demand-for-u-s-supplies.html
Soybeans declined for a second
straight session on slowing Chinese demand for supplies from the
U.S., the world’s biggest shipper. Corn fell on signs of
weakening exports.  Soybean importers, including China, took advantage of
record inventories in Argentina and Brazil, the biggest growers
after the U.S., Oil World, a Hamburg-based researcher, said
yesterday in a report. The climbing stockpiles have spurred
lower prices for supplies from South America at a time when
adverse weather has threatened U.S. crops.  “We have seen a dearth of new buying from China,” Anne Frick, the senior oilseed analyst for Jefferies Bache LLC in New
York, said today in a telephone interview. “South America has
plenty of beans to sell to overseas customers.”  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 1.75 cents, or
0.1 percent, to close at $14.2075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, capping the first two-day drop since
Aug. 25. On Aug. 31, the most-active contract touched $14.65,
the highest since July 2008.  Corn futures declined for the fourth time in five sessions
on signs that demand is decreasing for supplies from the U.S.,
the world’s biggest producer and exporter, as growers including
France and Ukraine boost output.  Ukraine’s August grain exports quadrupled from July,
UkrAgroConsult said today. France’s corn harvest, the European
Union’s largest, may reach 15 million metric tons, up from 13.8
million a year ago, Agritel said yesterday.  “The export side of the market is pretty thin,” Charlie Sernatinger, a vice president for ABN Amro Clearing LLC in
Chicago, said in an e-mail. “French corn prices are cheaper”
than exports from the U.S., he said.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 7.75 cents, or 1
percent, to $7.48 a bushel in Chicago. The grain has risen 25
percent since July 1 as hot, dry weather reduced yield potential
in the U.S. Midwest.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion, USDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 