-- 
Euro Rescue, AT&T, JPMorgan, BofA, Citigroup in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-07T12:08:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/sprint-bofa-news-corp-citigroup-aol-gm-in-court-news.html
Challenges to Germany’s
participation in the euro rescue funds were rejected by the
nation’s top court, which said the government must seek some
parliamentary approval for any future bailout payments.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe today threw
out lawsuits targeting Germany’s share of the 110 billion euros
($155 billion) in loans for Greece from euro-region governments
and the  International Monetary Fund , as well as a separate 750
billion-euro rescue fund approved last year to halt the spread
of Greece’s debt crisis.  The ruling will aid German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
efforts to gain support for participation in a new round of
European Financial Stability Facility programs. She pledged last
week to consult lawmakers as her Cabinet agreed on a reworked
plan that will raise Germany’s share of EFSF loan guarantees to
211 billion euros from 123 billion euros.  “This gives a green light for continued bailouts, which is
the only track available to euro-zone leaders right now,”
Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said in a telephone interview.  The court said the ruling shouldn’t be seen as “blanket”
approval for rescue participation and the government must seek
approval from the parliament’s budget committee for guarantees
it assumes under the EFSF.  “Parliamentary decisions about taxing and spending are a
central element of democratic self government under the
constitution,” Andreas Vosskuhl, president of the court, said
in the ruling. “As representatives of the people, the elected
members of parliament thus also need to remain in control over
elementary budgetary decisions.”  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  For more, click here.  New Suits  AT&T, U.S. Must Consider Settlement Prospects, Judge Orders  AT&T Inc. (T)  and the Justice Department must come to court
Sept. 21 ready to discuss “the prospects for settlement” of
the government’s antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the company
from buying T-Mobile USA Inc., a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle in  Washington  issued
the order yesterday after a telephone conference with the
parties in the case, according to the court docket. Huvelle told
the company and the Justice Department to file by Sept. 16 a
joint proposal for scheduling the litigation that would
“facilitate the just, speedy and inexpensive” management of
the case.  “I read this to mean that the judge wants them to state
succinctly what the areas of disagreement are and determine
whether she can facilitate a settlement,” said Melissa Maxman,
the Washington-based co-chair of the antitrust practice group at
Cozen O’Connor. “If not, then she will set a schedule for
proceeding with litigation. It will make things clearer.”  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T on Aug. 31 to
stop its $39 billion acquisition of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile unit. The government said the combination of the two
companies, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless
carrier, would “substantially” reduce competition.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  FHFA Says Estimates on Damages From 17 Banks Are Premature  The U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency, which sued 17
banks over $196 billion in mortgage-backed securities bought by
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, said it’s premature to estimate how
much it may recover.  Damage estimates that said the FHFA is seeking about $200
billion from its suits -- the total cost of the securities --are
“excessive,” the agency said yesterday in a statement it
called “a fuller statement of purpose.”  The agency, which represents the interests of Freddie Mac
and Fannie Mae, mortgage-finance companies under government
conservatorship, said actual damages would reflect “losses
incurred” or recoveries determined by evidence or judicial
findings.  In the relief section of the agency’s Sept. 2 complaints
against the banks, including Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , its first demand for relief asked for a
“rescission and recovery of the consideration” Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac paid the mortgage-backed securities.  Using the purchase price for the securities to gauge
damages doesn’t reflect repayments of principal or the remaining
value of the securities, which would offset any recovery, the
agency said in the statement.  “Such numbers reflect the original amount of such
securities purchased, not the losses incurred or the potential
recoveries at the end of this process,” the agency said in the
clarifying statement.  The cases are  Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Bank of
America Corp., 11-CV-6195; FHFA v. Barclays Bank Plc., 11-CV-
6190; FHFA v. Citigroup, 11-CV-6196; FHFA v. Credit Suisse
Holdings (USA) Inc., 11-CV-6200; FHFA v.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , 11-
CV-6192; FHFA v.  First Horizon National Corp. (FHN) , 11-CV-6193; FHFA
v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 11-CV-6198; FHFA v. HSBC North America
Holdings Inc., 11-CV-6189; FHFA v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 11-CV-
6188; FHFA v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 11-CV-6202; FHFA v. Nomura
Holding America Inc., 11-CV-6201; FHFA v. SG Americas Inc., 11-
CV-6203, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Also: FHFA v. Ally Financial Inc.; FHFA v. Countrywide
Financial Corp.; FHFA v.  General Electric Co. (GE) ; FHFA v.  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  And: FHFA v. Royal Bank of Scotland, 11-CV-1383, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  U.S. RICO Law Can’t Be Applied Abroad, Madoff Judge Says  A U.S. judge who is reviewing the Bernard Madoff trustee’s
$59 billion anti-racketeering lawsuit against Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  and Austrian Sonja Kohn said “it is now settled law that
 RICO  cannot be applied extraterritorially.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, explaining an earlier
decision to take over consideration of the issue from a
bankruptcy judge, said he would determine “the precise
contours” of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act and how it was used by the liquidator of Madoff’s firm,
 Irving Picard .  Rakoff will take into account recent rulings by higher
courts that RICO doesn’t apply to actions that mainly involve
foreign actors and foreign acts, he said in a court filing
yesterday in Manhattan.  “The court agrees with UniCredit that this relatively new
doctrine will require significant interpretation of RICO,”
Rakoff said.  Picard named UniCredit and its Bank Austria unit in a
December complaint against Bank Medici AG founder Kohn and
dozens of other Austrian and Italian parties. He alleged they
were part of an international “illegal scheme” masterminded by
Kohn to feed money to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The trustee
demanded $19.6 billion -- his estimate at the time of all
principal lost by Madoff investors -- while using RICO to seek
triple the amount.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  BofA ‘Herding Lions’ to Push Through $8.5 Billion Deal  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s bid to resolve mortgage liabilities
with an $8.5 billion settlement faces drawn-out litigation and
may require a bigger payout as investors and regulators
scrutinize the deal, Bloomberg News’ David McLaughlin reports.  U.S. agencies including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and companies such as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  have
lined up to gather information about the accord that they may
use to fight for more money.  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman , who is trying
to block the deal, said in court papers that the bank faces
liability for actions that amount to “persistent illegality.”  “There is no precedent for what’s happening here,” said
Zachary Rosenbaum, an attorney in New York at Lowenstein Sandler
PC who isn’t involved in the case. “When you’re dealing with
this many disparate interests it makes things extraordinarily
difficult to reach one definitive settlement absent a judicial
decision. They use the term herding cats. This is like herding
lions.”  The agreement is a move by Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, to resolve mortgage liabilities
tied to the bank’s 2008 acquisition of lender Countrywide
Financial Corp. It settles a fight with institutional investors
that demanded the bank buy back home loans that didn’t meet
their promised quality. The loans were packaged into bonds by
Countrywide and sold to investors.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-bond deals, has asked New York State Supreme Court
Justice Barbara R. Kapnick to approve the settlement and bind
investors outside those that negotiated it. The accord, which
calls for Bank of America to pay $8.5 billion, covers 530
mortgage trusts with an original principal balance of $424
billion, the bank said in a June 29  statement .  Investors objecting to the agreement include insurance
companies, pension funds and a group of federal home loan banks.
They are demanding more information to investigate the deal.  AIG said that Bank of America is “drastically
underpaying,” while Western and Southern Life Insurance Co.
called the settlement “a sweetheart deal.” Investors have also
complained about not having the right to opt out of the accord
if it’s approved.  Bank of America believes there are “compelling reasons”
why the agreement should be approved, said Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender.  “The courts have outlined a process in which all of the
matters raised to date will be resolved, and we will continue to
rely upon that process,” Grayson said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex- News Corp. (NWSA)  Executives Dispute James Murdoch on Hacking  News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch’s
version of events surrounding phone-hacking at the News of the
World tabloid was disputed by former News Corp. executives
testifying to the U.K. Parliament.  Tom Crone, the News of the World’s lawyer until July, and
 Colin Myler , the newspaper’s former editor, said they told
Murdoch in 2008 about an e-mail that suggested other reporters
were implicated in phone-hacking. Crone said it was “absolutely
inconceivable” that the pair wouldn’t have explained this when
they met Murdoch to discuss a lawsuit settlement.  “I think everybody perfectly understood the seriousness
and significance of what we were discussing,” Myler told the
House of Commons Culture Committee in  London  yesterday in a
session in which four witnesses were questioned for a total of 3
1/2 hours. “As far as I’m concerned there was no ambiguity.”  In July, Murdoch told the committee that he hadn’t been
told of evidence that illegality went beyond a single reporter,
and that he had understood that an outside probe by a law firm
had confirmed there was no wider wrongdoing.  Revelations in July that the News of the World intercepted
the voicemail of a murdered schoolgirl in 2002 prompted the
closure of Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper and forced News
Corp. to withdraw a takeover bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  Prime Minister David Cameron will be questioned by a
separate panel about his 2007 decision to hire a former News of
the World editor,  Andy Coulson , as his communications chief.  James Murdoch said that he stands by his testimony. Neither
Myler nor Crone told him that wrongdoing extended beyond
reporter  Clive Goodman  and private investigator Glenn Mulcaire,
he said in a statement.  “As I said in my testimony, there was nothing discussed in
the meeting that led me to believe that a further investigation
was necessary,” Murdoch said.  Earlier, Jon Chapman, the former head of legal affairs at
News Corp.’s U.K. unit, said the company’s investigation into
phone hacking after a reporter’s arrest was never intended to be
a wide-ranging probe into wrongdoing.  A law-firm probe commissioned by the company was designed
to deal with an employment lawsuit filed by Goodman, Chapman
said. Chapman said his own review of e-mails didn’t find
evidence of illegal activity.  For more, click here.  For a related story, click here.  Cuban Says He Saw ‘Red Flags’ Before Mamma.com Share Sale  Billionaire Mark Cuban, who is being sued by U.S.
regulators for alleged insider trades in Mamma.com, said he saw
“red flags” at the company before he sold his shares.  Cuban said in a filing last week in Dallas federal court
that he needs access to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigative documents on Mamma.com Inc., the Montreal-based
Internet search company now known as Copernic Inc., to combat
the civil insider-trading suit filed by the SEC in 2008.  The SEC accused Cuban of trading on confidential
information when he sold his stake in Mamma.com just before it
announced a private placement of shares. In an Aug. 29 filing
requesting that the SEC share more materials from an
investigation of Mamma.com, Cuban, 53, said he had other reasons
to sell.  “Mr. Cuban has repeatedly stated that he sold his shares
in Mamma.com in part because he saw ‘red flags’ in the company
and he began to suspect that the individuals involved with
Mamma.com might be ‘crooked,’” according to the filing, which
states that the SEC was investigating Mamma.com “around this
time.”  Cuban, who has denied wrongdoing, said in the filing he is
seeking documents about the probe, which he said was closed
without the commission taking action.  Joel Villeneuve, a spokesman for Copernic, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  The SEC contends that in June 2004, Cuban found out about
the company’s plan to raise money through a private investment,
which would significantly dilute his stake in the company. He
sold his shares, saving about $750,000 in losses, the SEC said.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on the
filing. Thomas Melsheimer, Cuban’s lead attorney, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas)  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  J&J Failed to Warn About Drug’s Tendon Risks, Lawyer Says  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed to properly warn two  New Jersey 
men that the antibiotic Levaquin could damage their tendons, a
lawyer told a state jury.  Officials of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J and its
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceutical unit downplayed Levaquin’s
risks in warning labels even after receiving reports from  Europe 
about tendon ruptures, said Andy Alonso, a lawyer for Paul
Gaffney and Robert Beare. The two men contend they suffered
Achilles-tendon injuries after taking the antibiotic.  “J&J officials knew there was a problem and did everything
they could to hide it” to protect Levaquin’s sales, Alonso told
jurors yesterday in opening statements in state court in
Atlantic City, New Jersey.  A J&J lawyer countered yesterday that the drugmaker
repeatedly warned doctors and patients about reports linking
tendon ruptures to Levaquin, starting when it was approved for
sale in the U.S. in 1996.  “From the very first label, Johnson & Johnson included
information about reports of ruptures of the shoulder, hand and
Achilles tendon,” Christy Jones, the company’s lawyer, told
jurors in her opening statement.  The Atlantic City case is the third over Levaquin tendon
injuries to go to trial since November and the first to be tried
in New Jersey state courts. J&J faces more than 2,600 claims in
U.S. courts over the drug, court dockets show.  The case is Beare v. Johnson & Johnson, L-196-10-MT,
Superior Court of New Jersey for Atlantic County (Atlantic
City).  For more, click here.  Ritchie Gets Suit Against Petters Executives Reinstated  Ritchie Capital Management LLC won a U.S. appeals court
ruling reinstating its lawsuit against two executives who worked
for convicted fraud-scheme operator Thomas J. Petters.  Ritchie filed the civil racketeering and fraud suit in 2009
against former Petters Group Worldwide LLC Chief Executive
Officer Mary Jeffries and Camille Chee-Awai, who was chief
operating officer of Petters Co. Ritchie claimed they schemed
with Petters to deprive Ritchie of its collateralized investment
in Petters-owned Polaroid Corp.  A federal judge in  Minneapolis  dismissed the case last
year, finding it was barred by another court’s injunction
against new suits involving Petters’s companies, which were in
receivership. The dismissal was improper, the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Minneapolis said yesterday.  “The district court erred in concluding Ritchie’s action
was barred by the receivership order,” the three-judge appeals
panel said in a 17-page decision. “Nor did the receivership
have the power to cast its anti-suit injunction net that
broadly.”  Petters was sentenced to 50 years in prison in 2009 after
being found guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud. Petters
conned investors into giving him money to finance phony
consumer-goods purchase contracts, U.S. prosecutors said.  Andrew Birrell, Jeffries’s attorney, and Terrence Canade,
Chee-Awai’s lawyer, didn’t return calls for comment on the
appeals-court ruling.  The appeal is Ritchie Capital Management v. Jeffries, 10-
2568, 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals; the lower-court case is
Ritchie Capital Management LLC v. Jeffries, 10-00668, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  MBIA Settles Suit Over Mortgage Exposure for $68 Million  Bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , which guaranteed some of Wall
Street’s toxic mortgage debt, agreed to pay $68 million to
resolve investor lawsuits alleging the company misled
shareholders about its exposure to mortgage-backed securities.  The accord settles claims by lead plaintiff Teachers’
Retirement System of Oklahoma and shareholders who purchased
MBIA stock from July 2007 to January 2008, according to filings
in federal court in Manhattan yesterday by lawyers for the
company and investors. The company denied wrongdoing, the
filings said.  “Although we continue to believe our CDO exposure was
fully disclosed, we are pleased to have reached a settlement
that puts this matter behind us,” said Kevin Brown, a spokesman
for Armonk, New York-based MBIA.  Investors alleged that MBIA made false and misleading
statements about the nature and extent of its exposure to
collateralized debt obligations containing residential mortgage-
backed securities, including the company’s exposure to CDOs made
up of other CDOs containing the securities, the filings said.  Steven Singer, an attorney for investors, said the accord
was a “very substantial recovery, in terms of the amount of
recoverable damages.” The settlement is subject to court
approval.  The case is In Re MBIA Inc. Securities Litigation, 08-264,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Citigroup Executive Foster Pleads Guilty to Bank Fraud  Gary Foster, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  vice president accused
of embezzling $22.9 million from the bank, pleaded guilty to one
count of bank fraud in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.  Foster, 35, of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, was arrested
in June at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport
after returning from Bangkok. Foster, who worked in the bank’s
treasury finance department, transferred money from various
Citigroup accounts and ultimately to his own account at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “I executed a scheme to defraud Citigroup,” Foster told
U.S. District Judge Eric Vitaliano yesterday. “I directed funds
to be wired into my personal account at JPMorgan.”  Under nonbinding sentencing guidelines, Foster faces a
maximum of about 10 years in prison, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michael Yaeger told Vitaliano.  Foster was released June 27 on an $800,000 bond secured by
his parents’ house in Teaneck, New Jersey. His mother works as a
teller for Bank of America Corp., one of his lawyers, Isabelle
A. Kirshner, said during that court appearance.  “It was our determination that it was in his best interest
to resolve the case as quickly as possible,” Kirshner, of
Clayman & Rosenberg LLP in Manhattan, said after yesterday’s
plea. “I don’t think it’s in Mr. Foster’s interest to blame
Citigroup for dropping the ball.”  As part of his plea deal, Foster agreed to forfeit about
$16 million in properties, including residences in Manhattan,
Brooklyn and New Jersey, as well as a Ferrari and a Maserati and
bank accounts, Yaeger told the judge yesterday.  “We are outraged by the actions of this former employee,”
Shannon Bell, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, said
in a June e-mail. “Citi informed law enforcement immediately
upon discovery of the suspicious transactions and we are
cooperating fully to ensure Mr. Foster is prosecuted to the full
extent of the law.”  “We are pleased that Mr. Foster will be held accountable
for his crimes,” Bell said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Foster, 11-cr-00601, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Ex-AOL Finance Chief Kelly Settles SEC Suit for $260,000  Former  AOL Inc. (AOL)  finance chief John Michael Kelly agreed to
pay $260,000 to settle a Securities and Exchange Commission suit
claiming he helped overstate Internet ad revenue at the company.  The SEC sued eight former AOL executives in 2008, including
Kelly and another former chief financial officer, Joseph Ripp,
claiming they helped inflate revenue at the company by more than
$1 billion from 2000 to 2002.  In a judgment signed by U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon 
in Manhattan yesterday, Kelly agreed to turn over $200,000 in
profits he allegedly made from the scheme and pay a $60,000
penalty. Kelly didn’t admit or deny the allegations in agreeing
to settle.  AOL agreed in 2005 to pay $300 million to settle a related
investigation.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kelly,
08-CV-4612, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Honey Made Near Monsanto GM Crops Must Get EU Check  Beekeepers with hives close to fields of  Monsanto Co. (MON) 
genetically modified corn must have their honey checked by
regulators before selling it in the European Union, the region’s
highest court said.  EU  rules  require prior authorization before goods
containing genetically modified organisms are marketed.  “Honey and food supplements containing pollen derived from
a GMO are foodstuffs produced from GMOs which cannot be marketed
without prior authorization,” the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg ruled yesterday. The requirement “applies
irrespective of whether the pollen is introduced intentionally”
or not.  The world’s largest seed company, St. Louis-based Monsanto,
received EU permission in 1998 to cultivate its MON 810 maize
and the various products derived from the strain such as maize
flour, starch and oil. The German state of Bavaria has a number
of fields where the crop is grown for research.  Karl Heinz Bablok, one of a group of beekeepers that
brought yesterday’s case, detected traces of the crop in his
honey and in the pollen he harvested from a field a few hundred
meters behind his beehives.  Beekeepers now “may have a claim for damages against a
farmer if MON 810 pollen from his cultivation gets into their
honey,” German law firm Gassner, Groth, Siederer & Coll, which
is representing the beekeepers, said in a statement. “If the
beekeeper can no longer sell his honey, this is considered a
major impairment,” as is the need to move the hives.  The case is C-442/09, Bablok and Others.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-Acting U.S. Solicitor General Katyal Joins  Hogan Lovells   Former Acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal joined the
Washington office of Hogan Lovells to lead the law firm’s
appellate practice alongside partner Cate Stetson.  Katyal, who will be a partner at the firm, served as the
U.S. Justice Department’s top courtroom attorney and until last
month was the Obama administration’s lead litigator in federal
appellate arguments in defense of the health-care overhaul.
Katyal served in that role since Obama picked then-Solicitor
General  Elena Kagan  to join the U.S. Supreme Court last year.  Before joining government, Katyal was a law professor for
almost 15 years at Georgetown University Law Center in
Washington and was director of the school’s Center on National
Security and the Law, according to the statement. He has argued
15 U.S. Supreme Court cases including Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, in
which the court ruled military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay
unconstitutional, according to the statement.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 