-- 
Dutch Pension Fund ABP Sues Deutsche Bank Over Securities

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-09-07T21:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/stichting-pensioenfonds-sues-deutsche-bank-over-securities.html
Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP,
 Europe ’s second-biggest pension fund, sued  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  for
fraud, claiming it bought residential mortgage-backed securities
relying on the bank’s allegedly false and misleading statements.  Deutsche Bank made false and misleading statements about
underwriting standards and practices, loan-to-value ratios,
appraisals and owner-occupancy statistics, Heerlen, Netherlands-
based ABP said in a complaint filed today in New York state
Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  “ABP purchased securities that were far riskier than
represented, backed by mortgage loans worth significantly less
than represented, that had been made to borrowers who were much
less creditworthy than had been represented,” according to the
complaint.  Last month, Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association of
America filed a lawsuit claiming it had invested in securities
unaware that Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank internally viewed the
loans and securities as “pigs.” Dexia SA, the lender rescued
by France and  Belgium  in 2008, filed a similar suit in July in
connection with more than $1 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities.  ABP, which made the purchases in 2006 and 2007, said it had
suffered “substantial damages” as a result and is seeking an
award that includes loss of market value and principal and
interest payments.  Frank Kelly, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said in a phone
interview that the company will fight the suit, which it
believes is without merit.  ABP oversees the pensions of 2.8 million Dutch state
employees, including teachers and firemen. It oversaw about
242 billion euros ($341 billion) in assets at the end of June.  The case is Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Ace Securities
Corp., 652460/2011, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 