-- 
Stored Horse Semen May Upset Monarchs, Billionaire Race Fans, Lawyer Says

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-07T08:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/stored-horse-semen-may-upset-monarchs-billionaire-race-fans-lawyer-says.html
Allowing artificial breeding of
racehorses would threaten traditions behind the sport’s appeal
to kings, queens, sheikhs and billionaires, said a lawyer
opposing an effort to lift a ban on artificial insemination.  Tony Bannon, attorney for the  Sydney Turf Club , went before
Sydney Federal Court today to defend the club’s rule that
requires racing thoroughbreds to be the offspring of two horses
that physically mated.  The rule is being challenged by former Sydney Turf Club
Chairman Bruce McHugh, who claims the ban on artificial
insemination is an illegal trade restraint. McHugh said the rule
makes breeding expensive and dangerous for the animals, who must
be shipped to stud farms, and prevents him from getting into the
business.  Thoroughbred racing has always been a contest between
horses bred by “direct cover,” Bannon today told Justice Alan
Robertson, who is hearing the case and will determine the
verdict. The challenge of breeding a champion racehorse under
that rule is what attracts the rich, famous and ordinary people
to the sport, he said in his opening statement.  “We are being forced to change the industry to one where a
stallion never dies,” Bannon said, adding that artificial
insemination would lead to semen being stored for use long after
a stud’s death. “Literally, a dead horse is being flogged.”  ‘License to Print Money’  International rules banning the registration of
thoroughbreds produced by artificial insemination are outdated
and designed to protect large-scale commercial stud farms who
now have a “license to print money,” Ian Tonking, McHugh’s
lawyer, said in his opening statement Sept. 5.  “This rule, anywhere around the world, has never been
declared invalid,” Bannon said today.  The American Quarter Horse Association dropped its ban on
registration of foals produced through embryo transfers, a form
of artificial insemination, as part of an out-of-court
settlement in 2002 after a Texas judge ruled the restrictions
violated the state’s antitrust law.  McHugh can breed horses using artificial insemination and
race or sell them in standard-bred, or harness races, Bannon
said.  “Mr. Hugh is not restrained,” Bannon said. “The argument
is he won’t get as much money.”  Rattling Industry  McHugh’s lawsuit has rattled a multibillion-dollar global
industry, where a thriving breeding trade has developed. Each
year, owners of the world’s most-prized horses, including
Dubai’s ruler Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, owner of two
stud farms in  Australia , send so-called shuttle stallions around
the globe to breed with mares, collecting fees that have
exceeded $330,000 per mating episode.  Those are “powerful economic interests” who want to
maintain the status quo, Tonking said.  The status quo also maintains the tradition that has made
the sport so popular, Bannon said. Just as European leagues
would not boost goal-scoring by making the nets bigger,
tradition precludes organizers from changing the rules, he said.  “Tampering with the traditional appeal risks destroying
that appeal,” Bannon said.  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  