-- 
Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the beige book.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Aug. 26.  Boston: “Business contacts in the First District continue
to report mixed results. Some manufacturers cite slowing demand
while others continue to enjoy strong sales, retail activity is
mostly flat, tourism is up, staffing and software and IT
services firms note continued growth, and real estate markets
remain sluggish.”  New York: “Economic growth in the Second District has
remained sluggish since the last report. While it is too early
to assess the full effects of  Hurricane Irene , initial reports
suggest widespread disruptions and local pockets of more extreme
stress from flooding and power outages. Transportation and other
infrastructure apparently sustained limited damage.”  Philadelphia: “Since the last  Beige Book , business
activity in the Third District has been more mixed and somewhat
weaker overall. Several sectors have continued to report slow,
steady growth, and a few sectors have grown faster, while others
have shifted to reporting slower growth, no growth, or declines.
Manufacturing activity has declined since the last Beige Book.”  Cleveland : “The economy in the Fourth District grew at a
slow pace during the past six weeks, with many of our contacts
downgrading their near-term outlooks. Manufacturers reported
stable production but a decline in new orders and backlogs.
Freight transport volume trended slightly higher. Retailers said
that their sales were on or ahead of plan and new-car purchases
increased.”  Richmond: “Economic activity in the Fifth District slowed
since our last report. Manufacturing activity pulled back
markedly in August, following a sluggish July, and retail sales
weakened. Residential construction and housing sales declined
further, while commercial real estate activity was mixed.”  Atlanta: “Sixth District business contacts indicated that
economic activity continued to expand at a very subdued pace in
July and August. Retail sales grew more slowly than during the
previous reporting period, although tourism activity remained
solid. Existing home sales improved in  Florida , but were weak
elsewhere in the District.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
expanded more slowly in July and August. Contacts expressed
concern about the economic outlook, noting lower business and
consumer confidence. Both consumer and business spending were
little changed over the reporting period. Manufacturing
production expanded at a slower pace, while construction
decreased.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to grow at a modest pace since the previous report.
Manufacturing activity has continued its increase since the
previous report, and activity in the services sector also has
increased. Retail sales in July and early August declined
slightly over year-earlier levels, and auto sales increased over
the same period. Residential real estate market activity has
continued to decline.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy has grown
slightly since the last report. Increased activity was noted in
 consumer spending , tourism, residential and commercial
construction, residential real estate, manufacturing, energy and
mining. Crop reports were mostly down from last year, but
several District agricultural prices have risen recently.
Activity in commercial real estate and professional services was
flat overall.”  Kansas City: “The Tenth District economy expanded modestly
in late July and early August. Consumer spending edged up with
solid back-to-school shopping and stronger than expected auto
sales. Led by durable goods production, District manufacturing
activity grew slightly, with expectations for stronger activity
over the coming months. Despite solid multi-family building
activity, residential and commercial construction remained
weak.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest
pace since the last report. Reports from manufacturers were
mixed, and activity in the services sector rose slightly. The
single-family housing sector remained weak, but activity in the
multifamily sector was strong and the commercial real estate
sector saw continued improvement. Financial services respondents
said overall loan demand was flat during the reporting period.”  San Francisco : “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
continued to expand modestly during the reporting period of mid-
July through the end of August. Upward price pressures were
mixed but appeared to ease overall, and upward pressures on
wages were subdued. Demand for retail items edged up on balance,
as did demand for business and consumer services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  