-- 
Suncor Energy Chief Sees Record Year for Cash Flow on Oil Price, Cost Cuts

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-09-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/suncor-expects-record-cash-flow-in-2011-chief-george-says.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest
oil-sands producer, will report record  cash flow  this year
because of higher  oil prices  and lower costs, Chief Executive
Officer Rick George said.  “We’re going to have a great year, a record year for us”
in terms of cash flow, George said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. Cash flow has been buoyed
by increasing oil prices as well as lower costs following the
2009 takeover of Petro-Canada. The company reported C$5.49
billion ($5.55 billion) in cash flow from operations last year.  Suncor and other companies that produce crude from Canada’s
oil sands have benefited from the rising price of crude during
the past year. Crude futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
averaged $102.34 a barrel in the second quarter, compared with
$78.05 in the same period in 2010.  “Any crude price above $70 a barrel is great for
margins,” George said. The company plans “slightly higher”
capital expenditure next year after about C$6.7 billion this
year.  Oil futures for October delivery fell 43 cents to $86.02 a
barrel yesterday on Nymex. Suncor’s break-even point is about
C$45 a barrel and the company made money through the last
recession, George said.  If Asian demand for gasoline and diesel remains “strong”
and car manufacturers keep “selling automobiles and expanding
roads in China and  India , then demand for oil will stay a pretty
robust commodity,” he said.  Oil Sands   Suncor is among companies preparing to exploit the
estimated 173 billion barrels of recoverable crude from
Alberta’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest reserve.  Suncor is “prepared to go back into  Libya ” after it wrote
down C$514 million for those operations in the second quarter
following political turmoil in the North African nation, George
said. The company may be able to boost production beyond the
previous level of 35,000 barrels a day once it’s able to assess
any damage to its operations, he said.  In Syria, where the company produces natural gas that
supplies about 10 percent of the country’s use of the fuel,
Suncor continues to “monitor” the political situation, George
said.  An Aug. 26 environmental report by the U.S. State
Department on Keystone XL, a proposed pipeline to connect the
oil sands to Gulf Coast refiners, is “one step closer to them
actually approving it,” George said. “Keystone is important
for both countries.”  Suncor expects a rating upgrade, based on the company’s
cash flow and cash assets, George said. The Calgary-based oil
producer is currently rated BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s . That’s
lower than the A2L rating based on a Bloomberg company rating
analysis of debt, default likelihood and price volatility.  Suncor fell 72 cents, or 2.4 percent, to C$29.28 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares, which have 15 buy
and seven hold ratings from analysts tracked by Bloomberg, have
declined 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in  New York  at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 