-- 
Sweden’s Central Bank Abandons Planned Rate Increase as Turmoil Dominates

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-07T08:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/sweden-s-central-bank-abandons-planned-rate-increase-as-turmoil-dominates.html
Sweden ’s central bank abandoned a
planned interest-rate increase as global recovery prospects
deteriorate, while policy makers held on to the option of 
raising rates in the largest Nordic economy once more this year.  The benchmark repo rate was left unchanged at 2 percent,
interrupting a cycle of seven consecutive increases since July
last year, the Stockholm-based Riksbank said today. The decision
was expected by 24 of the 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One had predicted an increase to 2.25 percent.  “The concern over public finances abroad has increased and
global growth prospects have deteriorated,” the Riksbank said
in the statement. “The slowdown in the Swedish economy is thus
expected to be more pronounced than was forecast in July.”  Since the Riksbank’s July rate meeting, Sweden’s government
has slashed its economic and budget forecasts, while central
banks around the world have returned to crisis mode. The largest
Nordic economy, which relies on exports for half its output,
will grow 1.3 percent next year, less than half the government’s
previous estimate, Finance Minister Anders Borg said Aug. 26.  The bank lowered its forecast for the rate path, while
signaling it may raise the benchmark next quarter. It now sees
the rate averaging 2.1 percent next quarter, down from 2.3
percent in its July report. The repo will average 2.4 percent in
the third quarter next year, versus 2.9 percent previously, and
3 percent in the same quarter of 2013, the bank said.  Next Increase  The rate path signals a “high probability” that the bank
will increase the rate to 2.25 percent this year, said Anna
Raaman, a senior analyst at Nykredit Bank A/S. “We will have to
wait and see if the financial turbulence abates or not, but if
it does, then I think there is reason to deliver another hike”
this year, she said.  The krona surged 0.7 percent against the euro to trade at
8.9878 at 10:16 a.m. in  Stockholm . Against the dollar, the krona
jumped 1.3 percent to 6.3823.  While Sweden’s economy will feel the impact of a global
slowdown, “inflationary pressures are expected to increase
gradually over the coming years, as the spare capacity in the
economy declines and the rate of wage increases rises,” the
Riksbank said.  “The Riksbank is still in hiking bias mode, but
uncertainty is high,” said Anders Eklof, chief foreign exchange
strategist at Swedbank AB, in a note. The krona may appreciate
against the euro “as the market will stay with a theme that the
krona and the Norwegian krone are new safe havens.”  Norges Bank  The bank’s decision to shelve its tightening cycle follows
a similar about-face in neighboring  Norway , where Norges Bank on
Aug. 10 left its main rate at 2.25 percent. Policy makers in
Oslo said they didn’t deliver the planned increase because of a
“flare-up in financial market turbulence and clear signs of
weaker growth internationally.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve last month said it will probably
need to keep its rate near zero until the middle of 2013 while
the  European Central Bank  shelved its rate increases and resumed
bond purchases to counter the debt crisis.  Policy makers in Norway have signaled they want to avoid
straying too far from international rates to prevent stoking
krone gains. Sweden’s krona is the third-best performing major
currency after the krone and the yen against the dollar and the
euro since the Aug. 5 downgrade by Standard & Poor’s of the U.S.
deepened a global market rout.  Krona Effect  “The argument that the Riksbank cannot raise  interest
rates  without strengthening the krona too much is highly
relevant,” Handelsbanken analysts Martin Enlund and Johan
Sahlstroem said in a client note before the decision.  Riksbank Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O.
Svensson entered reservations against the rate path, and said
they preferred to keep rates unchanged until mid-2013, the bank
said.  “A debt storm has swept in over Sweden,” Borg said last
month. “Our task is to build security walls, to be careful, to
have sufficient security margins, to have the ability to act if
the risks we see materialize.”  Sweden’s economy slowed for a second consecutive quarter in
the three months through June to an annual 5.3 percent, after
growing the most in the European Union at 5.7 percent last year.
 Consumer confidence  fell to its lowest level in two years in
August as Swedish retail sales unexpectedly declined a monthly
0.7 percent the previous month.  Economic Outlook  Economic growth will slow to 1.7 percent next year from 4.5
percent in 2011, the Riksbank said today, cutting its previous
2.2 percent outlook for 2012.  Confidence among manufacturers slumped to the lowest in 16
months in August as industrial production increased at the
slowest pace in more than a year in June and a survey indicated
August manufacturing contracted for the first time since May
2009.  Inflation expectations for twelve months from now eased to
2.5 percent in August from 2.9 percent the previous month,
according to a survey by the National Institute of Economic
Research. The group last month recommended that the Riksbank
keep its main rate unchanged until the spring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  