-- 
Swiss Franc Ceiling May Fall Short of Healing Eastern Europe Mortgage Pain

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-09-07T17:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/swiss-franc-ceiling-may-fall-short-of-healing-eastern-europe-mortgage-pain.html
The Swiss central bank’s decision to
cap the appreciation of the nation’s currency against the euro
may fall short of helping eastern European borrowers repay
mortgages denominated in francs and get them to spend.  The forint and the zloty have climbed 8 percent against the
franc since yesterday’s announcement, compared with repayment
costs that have risen 77 percent in  Hungary  and 93 percent in
 Poland  since mid-2008, according to Capital Economics. The
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that year ended an
economic boom that spurred demand for franc loans to escape
higher local  interest rates .  “The pain is still there,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-
markets strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The fact that at least they are
trying to cap the Swiss franc appreciation helps of course. At
least it’s not going to get worse. This doesn’t resolve the
problem.”  Two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages and 54 percent of Polish
loans are based in francs, accounting for 16 percent and 10
percent of gross domestic product, respectively, according to
UBS Wealth Management. The franc soared to records against most
of its counterparts as investors took refuge in the Alpine
country’s currency as the U.S. skirted a recession and the euro
region’s debt crisis remained unresolved.  The  Swiss National Bank ’s ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro
translates to about 229 forint and 3.51 zloty against the franc,
compared with July 2008 rates of 140 forint and 1.96 zloty,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Pretty Determined’  The SNB resorted to the  exchange-rate  cap after measures
last month to boost liquidity to the money market and lowering
borrowing costs to zero didn’t prove sufficient to contain the
appreciation.  Yesterday’s effort seemed “pretty determined,”  Nigel Rendell , an economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said in
a telephone interview. For eastern  Europe , it will help “at the
margin.”  The Swiss franc’s appreciation against the forint and the
zloty hurt economic growth and the difference from the level of
intervention to records of 272 forint and 4.13 zloty isn’t
enough to ease the burden on consumers and boost their
confidence, Rendell said.  “Just because we’ve seen a big move in the exchange rate
it’s not going to encourage people to go out and start
spending,” Rendell said. “It’s not going to change the
fundamental story and the need for some additional measures to
try and help the problem.”  Gradual Reduction  Hungarian central bank President Andras Simor offered 10
proposals to Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  to “gradually”
reduce the burden on foreign-currency mortgage holders while
protecting financial stability when the two met today to discuss
the issue, the bank said in an e-mail.  The Swiss move is “not a game changer” for the region’s
banks, Hadrien De Belle and Magdalena Stoklosa, Morgan Stanley
analysts based in London, wrote in a research note today,
reiterating their “underweight” recommendation on OTP Bank
Nyrt., Hungary’s largest bank, and PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s
No.1 lender.  Non-performing loans among franc-denominated mortgages are
set to rise further even at the current exchange rate from more
than 10 percent in Hungary and below 2 percent in Poland, De
Belle and Stoklosa wrote.  Western Banks  Western lenders including  Unicredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank
AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Bayerische Landesbank 
have 80 billion Swiss francs ($101 billion) of  household debt  in
eastern Europe, according to UBS Wealth Management.  Austrian banks alone have provided 18.3 billion euros
($25.7 billion) of franc loans to their eastern neighbors,
according to the country’s central bank.  “We welcome every action that aims at limiting an
excessive overvaluation of the Swiss franc versus the euro and
other currencies,” said Michael Palzer, a spokesman for Vienna-
based Raiffeisen. “This step will help ease the pressure on
borrowers and the financial industry.”  Hungary yesterday cut its forecast for economic expansion
this year to 2 percent from a previous 3.1 percent. The
government sees 2 percent growth next year, Matolcsy said.  Slowing Growth  The economy stalled in the second quarter as an export-led
recovery lost steam and consumer spending remained subdued after
the Swiss franc gains eroded purchasing power. GDP was unchanged
from the previous three months, while the pace of expansion
slowed to 1.5 percent compared with the same period of last year
from 2.5 percent in the first quarter.  Poland’s pace of expansion may decelerate to 2.9 percent
after the economy grew 4.3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, according to Citigroup Inc. Consumer spending slowed to
3.5 percent from the January-March period’s 3.9 percent.  “We do not expect” the SNB’s rate cap “to provide much
relief to stretched household budgets or to boost domestic
consumption,” Darren Middleditch, an emerging-markets economist
at London-based  Capital Economics , wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients yesterday. “The implied exchange rate is still pretty
high.”  Both Hungary and Poland adopted measures to fight the
problem of franc appreciation and limit the threat to the
banking industry and the economy. In Poland, the financial
regulator ruled in January that monthly payments on foreign
currency-denominated loans can’t exceed 42 percent of a
customer’s net income.  Positive Impact ‘Unlikely’  Hungary’s government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint until the end of
2014.  Fitch Ratings  in June said the agreement was “unlikely to
have a material, long-term positive impact on households’
ability to service their debt.”  The difference between the fixed-rate payments and those
that would have been made at the actual exchange rates will be
recorded in forint accounts to be settled at a future date.  The benefit of yesterday’s SNB decision is that it reduces
the cost to the public accounts of providing the exchange rate
subsidy and the lower franc rates will ease pressure on foreign-
currency reserves, wrote Capital’s Middleditch.  The Swiss decision “is helpful of course, but not a
panacea” for eastern Europe, Pasquale Diana, an economist at
Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  