-- 
Swiss Franc Cap Brings Little Solace to Indebted French Village Paying 16%

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-07T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/swiss-franc-cap-brings-little-solace-to-french-town-paying-16-.html
Saint Cast, a sleepy French coastal
town in  Brittany  with 19th-century mansions and a mile-long
white, sandy beach, sees little in the Swiss central bank’s move
to cap the franc that will help it avert financial devastation.  The town, most of whose 3,600 inhabitants are retirees,
restructured 3.6 million euros ($5.1 million) of debt in July
2007, using a formula that pegged its interest rate to the Swiss
franc after being attracted by the currency’s perceived
stability. The franc, which was then at a record low, has risen
37 percent against the euro, threatening to boost Saint Cast’s
interest rate to more than 20 percent from 3.99 percent.  The Swiss National Bank’s decision this week to set a
ceiling of 1.20 francs to the euro leaves the town with a rate
of 15.57 percent.  Saint Cast , like the French Riviera town of
 Saint-Tropez , finds itself in a pickle that’s not of its making,
according to Jean Fernandez, 71, a former math teacher who now
serves as the town’s mayor.  “There is something abnormal for a little pensioners’
seaside town to be embroiled in a European sovereign debt crisis
and for my taxpayers to worry about the currency market or a
decision of the Swiss central bank,” Fernandez said in a
telephone interview. “I cannot see how the SNB can rein their
currency in the long term and that’s now my problem.”  Saint Cast is not alone. Seeking to boost returns or cap
costs, French local governments entered into contracts they
didn’t always understand. Saint-Tropez, a beach town made famous
by Brigitte Bardot, has 24 million euros in debt pegged mainly
to the Swiss franc. Argenteuil, a town on the outskirts of Paris
where Claude Monet and Alfred Sisley painted, has 40 million
euros of franc-pegged loans and 30 million euros linked to the
dollar-yen rate.  Strengthening Franc  Many Swiss franc-indexed contracts were signed when the
currency traded above 1.60 francs per euro. Saint Cast’s debt
had an interest rate of 3.99 percent for an initial period, with
the level remaining there as long as the franc stayed above 1.44
to the euro.  The franc began strengthening beyond that level in early
2010, with the pace picking up in November. Saint Cast’s
interest rose to 15.25 percent at its June 11 fixing. For the
year to that date, the town paid 523,000 euros in interest and
72,000 in principal.  The franc, seen as a haven during global turmoil, surged to
a record high of 1.03 against the euro last month as European
governments struggled to contain the region’s debt crisis. SNB
set the franc’s ceiling on Sept. 6 -- the first time such a
limit was set since 1978 -- saying it would use “unlimited”
quantities of cash to cap the increase. The franc fell by a
record against the euro after the SNB announcement and traded
yesterday at about 1.208 francs to the euro.  Small Numbers  Granted, only some French local authorities used risky
structured products to fund services such as public swimming
pools and libraries. France’s National Auditor said in a  July
report  that local government debt stood at 160.6 billion euros
in 2010, of which about 12 billion euros were in structured
products, potentially posing “a high risk.”  Etienne Favre, who advises local authorities at  FCL 
consultants in Paris and publishes an annual report in October
on local debt, said that he sees “no systemic risk” and that
the threat is “concentrated on a small number of borrowers.”  For the communities that did enter into such contracts, the
pain is very real.  “Interest rates sometimes fly above 20 percent, it’s not
sustainable and penalties to exit the contract are impossible,”
Christian Escallier, who advises local authorities at the
 Klopfer Consultants  in Paris, said in an interview. “The banks’
refinancing proposals are even less sustainable.”  Fillon’s Call  French Prime Minister Francois Fillon urged local
governments in December 2009 and again in June 2010 to stop
using currency-indexed loans. The government is “bringing
support to the authorities hit by the problem,” Valerie Pecresse, the government’s spokeswoman, said yesterday.  After Fillon’s remarks,  Dexia SA (DEXB) , the Brussels -and Paris-
based bank that owns the biggest share of the French local debt,
said it stopped selling Swiss-franc products such as the
“dual” loans that it marketed to Saint Cast.  According to Dexia sales documents obtained by Bloomberg
from Saint Cast’s town hall, the bank’s assessment of the Swiss
franc as “more stable and less volatile” was revised in its
November 2010 refinancing proposal to show “uncertainty and
volatility in the exchange rate.”  Dexia’s currency-indexed loans hit only “a very small
number of clients who had their fixing” when the franc soared
in August, said Jean-Luc Guitard, director of Dexia France.
Guitard declined to comment on terms of specific contracts.  Local Taxes  “When you are a regular borrower, and that’s the case for
local authorities, you are taking risks at fixed or variable
rates,” he said. He declined to disclose how much of Dexia’s 52
billion euros of such loans are pegged to currency moves.  In Argenteuil, Joel Fournie, a financial adviser to the
town, now has four full-time employees working on the loans from
Dexia. The town raised local taxes by 20 percent between March
2008 and March 2010.  “It’s not a rich city but very diverse, with people from
everywhere,” he said. “We are very, very far from Switzerland
or a trading floor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris, at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  