-- 
Syria Asks Arab League Chief El-Arabi to Delay Planned Visit on Conflict

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-07T03:53:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/syria-asks-arab-league-chief-to-delay-visit.html
Syria asked the head of the  Arab
League  to delay his planned visit to Damascus today and said a
new date would be set to address the country’s conflict, the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported.  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi was scheduled
to arrive today as pressure mounts on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over the suppression of a popular uprising that began
in mid-March. The government-run  news agency  didn’t explain the
reasons for the postponement.  Assad faces the biggest challenge to his rule since
inheriting power from his father 11 years ago, with increased
international condemnation of the violence. The European Union
on Sept. 3 added four people and three companies to an asset
freeze and travel ban on  Syria , where the unrest began in mid-
March. A day earlier, the EU banned imports of Syrian oil.  More than 2,450 civilians and 700 members of the security
forces have been killed during the crackdown, while 15,000
people have been injured and at least 20,000 are in prison,
according to Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for
Human Rights. The UN puts the death toll at more than 2,200.  Security forces have failed to halt the protests, which
were inspired by unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
that unseated Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak the following
month.  Muammar Qaddafi  is in hiding after an uprising ended his
control over most of Libya.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will meet with
Assad’s political and media adviser Bouthaina Shaaban in Moscow
next week. Shaaban, one of three Syrian officials who had
sanctions imposed on them by the U.S. Treasury Department last
month, will hold a briefing at the Russian Foreign Ministry on
Sept. 12, the ministry’s press service said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 