-- 
U.K. Homeowners Shouldn’t Count on Capital Gains, Minister Says

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-09-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-k-homeowners-shouldn-t-count-on-capital-gains-minister-says.html
U.K. homeowners shouldn’t count on
making money from their property as the pace of price gains
slows, according to Housing Minister Grant Shapps.  “Gone are the days where you buy a house for capital
appreciation,” Shapps, a member of Prime Minister David Cameron’s Conservative Party, said in a Sept. 6 interview.
“House prices can still go up, but they need to go up in line
with or less than increases in average earnings for the long
term.”  On average, house prices rose 147 percent from 2000 to the
market’s peak in October 2007, according to Nationwide Building
Society, a Swindon, England-based lender. That was 11 times
faster than consumer-price inflation of 13.2 percent. Values
then slumped 21 percent through February 2009, though they’ve
since increased 12 percent.  A shortage of homes, which may reach 1 million by 2015, is
helping to support prices, according to London-based property
broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)  Record-low Bank of England interest rates
have also bolstered demand, and prices.  The government is trying to address the shortage by freeing
up public land, offering municipalities incentives to approve
more housing plans and encouraging banks to increase lending to
prospective buyers.  ‘Unacceptable Situation’  “We need a greater supply of homes in this country,”
Shapps said by phone. “We have an unacceptable situation where
people cannot afford to have a roof over their head.”  The number of homes built in England and Wales last year
was the lowest during peacetime since 1924, according to the
Department of Communities and Local Government. Homebuilders
such as  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest by volume,
are trying to increase profits by building more houses than
apartments.  The U.K. housing market has failed to gain momentum as
banks curtail lending and inflation erodes spending power. Home
ownership in England will fall to less than two-thirds over the
next decade amid the scarcity of property and banks’ demands for
larger down payments, the National Housing Federation said Aug.
30.  “People can’t afford to buy the product because they can’t
get the mortgages,” Shapps said. “They can’t get the mortgages
because the multipliers are so high for how much they require
compared with their salary.”  Less Bureaucracy  The government is trying to speed up the planning process
to boost real-estate development and spur economic growth. The
Draft National Planning Policy Framework has streamlined more
than 1,000 pages of regulations to 52 pages.  “Decision-takers at every level should assume that the
default answer to development proposals is ‘yes’,” except where
it may compromise sustainable development, the government said
in the document.  “You cannot have a marketplace whereby the single most
important commodity in peoples’ lives is simply unobtainable for
much of the population,” Shapps said. “We need a long-term
period of house-price stability in order to allow the majority
of the population to afford homes again.”  U.K. house prices fell for the first time in four months in
August as Britons grew more pessimistic about the economy,
Halifax said yesterday. Prices dropped 1.2 percent from July,
the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in a
statement. From a year earlier, prices declined 3.9 percent to
an average of 161,743 pounds ($258,500).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 