-- 
U.K. City-Center Store Vacancies May Climb as Consumers Try to Save Money

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-07T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-k-city-center-store-vacancies-may-climb-as-consumers-try-to-save-money.html
The number of boarded-up shops on
Britain’s main downtown streets will probably rise in the coming
months as struggling retailers move to the most profitable
shopping locations.  “Retailers are looking to close older and poorer-
performing outlets where possible and relocate into new stores
in the bigger and better centers, streets and warehouses,”
research company  Local Data Co.  said in a report based on a
survey of 1,000 urban shopping locations in the U.K.  Some centers in the midlands and north of  England  are
almost one-third empty, while vacancy rates remain at pre-
recession levels elsewhere, the survey showed. Across the
country, the average shopping street vacancy rate was little
changed at 14.5 percent in the first half, triple the level of
three years ago, when Local Data began its surveys.  U.K. retail sales dropped in August and  consumer confidence 
fell for a third month as signs of a faltering economic recovery
hurt confidence. Retailers face mounting competition as
supermarkets boost non-food sales and online sales increase.
 Mothercare Plc (MTC) , the children’s clothing and home goods chain,
announced in May that it will shutter 110 of its 362 town-center
stores across the U.K.  “The high street is a less interesting place to be,”
Mothercare Chief Executive Officer Ben Gordon said in a
telephone interview. “We are working hard to close our
unprofitable stores.”  Closing Shop  Other companies scaling back their outlets include
 Carpetright Plc (CPR) , HMV Group Plc, JJB Sports Plc and Thorntons
Plc. Together they account for about 153 million pounds ($245
million) in annual rents, according to Investment Property
Databank Ltd. This year’s insolvencies of chains including Focus
DIY Ltd., Jane Norman Holdings Ltd. and TJ Hughes Ltd. will cut
rental income by about 35.8 million pounds, IPD said.  Several of the U.K.’s biggest retail landlords have
reported show “solid” growth in rents, footfall and occupancy
levels, indicating that owners of prime space are taking market
share from other locations, Local Data said.  Shopping-center owners  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) ,  Capital Shopping
Centres Group Plc (CSCG)  and British Land Co. all said in their first-
half earnings reports that sales are rising among their tenants,
lifting rental income and property values.  The 10 towns and cities with the largest share of empty
shops are all in the West Midlands and northern England, while
seven of the ten lowest vacancy rates were at centers in
southern England. Almost 28 percent of shops in central
Stockport near Manchester are empty, the highest rate for
centers with more than 400 stores, Local Data said.  Government Cuts  Vacancies in cities outside  London  and southeast England
will probably accelerate as government spending cuts begin to
affect regions with proportionately higher numbers of public
employees, Local Data said.  “The divergence between the best and worst shopping
centers and the north-south divide is only going to get wider,”
Matthew Hopkinson, the report’s author, said in an interview.  The polarization means that as many as 50,000 shops in less
favorable locations across the U.K. may never attract tenants
again, predicts Joshua Bamfield, a director of  Newark , England-
based  Centre for Retail Research .  In May, Prime Minister  David Cameron  asked retail
consultant Mary Portas, star of the “Mary Queen of Shops”
television show, to conduct a review of the country’s town
centers to help create a national revival plan.  “We must accept that some secondary retail units are no
longer viable and plan their transition to other uses,” said
Liz Peace, Chief Executive Officer of the British Property
Federation, an industry group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  