-- 
U.K. August House Prices Fall 1.2% as Underlying Trend Gains, Halifax Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-07T07:43:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-k-august-house-prices-fall-1-2-halifax-report-says.html
U.K. house prices fell for the first
time in four months in August as Britons grew more pessimistic
about the economy, Halifax said.  Prices dropped 1.2 percent from July, the mortgage unit of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said in a statement in  London  today.
From a year earlier, prices decreased 3.9 percent to an average
161,743 pounds ($258,500).  U.K. consumer sentiment fell in August as government budget
cuts and accelerating inflation squeezed household finances. The
Bank of England will hold its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low tomorrow as the global recovery slows,  Europe ’s debt
crisis intensifies and Britain presses ahead with the deepest
fiscal squeeze since World War II, economists forecast.  “Low interest rates are likely to continue to support the
market whilst increased uncertainty about the economic outlook
and pressures on householders’ finances constrain demand,”
Halifax economist Martin Ellis said in the statement. “Overall,
we expect broad stability in both prices and activity over the
coming months.”  August’s house price decline was the first since April,
when values dropped 1.4 percent, Halifax said. In the three
months through August, they rose 1 percent from the previous
quarter and were 2.6 percent lower than a year earlier.  Bank of England  policy makers, who last month debated
whether the economy needs more stimulus, will keep their key
interest rate at 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to all
57 economists in a Bloomberg survey. It will also keep its bond-
purchase plan at 200 billion pounds, according to all but one of
41 economists in a Bloomberg News poll. The bank will announce
its policy decision at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  