-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy grew at a modest pace since the
last report. Reports from manufacturers were mixed, and activity
in the services sector rose slightly. The single-family housing
sector remained weak, but activity in the multifamily sector was
strong and the commercial real estate sector saw continued
improvement. Financial services respondents said overall loan
demand was flat during the reporting period. The  energy industry 
continued to expand at a robust pace, while agricultural
conditions deteriorated further in the District. Employment
levels were stable at most responding firms and price pressures
were unchanged. Numerous contacts said stock market volatility,
declining consumer confidence and uncertainty regarding national
economic conditions had dampened their outlook.  Prices  Overall, prices were unchanged from the last report, although
there were some reports of price increases. Food producers noted
a continued rise in commodity prices, particularly for corn.
Accounting, legal and staffing firms reported slight increases
in rates charged for their services, and airlines noted fare
increases in the high single digits compared to last year’s
levels. Contacts in rail transportation said they had rolled
back some earlier instituted increases in shipping rates, and
airlines and cargo service firms reported benefitting from lower
fuel prices. Retailers noted slight declines in overall prices,
although increases were seen for high-end goods and certain
products affected by higher cotton prices.  The price of WTI fell from near $100 per barrel in early July to
$85 at the end of the reporting period in late August. Natural
gas, gasoline and diesel prices fell since the last report, and
prices for most petrochemical products were flat or down.  Labor Market  Most responding firms reported steady employment levels, and
some noted slight hiring activity. Staffing firms continued to
see steady demand at high levels. Most transportation equipment,
food and metals manufacturers reported an increase in payrolls,
and some said they had increased work hours as well. A few
contacts at legal services, auto sales, energy, and
transportation service firms reported modest employment
increases. Wage pressures remained minimal, although upward
pressure was noted by one transportation equipment manufacturer.  Manufacturing  Reports from construction-related manufacturers were mixed, but
suggest overall activity levels were unchanged. Manufacturers
tied to residential construction generally reported continued
sluggish demand. Primary metals manufacturers saw a broad-based
increase in activity, and producers of lumber and wood products
noted a pickup in demand partly due to remodeling projects.
Construction-related outlooks remained weak, and some contacts
expressed concern about the uncertainty surrounding the national
economy and lack of sufficient backlogs.  Respondents in high-tech manufacturing report that growth in
sales and orders weakened since the last report. Demand for
basic memory products such as DRAM has weakened, while continued
growth in demand for servers to store and process data has kept
orders for microprocessors growing at a solid pace. Slow growth
in  Asia  and increased uncertainty about the European and US
economic outlooks has reduced business investment in high-tech
products. The outlook for the next three to six months is for
weak but positive growth.  Paper manufacturers reported that demand growth softened
slightly during the reporting period, but remained better than
last year’s levels. Manufacturers of transportation equipment
reported strong sales with demand flat to up since the last
report and well above year-ago levels. Outlooks are optimistic,
with contacts expecting demand to hold steady at current high
levels over the next few months. Food producers reported a
seasonal uptick in demand, but noted that they had seen a
significant decline in overall sales compared with earlier in
the year.  Petrochemical producers reported that after about six months of
extensive plant outages, shortages of key materials, and
dramatic price increases, resin and plastics markets have
settled. Contacts said demand for most products remained good
since the last report, with the exception of PVC products due to
weak construction markets. Refiners said capacity utilization
rates were the highest since 2007, and margins were strong based
on good demand. Orders for oil products slipped in July, but
strengthened again in August, according to contacts.  Retail Sales  Retail demand was unchanged since the last report, but sales
rose in the mid-to-low single digits from a year ago. Back-to
school sales activity picked up slightly. Apparel, especially
women’s clothing, and fine jewelry are segments that have shown
strength recently. There is some concern regarding recent stock
market volatility and its potential impact on  consumer
confidence , but this has not affected store activity, reported
contacts. Sales in Texas and the Southwest region continued to
outpace those nationwide by a slim margin, according to two
large retailers, and expectations are for continued modest
growth through year-end.  Automobile sales continued to improve, and contacts say supply
issues from Japanese manufacturers should resolve by the end of
September. Demand for used cars remained high, along with their
prices. Contacts were optimistic and expect sales to increase
through year-end.  Services  Overall demand for staffing services held steady at high levels,
although several firms noted slight declines in activity. One
contact reported that temporary placements were being outpaced
by direct hiring activity. Outlooks were more cautious than the
previous reporting period, with contacts expecting demand to
remain flat or decline through year-end. Demand for accounting
services was flat, although contacts noted some strength in
mergers and acquisitions activity. Legal firms reported
continued solid demand for intellectual property, energy, IPO,
and mergers and acquisitions services.  Reports from transportation service firms were mostly positive,
but suggest that uncertainty surrounding the national economy
has somewhat weakened outlooks. Intermodal cargo volumes
increased since the last report. Railroad shipments rose
slightly, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic
ores, petroleum products and non-commercial building products.
Container volumes declined during the reporting period, and
contacts reported a weaker outlook than during the earlier
reporting period. Small parcel shipments rebounded in August
after declining in July, in part due to growth in retail trade
activity. Airline traffic held steady over the past six weeks.
Demand for travel within the US and to  Latin America  was solid,
but travel to Asia and  Europe  remained weak. Airline contacts
expect to see modest improvement in revenues in the fourth
quarter.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the single-family housing industry said new and
existing home sales rose slightly since the last report,
although the market remains weak overall. Existing home
inventories declined and new home inventories remained lean.
Respondents are cautious in their outlooks, but most expect a
slight improvement in sales in the second half of the year, with
a slow recovery taking hold by early 2012.  Apartment demand was strong during the reporting period, and
rental rates continued to rise. Contacts also noted increased
sales of apartment properties. Leasing activity for office and
industrial space continued at a moderate pace since the last
report. Contacts noted strong demand in Houston stemming, in
part, from energy activity.  Financial Services  Most financial firms reported relatively flat loan demand, with
the exception of one contact who noted a slowdown in lending
activity. Contacts at national banks said they are concerned
about the loss of momentum for a self-sustaining recovery and
are seeing customers approach borrowing decisions conservatively.
Regional banks said loan pricing remained aggressive. Outlooks
are generally less optimistic than the prior reporting period,
although outstanding loan quality remains stable and there
continues to be gradual improvement in lending conditions.  Energy  Texas  drilling activity rose since the last report, with the
state adding 43 rigs over the past six weeks. Most of the demand
is from land-based drilling, led by horizontal drilling and
fracturing. Initially applied to natural gas formations, success
is growing in application of these technologies to oil basins,
such as the Permian Basin. Contacts noted that activity in the
 Gulf of Mexico  remained weak, with only a few recent permits
approved for drilling.  Agriculture  Drought conditions remain severe and agricultural losses in the
state have reached $5.2 billion, surpassing the 2006 record of
$4.1 billion, according to Texas AgriLife Extension Service
estimates. Dry weather and high temperatures have reduced yields
and increased abandonment of crops. The livestock sector has
also suffered greatly, with very poor grazing conditions
necessitating costly supplemental feeding and in many cases the
selling off of herds. An increase in the number of cows and
calves being sold has dampened cattle prices. Grain prices have
generally increased since the last report, partly driven by
lower production expectations. Strong export demand for beef has
benefitted the district’s livestock sector. 