-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District -- St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a
modest pace since the previous report. Manufacturing activity
has continued its increase since the previous report, and
activity in the services sector also has increased. Retail sales
in July and early August declined slightly over year-earlier
levels, and auto sales increased over the same period.
Residential real estate market activity has continued to decline.
Commercial real estate market conditions were weak, while
industrial real estate activity has increased in many areas of
the District. Overall lending at a sample of large District
banks increased modestly during the three-month period ending in
July.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in July and early August
were down slightly, on average, over year-earlier levels. About
29 percent of the retailers saw increases in sales, while half
saw decreases and 21 percent saw no changes. Roughly 48 percent
of the retailers reported that sales levels were below their
expectations, 43 percent reported that sales met expectations,
and 9 percent reported that sales were above expectations. About
29 percent of the retailers reported that their inventories were
too high, while 17 percent reported that their inventories were
too low. The sales outlook for September and October was mixed:
About 42 percent of the retailers expect sales to increase over
2010 levels, while 29 percent expect sales to decrease and 29
percent expect sales to be similar to those of last year.  Car dealers in the District reported that sales in July and
early August were up, on average, compared with last year’s
sales. About 62 percent of the car dealers surveyed saw
increases in sales, while 21 percent saw decreases and 17
percent saw no changes. About 29 percent of the car dealers
noted that used car sales had increased relative to new car
sales, while 21 percent reported the opposite. Also, about 17
percent of contacts reported an increase in sales of low-end
vehicles relative to high-end vehicles, while 4 percent reported
the opposite. About 83 percent of the car dealers surveyed
reported that their inventories were below desired levels, while
4 percent reported that their inventories were too high. The
sales outlook for September and October was mostly optimistic:
About 67 percent of the car dealers expect sales to increase
over 2010 levels.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity has continued to increase since our
previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans to open
plants and expand operations in the near future, while a smaller
number of contacts reported plans to close plants or reduce
operations. Firms in the heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning; art goods; packaging; bioscience; power hand
tools; and sanitary paper products manufacturing industries
reported plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In
contrast, firms in the appliance and burial casket manufacturing
industries announced plans to close plants and lay off employees.  Activity in the District’s services sector has continued to
increase since our previous report. Firms in scientific research,
business support, health care, aviation, and automotive repair
and maintenance services announced plans to expand operations
and hire new workers. In contrast, a contact in the parking
garage services industry reported plans to decrease operations
in the District and lay off employees.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales continued to decline throughout most of the Eighth
District. Compared with the same period in 2010, July 2011 year-
to-date home sales were down 8 percent in  Memphis , 13 percent in
St. Louis, 14 percent in Louisville, and 15 percent in Little
Rock. Residential construction also continued to decrease
throughout the District. July 2011 year-to-date single-family
housing permits decreased in the majority of the District metro
areas compared with the same period in 2010. Permits decreased
18 percent in Memphis, 21 percent in Louisville, 26 percent in
Little Rock, and 28 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial real estate market conditions were generally weak,
while industrial real estate activity increased in many areas of
the District. Compared with the first quarter of 2011, second-
quarter 2011 suburban office vacancy rates increased in St.
Louis and Louisville but decreased in  Little Rock  and Memphis.
The downtown office vacancy rates increased in Little Rock,
Memphis, and St. Louis but decreased in Louisville. During the
same period, industrial vacancy rates decreased in all the major
metro areas except St. Louis, where rates increased. Industrial
and commercial construction activity has been mixed across the
District, with some areas noting growth in industrial
construction. A contact in south- central  Kentucky  noted several
new retail-related construction projects, while contacts in
Louisville reported very slow speculative construction activity.
A contact in southern  Indiana  reported that while major
commercial construction remains very slow, energy as well as
industrial construction is expanding. Contacts in St. Louis
reported that industrial and commercial construction projects
remain scarce, while contacts in western  Illinois  noted major
education-related construction projects.  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District
banks indicated a modest increase in overall lending activity
during the three-month period ending in July. Credit standards
for commercial and industrial loans remained unchanged, while
demand for these loans ranged from about the same to moderately
stronger. Credit standards for commercial real estate loans were
also unchanged, while demand for these loans ranged from about
the same to moderately stronger. Meanwhile, credit standards for
consumer loans were unchanged, while demand for these loans
ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger. Credit standards
for residential  mortgage loans  ranged from unchanged to
moderately stronger, while demand for these loans was mixed,
ranging from moderately weaker to moderately stronger.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  The fraction of pastures in fair or better condition has
declined in most District states except  Mississippi  since the
previous report. Crop production has been mixed in the District.
Corn, cotton, and sorghum production increased from 2010 to 2011,
while rice and soybean production fell by at least 5.7 percent.
The fraction of corn, sorghum, and soybean crops rated as fair
or better has fallen, while the fraction of cotton and rice
crops similarly rated has risen since the previous report. Year-
to-date coal production at the end of July for the Eighth
District was 4 percent higher in 2011 compared with the same
period in 2010. Meanwhile, monthly production for July 2011 was
7.8 percent lower than July 2010. 