-- 
U.S. Pursuing Antitrust Agreement With India, Official Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-09-07T21:50:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-pursuing-antitrust-pact-with-india-justice-department-official-says.html
The U.S. is working on an agreement
with  India  to improve international antitrust enforcement as it
has with China and  Russia , the  Justice Department ’s top
antitrust official said.  Officials will create a memorandum of understanding
allowing the U.S. and India to share information and expertise
on anti-competitive practices, said Sharis Pozen, acting chief
of the Justice Department’s antitrust division, in a speech in
 New York .  “We’re very cognizant of the importance of these emerging
economies,” Pozen told a conference today at  Fordham Law
School .  Trade between the countries more than doubled to
$37 billion from 2003 to 2009, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade
topped $32 billion.  An agreement with Russia in 2009 and one with  China  signed
in July help the U.S. keep up with multinational companies,
Pozen said.  Such agreements also have helped the government detect
misrepresentations made to authorities, she said. At least one
company gave different arguments to the U.S. and to an
international authority and misrepresented to the U.S. what it
told another regulator, Pozen said.  “What I call whipsawing the U.S. won’t help companies,”
she said.  The U.S. will act vigorously against anti-competitive
practices in the current economic climate, focusing on
industries that affect consumers, such as health care and
financial services, Pozen said.  Blue Cross Suit  “The division will challenge anticompetitive behavior in
court, and will litigate to judgment if necessary,” Pozen said.  The government last year sued Blue Cross Blue Shield,
accusing it of driving up competitors’ costs in  Michigan  by
requiring hospitals to charge rivals at least as much as it pays
for services.  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan has said its
preferential-pricing hospital contracts help consumers. “Our
hospital discounts are a vital part of our statutory mission to
provide Michigan residents with statewide access to health care
at a reasonable cost,” Jeffrey Rumley, general counsel for the
health provider, said in an e-mailed statement.  AT&T, T-Mobile  Pozen declined to comment after her presentation on the
government’s lawsuit against  AT&T Inc. (T)  and whether the company
can modify its proposed purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. to satisfy
the Justice Department.  The U.S. sued Dallas-based AT&T and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
T-Mobile unit Aug. 31 in  Washington  federal court, saying the
proposed acquisition would lessen competition and innovation in
a market already 90 percent dominated by four carriers.  AT&T’s argument that it will bring 5,000 call-center jobs
back to the U.S. from other countries once the merger is
completed won’t change the government’s position, she said.  “We don’t consider jobs explicitly, but we know that with
innovation comes expanded economy, and with that comes jobs --
I’m a big believer in innovation,” Pozen said.  A hearing has been set for Sept. 21, Pozen said, and a
judge overseeing the case will decide whether to combine it with
a similar lawsuit filed yesterday by  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   The company and the government must be prepared to discuss
prospects for settling the suit, U.S. District Judge Ellen S. Huvelle said yesterday.  AT&T, which said it will fight the lawsuit, hasn’t filed a
response to the U.S. complaint. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom said
Sept. 5 that it would work with AT&T to meet conditions that
could be attached to the deal.  The government’s AT&T case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc.,
1:11-01560, and Sprint’s case is Sprint Nextel Corp. v. AT&T
Inc., 1:11-cv-01600, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  