-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Sept. Beige Book Summary (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-sept-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  SUMMARY  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that
economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace, though
some Districts noted mixed or weakening activity. The St. Louis,
Minneapolis, Kansas City,  Dallas , and  San Francisco  Districts
all reported either modest or slight expansion. Atlanta said
activity continued to expand at a very subdued pace, while
Cleveland reported slow growth and New York indicated growth
remained sluggish. Economic activity expanded more slowly in the
Chicago District and slowed in the Richmond District. Business
activity in the  Boston  and Philadelphia Districts was
characterized as mixed, with Philadelphia adding that activity
was somewhat weaker overall. Several Districts also indicated
that recent stock market volatility and increased economic
uncertainty had led many contacts to downgrade or become more
cautious about their near-term outlooks.  Consumer spending increased slightly in most Districts since the
last survey, but non-auto retail sales were flat or down in
several Districts. Although poor weather dampened growth in some
areas, tourist activity remained solid in most Districts. The
demand for services was generally positive throughout the nation,
but one region said conditions were deteriorating. Of the five
Districts reporting on transportation, three said conditions
were mostly positive, while the other two reported activity as
flat or slightly below expectations. Manufacturing conditions
were mixed across the country, but the pace of activity slowed
in many Districts. Residential real estate markets remained weak
overall with only a few slight improvements in some Districts.
Most Districts characterized commercial real estate and
construction activity as weak or little changed, but
improvements were noted in several areas. Loan demand remained
stable or slightly weaker, and lending standards were largely
unchanged with an improvement in loan quality. Harsh summer
weather negatively affected agricultural activity, although
recent rains in several Districts provided some relief.
Districts reporting on energy activity said it generally
expanded, with further growth expected.  * Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City  and based
on information collected on or before August 26, 2011. This
document summarizes comments received from businesses and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials.  Price pressures edged lower, although input costs continued to
increase in some industries and retail prices rose in several
Districts. Labor markets were generally stable, although some
Districts reported modest employment growth. Wage pressures were
generally minimal outside of some upward movement for skilled
positions.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Overall consumer spending increased slightly in most Districts,
but non-auto retail sales were flat or down in some Districts.
 Hurricane Irene  evacuations also produced widespread retail
disruptions in late August in the New York District, where
activity had been close to or above plan in July before slowing
somewhat in early August. The  Minneapolis  and Kansas City
Districts reported moderate increases in non-auto retail sales
during the survey period, and sales in the San Francisco
District were mixed but up slightly overall. Retail sales were
up single-digits from a year ago in the Cleveland and Dallas
Districts, although Dallas reported no growth in sales since the
previous survey period. Retailers in the Chicago District
reported strong back to school sales, while Atlanta said growth
slowed in retail sales. The Boston and Philadelphia Districts
said sales were flat to down but with sizable variation across
stores, while sales mostly weakened in the Richmond and St.
Louis Districts. Sales of apparel and luxury items were
characterized as strong in several Districts. The Boston,
 Chicago , Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts all noted
sluggish sales of big ticket household items such as furniture
and appliances, and contacts in several Districts thought that
heightened consumer anxiety was weighing on sales. Contacts in
some Districts continued to indicate profit margins were being
squeezed by rising input costs, although grocers in the
Cleveland District were passing cost increases through to
customers.  Most Districts reporting on auto sales noted increases in
activity, despite lingering supply disruptions for some Japanese
nameplates. The Kansas City and Cleveland Districts reported
especially strong sales of fuel-efficient cars, while  luxury
vehicles  sold well in the Minneapolis District. High demand for
used cars was reported in several Districts. The  New York  and
Philadelphia Districts reported somewhat softer auto sales in
July, attributed in part to continued supply disruptions,
although sales firmed somewhat in August. Tight vehicle supplies
were noted in some Districts, and the San Francisco District
noted ongoing shortages of Japanese nameplates. Auto contacts in
the Dallas District believed the supply issues from Japanese
manufacturers should be resolved by the end of September. Auto
dealers in several Districts were optimistic about future sales,
although contacts in the Philadelphia District said uncertainty
clouded the outlook. The Cleveland District noted some easing in
auto credit restrictions, and New York said both retail and
wholesale auto credit conditions were good.  Tourism activity remained solid in most Districts, although poor
weather affected growth in some areas. Travel activity was
reported as robust in the Atlanta District, especially for
airport traffic in South  Florida . Tourism in the New York City
area was also very strong prior to Hurricane Irene, and city
theaters planned to re-open the Monday morning after the
hurricane. Both business and leisure travel posted further
improvement in the San Francisco District, and tourism activity
was solid overall in the Minneapolis District despite heavy
rains in  Montana . By contrast, tourism activity slowed in July
in the Boston District, leading hotels to increase promotional
offerings, and the Long Island and Jersey Shore areas of the New
York District as well as coastal areas of the Richmond District
were heavily affected by hurricane evacuations in late August.
Hotels in several Districts were raising room rates, although
the Kansas City District noted some easing.  Nonfinancial Services  Nonfinancial services activity edged higher in most Districts,
although Minneapolis and Dallas characterized growth as flat or
steady, and New York said conditions deteriorated. Richmond,  St.
Louis , and San Francisco reported generally solid demand for
health-care services, although Richmond noted lower occupancies
at senior care facilities due to difficulties among potential
residents in selling their homes. Software and information
technology firms in the Boston District reported mixed activity
since July but expected to return to previous strong growth
patterns by late 2011. The San Francisco District reported
expanded sales for technology service providers due to
heightened demand for software, e-books, and mobile applications.
In contrast, an information technology contact in the
Minneapolis District noted a decline in sales as a result of
reduced demand from the government and financial services
sectors.  In transportation services, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas
reported mostly positive conditions, while activity was flat in
the San Francisco District and below expectations in the Kansas
City District. Railroad shipments rose slightly in the Dallas
District, with particularly strong volume growth in metallic
ores, petroleum products, and non-commercial building products.
Cleveland noted an acceleration in  capital spending , mainly to
replace aging equipment and support demand growth from energy
customers. Trucking firms in the Cleveland, Atlanta, and Kansas
City Districts reported a shortage of qualified drivers, and a
few firms noted concerns about higher fuel costs. Many services
contacts expressed substantial uncertainty about future business
activity, with a few Districts reporting weakened outlooks for
transportation.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing conditions were mixed across the country, but the
pace of activity slowed in many Districts. The New York,
Philadelphia, and Richmond Districts reported declining activity
overall, and contacts in the Boston and Dallas Districts noted
slowing demand from European customers. Cleveland said factory
production was stable, and manufacturing activity in the Atlanta
and Chicago Districts grew at a slower pace. Minneapolis, Kansas
City, and San Francisco reported slight expansions, and St.
Louis said activity continued to increase and that several
manufacturers planned to open plants and expand operations in
the near future. Most manufacturing contacts were less
optimistic than in the previous survey; however, future capital
spending plans were solid in a few Districts.  Looking across factory sectors, auto production decreased in the
Cleveland District due to normal seasonal retooling for model
changeovers, and the Chicago District said auto production
leveled off in August after a strong July. Textile manufacturers
in the Richmond District said markets have grown weaker due to
declining consumer confidence. Construction-related
manufacturing was characterized as weak in the Dallas and
Philadelphia Districts, and Boston noted a cyclical decline in
semiconductor demand. Philadelphia reported a decline in food
manufacturing, and the Kansas City District noted weakness at
nondurable goods plants. In contrast, commercial aircraft
manufacturers in the San Francisco District reported solid
production rates due to new orders for narrow-body aircraft and
a growing order backlog. A metal fabricator in the Minneapolis
District announced plans to expand a facility in northwestern
Montana. Capacity utilization in the steel industry remained at
record high levels in the Chicago District, and a tire
manufacturer in the Atlanta District noted particular pressure
in meeting a recent surge in new orders due to supply chain
normalization after the Japan disaster.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity remained weak overall, although
a few Districts noted some slight improvements. Contacts in the
Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts reported an
increase in home sales over the previous year’s weak levels;
however, the uptick in the Atlanta District was concentrated
mainly in Florida. The remaining Districts all reported stable
or slower sales from the previous survey period, with several
citing greater economic uncertainty as the primary cause. Both
the New York and Philadelphia Districts reported that a growing
backlog of foreclosures in  New Jersey  continued to weigh down
the housing market. Home construction was down or stagnant in
most Districts, with the exception of Minneapolis and Kansas
City. However, several Districts indicated an improvement in
home remodeling activity, and the New York, Philadelphia, and
Cleveland Districts reported increased demand for multi-family
housing projects.  Home prices  were flat to slightly down in
several Districts, although New York said prices in many areas
edged higher but remained below year-ago levels. Contacts in the
Boston District reported competitive pricing by sellers with
even lower prices negotiated by buyers, but in the Cleveland
District many builders have shifted away from discounting.
Inventories were elevated or rising in the Boston, Atlanta, and
Kansas City Districts, particularly for existing homes, and
demand for apartment rental space increased in the San Francisco
and Dallas Districts.  Commercial real estate conditions remained weak or little
changed in most Districts, although some improvements were noted
by New York, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Commercial real estate
activity was sluggish in the Boston, Cleveland, Richmond,
Atlanta, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. However, San
Francisco noted some areas have benefited from technology sector
growth, and Boston noted investor demand for prime office
buildings remained strong. New York said office vacancy rates
declined noticeably in the Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and
modestly in  Manhattan  and Long Island. Lower commercial rents
helped push down vacancy rates in the Kansas City District, and
the Dallas District noted strong demand for leased space in
Houston due to solid energy activity. Commercial construction
was characterized as weak or limited by Cleveland, Atlanta,
Chicago, and Kansas City, although Atlanta noted some strength
in the healthcare sector. St. Louis described conditions as
mixed, with some improvement in education and energy-related
construction, while Minneapolis District contacts reported an
increase in small retrofitting projects and rebuilding in flood-
damaged areas. The Chicago District noted continued strength in
industrial construction, particularly in the automotive sector.
Credit for commercial development remained an obstacle for small
retailers in the Richmond District, although Boston said
aggressive competition among lenders led to reduced borrowing
rates.  Banking and Finance  Most districts cited overall loan demand as stable to slightly
weaker, with the exception of St. Louis, which reported a modest
increase. Demand for business loans remained unchanged or
weakened in the New York, Chicago, Kansas City, and San
Francisco Districts, but was moderately stronger in the
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and St. Louis Districts. Demand for
consumer loans increased somewhat in the St. Louis District, but
was unchanged to slightly weaker in the New York, Kansas City,
and San Francisco Districts. While Kansas City reported a
decline in commercial real estate loans, St. Louis cited a
modest increase. New York and Cleveland noted increased demand
for residential mortgages.  Most Districts said that loan quality was generally improving
and that credit standards were largely unchanged. Cleveland
reported a decline in delinquencies across all loan categories,
and Richmond and Kansas City also indicated a continued
strengthening in loan quality. However, New York indicated that
delinquency rates increased on most categories of loans and that
banks tightened standards for commercial mortgages and
commercial and industrial loans. Banking contacts in several
Districts also referenced concerns about the economy. The
Chicago District cited recent volatility in financial markets
and reduced expectations for economic growth, while Kansas City
District contacts listed a weak economic recovery and
uncertainty about financial regulations.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Harsh summer weather strained agricultural activity in many
Districts since the last survey period. Hot, dry weather
stressed crops and livestock in the Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts, with poor pasture conditions
hastening herd liquidations in the Kansas City and Dallas
Districts. Recent rains provided some relief to agricultural
producers in the Richmond and Atlanta Districts, but Hurricane
Irene caused extensive damage to field crops not yet harvested
in  North Carolina . Shrinking production estimates pushed up crop
prices and the Chicago District noted that robust ethanol
production was also driving corn prices higher. Crop and
livestock sales rose in the San Francisco District, and the
Dallas District reported strong beef exports. Farmland values
rose further in the Chicago and Kansas City Districts, but
rising input costs trimmed farm capital spending in the Kansas
City District.  Energy activity generally expanded since the last survey period,
with additional gains expected in coming months. The Minneapolis,
Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported an increase in land-
based oil drilling activity, and the Atlanta and Dallas
Districts reported a modest rise in off-shore drilling
operations in the  Gulf of Mexico . Natural gas exploration rose
in the Cleveland District, and remained steady in the Kansas
City and San Francisco Districts. Additional capital investments
in oil and gas production were expected in the Cleveland,
Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts. Energy contacts in the
Cleveland and Kansas City Districts noted some new hiring,
although permit delays and environmental compliance could
constrain expansion. Coal production rose in the Kansas City
District, held steady in the Cleveland District, and fell in the
St. Louis District. Higher metals prices spurred mining activity
in the Minneapolis and San Francisco Districts, especially for
 iron ore .  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Labor markets were generally steady, although some Districts
reported modest employment growth. Several Districts reported a
shortage of skilled workers such as engineers, mechanics, and
software developers. Jobs in the health care industry continued
to increase, and the Cleveland, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and
Dallas Districts indicated growth in energy-related employment.
Many Districts reported an increase in auto sales and service
technician positions, and several companies in the Minneapolis
District announced new manufacturing jobs. The Atlanta District
noted that many contacts were focused on productivity and
efficiency increases with existing staff, and Richmond said one
firm would rather pay overtime than hire new workers. A large
staffing firm in Chicago reported a decline in billable hours
for staffing and professional services as well as fewer
permanent placements, while Boston said demand for permanent and
temporary-to-permanent hiring continued to grow. A major New
York City employment agency reported unusually slow hiring
activity in August but remained cautiously optimistic about
future recruitment. Most Districts reported that wage pressures
were minimal, but contacts noted some wage gains for several
skilled positions as a result of heightened demand.  The majority of Districts reported fewer price pressures, but
input costs continued to rise in select industries. The New York,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and San Francisco Districts noted some
stabilization or decline in raw materials prices but Chicago
said elevated commodity prices continued to put pressure on
costs, particularly copper and steel. Manufacturers in the
Boston District were able to pass through input price increases
with little resistance, although a semiconductor firm was one
exception. The Kansas City District reported construction
materials prices as steady, excluding prices of petroleum-based
products such as roofing shingles and asphalt, which continued
to rise. Retail prices were steady or rising slightly in New
York, Richmond, and Atlanta, although some Atlanta District
retailers mentioned that weak sales could prompt them to lower
prices. Retailers in the Dallas District noted a slight decline
in overall prices, although increases were observed in certain
high-end goods and cotton-based products. Prices for cotton-
based products, such as clothing, also increased in the San
Francisco and Cleveland Districts. Food prices climbed higher in
the Cleveland and Chicago Districts, and restaurants in the
Kansas City District expected further increases in menu prices
as a result of rising food costs. 