-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in late July and
early August.  Consumer spending  edged up with solid back-to-
school shopping and stronger than expected auto sales. Led by
durable goods production, District manufacturing activity grew
slightly, with expectations for stronger activity over the
coming months. Despite solid multi-family building activity,
residential and commercial construction remained weak. District
drilling activity expanded further in July and August with
expectations of a seasonal rise in energy prices heading into
the winter. Rising input costs and extreme weather trimmed farm
profits, and farm capital spending slowed. District bankers
reported further improvements in loan quality amid weaker loan
demand, while a flight-to-quality boosted  bank deposits .
Inflationary pressures softened in the District as fewer
retailers and manufacturers expected to raise prices in coming
months. Wage pressures were confined to high-skilled positions,
despite District unemployment rates well below national levels.  Consumer Spending. Consumer spending rose modestly in late July
and early August and was expected to remain solid in the months
ahead. District retailers reported higher than expected sales
and were somewhat optimistic about future business activity.
Apparel and accessory items sold well during the back-to-school
shopping season, but demand remained sluggish for large-ticket
household items and appliances. Auto dealers reported strong
sales, especially for new and used economy cars. Auto sales were
expected to increase with the introduction of the new model year,
and some dealerships were hiring salespeople and service
technicians. Restaurants remained busy as total sales increased
despite smaller average check amounts. After improving during
the last survey period, travel and tourism activity generally
held steady through the summer vacation season. District hotel
owners reported increased occupancy at slightly lower average
room rates.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and
high-tech service activity expanded slightly during the survey
period, while transportation activity edged down. Manufacturing
activity expanded at durable goods factories, particularly those
producing machinery and electronic products, offsetting weakness
at non-durable goods plants. The volume of new orders dipped in
July, rebounded in August, and was expected to remain solid
during the next six months. Shipment volumes held relatively
steady, and order backlogs improved with a slight drop in
finished goods inventories. With increased activity, durable
goods manufacturers hired additional workers, while non-durable
goods factories reduced worker hours. After softening earlier in
the summer,  capital spending  was expected to strengthen in
coming months. The high-tech industry reported a modest increase
in sales, but contacts were concerned that economic uncertainty
could dampen demand. Following steady growth during the last few
months, activity in the transportation sector dipped below
expectations, and firms remained concerned about high fuel costs
and a shortage of qualified drivers.  Real Estate and Construction. Residential and commercial real
estate activity remained weak in late July and early August.
Increased buyer traffic and declining home prices did not spur
significantly more residential sales, and existing home
inventories rose further. Several real estate contacts thought
that economic uncertainty was limiting potential home buyer
purchases despite low  mortgage rates  and reduced home prices.
Residential mortgage lenders reported fewer loans for home
purchases but an increase in loan refinancing activity. With
more people staying in their current homes, construction supply
firms noted solid sales for remodeling projects. After an early
summer lull, some residential builders reported an uptick in
building starts. With the exception of multi-family building
projects, new commercial construction was very limited.
Commercial real estate prices declined with weaker sales. Yet,
lower commercial rents helped trim vacancy rates at commercial
properties. District contacts expected commercial prices, rents
and vacancy rates to hold steady in coming months. Developers
reported little change in access to credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, bankers reported further
improvements in loan quality and increased deposits amid
somewhat weaker loan demand. Compared to a year ago, loan
quality improved with lower delinquency rates, and bankers
expected further improvements during the next six months.
Overall loan demand decreased slightly as demand for commercial
real estate loans declined, while demand for commercial and
industrial loans, residential real estate loans, and consumer
installment loans held steady. Credit standards remained largely
unchanged in all major loan categories. Deposits increased for
the fifth straight survey with a few bankers noting that a
flight-to-quality supported increased deposits. Bankers cited a
weak and uncertain economic recovery and financial regulation as
factors shaping expectations for the rest of the year.  Agriculture. Extreme weather and rising input costs dampened
farm income expectations since the last survey period. Drought
continued to stress crops in  Kansas  and accelerated feedlot
placements in  Oklahoma  due to poor pasture conditions. In
contrast, most of the corn and soybean crops in  Nebraska  were in
good or better condition with isolated reports of storm damage
from high winds and hail. Farm capital spending waned as
producers paid higher prices for production inputs such as fuel,
fertilizer, and feed. Rising input costs strained profit margins,
despite a modest rise in commodity prices. Loan repayment rates
eased with weaker farm income. Farmland values rose further, but
the pace of appreciation slowed.  Energy. Energy activity expanded further in late July and early
August, and additional gains were expected in the coming months.
The number of active drilling rigs in the District rose solidly
as additional oil rigs in Oklahoma and  New Mexico  more than
offset a slight decline in  Wyoming . Wyoming producers noted that
fewer drilling permits were being issued in the Powder River
Basin, and the approval process for additional permits was
taking longer. Several contacts reported that future drilling
activity could be constrained due to a lack of qualified labor,
equipment and supplies, and to a lesser degree, availability of
financing. Some firms were offering higher wages to retain and
recruit engineers and skilled field operators. Crude  oil prices 
were expected to move higher due to strong global demand, but
most producers felt natural  gas prices  would hold steady until
the winter heating season began. District coal production
increased in late July and early August, but remained below
year-ago levels. Ethanol prices and profits retreated from
recent highs as the industry increased production.  Wages and Prices. Inflationary pressures softened during the
last survey period as wage pressures remained low and fewer
businesses expected to raise prices over the coming months. Most
industries did not plan to raise wages, except for a few skilled
positions, such as engineers, software developers, mechanics,
and truck drivers. After rising modestly during the past survey
period, fewer retailers expected to raise selling prices over
the next three months. Restaurateurs, however, expected further
increases in menu prices due to rising food costs. Fewer
manufacturers reported price increases for raw materials, and
most did not plan to pass on higher costs to finished goods
prices. Builders and construction supply companies noted prices
for construction materials generally held steady, with the
exception of higher prices for petroleum-based products such as
roofing shingles and asphalt. Transportation companies continued
to pay high fuel prices, and some were considering raising rates. 