-- 
U.S. Competitiveness Drops for Third Year; Swiss Remain on Top

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-07T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-competitiveness-drops-for-third-year-swiss-remain-on-top.html
The U.S. extended its slide in
competitiveness for a third year by slipping to fifth in the
 World Economic Forum ’s rankings, which Switzerland topped.  The U.S. fell one place, two years after losing the No. 1
position for the first time since the Geneva-based organization
began its current index in 2004. Concern about public debt and
deteriorating confidence in policy makers hurt the efficiency of
the world’s largest economy even as faith in its financial
industry rebounded, the forum said in its study of 142 nations.  In the U.S., “urgent efforts need to be made in terms of
macroeconomic stabilization and mapping out an exit strategy
from debt,” said Jennifer Blanke, the forum’s lead economist
who contributed to the annual study.  The loss of America’s competitiveness poses another
challenge to economic recovery as President Barack Obama
prepares to address a joint session of Congress on his plans to
increase U.S. jobs. Data last week showed the productivity of
U.S. workers fell more than previously estimated in the second
quarter and the labor market stagnated in August.  Switzerland, home to companies including drugmaker  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  and food company  Nestle SA (NESN) , was credited for its innovation
and technological skills. Singapore and Sweden trailed, with
Finland leapfrogging the U.S. into fourth place. Germany, the
Netherlands and Denmark followed with  Japan  sliding three places
to ninth. The U.K., ranked 12th last year, swapped places with
 Canada  to take 10th.  Gaining Ground  The report also suggested emerging markets are catching up
with their richer counterparts.  China  climbed one level to 26th
and Brazil rose to 53rd from 58th while  India  fell five slots to
56th and Russia dropped to 66th from 63rd.  “You’re seeing a convergence by the emerging economies in
terms of competitiveness,” Blanke said.  The U.S. ranked 89th for macroeconomic stability amid a
record budget deficit, while running 50th for trust in its
politicians, the forum said. The survey suggested its government
wastes resources and regulation has become more burdensome. A
gauge of financial-market development indicated improvement,
with the U.S. rising to 22nd from 31st last year. It was ninth
in 2008.  Switzerland , which is struggling to cope with a surging
currency, was also hailed for its efficient labor market and
transparent government. Its infrastructure and financial markets
are also sound, the WEF said.  Portugal , Italy Rise  Among the other Group of Seven economies, France slipped
three places to 18th in terms of competitiveness and Italy rose
to 43rd from 48th. Of the European nations requiring bailouts,
Ireland held 29th position, Portugal advanced one slot to 45th
and Greece dropped to 90th from 83rd.  In Latin America, Chile was the highest-ranked country at
31st and  South Africa , 50th, was the best performer in its
region. In the Middle East, Qatar was the strongest nation, at
14th. Chad was again ranked bottom of all the countries studied.  The report -- published each year by the organizers of the
annual conference of business leaders, politicians and
entertainers in Davos, Switzerland -- is based on measures of
competitiveness and an opinion poll of more than 14,000 business
leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  