-- 
U.S. July Job Openings and Labor Turnover Report (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-09-07T14:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-july-job-openings-and-labor-turnover-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the July
job openings and labor turnover rates.  There were 3.2 million job openings on the last business
day of July, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
The hires rate (3.0 percent) and separations rate (3.0 percent)
were essentially unchanged over the month. This release includes
estimates of the number and rate of job openings, hires, and
separations for the nonfarm sector by industry and by geographic
region.  Job Openings  The number of job openings in July was 3.2 million, little
changed from June. Although the number of job openings remained
below the 4.4 million openings when the recession began in
December 2007, the level in July was 1.1 million openings higher
than in July 2009 (the most recent trough). The number of job
openings increased over the month for manufacturing and for arts,
entertainment, and recreation.  The number of  job openings  in July (not seasonally
adjusted) increased over the year for total nonfarm and total
private. Eight industries experienced an increase over the year
in the number of job openings; the number of job openings
decreased for federal government. The number of job openings
rose in the Midwest, South, and West.  Hires  In July, the hires rate was little changed at 3.0 percent
for total nonfarm. The hires rate was also essentially unchanged
for all industries and regions. The number of hires in July was
4.0 million, up from 3.6 million in October 2009 (the most
recent trough) but below the 5.0 million hires recorded when the
recession began in December 2007.  Over the past 12 months, the hires rate (not seasonally
adjusted) fell for federal government. The hires rate was
essentially unchanged for all other industries and regions.  Separations  The total separations figure includes voluntary quits,
involuntary layoffs and discharges, and other separations,
including retirements. Total separations is also referred to as
turnover.  The seasonally adjusted total separations rate was
unchanged in July for total nonfarm (3.0 percent) and government
(1.4 percent) and essentially unchanged for total private (3.3
percent). Over the year, the total separations rate (not
seasonally adjusted) was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm
and total private but decreased for government.  The quits rate can serve as a measure of workers’
willingness or ability to change jobs. In July, the quits rate
was essentially unchanged for total nonfarm (1.5 percent), total
private (1.7 percent), and government (0.6 percent). The number
of quits rose from 1.5 million in January 2010 (the most recent
trough) to 2.0 million in July although it remained below the
2.8 million recorded when the recession began in December 2007.  The number of quits (not seasonally adjusted) in July 2011
increased from 12 months earlier for total nonfarm, total
private, and government. Arts, entertainment, and recreation and
state and local government experienced an increase in the number
of quits over the year, while federal government experienced a
decline. In the regions, the number of quits rose in the Midwest
and West.  The layoffs and discharges component of total separations
is seasonally adjusted only at the total nonfarm, total private,
and government levels. The layoffs and discharges rate was
little changed in July for total nonfarm, total private, and
government. The number of layoffs and discharges for total
nonfarm was 1.7 million in July, up slightly from the recent low
point of 1.5 million in January 2011, but still below the peak
of 2.5 million in February 2009.  The layoffs and discharges level (not seasonally adjusted)
declined over the 12 months ending in July for total nonfarm and
government. The level decreased over the year for health care
and social assistance. The level decreased over the year for
federal government, returning to a more typical level after a
large number of layoffs in July 2010 of temporary Census workers.
The number of layoffs and discharges was little changed in all
four regions over the year.  The other separations series is not seasonally adjusted. In
July, there were 363,000 other separations for total nonfarm,
266,000 for total private, and 97,000 for government. Compared
to July 2010, the number of other separations was little changed
for total nonfarm, total private, and government.  Relative Contributions to Separations  The total separations level is influenced by the relative
contribution of its three components -- quits, layoffs and
discharges, and other separations. The percentage of total
separations attributable to the individual components has varied
over time at the total nonfarm level, but for the majority of
the months since the series began in December 2000, the
proportion of quits has exceeded the proportion of layoffs and
discharges. Other separations is historically a very small
portion of total separations; it has rarely been above 10
percent of total separations.  The proportions of quits and layoffs and discharges were
last equal in November 2010. Since then, the proportion of quits
has trended upward, again exceeding the proportion of layoffs
and discharges. In July, the proportion of quits for total
nonfarm was 50 percent and the proportion of layoffs and
discharges was 43 percent. For total private quits, the
proportion was 50 percent while the total private layoffs and
discharges proportion was 44 percent. For government, the
proportions were 43 percent quits and 37 percent layoffs and
discharges.  Net Change in Employment  Over the 12 months ending in July 2011, hires totaled 47.8
million and separations totaled 46.6 million, yielding a net
employment gain of 1.1 million based on not seasonally adjusted
data. These figures include workers who may have been hired and
separated more than once during the year. Nearly half of the
hires and nearly half of the separations during these 12 months
occurred in three industries: retail trade; professional and
business services; and accommodation and food services. The
large share of total hires and separations accounted for by
these three industries reflects the size of the industries as
well as their relatively high hires and separations rates.  The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey results for
August 2011 are scheduled to be released on Wednesday, October
12, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Technical Note  The data for the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey
(JOLTS) are collected and compiled monthly from a sample of
business establishments by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).  Collection  In a monthly survey of business establishments, data are
collected for total employment, job openings, hires, quits,
layoffs and discharges, and other separations.  Data collection
methods include computer-assisted telephone interviewing,
touchtone data entry, web, fax, e-mail, and mail.  Coverage  The JOLTS program covers all private nonfarm establishments
such as factories, offices, and stores, as well as federal,
state, and local government entities in the 50 states and the
 District of Columbia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  