-- 
U.S. 10-Year ‘Special’ Repurchase Status May Fade After Treasury Debt Sale

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-07T16:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-10-year-special-repurchase-status-may-fade-after-treasury-debt-sale.html
Treasury 10-year notes will become
less coveted in the short-term market for borrowing and lending
the securities by next week as the government sells more of the
debt, according to Bank of America Corp. and Barclays Plc.  Traders have been willing to pay to borrow the securities
in exchange for loaning cash for the most actively traded 10-
year note, which is the 2.125 percent security that matures in
August 2021. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on
those loans, represented by a positive repurchase rate.  The overnight repo rate for the current 10-year note opened
at negative 2.4 percent and traded at negative 2.85 percent at
10 a.m.  New York  time, according to data from ICAP Plc, the
world’s largest inter-dealer broker. The overnight general
collateral Treasury repurchase rate opened today at 0.13 percent
and traded at 0.12 percent at 10 a.m.  “This is going to be a short-lived issue, with it being
cleared up by next week when we get fresh 10-year note supply,”
said Brian Smedley, a strategist in New York at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, in an interview. “It is not uncommon as you get
late in the auction cycle to see some decline from the
beneficial owners of the securities in their willingness to loan
them out in repo. The investor base is sort of holding onto that
issue and hasn’t been particularly active in lending them out.”  Repo Markets  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the  Federal Reserve ’s target rate, which now is
in a range of zero to 0.25  percent, are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The Treasury will auction 10-year notes on Sept. 13 and
provide more details tomorrow. It will sell 30-year bonds on
Sept. 14.  The Fed owns about $735 million of the 2.125 percent coupon
Treasury note that matures in August 2021 in its System Open
Market Account, or  SOMA , as of Aug. 31, according to data on the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website. That is equivalent
to only 2.97 percent of the amount outstanding.  The Fed offers specific  Treasury securities  held in SOMA
for loan to dealers against Treasury general collateral on an
overnight basis. Dealers bid in a multiple-price auction held
every day at noon New York time.  Low Yields  The yield on 10-year notes advanced to 2.03 percent today
from an all-time low of 1.9066 percent yesterday, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  As the 10-year note has become more in demand in the repo
market, the amount of incomplete deliveries, or fails, rose to
about $55 billion a day during the first two days of September
from about $7.5 billion a day in August, according to Barclays.  Speculation has risen since the Labor Department reported
last week that  job creation  stalled in August that the Fed may
as early as at this month’s  Federal Open Market Committee 
increase its purchases of longer-term Treasuries to narrow the
difference between short- and long-term borrowing rates in hopes
to boost economic growth, a policy known as “Operation Twist.”  “When the issue is reopened next week, much of the
richness in the on-the-run 10-year Treasury note in the repo
market will fade,” said  Joseph Abate , money-market strategist
in New York at Barclays. “As talk about Operation Twist picks
up ahead of the FOMC meeting, we expect cash long positions in
the 10-year sector to build in anticipation of sales to the Fed.
As dealers ramp up these positions, financing demand should
rise, potentially pushing general collateral repo rates
higher.”  Maturity Extension  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has cited extending the
average maturity as one of monetary stimulus tools available to
policy makers. Economists with the Fed’s regional bank in  San
Francisco  wrote in April that “Operation Twist,” a 1961
initiative by the central bank and President  John F. Kennedy ’s
administration, spawned a 0.15 percentage point reduction in
long-term Treasury yields.  Pacific Investment Management Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Bank of America are among those that expect the central bank
to announce plans to raise the average maturity of its bond
portfolio by selling shorter-term debt and reinvesting proceeds
from maturing securities into longer-term bonds.  The average rate for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.114 percent yesterday,
according to index data provided by the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. That was up from 0.095 percent on Sept. 2. The
index level was below zero, at negative 0.002 percent as
recently as July 14.  DTCC Index  The DTCC index is a weighted average of all general
collateral repo transactions during a day. The DTCC processes
about $3.6 trillion in repos transactions daily.  The current 10-year note may become more “special” in the
repo market if dealers step-up bets that the yield gap between
10- and 30-year securities narrows upon the Fed announcing an
“Operation Twist” program, according to Jerome Schneider, head
of the short-term strategies and money markets desk at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co. Such a
trading strategy involves selling 10-year notes and buying 30-
year bonds, creating demand to borrow the 10-year notes in the
repo market to cover short positions.  “This is probably the most stressful point in the repo
markets for the 10-year unless curve-flattening trades pick-
up,” Schneider said in an interview. “The week before new
supply comes is typically the heaviest week in terms of how
special things become as the repo market searches for supply to
cover shorts in the cash markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  