-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Rise From Record Low on Obama Plan, Equity Rally

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-07T21:32:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-treasury-10-year-yields-advance-from-a-record-low-as-stocks-advance.html
Treasury 10-year note yields rose
from an all-time low on speculation President  Barack Obama ’s
plan to spark hiring by injecting more than $300 billion into
the economy may bolster growth.  The benchmark debt fell for the first time in four days as
a rally in stocks reduced demand for the safety of  U.S.
government debt . The extra yield investors get to hold 30-year
bonds instead of two-year notes fell yesterday to the smallest
in more than a year on bets Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may signal purchases of longer-duration debt while
shedding shorter maturities.  “Today is a risk-on day, with stocks rallying, but there
is still uncertainty out there with respect to domestic policy,
growth and especially the euro zone,” said Christian Cooper,
head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in  New York  at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed.  Yields on 10-year notes increased six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.04 percent at 5:25 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 fell 17/32, or $5.31 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32. The yields slid yesterday to
1.9066 percent, the lowest on record.  U.S. debt also dropped today as three constitutional
challenges to  Germany ’s participation in euro rescue funds were
rejected by the nation’s top court and Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  obtained a majority in a Senate confidence
vote on his 54 billion euro ($76 billion) austerity plan.  Gain in Stocks  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.9 percent. The Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index added 3.1 percent, while the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index advanced 2.2 percent.  Yields on two-year notes were little changed at 0.20
percent. A drop of almost two points for the 30-year bond pushed
yields up nine basis points to 3.36 percent.  The yield spread between two- and 30-year Treasuries was
316 basis points after falling yesterday to 308 basis points,
the narrowest on a closing basis since August of last year.  President Obama is preparing to explain his plans in an
address to Congress tomorrow as unemployment remains at 9.1
percent more than two years after the recession’s official end.
He may call on lawmakers to offset the cost of short-term jobs
measures by raising  tax revenue  later.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  called in a London
speech for more stimulus, including a commitment to keep
 interest rates  low until unemployment falls to around 7.5
percent while holding medium-term inflation below 3 percent.  Beige Book   The Fed said in its Beige Book survey released today in
 Washington  that the economy grew at a slower pace in some
regions of the country as shoppers limited their spending and
factories curbed production.  “The Beige Book underscores that with growth and inflation
pressure low, the Fed can be very creative in its next policy
response,” Cooper of Jefferies said.  The Fed may buy $520 billion of longer-maturity Treasuries
while selling shorter-term  U.S. debt , pushing the 10-year yield
to as low as 1.60 percent, according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  The central bank’s $1.64 trillion of holdings of Treasuries
include $520 billion of debt maturing in 2014 or sooner, which
could be sold and reinvested in securities due from 2018 to 2039
to raise the duration of the central bank’s government debt
portfolio to 7.4 years, CRT strategists including  David Ader  in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  Fed Debt Buying  The Fed has purchased $2.3 trillion of debt since 2008 in
two previous rounds of what is known as quantitative easing, or
QE, to drive rates lower and help spur growth.  Bernanke will speak on the U.S. economic outlook tomorrow
in  Minneapolis . Fed officials gather for a two-day meeting on
Sept. 20 that was expanded from the one day originally scheduled
to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and the central
bank’s possible policy response.  “Fundamentally, there isn’t a lot of value in Treasuries,
but the reality is that it doesn’t really matter right now,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director of government and agency
debt trading in New York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-
income broker and dealer for institutional investors. “There is
so much uncertainty in regards to growth, Europe, Fed action and
what may come from policy makers that this is a buy-the-dip
environment.”  Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent in 2011 in what would
be their best year since the depths of the financial crisis in
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Fed risks causing a decline in longer-term lending by
holding down benchmark rates,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in
an opinion article on the Financial Times website. The Fed
pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at virtually zero until at least mid-2013.  If the central bank seeks to drive down longer-maturity
yields, as some are anticipating, then it may “destroy leverage
and credit creation in the process,” Gross wrote in an  article 
titled “‘Helicopter Ben’ Risks Destroying Credit Creation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  