-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Business contacts in the First District continue to report mixed
results. Some manufacturers cite slowing demand while others
continue to enjoy strong sales, retail activity is mostly flat,
tourism is up, staffing and software and IT services firms note
continued growth, and real estate markets remain sluggish.
Respondents say input cost pressures have eased somewhat since
the last report. Firms are doing little hiring. Contacts in all
sectors note that the outlook is increasingly uncertain.  Retail and Tourism  Year to date through early August, contacted First District
retailers report generally flat sales compared to a year earlier.
Reports range from down 5 percent to up almost 4 percent.
Consumers are conservative in the purchases they are making and,
in particular, are avoiding big-ticket items. Sales of furniture
and office supplies have been sluggish, while apparel and home
improvement categories have performed a bit better. One contact
saw a pronounced downward sales trend in recent weeks that he
attributes to consumer concerns about the debt ceiling debate,
stock market gyrations, ongoing high unemployment, and
continuing unease about the U.S. economy’s medium-term prospects.
Some contacts are hiring, but most are cautious about adding to
head count and one may have layoffs after the holidays.
Retailers say that commodity price increases have moderated.
Inventory levels are being positioned for an uncertain economic
environment. All respondents voice concern that the economic
outlook is sluggish for the foreseeable future; they are scaling
back  capital spending  plans for 2012.  Travel and tourism in the region continued a strong upward trend
through the second quarter that began a year earlier; as of June
2011 year-to-date activity in the hotel and visitor sector was
up 7 percent from 2010. However, since mid-July, activity has
softened and slowed, leading to an increase in promotional
offers to shore up hotel bookings. The  tourism industry  has
scaled back its 2011 forecast and now thinks that a 5 percent
increase would represent a great year. The revised forecast
reflects both lower  consumer confidence  and potential reductions
in business travel based on an uncertain economic outlook for
the next six months.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Manufacturing contacts report relatively mixed business
conditions, especially compared to the widespread favorable
reports earlier this year. Some firms cite flatter and/or slower
revenue growth in the current quarter compared to the first half
of the year, while others say sales growth continues to be
relatively robust. Semiconductor-related manufacturers in
particular note declines in demand, although they attribute it
to standard demand cycles for their products, given the surge in
purchasing they saw in late 2010 and early 2011. A diversified
manufacturer and a company in the  aerospace industry  also report
somewhat softening demand, which they attribute to a possible
end to the post-recession sales bounce-back as well as increased
economic uncertainty making some customers less willing to
stockpile inventory. A number of firms also note a slowdown in
European demand for their products. By contrast, sales growth at
pharmaceutical companies remains steady, and demand at various
industrial supply manufacturers continues to be strong. Contacts
at these industrial products firms note that they have little
lead time between orders and sales and thus they would know very
quickly if demand were slowing. Despite continued favorable
conditions at some companies, nearly all manufacturing contacts
voice concern regarding the current state of economic
uncertainty and more than one commented that the country is
“talking itself into a recession.” Some respondents continue to
postpone hiring and/or investment to keep costs low while others
report having contingency plans in place should demand turn down
noticeably.  Employment remains steady at the vast majority of contacted
manufacturers. One exception is an industrial products
manufacturer with headcount up 9 percent year-to-date who plans
to continue to hire as long as demand for their products remains
strong. By contrast, a semiconductor firm has eliminated some of
its temporary workforce because demand for its products is off.
A small number of manufacturers report continued difficulty
finding workers for highly skilled positions.  Fewer manufacturers report input price pressures and/or supply
shortages than in recent rounds, although the costs of rare
earth metals continue to pose input price pressure for some
firms. One firm notes that anticipated supply disruptions from
the earthquake in  Japan  never materialized. Most manufacturers
reporting higher raw material costs continue to be able to pass
the price increases on to their customers with little resistance.
A semiconductor firm, however, notes that economic conditions
limit its ability to pass along cost increases. Healthcare costs
continue to be a concern for contacted manufacturers, although
nearly all report providing merit pay increases to their
employees this year.  Responding manufacturers say capital spending remains more or
less on plan, with the majority of capital spending increases
relative to last year going to construction and/or updating of
facilities. Most contacted firms report having excellent cash
positions and being willing to invest should a good opportunity
arise. Uncertainty surrounding the economic climate, however,
continues to limit their willingness to invest and hire; they
are waiting to see what happens with the economy before
noticeably changing their current operating strategy.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England 
software and information technology contacts report that the
upward trends of 2010 and early 2011 continued through the end
of the second quarter. Year-over-year revenue increases, ranging
from 4 percent to 30 percent, were driven by notable increases
in both software license sales and recurring service revenues.
Reports on activity since July are mixed, however, with some
contacts experiencing downticks and others posting larger-than-
expected increases. Headcounts continue to rise in line with
revenue growth, although many contacts report increasing
difficulty in finding qualified software engineers, programmers,
and sales personnel. As a result, some have bolstered their
recruitment efforts and one contact has added jobs overseas.
Wages are steady or up slightly, with annual merit increases
generally in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. Selling prices
have been left unchanged as a result of a competitive market
environment. The outlook among New England software and IT
services respondents is not appreciably different from that of 3
months ago, with most expecting growth in late 2011 and early
2012 to be in the 10 percent to 20 percent range.  Staffing Services  Nearly all New England staffing contacts report upticks in
business volume through the end of second quarter and into the
third; however, many respondents lament that overall activity
remains below expectations. Revenues are flat to increasing
year-over-year, with increases in the range of 5 percent to 25
percent. Labor demand continues to strengthen, albeit modestly,
with notable improvements in the manufacturing and information
technology sectors. Demand for permanent and temporary-to-
permanent hiring continues to grow; indeed, two contacts report
that permanent placements are up more than 20 percent relative
to last year. Notwithstanding stronger demand, jobs remain
difficult to fill as clients remain fastidious in their
candidate expectations. One contact notes that jobs that used to
take just a few days to fill continue to take weeks. Supply of
high-end labor remains tight in the region, but there has been
no significant change since May. Bill rates and pay rates are
steady. Looking forward, New England staffing contacts are
generally less upbeat than they were three and six months ago,
with many expecting to “move sideways” into 2012.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial leasing fundamentals are roughly unchanged since the
last report. Office leasing activity was stable in Boston but
resulted in no significant absorption or changes in rental rates.
In Hartford, the modest momentum observed in the first half
stalled as sentiment turned negative, and the risk of a
significant slowdown in leasing and sales activity in the fourth
quarter is considered high. Investor demand for prime office and
apartment buildings in Greater Boston remains strong, raising
concern among some contacts that sales prices are moving too
high relative to rents and occupancy. The lending environment
for commercial real estate in Boston is characterized by
aggressive competition among banks, resulting in downward
pressure on  mortgage rates . Looking forward, relatively weak
office-leasing demand in Boston is expected to persist in light
of recently-announced layoffs at a few large downtown employers.  Residential Real Estate  States throughout New England experienced increases in home
sales in July compared to last year; however, contacts express
little enthusiasm about these increases because they largely
reflect struggling sales activity following the expiration of
the homebuyers’ tax credit last year rather than any improvement
in activity this year. Respondents report that activity in the
housing market remains sluggish, with potential buyers remaining
apprehensive about economic conditions. The median sale price of
single-family homes and condos remained close to even with a
year ago throughout much of the region. Contacts report sellers
pricing competitively in order to attract bids and buyers
negotiating even lower prices. Meanwhile, listings continue to
climb in the region, but most contacts did not express serious
concern about the level of inventory reached.  Outlooks for the remainder of the year appear largely
pessimistic, with contacts expecting a continuation of slow
activity. Most anticipate sales for this year will not reach
last year’s total and forecast little improvement over the next
one to two years. 