-- 
U.S. RICO Law Can’t Be Applied Abroad, Madoff Judge Says in UniCredit Suit

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-07T10:38:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-racketeering-law-can-t-be-applied-abroad-madoff-judge-says.html
A U.S. judge who is reviewing the
Bernard Madoff trustee’s $59 billion anti-racketeering lawsuit
against Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Austrian Sonja Kohn said “it
is now settled law that  RICO  cannot be applied
extraterritorially.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, explaining an earlier
decision to take over consideration of the issue from a
bankruptcy judge, said he would determine “the precise
contours” of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act and how it was used by the liquidator of Madoff’s firm,
 Irving Picard .  Rakoff will take into account recent rulings by higher
courts that RICO doesn’t apply to actions that mainly involve
foreign actors and foreign acts, he said in a court filing
yesterday in  Manhattan .  “The court agrees with UniCredit that this relatively new
doctrine will require significant interpretation of RICO,”
Rakoff said.  Picard named UniCredit and its Bank  Austria  unit in a
December complaint against Bank Medici AG founder Kohn and
dozens of other Austrian and Italian parties. He alleged they
were part of an international “illegal scheme” masterminded by
Kohn to feed money to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. The trustee
demanded $19.6 billion -- his estimate at the time of all
principal lost by Madoff investors -- while using RICO to seek
triple the amount.  ‘Hollow’ Claims  UniCredit in July asked Rakoff to dismiss Picard’s
“hollow” racketeering claims, saying 49 of the 57 parties
accused of racketeering were foreign, and Picard’s suit focused
on actions abroad. Bank Austria said it was “under a cloud”
because of Picard’s “mammoth” claims, almost equal to one-
sixth of Austria’s gross domestic product.  Picard has denied his suit is extraterritorial, saying the
“illegal scheme” was hatched in  New York  and injured the New
York-based Madoff estate. A proposed new complaint against
UniCredit would add 23 defendants and “newly discovered
information regarding the wrongdoing,” he said last month.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 