-- 
U.S. Chamber Says Tax Holiday Would Expand Economy 4 Percent

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-09-08T00:20:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-chamber-says-tax-holiday-would-expand-economy-by-4-percent.html
The U.S. economy would expand by as
much as 4 percent over two to three years if lawmakers agree to
a repatriation tax holiday backed by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  A tax holiday would allow companies to return as much as $1
trillion in cash that is parked overseas to the U.S. at a lower
rate than the current 35 percent statutory rate. Businesses
could use that money to create about 2.9 million jobs, according
to a study the Chamber of Commerce released today. It was
written by  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former director of the
 Congressional Budget Office  and an economic adviser to
Republican Senator  John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign.  “Repatriation can be thought of as a private-sector
approach to stimulus,” Holtz-Eakin wrote in the study.  The study is an attempt by the business community to build
momentum behind a repatriation holiday. While maintaining that
jobs will be created by allowing businesses to bring home
overseas cash, the study encourages lawmakers to consider the
broader effects of a repatriation proposal.  A similar tax holiday in 2004 has been criticized by
congressional Democrats for allowing companies to use
repatriated cash for share buybacks or dividend payments instead
of  job creation . Holtz-Eakin said those actions still support
the  U.S. economy .  ‘Ultimate Test’  “The ultimate test is not the decisions made by individual
firms but rather the overall impact on investment, growth and
jobs,” Holtz-Eakin wrote.  He told reporters that job growth wouldn’t happen
immediately after a repatriation holiday.  “I don’t think you’d expect this to happen in a quarter or
two quarters,” he said. “You have to evaluate it over the
course of eight to 12 quarters.”  The corporate push for a repatriation holiday will stir
concerns among congressional Democrats about how the cash will
be deployed. Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who is
chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee’s permanent subcommittee on investigations, sent
surveys to DuPont Co. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in June asking how
they would use repatriated funds.  Cisco, whose chief executive,  John Chambers , has been vocal
in supporting a repatriation holiday, said in July that it plans
to eliminate 6,500 jobs worldwide.  Immediate Holiday  Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who serves
on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, in May introduced
legislation that would call for an immediate tax holiday
allowing companies to repatriate overseas profits at a 5.25
percent rate. The Chamber of Commerce study stops short of
calling for an immediate holiday and said repatriation should be
part of a broader shift to a territorial tax system, in which
the U.S. would levy taxes only on income generated domestically.  “To avoid any possible incentive to hold cash abroad in
anticipation of a future holiday, and to have a bigger impact, a
repatriation holiday should be done in the context of
transitioning to a territorial system entirely,” the study
said.  The study highlighted concern that higher taxes in the U.S.
will encourage cross-border mergers that locate the new parent
company in a country with lower taxes. It noted the 2008
purchase of St. Louis-based Anheuser-Busch by Leuven, Belgium-
based InBev NV.  “InBev’s purchase of Anheuser-Busch has no impact on
Anheuser-Busch’s historic foreign earnings repatriation policy,”
Jeff Comotto, the vice president of taxes at Anheuser-Busch,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is  Washington ’s largest
business lobbying group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  