-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District expanded more
slowly in July and August. Contacts expressed concern about the
economic outlook, noting lower business and  consumer confidence .
Both consumer and business spending were little changed over the
reporting period. Manufacturing production expanded at a slower
pace, while construction decreased. Credit conditions tightened
moderately. There was further pass-through of elevated commodity
prices to prices downstream. Expectations for the corn and
soybean harvests were trimmed due to hot and dry weather in most
of the District.  Consumer spending . Consumer spending was little changed on
balance from the previous reporting period. Retailers reported
the back-to-school shopping season got off to a strong start.
Consumers responded more than expected to the increase in early
back-to-school promotions on items such as apparel, and expanded
their purchases even on non-back-to-school items. Spending on
 luxury goods  also increased in July, but slowed noticeably in
early August. Contacts noted that rising uncertainty about the
economic outlook and stock market volatility had led to a
decline in consumer confidence, pointing to lower customer
traffic in August. Vehicle sales edged up in July before
leveling off in August. A contact in the  auto industry  reported
that many consumers were still waiting for Japanese products to
become more readily available before making a purchase decision.
Spending on other  consumer durables  like furniture and
appliances remained weak.  Business spending. Business spending continued at a slow, but
steady, pace in July and August. Some manufacturers reported
proceeding as planned with  capital expenditures  and labor force
additions to alleviate pressures on capacity. In contrast,
contacts mentioned that lower expectations for farm income had
slowed purchases of  farm equipment . Several contacts also noted
closely watching inventory and staffing levels in the event that
increases in uncertainty in the economic outlook and financial
market volatility took a toll on demand. A retail contact
indicated that holiday inventories will likely be higher this
year because retailers had been very optimistic at the time the
orders were made. Labor market conditions weakened, with hiring
still slow and unemployment edging up in the District. In
addition, a large staffing firm reported a decline in billable
hours for staffing and professional services as well as fewer
permanent placements.  Construction/real estate. Construction activity softened in July
and August. Residential real estate conditions remained weak.
There was little new single-family  home construction  during the
reporting period. Builder showroom traffic declined, as contacts
noted an inability to maintain the slight momentum they had seen
early in the summer sales season. Nonresidential construction
also fell overall. Public construction work slowed some and
commercial construction remained low. In contrast, contacts
noted continued strength in demand for industrial construction,
particularly from the automotive sector, and a slight uptick in
demand from the retail sector. Commercial real estate conditions
were little changed, with vacancy rates steady and downward
pressure on rents.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production appeared to have settled
down to a slower pace of expansion in August after experiencing
some volatility in output during July. Demand for heavy
equipment moderated from its robust pace during the first half
of the year. However, contacts noted as reasons for its expected
continued strength robust activity in the energy and mining
sectors, pending regulatory emissions requirements, low dealer
inventories, a lack of used equipment, and an aging rental fleet.
Auto production increased in July before leveling off in August,
as inventories returned to more comfortable levels. District
automakers also reported no change in production plans, despite
concerns about the recently slower gains in sales. Capacity
utilization in the  steel industry  remained at a record high
level, with order books solid and steel service center
inventories still tight. Manufacturers of industrial metals
cited a significant softening in orders for near-term delivery,
but a pick-up in recent weeks in higher volume, longer-lead time
orders. In contrast, shipments of household appliances and
construction materials continued to decline.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions tightened moderately over the
course of the reporting period. Volatility in financial markets
increased dramatically in early August. Contacts cited S&P’s
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, increased concerns about a
European sovereign debt default, and reduced expectations for
growth in the second half of the year as reasons for the
increase in volatility. Corporate funding costs moved higher as
a flight to quality caused credit spreads to increase. Business
loan demand fell, with bank contacts indicating that heightened
uncertainty had led many customers to adopt a “wait-and-see”
attitude. Private equity investment also slowed. On the supply
side, the availability of commercial and industrial credit
continued to improve both for large and small borrowers, with
stiff competition for the highest quality customers. Some
traditional real estate lenders were reportedly moving into the
commercial and industrial market, increasing competition and
further lowering the cost of capital for these borrowers. That
said, contacts expressed concern that recently announced layoffs
at several large commercial banks and declining bank stock
prices do not bode well for future credit availability.  Prices/costs. Elevated commodity prices continued to put
pressure on costs in July and August. While prices for
industrial metals like copper and steel eased some, they are
still elevated. In addition, several manufacturers reported
extended material lead times, particularly for specialty metals.
Energy prices also moved lower, but contacts indicated that
these lower prices have not yet been reflected in reduced fuel
surcharges. In contrast, food prices continued to rise.
Manufacturers and retailers both indicated a high rate of pass-
through to downstream prices. Wage pressures remained moderate,
but a few contacts noted that wages were starting to increase.  Agriculture. Corn and soybean crop conditions declined markedly
in the primary production areas of the District due to hot
temperatures and a lack of precipitation during July and August.
Reports that lower quality corn was being used to produce
biofuel despite its higher production costs were indicative of
just how low stocks have fallen. Cash prices for corn, soybeans,
and wheat rose during the reporting period. Ethanol plants were
pushing up the bidding for corn to be used in fall production.
Hot weather stressed animals, lowering the output of meat and
dairy products. Hog prices set nominal records, while milk and
cattle prices moved up as well. Sale prices for farmland
continued to move higher. 