-- 
U.S. Treasury Urges European Crisis Action as G-7 Set to Meet

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-09-07T18:53:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-treasury-urges-european-crisis-action-as-g-7-set-to-meet.html
A U.S. Treasury Department official
urged European leaders to take decisive action to prevent a
spread of the region’s sovereign debt crisis, two days before a
meeting of Group of Seven nations finance ministers in  France .  The Treasury official, in a telephone conference call with
reporters today, urged the construction of a stronger firewall
in Europe without being more specific. The person spoke on
condition of not being further identified because of a lack of
authorization to comment publicly on the G-7 meeting.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will travel to
Marseille, France, tomorrow for the G-7 meetings on Sept. 9-10
on growth, jobs and financial stability. Officials will also
discuss transition efforts in economies in the  Middle East  and
North Africa, with a Libyan representative expected to attend.  The Treasury official said the U.S. supports efforts by
Europeans to confront the turbulence caused by the banking and
sovereign-debt concerns. The person also said  China  has the
capacity to let its exchange rate adjust more rapidly.  The European debt crisis is holding back the U.S. recovery,
said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
in Washington and a professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca,
New York.  “Unless the debt crisis is resolved soon and is
accompanied by significant structural and fiscal reforms, Europe
faces poor growth prospects,” he said in an e-mail today.
“This is no comforting thought for the U.S. as Europe still
remains one of its major export markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  