-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Rebound on Low Rates

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-07T12:18:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-rebound-on-low-rates.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  Metal Prices: ($/ton)  Last  % Chg RSI
Copper          9,000   +0.8  47
Aluminum        2,380   +0.0  42
Zinc            2,214   +1.2  47
Lead            2,405   +0.8  46
Nickel         21,125   +2.2  43
Tin            24,000   +0.6  45  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Rebound as Low  Interest Rates  May Help Boost Demand  Commodities gained for the first day in four, led by metals
and crude oil on speculation low interest rates to revive global
growth will boost  raw materials  demand.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Ivory Coast Economy to Contract 5.8%, Less Than Forecast (1)  Ivory Coast’s economy will contract 5.8 percent this year,
less than an earlier forecast, as rising cocoa and gold
production eases the impact of a violent political crisis,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  Oil Supply Falls in Survey on Storm, Imports: Energy Markets  U.S. crude oil supplies fell last week as more than half of
oil production in the Gulf of Mexico was shut because of
Tropical Storm Lee and imports decreased, a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  India May Ship Raw Sugar for 1st Time in 4 Years on Supply (1)  India, the world’s largest sugar producer after Brazil, may
export raw sweetener for the first time in four years as output
exceeds demand for a second straight season, according to
Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd.  Gold Price Retreat May Prolong Bull Run, Top U.K. Investor Says  Gold’s temporary retreat from record prices may help
prolong the precious metal’s 11-year bull run as speculators
abandon the market, the manager of the U.K.’s best-performing
investment trust said.  Vale Says Sale of World’s Largest Ore Ships ‘Won’t Carry Loss’  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, said it
won’t “carry a loss” from the potential sale of its fleet of
the biggest commodity carriers.  Blackthorn Considers More Ventures With Glencore, CEO Says (1)  Blackthorn Resources Ltd., an Australian mining company, is
considering more joint projects in  Africa  with Glencore
International Plc. as it expects supply tightness in the next
few years to boost zinc prices.  Pawnbrokers Thrive as Rising Gold Price Entices Hard-Up Britons  Pawnbrokers, who arrived in England with William the
Conqueror in 1066, are thriving in a spluttering economy as
banks lend less and gold prices soar.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Advances Most in a Week Amid Threats of Mine Strikes  Copper rose the most in a week in London on concern
production may fall amid threats of strikes at mines in Peru and
 Indonesia .  MINING:  Anglo Said to Decide Against Takeover Bid for Macarthur Coal (1)  Anglo American Plc decided against a takeover offer for
Macarthur Coal Ltd., the Australian miner that’s the target of a
A$4.8 billion ($5.1 billion) bid from Peabody Energy Corp., said
two people familiar with the process.  Eramet to Spend $6 Billion in Indonesia, Minister Says (1)  Eramet SA, operator of the world’s biggest ferronickel
plant, plans to invest $6 billion in the Weda Bay nickel project
in Indonesia, the nation’s Coordinating Minister for the Economy
Hatta Rajasa said.  Rio Gem Mine Meets Zimbabwe Law While Impala Platinum Fails (1)  Rio Tinto Group’s Murowa diamond mine is among 45
operations that have met a plan to increase ownership by black
citizens of Zimbabwe while an Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. unit
has failed to, said Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere .  Afghan Hajigak  Iron Ore  Gets Bids From India, Iran, Canada (1)  Afghanistan’s richest iron-ore deposit drew bids from an
Indian government-backed group, two Iranian contenders and
Canada’s Kilo Goldmines Ltd., an Afghan official said.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops for Second Day as Equity Rebound Cuts Investor Demand  Gold dropped for a second day in London as rising equities
curbed demand for an alternative asset and spurred investors to
sell the metal after its rally to an all-time high.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Soybeans, Wheat Advance as Dry Weather May Damage Crops  Corn, soybeans and wheat rose in Chicago on speculation dry
weather in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter of all three
commodities, may damage crops.  French Pig Breeders Squeezed by Grain-Price Surge, Supermarkets  French pig breeder profits are being squeezed by rising
grain costs, supermarkets’ reluctance to lift prices and labor
costs that are higher than in  Germany , the head of the country’s
pork-industry federation said.  Sugar Rises on Speculation About Limited Supply; Coffee Advances  Sugar climbed for a second day in  London  on speculation
supplies will be limited until Northern Hemisphere production
reaches the market. Coffee advanced.  Rubber Futures Climb the Most in a Week as Demand Concern Eases  Rubber advanced by the most in a week as a rally in Asian
stocks eased concern that an economic slowdown may curb demand.  Palm Oil  Gains as Soybeans Advance on Lower U.S. Yield Forecasts  Palm oil gained for the first time in three days after
soybeans advanced on forecasts for lower yields and worsening
crop conditions in the U.S., raising concern that global cooking
oil supplies may decline.  SHIPPING:  Ore-Shipping Surge May Signal More  China  Imports, Clarkson Says  A surge in the cost of shipping iron ore may indicate China
is starting to import more of the steelmaking raw material,
according to Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Syria to Seek Non-European Buyers for Oil, Finance Minister Says  Syria will seek buyers for its oil outside of  Europe  after
the European Union banned its member states from buying the
Middle Eastern state’s crude, Finance Minister Mohammad Al-
Jleilati said.  Russian Crude Exports to Jump,  Fuel Oil  to Drop on Tax, JBC Says  Russia’s new export taxes will raise the country’s crude
exports by about 1 million barrels a day and cut fuel oil
shipments by 350,000 barrels a day in the next four years,
according to estimates from JBC Energy GmbH.  Tankers Storing Refined Oil Products Decline, ICAP Shipping Says  Fifteen tankers are storing refined oil products at sea,
three fewer than on Aug. 18, said ICAP Shipping International
Ltd., a unit of ICAP Plc.  ECONOMIES:  Yield Curve Flattens as Inflation Forecast to Ease: China Credit  China’s long-term bonds are offering investors the smallest
yield advantage over shorter-term debt on record amid
speculation inflation eased from a three-year high in August and
 money supply  expanded the least since 2005.  Obama Said to Seek More Than $300 Billion Package to Boost Jobs  President Barack Obama plans to propose sparking job growth
by injecting more than $300 billion into the economy next year,
mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and direct aid
to state and local governments.  Swiss Open New Round in Currency War Ignited by Slowdown (2)  Switzerland  opened a new round in a global currency war as
fading economic growth forces policy makers to step up efforts
to spur expansion.  King’s ‘Most Important’ Data Hits Lehman Level: Chart of the Day  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King’s “most important”
indicator of how investors view lenders’ solvency has risen back
to levels seen in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  OTHER MARKETS:  Dollar Weakens as Stock Gains Damp Safety Demand; Aussie Rises  The dollar fell against the euro, snapping a six-day rally,
as stock gains and the Swiss National Bank’s decision to cap the
franc’s rate yesterday damped demand for safer assets.  Oil Gains on Forecast Stockpile Drop as Storm Builds in Gulf  Oil advanced from the lowest level in more than a week in
 New York  as a weather system in the  Gulf of Mexico  threatened
supplies in the U.S., where production halts because of storms
have already reduced crude stockpiles.  German Challenges to Euro Rescue Are Rejected by Top Court (2)  Challenges to Germany’s participation in the euro rescue
funds were rejected by the nation’s top court today, which said
the government must seek some parliamentary approval for any
future bailout payments.  Berlusconi Austerity Plan Faces Confidence Vote in Senate (2)  Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s revised austerity plan
faces a confidence vote in the Senate today that aims to stem a
surge in bond yields after lawmakers watered down the package
last week.  SPORTS:  QPR Approaches Beckham About Move,  Daily Mail  Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wales Fan Dies After Assault Prior to  England  Soccer Game (1)  London police arrested six people after a Wales soccer fan
died following an assault outside Wembley Stadium last night.  All Blacks Make Nine Changes for Rugby World Cup Opening Match  Rugby World Cup favorite New Zealand made nine changes to
play Tonga in the tournament’s opening match in two days,
retaining only two of the seven backs who started last month’s
loss to Australia.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  