-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Economic activity in the Fifth District slowed since
our last report. Manufacturing activity pulled back markedly in
August, following a sluggish July, and retail sales weakened.
Residential construction and housing sales declined further,
while commercial real estate activity was mixed. Banking
activity was also mixed, with some commercial lenders citing
some improvement but mortgage bankers reporting continued
weakness. In contrast, activity at non-retail services firms
edged up. After earlier improvements, coastal hoteliers watched
their guests flee as  Hurricane Irene  approached. However, inland
hotel managers reported no change in their solid bookings. Labor
markets were mixed; while temp services reported some
improvement, employment remained nearly flat at manufacturing
establishments. Price pressures in the District edged higher
over the last month. Manufacturing prices paid and received
accelerated, while prices in the service sector picked up
slightly. Finally, recent precipitation improved agricultural
conditions in most parts of the District, although Hurricane
Irene damaged coastal crops.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing activity contracted in
August after stalling in July. A producer of modular homes
stated that “business is terrible,” citing this as the worst
year in his 40 years in the business. Several textile
manufacturers mentioned that markets for their products had
grown considerably weaker since our last report, which they
attributed in part to declining confidence among customers.
Similarly, a producer of packaging film mentioned that his firm
had cut production over the last three months. Moreover, a
manufacturer of bottled and canned soft drinks noted sales were
down sharply from last year, producing lower-than-normal sales
for this time of year. Low-end cabinet makers reported that
their firms continued to struggle with below-average profits. In
contrast, high-end cabinet manufacturers affirmed that sales
continued to improve, albeit at a slower rate than in the spring.
The District manufacturing survey for August revealed that
prices for both raw materials and finished goods grew at a
somewhat quicker pace than a month ago.  Retail. Retail sales mostly weakened in late July through August.
A wide range of retailers indicated that sales had declined in
recent weeks as shoppers searched for bargains, while polled
store managers at general merchandise stores mostly reported
little change in revenues. A manager of a chain of hardware
stores noted a decline in sales in recent months. Also, a
contact told us that a Baltimore jeweler had little business
over the last month other than engagement rings. A grocery
executive reported higher revenues, while also indicating that
his input prices had risen, putting pressure on margins. The
pace of retail price increases stepped up from a month ago,
according to our most recent survey.  Services. Non-retail services firms saw an uptick in revenues in
recent weeks, according to most contacts. Stronger consumer
demand for services was reported in telecommunications and
healthcare, and a food distributor in the Baltimore area noted
increased demand from locally owned restaurants and
delicatessens. A financial data services firm reported improving
demand from restaurants and retailers in Maryland and  Virginia ,
although other business services providers noted negative ripple
effects from a slower economy. In contrast, an executive at a
Virginia linen service stated that low bookings at hotels had
reduced demand. Contacts at senior care facilities in Maryland
and  North Carolina  remarked that expected new residents had
postponed their move-in date while their homes remained on the
market. Service sector prices grew at a slightly faster pace,
according to our latest monthly survey.  Finance. Lending activity was mixed since our last assessment. A
banker in North Carolina stated that loan volume was “pretty
good” in recent months, but added that most of the activity was
market share gains rather than a piece of a growing market.
Indeed, several bankers noted an increase in calls from
businesses that were looking for new banking relationships, but
few were ready to make a loan application. An official at a
large bank in the District noted some improvement in loans for
 capital spending , but added that most was limited to replacing
worn out capital. A commercial banker in Richmond cited recent
cutbacks in loan demand from several manufacturers. A banker in
rural Virginia described his loan demand as “extremely flat,”
with modest gains on the commercial side offset by weak demand
on the consumer side. Several bankers noted weaker-than-expected
mortgage demand over the last month. Most contacts stated that
loan quality continued to improve, but several bankers indicated
that they eased lending terms in order to compete for quality
borrowers.  Real Estate. Real estate activity weakened over the last four to
six weeks. Several Realtors reported that sales had dropped
considerably in recent months and that their markets were less
active than a year ago. A Realtor in eastern  Maryland  indicated
that home sales as well as average  home prices  were down notably
from earlier in the year. A West Virginia Realtor said potential
buyers were calling and looking for bargains, but that there
were few actual sales. He mentioned that some sellers were
starting to reduce prices significantly. Similarly, an agent in
central Virginia noted that asking prices continued to fall.
Most Realtors said that the high-end market was suffering, which
they attributed to devalued portfolios of the wealthy, as well
as uncertainty about employment and job stability. In contrast,
a Realtor in the D.C. area reported that properties in the $900
thousand to $1.5 million  price range  moved quickly over the last
month. He added that low  interest rates  and lean inventory,
which reached its lowest level since February 2006, should help
improve area sales in the fall.  Commercial real estate activity since our last report was mixed
across most segments of the market. Virtually all contacts
described market conditions as remaining weak, in terms of both
leasing volumes and rental rates. While a Realtor in  South
Carolina  reported that activity had picked up over the last few
months, gains were mostly due to consolidations and renewals
that often occurred at reduced lease rates. A Realtor in North
Carolina noted that leasing incentives were still being offered
aggressively in local markets. An agent in the D.C. area said
that renewals often required owners to offer significant
improvement packages. In contrast, a real estate agent in  West
Virginia  remarked that further softening of lease rates was
constrained by the limited amount of vacant space in the area.
Most retail leasing activity in the District was limited to
national chains, according to several contacts, in part because
financing remained an obstacle for small retailers. Contacts
generally noted that greater uncertainty about the market and
the economy had pushed clients to prefer leasing over buying.
One contact stated that sales to leases had recently fallen from
a typical one-to-four ratio to one-to-fifteen.  Labor Markets. Reports on Fifth District labor market activity
were mixed in August. Several employment agencies reported
somewhat stronger demand for temporary help in recent weeks,
particularly in the healthcare and automotive industries. The
branch manager of a temp agency in North Carolina stated that
manufacturers had openings for skilled positions, but they had
difficulty finding machine operators with at least one year of
experience. Likewise, a contact from South Carolina reported
that three large manufacturers in the area were trying to hire,
but could not find qualified candidates. In contrast, an
executive from the D.C. area said that a major corporation had
initiated a hiring and advertising freeze. Also, a banker
indicated that some of his clients said that they would rather
pay workers overtime than hire new workers, due in large part to
the recent environment of heightened uncertainty. According to
our latest survey, job losses in the service sector were
somewhat more widespread than in our last report; wages in the
retail sector weakened on average, while average wage growth
slowed at services firms. Survey respondents from most
manufacturing industries indicated that hiring inched up over
the last month, while the average workweek declined and wage
growth slowed.  Tourism. Tourism generally strengthened over the last month,
although contacts along the Atlantic coast lost significant end-
of-summer business as Hurricane Irene came ashore one week
before Labor Day weekend. Local evacuation orders in areas along
the coast of North Carolina resulted in cancellations and
shortened stays for the end of August. In addition, an hotelier
in  Virginia Beach  reported several cancellations and early
check-outs, as guests left the area ahead of the storm. Inland,
however, hotel managers reported solid bookings, and several
were experiencing a rush of hurricane evacuees. In the weeks
prior to the hurricane, bookings had been strong, although some
beach resorts used incentives to bolster reservations. According
to a local contact, hotels in the D.C. area discounted room
rates to boost reservations over the summer, which increased
volume but held down margins.  Agriculture. Scattered precipitation over the last two months
promoted crop growth in many sections of the District, but more
recently crops along the coast were damaged by Hurricane Irene.
Rain in early August aided late summer peaches in West Virginia
and soybean harvests in Virginia. Virginia growers were also
busy cutting hay and preparing for the corn harvest and the
flue-tobacco harvest was in full swing. Ninety-six percent of
the corn crop in South Carolina had matured and was forty
percent harvested up to the hurricane. However, post-hurricane
inspections by state officials in North Carolina revealed
widespread damage to field crops, poultry and other agricultural
businesses. Moreover, agricultural agents in that state reported
damage to greenhouses, grain storage facilities and aquaculture
operations. Fortunately, cotton bolls had not been stripped from
their plants by high winds, and tobacco farmers may have been
saved by rushing their crops to curing barns before the storm
stuck, according to the agricultural agents. 