-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a slow pace during
the past six weeks, with many of our contacts downgrading their
near-term outlooks. Manufacturers reported stable production but
a decline in new orders and backlogs. Freight transport volume
trended slightly higher. Retailers said that their sales were on
or ahead of plan and new-car purchases increased. Energy
companies noted little change in output. New- home construction 
remains sluggish, and inquiries made to nonresidential builders
have dropped off. The demand for business credit picked up,
while  consumer lending  was weak.  Modest increases in payrolls were mainly limited to the
manufacturing and energy sectors. Staffing-firm representatives
noted moderate growth in the number of new  job openings , with
vacancies concentrated in technical occupations and healthcare.
Almost all openings were for experienced workers. Wage pressures
are contained. Prices for raw materials used by manufacturers
and construction materials have generally stabilized or declined
slightly.  Manufacturing. Production at District factories was stable
during the past six weeks, although reports indicated declines
in new orders and backlogs. Many of our contacts expect
additional slowing in demand, which they attributed to
uncertainty and caution on the part of their customers. Almost
all steel producers and service centers reported that the
weakening in shipping volume that began during the second
quarter has continued. However, some of our contacts are looking
for a pickup in new orders due to low supply chain inventories.
Steel shipments are being driven primarily by transportation-
and energy-related industries. District auto production
decreased in July on a month-over-month basis, due to normal
seasonal retooling for model changeovers. Year-over-year
production also fell, but declines were limited to foreign
nameplates, as supply disruptions caused by events in  Japan 
persist.  Manufacturers remain committed to their capital spending plans
for 2011, with half of our contacts expecting to increase
outlays in the upcoming months relative to prior-year levels.
Little movement was seen in capacity utilization rates. Reports
on raw materials indicated that prices have stabilized or
declined slightly. Product pricing was fairly steady. Several of
our respondents expect steel prices to begin rising in the near
future. Hiring continued at a modest pace, with some
manufacturers reporting difficulty in finding high-skilled
workers. Wage pressures are contained.  Construction. Single-family home construction remains at a low
level, with purchases mainly in the move-up buyer categories.
Contractors reported that a lack of confidence is keeping
potential buyers on the side-lines, even with mortgage  interest
rates  at very low levels. A few of our contacts noted that
multi-family construction and remodeling now accounts for a
substantial part of their backlogs. Expectations call for little
change in residential building in the near term. List prices of
new homes held steady, while builders shifted away from
discounting. The upward pressure on building material prices
that was seen in early summer has diminished. Two builders
reported some easing in credit restrictions for financing multi-
family and spec construction. Aggressive pricing on the part of
subcontractors was widespread. One contact reported that monies
from the 2009 stimulus package earmarked for home weatherization
programs have been exhausted, which could lead to further job
cutbacks in residential construction. General contractors
continue to work with lean crews.  Activity in nonresidential construction has weakened slightly
since our last report. Although the number of inquiries has
dropped off, several builders noted that they have recently
added to their backlogs. One contractor reported that the rising
incidence of stop-work orders on federal projects is
contributing to marketplace uncertainty. Most construction was
contracted with manufacturers, energy producers, or for
infrastructure projects. Looking forward, several of our
contacts remain cautiously optimistic, while others believe an
industry rebound will not occur until 2013. Building material
prices were mainly steady. Little change in construction
payrolls was noted, while union negotiations led to a small
increase in wages. Accounts of subcontractors struggling to stay
in business were common.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported that sales for the period
from early July through mid-August were on or ahead of plan, and
that transactions increased in single-digits relative to year-
ago levels. Many of our contacts said that rising sales included
necessities and discretionary items, especially for new and
innovative products. Looking ahead to the fourth quarter, most
contacts expect their sales to rise in the low- to mid-single
digits on a year-over-year basis. However, grocers we spoke with
anticipate little improvement in sales volume for the remainder
of this year. We continue to hear about upward pressure on
supplier prices, although it mainly affects meat and dairy
products and items produced from cotton. Retailers attributed
some of the pressure to higher costs for transportation,
packaging, and certain commodities. Grocers passed through the
increases to their customers, while other retailers were more
selective in adjusting prices. Reports on profit margins were
mixed. Capital outlays remain on plan. Half of our contacts said
that they are in the process of expanding the number of their
retail outlets. However, no change in payrolls is expected at
existing stores.  Most auto dealers reported that new-vehicle sales from early
July through mid-August were higher than the previous six-week
period. On a year-over-year basis, vehicle purchases improved
for almost all of our contacts, with a few noting double-digit
increases. Demand for fuel-efficient, less-expensive cars
continued to grow, although the market for smaller SUVs remains
stable. Inventories are still at low levels, especially for
Japanese brands. Dealers are cautious in their outlook due to
uncertainty about the economy and the availability of vehicles
that consumers want to buy. Demand for used cars remained fairly
strong; however, scarce inventory is contributing to higher
prices. We heard a few reports of some easing in credit
restrictions, while the use of leasing continues to grow. Many
dealers are in the process of initiating factory-mandated
programs for showroom upgrades and reimaging, and two contacts
said that they are expanding their current facilities. The
number of dealers who are hiring sales and service personnel has
picked up slightly since our last report.  Banking. Overall demand for business loans showed a modest
improvement, with requests coming from a broad range of
industries. Reports indicated downward pressure on interest
rates for business credit. Consumer credit was driven by
indirect auto lending and home equity lines of credit. Other
installment loan categories remained weak. Applications for
residential mortgages have picked up, with bankers citing
falling interest rates as the reason. Submissions were fairly
mixed but leaned toward refinancing. Core deposits continued to
increase, driven by inflows from business customers. Several
bankers commented that the rate of growth in consumer deposits
has weakened. Credit standards were largely unchanged.
Delinquencies declined across all loan categories. No
significant changes in employment levels were cited, and little
new hiring is expected in the near-term.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas drilling and production
were stable during the past six weeks, while activity in
Marcellus and Utica shales continued to expand. Shale gas
produced in  Pennsylvania  grew by almost 60 percent in the first
six months of 2011 relative to the prior six-month period.
Wellhead prices paid to independent producers declined slightly.
Little change in coal output is anticipated for the remainder of
this year. Rising demand for coal in overseas markets has been
offset by a lessening in demand from domestic utilities and
production constraints due to increased governmental oversight
in permitting and environmental compliance. Spot prices for coal
increased between 1 percent and 3 percent. Capital outlays are
on target, with moderate increases projected by oil and gas
companies in the upcoming months for drilling new wells. The
cost of production equipment and materials was fairly stable;
however, prices increased for tubular products and tires. A
modest rise in payrolls was reported.  Transportation. Overall, freight transport volume continued on a
slight upward trend, although a few of our contacts
characterized volume over the past couple of months as
inconsistent. As a result, they revised their near-term growth
projections down slightly. Several respondents have successfully
increased their shipping rates as customer contracts came up for
renewal. Prices for  diesel fuel  have been trending lower, while
maintenance costs are rising, especially for tires. Capital
outlays have accelerated during 2011 relative to prior-year
levels. Spending is mainly to replace aging transport equipment
and to support demand growth from energy customers. Hiring has
been largely for driver replacement; however, we heard two
reports about carriers adding capacity. Wage pressures are
emerging due to a tightening of the driver pool. 