-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Economic growth in the Second District has remained sluggish
since the last report. While it is too early to assess the full
effects of Hurricane Irene, initial reports suggest widespread
disruptions and local pockets of more extreme stress from
flooding and power outages. Transportation and other
infrastructure apparently sustained limited damage. Prior to the
hurricane, business contacts in the manufacturing sector noted
steady to weakening activity. Retail sales were reported to be
up modestly from a year ago in recent weeks, while tourism
activity has remained strong. Commercial real estate markets
have shown some signs of improvement since the last report: both
office and industrial markets have been steady to slightly
stronger. The residential purchase market has been stable, while
the rental market has continued to strengthen; new  home
construction  remains very sluggish. Finally, bankers report
reduced demand for consumer and commercial & industrial loans,
widespread increases in household delinquency rates, and some
tightening in credit standards for commercial & industrial loans
and commercial mortgages.  Consumer Spending  Non-auto retail sales continued to run close to or slightly
ahead of plan in July, with same-store sales on par with or
slightly ahead of a year earlier. Most retailers indicate modest
slowing in the first three weeks of August, although one major
mall in western New York State notes some firming in sales
activity in August, following a sluggish July. Widespread
disruptions from Hurricane Irene across much of the District are
likely to adversely affect sales tallies for the full month, but
replacement of consumers’ water-damaged property is expected to
boost sales in September. Retail prices are reported to be
mostly stable, though some retailers are implementing moderate
increases on prices of cotton-based merchandise to counter
sharply rising costs. Inventories are generally reported to be
in good shape.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report that sales weakened in
July and were mixed in early August. Rochester-area dealers note
continued weakness in new vehicle sales in recent weeks, which
have been running somewhat below 2010 levels, reflecting
continued Japan-related supply disruptions and a lack of
incentives. However, dealers in the Buffalo area report some
firming in sales activity in early August, following a sluggish
July. Auto dealers in both areas indicate that used car sales
remain strong and that used car prices continue to be buoyed by
strong demand and lean inventories. Auto-industry contacts note
that both retail and wholesale credit conditions are good.  Consumer confidence  remains mired at low levels. Siena College
reports that consumer confidence among New York State residents
slipped to a 10-month low in July, with declines in both upstate
and the New York City area. The Conference Board indicates that
consumer confidence among residents of the Middle Atlantic
states (NY, NJ, PA) was little changed in July and was near the
middle of its range over the past year. Tourism activity in New
York City remained robust in July and early August. Manhattan
hotels report that total revenue per room was running 7 to 8
percent ahead of a year ago in July and appeared to be up
roughly 10 percent in August (prior to the hurricane). Most of
the increase has come from rising room rates, as occupancy rates
have been holding relatively steady at high levels. Broadway
theaters also report sturdy gains in both attendance and
revenues since the last report, despite a mid-July lull.
Theaters closed for most of the final weekend in August because
of  Hurricane Irene , but were due to reopen the following Monday.
Businesses in the popular vacation areas along the  Long Island 
and  New Jersey  shores were widely affected by hurricane-related
evacuations.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential construction and home sales have remained sluggish
but generally steady since the last report, while there has been
further improvement in the rental market. Overall, prices of
existing homes have edged up in recent months in many areas but
are still down slightly from a year ago across most of the
region. Buffalo-area Realtors report that market conditions
remained weak in July and early August, with the median selling
price little changed from a year earlier, but that a recent
increase in pending sales suggests some recent firming in market
conditions. An authority on New Jersey’s housing industry
reports that a large overhang of distressed properties continues
to weigh down the market but that the processing of foreclosures
is now resuming; this is expected to lower reported transaction
prices, on average, but increase sales activity and gradually
reduce the inventory. New construction activity is very low and
largely concentrated in the multi-family (rental) segment. A
major appraisal firm reports a more-than-typical seasonal drop-
off in activity in  New York City ’s co-op and condo market in
August; some of the recent softness is deemed to reflect concern
about the city’s financial sector. Still, the markets in
Manhattan and nearby  Brooklyn  are reported to be holding up
relatively well, buoyed, in part, by foreign buyers paying cash.
New York City’s rental market has shown continued strength: the
inventory of available units is down moderately, and rents on
new leases continue to climb and are up 5 to 8 percent over the
past year.  Commercial real estate markets have improved modestly since the
last report. Office markets were steady to somewhat stronger in
July and the first half of August, as vacancy rates declined
noticeably in the Buffalo and Rochester metro areas and modestly
in  Manhattan  and on Long Island. However, vacancies continued to
edge up in northern New Jersey, and Westchester and Fairfield
counties. Industrial vacancy rates edged down in most areas,
while asking rents were little changed. Northern New Jersey’s
industrial vacancy rate reached its lowest level in two years;
small declines were reported on Long Island and in Westchester
and Fairfield counties.  Other Business Activity  Reports from business contacts point to some weakening in
general business activity and steady to weakening conditions in
the labor market. A major New York City employment agency
reports that hiring activity has been unusually slow in August
but remains cautiously optimistic that recruitment will pick up
after Labor Day; financial firms, in particular, have become
more hesitant and even hiring for compliance jobs has slowed.
Separately, a contact in the securities industry reports that
widespread layoffs are planned across the industry (though not
entirely in New York City) and not all the weakness is related
to the current market turmoil. There continues to be some hiring
in compliance and technology, but layoffs now exceed hiring, on
net.  More broadly, non-manufacturing business contacts across the
District report that business conditions have deteriorated in
recent weeks and indicate waning optimism about the near-term
business outlook. They continue to report steady to rising
employment levels, with a majority expecting employment to level
off in the months ahead. Non-manufacturing firms report that
cost pressures remain fairly widespread, though somewhat less so
than in recent months; further increases in input costs are
expected in the months ahead. Selling prices, however, remain
steady.  Manufacturing firms in the District report that business
activity weakened moderately in July and early August and that
price pressures have continued to recede, based on the latest
Empire State Manufacturing Survey. Contacts report steady
employment levels, and expect this to continue over the next six
months. Overall, though, manufacturers are now less optimistic
about the near term outlook than they have been in quite some
time.  Financial Developments  Bankers indicate weakening demand for consumer loans and
commercial & industrial loans, but an increase in the demand for
residential mortgages, as well as for refinancing. Bankers
report tightening their standards for commercial mortgages and
commercial & industrial loans but no change in credit standards
for consumer loans and residential mortgages. Respondents report
a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all
loan categories--most notably commercial mortgages. Respondents
also indicated a decrease in the average deposit rate. Finally,
bankers report increased delinquency rates on all categories of
loans except commercial & industrial loans. The increase in
delinquency was most widespread for consumer loans where 41
percent of respondents indicated increases in delinquency rates
and only 7 percent indicated decreases. 