-- 
U.S. Homebuilders’ Improving Markets Index (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-09-07T14:24:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-homebuilders-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Improving Markets Index (IMI) from the  National Association of
Home Builders .  New Improving Market Index Highlights Twelve Metro Areas Showing  Sustained Economic Recovery  Pittsburgh and  New Orleans  Among Those Included  Today the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) released
its first NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index (IMI), a
new economic index revealing metropolitan areas that have shown
improvement for at least six months in three key economic areas-
-housing permits, employment and housing prices.  The list of metropolitan areas includes:  •Alexandria, LA
•Anchorage, AK
•Bangor, ME
•Bismarck, ND
•Casper, WY
•Fairbanks, AK
•Fayetteville, NC
•Houma, LA
•Midland, TX
•New Orleans, LA
•Pittsburgh, PA
•Waco, TX  “Despite the challenging conditions in the national economy and
housing sector, there are areas throughout the country where we
are seeing pockets of improvement” said Bob Nielsen, chairman of
the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) and a home
builder from Reno, Nev. “Housing conditions are local, and do
not always reflect the national picture. We created this new
index to shine a light on those housing markets across the
country that have stabilized and have begun to show signs of
recovery.”  “By examining key indicators of  home prices , employment and
housing permits data, we are using a comprehensive, but
conservative method in determining which markets are improving,”
said NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe . “Last year at this time,
there was not a single market that showed improvement using
these criteria, and now we can point to 12 examples of growth.”  “It’s not surprising that many of the states represented are
energy rich areas,” Crowe continued. “Those are the regions
still experiencing relatively strong employment, supporting
housing demand.”  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top improving Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The
three indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
 Freddie Mac , and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. A metro area must see improvement in all
three areas for at least six months following their respective
troughs before being included on the improving markets list.
NAHB uses the latest available data from these sources to
generate the list of improving markets.  Please visit www.nahb.org/imi for additional data, tables and a
list of 2011 future economic release dates.  EDITOR’S NOTE: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index
(IMI) will be released on the fourth business day of each month
at 10:00 a.m. ET, unless that day falls on a Friday, in which
case the index will be released the following Monday. A full
calendar of 2011 release dates can be found at www.nahb.org/imi.  SOURCE: NAHB  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  