-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Since the last  Beige Book , business activity in the Third
District has been more mixed and somewhat weaker overall.
Several sectors have continued to report slow, steady growth,
and a few sectors have grown faster, while others have shifted
to reporting slower growth, no growth, or declines.
Manufacturing activity has declined since the last Beige Book.
Year-over-year sales fell slightly for general retailers and
increased slightly for auto dealers. On balance, bank lending
has remained mostly flat. Residential real estate and
construction was perhaps most impacted by stock market
volatility - showing signs of strength at July’s end, then
slowing to an unseasonably quiet August. Commercial real estate
contacts have reported steady to slightly improved market
conditions in most parts of the Third District since the
previous Beige Book. Generally positive results were reported by
service-sector firms. Upward price pressures from food, energy,
and other commodities have lessened somewhat. The ability to
pass along costs remains mixed, and there is little evidence of
wage pressure.  In response to ongoing uncertainty, Third District business
contacts have slightly lowered their expectations, with most
firms projecting slow to flat growth for the remainder of the
year. Manufacturers forecast a small rise in shipments and
orders during the next six months. Retailers are hopeful for
stronger sales; auto dealers are uncertain. Bankers have lowered
their expectations, as have most residential real estate
contacts. Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector
firms have continued to expect slow growth; however, uncertainty
has increased.  Manufacturing.  Since the last Beige Book, the percent of Third District
manufacturers reporting decreases in new orders and shipments
has risen substantially, while the percent reporting increases
has fallen slightly. The general decline in activity was not
uniform across sectors. The makers of food products, fabricated
metals, and electronic equipment reported declining product
demand. However, growing product demand was reported by printers
and publishers, by makers of instruments, and by lumber and wood
products manufacturers. Shipments increased, but orders fell for
firms reporting in the primary metals and industrial machinery
sectors. Firms experiencing growth cited foreign markets,
growing market share, and product shifts as positive factors.
Declining demand was attributed to sluggish residential
construction, softening domestic consumption, and the falloff in
public infrastructure spending. One industrial supply firm
indicated steady growth overall but noted some softness in sales
to those manufacturers most sensitive to business cycles.  Although the outlook among Third District manufacturers remains
somewhat optimistic, it is not as promising as was reported in
the last Beige Book. Among firms contacted, two-fifths expect
increases in new orders and shipments over the next six months,
while one-fourth expect decreases. About one-fourth of the firms
polled project increases in  capital spending  over a six-month
planning horizon - a slightly lower proportion than in the last
Beige Book.  Retail.  Third District retailers reported that sales were generally flat
to down compared with a year earlier, although results were more
varied among individual stores across the District. Heavy
promotions and markdowns have been deployed to counter what one
retail manager described as “not a great August.” Retailers are
looking forward to the extended  holiday shopping season  with
hopeful optimism.  Auto dealers in the Third District continue to report some
supply disruptions for Japanese-related vehicles and parts,
leading to softer sales in July. Early reports for August were a
little better than July, and better than last year. However, one
dealer reported a customer backing out of a luxury car sale
amidst the early August market volatility. Continued tight
supply favors dealers with higher pricing and fewer promotions.
Uncertainty clouds dealers’ outlooks.  Finance.  Third District banks contacted in August indicated soft loan
demand, although some bank contacts cited strengths in small
business lending, and in lending to development projects for
apartment rentals, hotels, and commercial retail. More generally,
commercial and industrial loan volumes grew, while consumer and
commercial real estate loan volumes shrank. On balance, total
credit extended by banks in the Third District has been
generally flat since the last Beige Book. Most banks report
improving  credit quality , while credit standards have changed
little. Bank contacts report lowering their expectations for the
remainder of the year - anticipating little growth for all of
2011.  Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity in the Third District has
slowed slightly since the previous Beige Book. Agents reported
little traffic and have revised their plans downward for the
remainder of the year. A backlog of foreclosures, the volume of
which was especially large in  New Jersey , and flat to slightly
falling  house prices  continue to dampen demand for new and used
homes. Some builders reported signs of strengthening from mid-
July to August, then as financial market volatility increased, a
few deals unwound and traffic ground to a halt. “You could hear
the crickets for two weeks,” said one builder, reflecting on the
anemic growth even for a typically slow August. An uptick in
refinances was reported; however, little of the resulting
consumer savings is expected to impact housing.  Commercial and industrial real estate contacts have offered
mixed reports in the Third District since the previous Beige
Book. Few reported any interruption in the normally slow August
activity due to financial market volatility. Slow, steady growth
was observed with vacancy rates generally falling, rents steady
or occasionally rising, and concessions steady or occasionally
falling. Demand for residential rental properties has been
generating the most new business as reported by architecture,
engineering, and property management firms. Several contacts
also noted activity finally re-emerging from the life sciences
sector. The outlook expressed by market participants is for
continued slow growth in nonresidential real estate.  Services.  Reports from Third District service-sector firms remain
generally positive, but with greater expressions of uncertainty.
A logistics firm described business as surprisingly strong -
improving since the last Beige Book and better than last year.
Staffing firms noted an increase in temporary hiring to fill
permanent positions - indicating increased uncertainty among
their customers. In addition to the impact from anticipated
troop reductions, defense-related firms noted concerns stemming
from the debt-ceiling agreement. While growth remains generally
steady, greater uncertainty has crept into the generally
positive outlook of service-sector firms.  Prices and Wages.  Since the previous Beige Book, the percent of manufacturers
reporting increases in prices paid for inputs has continued to
fall slightly from one-third to one-fourth. Over the same period,
the percent reporting decreases in prices received for their own
products rose slightly from one-sixth to over one-fifth. Since
the last Beige Book, commodity price pressures have lessened
somewhat on retailers, service-sector firms, and builders;
however, margins remain very tight. But for a few business
sectors or a few scattered rental markets, there are scant
reports of upward pressure on rents and wages. 