-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy has grown slightly since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, residential and commercial construction, residential
real estate, manufacturing, energy and mining. Crop reports were
mostly down from last year, but several District agricultural
prices have risen recently. Activity in commercial real estate
and professional services was flat overall. Reports from labor
markets include a mix of layoffs and new hiring, while wage
increases remain moderate. Price increases were generally modest.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending increased moderately. A major Minneapolis-
based retailer reported that same-store sales in July increased
over 4 percent compared with a year earlier. Two  Minnesota 
restaurant and bar chains reported that recent sales were up
modestly from last year. A North Dakota mall manager reported
that sales and traffic were steadily up during July and August
compared with a year ago. After a relatively soft July, sales
and traffic picked up by mid-August at a South Dakota mall. Bank
directors noted that  luxury goods  showed signs of strength, such
as sales of jewelry and high-end vehicles.  Minnesota auto dealers were profitable, with recent sales up
from last year but still down substantially from 2006, according
to an auto dealers association representative. Two auto dealers
in Montana reported recent gains in sales from a year ago, but a
third dealer described sales as dismal.  Tourism activity was solid in July and August. While early
summer rains and high river levels hampered fishing and other
outdoor activities in  Montana , overall tourism picked up in July.
Tourism businesses in northwestern  Wisconsin  were busy during
July and August, according to an official. Activity was up about
5 percent compared with last year in the Upper Peninsula of
 Michigan ; hotels were able to raise prices without losing volume.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity has increased slightly since
the last report. Respondents to a mid-August Minneapolis Fed ad
hoc survey reported an increase in revenues, primarily due to a
number of small commercial retrofitting projects in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Rebuilding in flood-damaged areas was
also mentioned. However, the value of commercial building
permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area was down slightly in July
from July 2010. Residential construction increased from last
year. The value of residential building permits in July
increased significantly from the same period a year earlier in
both the  Sioux Falls  and Minneapolis-St. Paul areas.  Commercial real estate markets were flat. Commercial real estate
respondents to the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey noted flat
revenues and profits over the past three months. Comments from
Minneapolis-St. Paul area contacts include the following: “There
is very little activity in the leasing, sales and land
development arena.” “The market is full of fence sitters because
of general uncertainty about the economy.” Residential real
estate markets grew. Home sales in July were up significantly
from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul and
Fargo, N.D., markets. However, July pending sales of homes in
the Sioux Falls area decreased from July 2010.  Services  On balance, professional business services firms reported flat
activity over the past three months. A third of services firms
that responded to the ad hoc survey saw increased sales, while a
third saw decreased sales. Respondents noted that profits were
also flat, but they expect increased activity over the next
three months. An information technology company noted that July
sales were down due to reduced demand from the government and
financial services areas.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity increased slightly. A July survey of
purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed
that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and  South
Dakota , but declined slightly in North Dakota. A metal
fabricator announced plans to expand a facility in northwestern
Montana. Nearly three-quarters of manufacturing respondents to
the Minneapolis Fed’s ad hoc survey indicated that their sales
increased in the past three months, and 60 percent expect them
to increase in the next three months.  Energy and Mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors continued at strong
levels since the last report. Late-August oil exploration
activity increased from mid-July. Iron ore shipments from
District mines increased 18 percent in July from a year earlier,
according to a Great Lakes shipping organization. Activity at
Montana mines remains strong, driven by high metals prices,
according to contacts.  Agriculture  Ninth District agricultural production is expected to decrease
from last year, while prices remain strong. Montana and  North
Dakota  durum wheat production estimates for 2011 were down a
combined 57 percent from 2010, according to the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . Spring wheat and soybean production estimates
for District states were down 18 percent and 10 percent,
respectively. In contrast, District corn production estimates
increased about 5 percent over last year. Prices for many
District agricultural commodities increased since the last
report, including corn, soybeans, wheat, dairy, cattle and hogs;
poultry prices decreased recently.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Reports from labor markets include a mix of layoffs and new
hiring. During a 20-day Minnesota government shutdown in July,
22,000 government employees were out of work. By delaying state
funding and inspections, the shutdown also idled many
construction projects across Minnesota. A bank recently
announced plans to cut nearly 150 employees at its brokerage
unit in Minneapolis. However, during July, Minnesota gained
8,200 private sector jobs. Minnesota auto dealers have started
to hire more sales staff. About 11,000 new jobs related to oil
drilling are expected in North Dakota, according to an
announcement by a firm with operations there. According to the
ad hoc survey, 19 percent of respondents expect to increase
employment over the next three months, while 10 percent expect
to decrease employment. A new fabrication plant in Montana will
lead to 100 more jobs, and a sporting goods manufacturer in
Minnesota announced plans to add 100 jobs over the next two
years.  Wage increases remained moderate, although some contentious
contract negotiations were reported. For example, a sugar beet
refining company locked out 1,300 workers beginning Aug. 1.  Overall price increases were modest. A July Augustana College
survey of Sioux Falls businesses indicated little change in
prices received for their products and services. Except for gold,
a number of metal prices have decreased since the last report,
although they remain well above year-earlier levels. Diesel fuel
and gasoline prices were still nearly a dollar per gallon higher
than a year ago, but their rate of increase has slowed. Input
costs increased over the past three months, according to 46
percent of the ad hoc survey respondents; only 9 percent
indicated decreases. 