-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Speculation About Obama’s Job Growth Plan

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-07T20:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-yahoo-jumps-after-removing-ceo-bartz.html
U.S. stocks rose, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest rally in two weeks, as
investors speculated President Barack Obama’s plan to inject
more than $300 billion into the economy will bolster growth.  All 10 groups in the  S&P 500  advanced as gains were led by
financial, energy and industrial shares.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
added 7 percent after a shakeup in management. Yahoo! Inc.
climbed 5.4 percent as the most-visited U.S. Web portal ousted
Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  and announced a strategic
review to boost growth.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  jumped 8.1 percent as the
maker of graphics chips forecast sales that beat estimates.  The S&P 500 rallied 2.9 percent to 1,198.62 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark gauge for American equities fell 4.4
percent over the previous three days. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average added 275.56 points, or 2.5 percent, to 11,414.86.  “The market is trying to feel the ground for a bottom,”
Barry James, president of James Investment Research Inc. in
Xenia,  Ohio , said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$2.5 billion. “It’s maybe going in the right direction with the
president showing a little more of a pro-business, pro-growth
concept. If they can agree to something in  Washington  that’s
along those lines, we’ll be pretty happy.”  The Dow lost 4.1 percent in the first three days of this
month. That’s the worst start to September since 2002 and the
fourth-worst ever for the Dow, according to data dating back to
1896 compiled by Bloomberg. In the three instances in which the
September starts were worse -- 1931, 1946 and 2002 -- the index
posted full-year losses of at least 8.1 percent, the data show.  Job Growth  Stocks rose today as President Obama plans to unveil his
proposals for promoting job growth in an address to a joint
session of Congress tomorrow. He plans to propose sparking job
growth by injecting more than $300 billion into the economy next
year, mostly through tax cuts, infrastructure spending and
direct aid to state and local governments.  The Fed said the economy grew at a slower pace in some
regions of the country as shoppers limited their spending and
factories curbed production. “Economic activity continued to
expand at a modest pace, though some districts noted mixed or
weakening activity,” the Fed said today in its Beige Book
survey, which covers the second half of July until Aug. 26.  “The Beige Book is consistent with the mixed signals that
we’re getting from economic indicators,”  Walter Todd , who helps
manage $940 million at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood, South
Carolina, said in a telephone interview. “People will be
waiting to hear what the president will say tomorrow. You’ve got
to be somewhat nimble in this market and take advantage of
opportunities as they arise.”  More Stimulus  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans
called for more stimulus to reduce a 9.1 percent jobless rate,
including a commitment to keep  interest rates  low until
unemployment falls to around 7.5 percent while holding medium-
term inflation below 3 percent.  “Given how truly badly we are doing in meeting our
employment mandate, I argue that the Fed should seriously
consider actions that would add very significant amounts of
policy accommodation,” he said in a speech in  London .  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of 30 companies most-tied
to the economy rallied 3.4 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, also a proxy for economic growth, added 3.4 percent.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  advanced 3.9 percent to $99.29.  General Electric
Co. (GE)  rose 3.6 percent to $15.80.  Bank of America gained 7 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$7.48. The lender’s most richly compensated executive, Thomas K. Montag, may become a future candidate for the top job after a
shakeup elevated him to co-chief operating officer at the money-
losing bank.  New Lineup  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is counting on a
new lineup to reverse the bank’s fortunes after he posted a
record $8.8 billion quarterly loss, spent $30 billion to clean
up faulty mortgages and sold $35 billion of assets and preferred
shares to rebuild capital.  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rallied 5.9 percent as all of its 24
stocks advanced. The gauge had tumbled 6.1 percent in two days
as the U.S. sued 17 banks to recoup $196 billion spent on
mortgage-backed securities bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency accuses the banks of
misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about the soundness of the
mortgages underlying the securities.  Yahoo climbed 5.4 percent to $13.61. Bartz said in a memo
to staff yesterday that she was fired by Chairman Roy Bostock by
telephone. The company said Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse
will be interim CEO. Under Bartz, who took over as CEO in
January 2009, Yahoo has frustrated investors and failed to keep
Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. from siphoning off Internet users
and advertising revenue.  Nvidia Jumps  Nvidia jumped 8.1 percent to $14.25. Revenue will be $4.7
billion to $5 billion in the 12-month period that begins Jan.
30, Santa Clara, California-based Nvidia said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated sales, on
average, of $4.47 billion.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was the most-held stock among the top 50 hedge
funds in the second quarter, while  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Merck &
Co. were the companies most-owned by the biggest equity mutual
funds, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Cupertino, California-based Apple has held the top position
in the hedge-fund category since the third quarter of 2010,
 Tobias Levkovich , Citigroup’s chief U.S. equity strategist,
wrote in a Sept. 6 note. It’s owned by 16 of the 50 largest U.S.
hedge funds. Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , and Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck were owned by 17 of the largest
50 mutual funds in the three months ended June 30.  “Apple retains the top spot for both growth and value
hedge funds,” Levkovich wrote.  “The overlap in top stocks for
these two investment styles implies a degree of consensus within
the hedge-fund world and possibly a break from some firms’
traditional investment styles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  