-- 
U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-07T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Sixth District business contacts indicated that economic
activity continued to expand at a very subdued pace in July and
August. Retail sales grew more slowly than during the previous
reporting period, although tourism activity remained solid.
Existing home sales improved in  Florida , but were weak elsewhere
in the District. New home sales and construction were soft and
downward pressure on prices persisted for both existing and new
homes. Contractors reported low levels of commercial development.
Manufacturing contacts indicated that the level of production
and new orders increased, but at a slower pace than experienced
earlier in the year. Bankers noted ongoing weakness in loan
demand as both consumers and businesses were restrained in their
borrowing activity. Most businesses continued to be cautious
regarding adding permanent staff, with several indicating that
they had chosen to hire temporary or contract workers to fill
immediate labor needs. Contacts reported that on average, sales
prices were up slightly from a year ago, although some retailers
mentioned that weak sales were prompting them to lower prices.
Energy contacts indicated plans to increase oil production
capacity.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. Most District merchants reported
that retail sales growth had slowed in July and August.
Businesses noted a drop in sales and traffic compared with a
year ago. The majority of contacts stated that they were keeping
inventory levels lean and had no plans to increase supply in the
near term. The outlook among most retailers was less optimistic
than earlier in the year, although some contacts noted that the
costs of cotton-based inputs for the spring selling season will
not be as high as initially feared.  Tourism activity remained robust in the District. Hospitality
industry reports cited increases in occupancy and room rates.
Airport traffic was up, particularly in South Florida, which
serves as a point of entry for cruise line travel as well as
international travel from  Latin America . Although some companies
noted that the softer economic climate has led to a decline in
advance bookings from business travelers, the overall outlook
among contacts remained strong for the coming months.  Real Estate and Construction. The majority of District
residential brokers reported that sales were slightly ahead of
last year’s weak levels. Most of the increase came from Florida
contacts, although several brokers there stated that a decline
in bank-owned homes available to purchase had held sales back
somewhat. Outside Florida, brokers found that sales were similar
to last year’s levels. The majority of brokers indicated that
housing inventories remained elevated. Brokers continued to note
downward pressure on home prices with most indicating that
prices were flat to slightly down compared with a year ago. The
outlook weakened over the reporting period with most contacts
anticipating sales growth to be down slightly over the next
several months.  District builders reported that new home sales and construction
activity were similar to year earlier levels. New home inventory
levels declined somewhat, but builders noted downward pressure
on new  home prices  nonetheless. Residential contractors
indicated that home improvement construction improved from
earlier in the year. Compared with the June report, builders’
outlook weakened somewhat with the majority of contacts
expecting new home sales growth to be flat over the next several
months and construction to be similar to last year’s weak levels.  Commercial contractors signaled that nonresidential construction
was slow, although activity in the healthcare sector continued
to be positive. Contacts reported aggressive bidding by
contractors and subcontractors. On the leasing side, firms noted
that the absorption of space had slowed somewhat in recent weeks.
Overall, the outlook for construction and leasing activity
weakened somewhat from previous months.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturers indicated that
the level of new orders and production increased in mid-July and
August, but at a slower pace than earlier this year. A leading
auto dealer and many parts suppliers felt that the impact of
supply disruptions from  Japan  had ended. A large tire
manufacturer noted particular pressure in meeting a recent surge
in orders as the supply chain normalized from the disaster in
Japan. Many manufacturers reported increased investment in
technology equipment in efforts to increase efficiency.  Railway firms cited increased  capital expenditures , above-trend
plans to hire, and strengthening exports - particularly coal.
Trucking contacts expressed continued labor supply issues and
elevated fuel costs, and have also projected demand for the
remainder of the year to be somewhat softer than previously
anticipated.  Banking and Finance. Bankers noted ongoing weakness in loan
demand as both consumers and businesses were restrained in
borrowing activity. Credit standards at banks and  credit unions 
were little-changed and some firms, such as newer businesses or
those related to real estate, reported difficulty obtaining
loans. Contacts at large companies indicated they did not have
many issues with credit availability. Many mentioned self-
funding capital projects through the use of cash reserves or
retained earnings. Some businesses signaled that they did not
need additional credit, but had access to funds while others
with financial issues struggled to get bank credit.  Employment and Prices. Most businesses reported muted hiring
activity. Many held the view that sales are the key factor in
determining labor demand, and uncertainty about future sales
seems to be exacerbating firms’ unwillingness to commit to full-
time employees. Hence, companies continued to hire temporary
workers and contractors and are delaying longer-term projects.
Many noted focusing on efficiency and productivity increases
with existing staff to meet current or any seasonal increase in
demand. Wage increases were reportedly subdued, with many
business contacts opting for cash bonuses and restoration of
benefits over annual salary increases.  Pricing information was mixed. Contacts reported that on average,
sales prices were up slightly from a year ago, although some
retailers mentioned that weak sales were prompting them to lower
prices. Fewer manufacturers reported higher input prices than in
previous months. Firms noted that they continued to face cost
pressures, particularly from high materials and freight costs.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. The number of oil and gas
rigs operating in the  Gulf of Mexico  has continued its gradual
ascent in recent months. However, the current rig count is only
about two-thirds of the number of offshore rigs in operation
before the spring 2010 Gulf oil spill. Despite the recent
decline in  oil prices , contacts in the energy equipment
fabrication business reported ongoing backlogs in orders for
pipelines, supply boats, and drilling equipment. Energy
producers are moving forward with plans to invest in increased
oil production capacity.  While most of the District continued to experience varying
degrees of drought conditions, recent rains have provided relief
to some of the region’s stressed pastures and crops. Cotton
prices were up compared with last year but have fallen from
record highs. Peanut producers expect prices to increase as
supply from areas outside of the District becomes constrained as
a result of adverse weather. 