-- 
Mubarak Trial Hears Testimony Authorities Ordered Force

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-09-08T18:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/mubarak-judge-summons-ruling-council-head-tantawi-to-testify.html
Egyptian Interior Ministry officials
ordered force could be used against demonstrators as the January
uprising that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s rule gathered pace, a former
senior security official said at the trial of the ex-president.  Hassan Abdel Hamid, previously first assistant to the
minister of interior during the uprising, said he attended a
meeting chaired by former Interior Minister Habib el-Adli, a co-
defendant alongside Mubarak, on Jan. 27, two days after the
revolt broke out.  Officials discussed how to deal with mass protests planned
for the following day, and “the decision was to stop protesters
from entering  Tahrir Square , even if by using force,” Abdel
Hamid told the Cairo court. “Force could be through using tear
gas, shields, helmets, batons.”  Mubarak, who has attended hearings in a hospital bed since
the case began a month ago, has pleaded not guilty to charges
that include corruption and conspiracy to kill protesters. At
least 846 people died during the revolt that ended his three
decades of rule and inspired opposition movements throughout the
 Middle East .  Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the former defense
minister who heads the army council that took over from Mubarak,
and ex-Vice President  Omar Suleiman  are due to testify next week
along with other army and political leaders, Judge Ahmed Refaat
said yesterday. Those sessions will be closed to reporters.  Key to Case  “The main key to the case is to answer one question: Was
there a decision issued by the political leadership to fire at
the protesters or not?” said Nasser Amin, director of the Arab
Center for the Independence of the Judiciary and the Legal
Profession. “The answer to this question can only be reached
through those who were the decision-makers at the time.”  In today’s hearing, Abdel Hamid said that during the
meeting no one gave orders for live ammunition to be used
against protesters. He said he didn’t know what weapons were
provided to security forces, though “without a doubt some
officers, I don’t know whether by orders or not, provided their
forces with birdshot rounds.”  He said he objected to the decision to use force, saying
“the crisis was mishandled since Jan. 25.” El-Adli gave
instructions during the meeting for communications networks to
be shut down to disrupt the planning of protests, he said.  ‘Animosity’  Essam Battawy, el-Adli’s lawyer, told the court that he
will prove that Abdel Hakim bears an “animosity” toward el-Adli
and his assistants, a charge Abdel Hakim denied.  When quizzed by defense lawyers, Abdel Hakim said that el-
Adli’s orders were for water and tear gas, not birdshot rounds,
to be used against demonstrators. “This vindicates el-Adli,”
Battawy told reporters.  Another witness, Essam Hosni Abbas, a police officer, said
he heard that it was decided in the Jan. 27 meeting to prevent
demonstrations “by any means.” It was clear that “the injuries
and deaths were the result of using weapons” and these came from
the police, he said.  El-Adli said that Abbas’s testimony “runs contrary to the
facts.” During the Jan. 27 meeting, “the instructions had to do
with how to secure the protests,” he told the court.  Prosecution witnesses in earlier sessions didn’t link el-
Adli or Mubarak to the killing of protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 