-- 
Hungary ‘Serious’ About Budget Consolidation, Fitch Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-07T12:26:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hungary-serious-about-budget-consolidation-fitch-says-1-.html
Hungary’s government is “serious”
about trimming its  budget deficit  and may be able to continue
cutting its ratio of debt to economic output, according to Ed Parker, managing director at Fitch Ratings Ltd.  “We think Hungary is on the right track,” Parker told a
conference in  Frankfurt  today. “The government is serious about
budget consolidation.”  The ratio of debt to gross domestic product may fall to 75
percent or lower by the end of the year, according to Parker.
The government plans to cut the ratio to 73 percent from 77
percent at present, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday.  Orban is facing a 350 billion-forint ($1.8 billion) hole in
this year’s budget as economic growth slows and the government
refunds 250 billion forint in value-added taxes following a
European Union ruling. Fitch was the only ratings company to
raise  Hungary ’s credit-grade outlook to stable from negative
this year, citing Orban’s plans to cut spending.  Hungary will raise excise duties, halt public procurements
and collect more VAT to close 100 billion forint of the budget
gap, Orban said yesterday after a two-day Cabinet meeting. He
plans to announce an additional 250 billion forint of measures
next week.  Lower Growth Forecast  Economic growth may suffer because of the advance in the
Swiss franc, in which about two thirds of Hungarian  mortgage
loans  are denominated, Orban’s chief of staff,  Mihaly Varga ,
said July 22. The government is forecasting 2 percent GDP growth
for this year and for 2012, down from earlier estimates of 3.1
percent and 3 percent respectively.  Hungary is targeting a 2.5 percent budget deficit next
year, compared with 4.3 percent in 2010 and a 2011 surplus after
the effective nationalization of private-pension funds and
temporary taxes on the energy, financial-services, retail and
telecommunications industries.  Fitch rates Hungary, the first EU member to receive an
 International Monetary Fund -led bailout in 2008, at the lowest
investment grade, the same as Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  