-- 
Hungary July Industry Output Growth Tops Economist Forecasts

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-09-07T09:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hungary-july-industry-output-growth-exceeds-economist-forecasts.html
Hungary’s industrial-output growth
in July beat economists’ forecasts as car production boosted
exports.  Production rose a workday-adjusted 2.7 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 1 percent in June, the  statistics office 
in Budapest said in a preliminary report today. The median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 1.8 percent.
Output rose 0.8 percent on the month after a 0.6 percent decline
in June.  “For the rest of the year, we expect a painfully slow
increase in the level of output,” Zsolt Kondrat, an economist
at Bayerische Landesbank AG, said today by e-mail from Budapest.
He forecasts industrial output growth of between 2 percent and 3
percent in the coming months and an average of 5.5 percent to 6
percent in 2011.  Exports to the euro-sharing region fueled Hungary’s
recovery from its worst recession in 18 years, propelling the
economy to the fastest growth since 2006 in the first quarter as
factories such as Audi AG and Nokia Oyj boosted production.
 Hungary ’s growth halted in the second quarter as the global
economic revival faltered, cutting demand for the nation’s
exports.  The forint rose 0.7 percent against the euro to 275.33 at
10:53 a.m. in Budapest.  Gross domestic product was unchanged from the first
quarter, the statistics office said in a preliminary report on
Aug. 16. The final data will be published tomorrow. The economy
expanded 1.5 percent from a year earlier, compared with 2.5
percent in the first quarter.  Car production posted stronger growth while
telecommunications equipment and electronic goods slumped in
July, Miklos Schindele, a statistician, told reporters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  