-- 
Hungary Fiscal Challenges, Risk May Delay Rate Cut, MNB Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-07T13:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hungary-fiscal-challenges-risk-may-delay-rate-cut-mnb-says-1-.html
Hungary ’s fiscal challenges and
economic vulnerability may prompt policy makers to “only
gradually” adjust monetary conditions to worse-than-forecast
growth and easing inflation, the central bank said.  The bank’s September inflation forecast, the government’s
budget steps and global economic management may influence
Hungary’s rate path, according to the minutes of its August
rate-setting meeting posted on the central bank’s  website  today.  “Potential difficulties in achieving the government’s
fiscal policy objectives might also require that monetary
conditions be adjusted only gradually to the slower recovery in
the economy and the reduction in inflationary pressure,” the
minutes said.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  announced yesterday
measures to erase part of a $1.8 billion budget hole, pledging
to cut next year’s deficit to below 3 percent of economic output
and reduce debt. Hungary will raise excise duties, halt public
procurements and collect more value-added tax to partially cover
this year’s budget gap.  The deficit resulted from lower-than-forecast economic
growth and a European Union ruling forcing Hungary to repay
about 250 billion forint ($1.27 billion) in VAT to companies.  Hungary originally targeted a budget shortfall of 2.94
percent of gross domestic product this year, before the
effective nationalization of private pension funds, which would
swing the budget into a surplus.  Lower Forecast  Last year, the government posted a deficit of 4.3 percent
of GDP, missing its 3.8 percent target. The goal for 2012 is a
shortfall of 2.5 percent.  The government lowered its 2011 growth forecast to 2
percent from 3.1 percent and sees the same figure in 2012,
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said yesterday.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 6 percent for a seventh month in August as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis weakened the forint and increased the
country’s credit risk.  “Members of the Monetary Council agreed that Hungary
continued to be among the countries vulnerable to crises and
therefore a deterioration in sentiment had an amplified impact
on risk premia on forint assets,” the minutes said.  The forint strengthened 0.3 percent to 276.7 per euro as of
2:49 p.m. in Budapest, paring its decline this quarter to 3.9
percent. Five-year credit-default swaps insuring against a
default on Hungary’s debt traded at 421.6 basis points, compared
with a low of 237 basis points in March.  Shift in Sentiment  Policy makers agreed that it was necessary to maintain the
 base rate  as Hungary was “particularly affected” by shifts in
investor sentiment, the minutes said. “Increased perceptions of
the risks associated with forint assets might continue to limit
the room for maneuver in interest rate policy.”  The council agreed that Hungary’s growth outlook
“significantly deteriorated,” with several members arguing
that the country might be facing a sustained decline in demand
and stagnating economic performance.  GDP was unchanged from the first quarter, the statistics
office said in a preliminary report on Aug. 16. The final data
will be published tomorrow. The economy expanded 1.5 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 2.5 percent in the first
quarter.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  