-- 
Hungary’s Central Bank Offers Plans to Aid Franc Borrowers

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-07T11:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hungary-s-mnb-says-offered-10-proposals-to-aid-franc-borrowers.html
The Hungarian central bank offered a
plan for the government to help foreign-currency borrowers
burdened with soaring repayments.  Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor presented 10
proposals to Economy MinisterGyorgy Matolcsy at a meeting
today, the bank said in an e-mailed statement. The points, which
the bank didn’t reveal, would “gradually” reduce the burden on
foreign-currency mortgage holders and protect financial
stability, the statement said.  “The central bank agrees that solutions to the problem
must be found in cooperation with lenders,” Magyar Nemzeti Bank
said in the statement. “But the burden-sharing of banks must
not endanger the long-term stability of the financial system,
which is one of the pillars of sustainable economic
development.”  Hungarian households are struggling to repay mortgages,
with two-thirds of loans denominated in Swiss francs, this
year’s best-performing currency. The franc has surged more than
31 percent against the forint in the past three years, boosting
homeowners’ monthly payments.  The central bank proposed last year the government draft
legislation limiting banks’ possibilities to unilaterally change
the interest rate on household loans.  ‘Arbitrary’ Rate-Setting  Lenders’ practice of “arbitrarily” setting  interest rates 
on credit products “hinders effective competition and has
ensured very high margins for banks even in international
comparison,” Simor said in a letter addressed to Matolcsy dated
Sept. 27, 2010.  Simor then called for regulations that would ensure that
interest on household loans is tied to a benchmark and the
interest premium can’t be raised.  The bank also proposed extending interest-rate periods on
loans to several years. Borrowers took out loans in the Swiss
currency before the global economic crisis to take advantage of
lower interest rates, with exchange rates at the time about 160
forint per franc or lower.  The government agreed with lenders in May to offer
household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance
to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint until the end of
2014. The difference between the fixed-rate payments and those
that would have resulted under actual exchange rates will be
recorded in separate forint accounts to be settled later.  Credit Regulations  The central bank also proposed last year that the
government ease regulations on credit refinancing for households
and for the creation of a database of credit-worthy borrowers.  There’s “no chance” the Swiss franc’s rate will return to
levels at which mortgages were taken out in the next eight to 10
years, which justifies further government measures to help
borrowers, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Sept. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  