-- 
Turkey Rules Out Recession; Dismisses BofA, Goldman Warnings

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-09-07T15:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/turkey-rules-out-possible-recession-dismisses-bofa-warning-2-.html
Turkish Industry Minister Nihat Ergun said the country will not fall into recession, dismissing
assessments from Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. that the economy is in danger of contracting.  A “technical recession” is out of the question and the
government will take measures, including steps to boost
employment and investment, to ensure any possible contraction is
avoided, Ergun told reporters in Istanbul today.  Turkey ’s central bank cut  interest rates  twice this year by
a total of 75 basis points, more than policy makers in any other
major economy. It has also taken measures to rein in the record
current account deficit, which has caused the lira to decline
the most in major emerging markets this year.  “The economic outlook of Turkey isn’t worrying,” Ergun
said. “We won’t allow the Turkish economy to enter a recession.
We will closely monitor international markets. The central bank
also has taken measures that are proven right to fight any
recession.”  The probability that Turkey will enter a recession is
almost half and a market consensus growth forecast for next year
of 4.5 percent is “way too optimistic,'' BofA Merrill Lynch
economist Turker Hamzaoglu said in an e-mailed report yesterday.
Expectations for recession have risen ‘‘across the board, and
remain particularly elevated in  South Africa  and Turkey,’’  Ahmet Akarli , a London-based economist for Goldman Sachs, wrote in an
emailed report after markets closed yesterday.  Incentives, Jobs  The government will complete review work on an existing
incentives package by the end of the year and start offering
investors an ‘‘improved set of incentives’’ at the start of
2012, Ergun said. The jobs package will incorporate a more
flexible working environment and encourage part-time work, he
said. It will also include help for employers, such as reducing
the financial burden of severance pay, he said.  Economic growth in Turkey surged 11 percent on an
annualized basis in the first quarter, faster than any other
developed economy. On a quarterly basis it expanded a seasonally
adjusted 1.4 percent. Second-quarter growth data is due on Sept.
12.  Stocks Rise  Turkish stocks rose 0.4 percent to 55,238.22 at 5:30 p.m.
in Istanbul. The lira fell 0.2 percent to 1.7627 per dollar,
increasing this year’s losses to 12.4 percent. Yields on two-
year benchmark bonds rose 12 basis points to 7.87 percent.  Concern about a slowdown in Turkey has increased after
recent economic data. HSBC’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to
48.8 last month from 52.3 in July, with a figure below 50
indicating a contraction, according to a report published on
Sept. 2. The reading was the lowest since April 2009, and
followed a decline in  consumer confidence  to 90.36 in a CNBC-e
monthly index for August. The reading was 100.38 in July.  The central bank is now more likely to ease monetary policy
because the economy is slowing at a faster pace, Morgan Stanley
chief economist for the region Tevfik Aksoy said last week from
 London . The bank next meets on rates on Sept. 20. The odds have
swung in favor of a ‘‘sharper downturn - even a full-blown
recession - next year,”  Capital Economics  said in an e-mailed
report from London on Aug. 23.  Quarter-on-quarter growth in the three months to June is
expected to be about zero, central bank governor Erdem Basci
said in July. Some economists define a recession as two
consecutive quarters of negative quarterly growth.  The expansion in GDP is likely to slow to below 5 percent
next year and it’s hard to predict the scale of the global
decline that may come from unresolved sovereign debt problems in
 Europe , Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 