-- 
Turkey Upgrade Depends on Growth and Inflation, Fitch Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-07T14:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/turkey-upgrade-depends-on-growth-and-inflation-fitch-says-1-.html
Turkey  must ensure “strong”
economic growth without high inflation in order to be upgraded
to investment grade status,  Fitch Ratings  managing director  Ed Parker  said.  An upgrade “depends on Turkey achieving strong growth
without high inflation,” Parker said on the sidelines of a
conference in  Frankfurt . The country’s public finances look
“very strong,” though there is concern about the need to
reduce the current account deficit, he said.  Fitch, which ranks Turkey one level below investment grade,
put the country under review for a possible upgrade at the end
of 2010 and will decide within “a couple of years” from then,
Parker said when asked about the timing of a decision.  Fitch’s considerations over the potential upgrade “have
not really changed,” he said.  Economists and business leaders raised their forecasts for
Turkish inflation to 6.83 percent from 6.77 percent over the
last two weeks, according to a fortnightly survey published by
the central bank.  The inflation rate increased to 6.7 percent in August from
6.3 percent the previous month, the statistics agency reported
on Sept. 5.  “Inflation is still quite high and above the central
bank’s target,” Parker said.  The central bank has aimed to stimulate growth this year
amid a global economic decline by cutting  interest rates  to a
record low while also keeping inflation under control even as
the lira has depreciated 12 percent against the dollar.  The current-account gap, a measure of the country’s balance
of imports and exports, reached a record $72.5 billion deficit
in the 12 months through June.  The shortfall, equal to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product, has driven the fall in the lira and represents a
significant imbalance that could lead to an “abrupt” drop in
growth, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Aug. 26.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net  