-- 
Turkey’s Clash With Israel Warrants a U.S. Reassessment: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r
-- 
2011-09-07T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/turkey-s-clash-with-israel-warrants-a-real-u-s-policy-reassessment-view.html
Turkey  has been a close ally of the
West for 60 years. But its reaction to an evenhanded United
Nations report on the May 31, 2010, flotilla clash should raise
serious concerns about its broader shift in direction.  This change became obvious when Israeli naval commandos
enforced their government’s blockade of Gaza by boarding a
mainly Turkish flotilla of six ships carrying pro-Palestinian
activists and non-military supplies. The flotilla was organized
by the Turkish humanitarian organization  Insan Hak ve
Hurriyetleri , which Israel has alleged to have ties to Hamas,
the terrorist organization that is the de-facto government in
Gaza. Nine people aboard the flotilla -- eight Turks and a
Turkish-American -- were killed. UN Secretary General Ban Ki- moon established a Panel of Inquiry and asked it to examine the
facts and recommend ways to avoid similar conflicts.  The UN has a well-deserved reputation for being biased
against  Israel . Not surprisingly, Israel originally opposed a UN
inquiry and threatened not to cooperate. Turkey welcomed it. To
his credit, Ban appointed a prominent, unbiased panel that
included Turkish and Israeli representatives.  On Sept. 2 the commission released a balanced  report  that
sided with Israel on most major points. The panel found that the
Israeli blockade of Gaza was a “legitimate security measure,”
and that “there exist serious questions about the conduct, true
nature, and objectives of the flotilla organizers, particularly
IHH.” The Israeli commandos used force for their own protection
after they faced “significant, organized and violent resistance
from a group of passengers,” but that forcibly boarding the
vessels without warning was “excessive and unreasonable” and
the loss of life was “unacceptable.”  Sensible Recommendations  The report also contained a number of sensible
recommendations, including a call for Turkish-Israeli
rapprochement on the basis of an Israeli “statement of
regret,” and an offer to pay compensation to the families of
those killed. The Obama administration tried to broker an
agreement between the two sides along those lines. Israel agreed
to express regret and pay compensation.  But negotiations floundered when Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  insisted that Israel issue a full apology
and then upped the ante by demanding that it also lift the naval
blockade of Gaza. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
refused both demands. Although we understand why Israel wasn’t
prepared to end the blockade, we believe it should have been
prepared to apologize for operational mistakes that cost lives.  Turkish Aspirations  Turkey aspires to be treated as a major power in the Middle
East, but since the report’s release its actions have been
inconsistent with that aspiration. Faced with a UN report that
was unexpectedly supportive of Israel, and Netanyahu’s adamant
refusal to apologize, Erdogan took a confrontational line that
has managed to make Netanyahu look statesmanlike by comparison.
Erdogan has curtailed Turkey’s relations with Israel, threatened
to seek international legal remedies for Israel’s policy toward
Gaza and warned that it would use its navy to “ensure freedom
of navigation in the eastern Mediterranean.”  The Israeli
government has tried to play down the dispute and reiterated its
interest in normal relations with Turkey.  For Israel the escalating war of words will have tangible
consequences. Turkey was once Israel’s closest friend in the
Muslim world, and they cooperated against terrorist groups and
other regional security threats.  Rupture With Israel  For Turkey the impact of a rupture with Israel may be less
direct. Both the Obama and Bush administrations have made
constructive relations with Turkey a priority. The U.S. strongly
supported Turkey’s accession to the European Union and lobbied
EU members on its behalf. Turkey’s positive image in the U.S.,
including in Congress, is largely based on its reputation as a
democratic, tolerant nation that is a force for moderation in
the  Middle East . This image has shielded Turkey from criticism
for its 37-year occupation of northern Cyprus and its denial of
the Armenian genocide. But Turkey’s diplomatic flap with Israel
could lead Americans and others to take a second look at where
Erdogan is headed. Such a policy review is overdue.  The secular Turkey that Kemal Ataturk created out of the
ruins of the  Ottoman Empire  has vanished. In its place is a new
Turkey that reflects the moderate Islamism embodied in Erdogan’s
 Justice and Development Party  (AKP). Erdogan and the AKP are not
jihadists, but neither are they liberal democrats or an Islamic
version of Europe’s  Christian Democrats . The AKP’s Islamic
identity means that Turkey’s foreign policy will be increasingly
nationalist, as the country becomes as willing to align with the
Islamic world as with the U.S. and  Europe . Under the AKP, Turkey
will no longer be the reliable NATO ally it once was.  Turkey is an increasingly important country. But as the
diplomatic crisis with Israel demonstrates, it is moving in
troubling new directions that were unimaginable a few years ago.
The U.S. and Europe need a revised policy that responds to the
new Turkey, not the Western-oriented country of the past.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 