-- 
Turkish Yields Rise Most in Six Weeks on Inflation, Rate Bets

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-07T16:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/turkish-lira-advances-versus-dollar-for-second-day-in-istanbul.html
Turkish yields rose the most in six
weeks after a report showed the country’s inflation forecast
increased, damping speculation the central bank will lower
 interest rates  further.  Yields on two-year government debt rose 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 7.87 percent, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi
index of the securities showed, the biggest gain since July 26,
at the 5 p.m. close in Istanbul. The benchmark yield fell 90
basis points last month, the most in almost two years, and the
lira tumbled to the weakest since 2009 after the central bank
unexpectedly cut rates on Aug. 4 on concern a slowdown in  Europe 
will hurt  Turkey ’s economy.  Forecasts for inflation in 12 months rose to 6.83 percent
compared with an estimate of 6.77 percent two weeks ago,
according to a central bank survey of economists and business
leaders today. In a meeting with economists and investors
yesterday, policy makers said the lira had depreciated enough,
broker Oyak Securities wrote in an e-mailed report.  “The market is pricing out the expected cuts for the rest
of the year after the central bank’s comments combined with the
higher inflation outlook,” Onur Aydogan, head of trading at ING
Bank AS in Istanbul, said by telephone.  The lira has weakened 3.8 percent against the dollar since
the rate reduction, extending its losses this year to 12
percent, the biggest loss among emerging markets.  The bank “definitely does not want the lira to weaken,”
 Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said in an e-mail. “They are worried that an interest rate
cut would cause the lira to weaken and raise inflation even
more.”  The lira weakened 0.1 percent to 1.7618 per dollar today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  