-- 
Hurricane Katia Churns in Atlantic Off Bermuda as Storm Develops in Gulf

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-07T12:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/hurricane-katia-weakens-off-bermuda-as-storm-develops-in-gulf.html
Hurricane Katia churned across
Atlantic waters between the U.S. East Coast and  Bermuda  while a
storm in  Mexico ’s Bay of Campeche has a 60 percent chance of
growing into a cyclone, the National Hurricane Center said.  Katia was about 310 miles (500 kilometers) southwest of
Bermuda with sustained winds of 90 miles per hour, a Category 1
hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale, the NHC said
today at 8 a.m. New York time. The second hurricane of the
Atlantic season is expected to pass between Bermuda and the
Eastern Seaboard, stirring up coastal surf, starting tonight.  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed as much as 1.6
percent today in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  ahead of an Energy Department report tomorrow that may
show inventories declined last week. Stockpiles fell 2.25
million barrels after Tropical Storm Lee shut production in the
 Gulf of Mexico , a Bloomberg News survey of analysts showed.  Mexico exported 1.1 million barrels of crude oil a day to
the U.S. in June, the third-largest supplier to American
consumers after  Canada  and  Saudi Arabia , according to the Energy
Information Administration.  The low-pressure system over the southwestern Gulf off the
Yucatan Peninsula is showing “signs of organization” and may
become a tropical depression in the next day, according to an
NHC outlook. An Air Force reserve hurricane hunter aircraft is
scheduled to investigate the storm system today.  ‘Near-Term Threat’  That system would have the greatest near-term threat to oil
and gas interests in the Gulf, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist at the commercial forecaster MDA EarthSat Weather
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “Some of the models say we’re going to see some
development down there,” Hartman said by phone yesterday.
“Basically, we’ve a model that’s historically done pretty well
telling us there’s going to be a storm there. If conditions go
along with that model forecast, that’s going to be a concern.”  The Bay of Campeche, where conditions are conducive for
spinning up strong storms, holds rigs and platforms owned by
 Petroleos Mexicanos . The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil
output and 6.5 percent of the country’s natural gas production.  A tropical storm watch has been posted for Bermuda, with
thunderstorms and strong winds forecast through the week as
Katia passes to the west, the  Bermuda Weather Service  said.  Tropical storm-force winds and as much as 2 inches (5
centimeters) of rain may lash Bermuda, the Miami-based NHC said.  “Little change in strength is forecast today, followed by
gradual weakening on Thursday,” the center said.  Tropical Depression Looms  Farther out in the Atlantic, Tropical Depression 14 is
moving west at 20 mph about 1,100 miles west-southwest of the
Cape Verde Islands, an NHC  bulletin  showed.  The system, which may become Tropical Storm Maria today, is
forecast to grow into a hurricane by the end of the week as it
nears  Puerto Rico , according to the center.  The systems are occurring some four days ahead the
statistical peak of  Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from
June through November. The Atlantic basin has been the scene of
31 named storms in the past 13 months, three more than in the
2009 and 2010 seasons combined, according to the NHC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  