-- 
Vale Says Sale of World’s Largest Ore Ships ‘Won’t Carry Loss’

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-09-07T11:22:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/vale-says-sale-of-world-s-largest-ore-ships-won-t-carry-loss-.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, said it won’t “carry a loss” from the potential
sale of its fleet of the biggest commodity carriers.  Vale may sell and lease back its 18 so-called very large
ore carriers, the company said Sept. 5. The ships are now valued
at $87.4 million each, according to VesselsValue.com, a unit of
Seasure Shipping Ltd., a London-based shipbroker. Vale said it
paid $133 million for 12 of the ships being built in  China . A
further six vessels ordered from  South Korea  cost $115 million,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  “We have no intention to carry a loss on an eventual
sale,” Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , wrote yesterday in an e-
mailed statement, without elaborating or commenting on the
valuation given by VesselsValue.com. “This is a financial and
commercial decision.”  Vale started buying ships and ordering new ones in 2008 and
2009, seeking to control its freight costs and better manage
iron-ore prices to compete with Australian suppliers to China,
the biggest market for the commodity used in steelmaking.  Chinese ship owners are lobbying the government to stop
Vale hauling ore on its own vessels, because it would allow the
mining company to control the freight market, Zhang Shouguo,
executive vice chairman of the China Shipowners Association,
said in an interview in July.  “Selling the vessels might be quite a neat solution,”
said Nigel Prentis, a London-based analyst at HSBC Shipping
Services Ltd.. “ Vale  might have met a blockage in China and
they can undo it, selling the ships so they are under Chinese
control.”  The decline in the value of the carriers would allow the
buyer to set lower freight rates when it leases the ships back
to Vale, allowing the mining company to recoup any loss on the
value of the vessels, Prentis said. The ships can each carry
about 400,000 metric tons of cargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  