-- 
Hayward’s Vallares to Acquire Iraq Fields in $2.1 Billion Genel Merger

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-09-07T12:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/vallares-agrees-to-merge-with-genel-in-2-1-billion-share-deal.html
Vallares Plc, the investment vehicle
led by  BP Plc (BP/) ’s former Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward ,
will merge with Turkey’s Genel Energy International Ltd. in a
$2.1 billion deal to gain  oil fields  in  Iraq ’s Kurdistan region.  The transaction will be completed as an all-share reverse
takeover and leave current holders of Vallares and Genel Energy
with equal stakes. The new company will trade in London as Genel
Energy Plc, headed by Hayward as CEO.  Vallares, a so-called “blank check” company founded by
Hayward, financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  and banker Julian Metherell, raised 1.35 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) from
investors in June. Today’s deal values Genel’s reserves at $5.90
a barrel, cheaper than all but one member of  London ’s FTSE 350
Oil & Gas Index. Genel produces 41,000 barrels a day, a figure
projected to reach 90,000 barrels by 2013.  “Genel has good assets and their fields were some of the
first on stream in Kurdistan,” said Doug Youngson, an analyst
at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd. in London. “The deal is good for
sentiment in the region.”  The company has proved and probable reserves of 356 million
barrels, a figure Hayward said would rise quickly given the
exploration potential of licenses held by Genel. The cost of
finding and developing the oil is low compared with other
regions of the world at between $2 and $4 a barrel, he said.  ‘World Scale’  “These are world scale producing fields,” Hayward said on
a conference call today. Kurdistan is one of the “last great
frontiers in the oil and gas industry, with low finding and
development costs, and proximate to significant markets.”  Genel will drill five exploration wells in the next year,
seeking total resources in excess of 750 million barrels,
according to the statement.  Vallares will issue new shares worth 10 pounds each to
acquire Genel. Former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker Metherell
will be chief financial officer. Rothschild will be a non-
 executive director .  Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Cazenove advised Vallares on the
transaction. Kurdistan’s regional government is expected to
approve the deal later this month, Vallares said.  Mehmet Sepil, Genel’s CEO and owner of 29 percent of its
shares, will become president of the new company. He will
nominate Murat Yazici to represent him on the board.  Sepil was fined a record 967,005 pounds by the U.K.
Financial Services Authority in February 2010 after he bought
and sold shares in joint venture partner Heritage Oil Plc using
inside information about successful drilling results.  ‘Genuine Mistake’  “If you refer to the FSA’s description of what occurred,
it was a genuine mistake,” Hayward said. “He didn’t recognize
he was infringing the rules. We have done extensive due
diligence and we are very satisfied this is a fit and proper
company.”  Mehmet Karamehmet, Genel’s current majority owner with 5
percent, will nominate his daughter, Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams, as a non-executive director. Sepil committed to retain
his holdings for 2 years and Karamehment for a year.  “That Hayward will run it is probably good for Genel, and
prudent given the management issues they’ve had in the past,”
Youngson said.  The company will be chaired by former BP executive and ex-
Petrofac Chairman Rodney Chase. Mark Parris, a former U.S.
ambassador to  Turkey , will become a non-executive director.  Hayward Comeback  Vallares was set up by Hayward, Metherell, Nathaniel
Rothschild and fellow financier Tom Daniel, contributing 100
million pounds between them. It marks a comeback for Hayward,
who left BP last year after the worst  oil spill  in U.S. history.  The founders are set to receive 6.67 percent of the
company’s share capital on completion of the Genel transaction,
valued at $286 million. Hayward contributed 8 percent of the
founders’ capital, putting him in line to receive $22.9 million
of shares. Rothschild contributed 80 percent, yielding him a
$100 million profit on his 80 million pound ($128 million)
investment.  The deal values Genel’s proved and probable reserves at
$5.90 a barrel, the second-lowest among  oil companies  on the
FTSE 350 index after JKX Oil and Gas Plc, a producer with assets
in the former  Soviet Union . Premier Oil Plc’s market
capitalization values its reserves at $8.90 a barrel, and Afren
Plc, which also has assets in Iraq, are valued at $18.15 a
barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  