-- 
VimpelCom CEO Looks to Play Role in Italy, Russia Consolidation

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-07T14:25:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/vimpelcom-says-could-do-further-m-a-for-in-market-consolidation.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the Russian wireless
carrier that bought Wind Telecom SpA this year, may participate
in further consolidation in its home market and in Italy during
the next 18 to 24 months.  “Russia and Italy are 70 percent of our business and there
are opportunities we will explore if they come up,” Chief
Executive Officer Jo Lunder said in an interview today.  Pakistan 
is another possibility for mergers, he said.  VimpelCom, Russia’s third-biggest mobile carrier by
subscribers, merged with Wind in April to add scale. The company
is now concentrating on improving efficiency and  cash flow  as
well as expanding revenue from data, Lunder said. VimpelCom
entered an auction for fourth-generation mobile broadband
spectrum in  Italy  and will seek 4G licenses in Russia, he said.  “Ten percent of our revenue is from data services and we
expect that to grow a lot,” Lunder said. “It would be very
tempting to just maximize short-term cash flow but we also have
a responsibility to build the platform for the future.”  VimpelCom, whose shares trade in  New York , is considering
options including an additional listing to broaden its investor
base, Lunder said, adding that a decision will be made later
this year. “It’s one of the highest priorities for us,” the
CEO said.  Djezzy Unit  The company is also seeking to retain ownership of Algerian
unit Djezzy, Lunder said. VimpelCom and Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE, Djezzy’s former owner, have been in a dispute with the
Algerian government over the unit for more than a year.  Algeria 
has ordered Djezzy to pay more than $800 million in back taxes.  VimpelCom, whose headquarters are in Amsterdam, has already
realized $1.6 billion of the $2.5 billion synergies projected
from the Wind merger, Lunder said. The company is also aiming to
bring down its debt, which led interest costs to more than
triple in the second quarter compared with last year, to $469
million.  Second-quarter net income fell 29 percent to $239 million
on currency hedges and consolidation of a unit in Vietnam, the
company said.  Operations outside Russia and Italy are  divided  for
strategic purposes into a growth group including Algeria, former
Soviet republics and the  Indian subcontinent , and a new business
group including  Canada , southeast Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
Units in the new business group may be candidates for future
divestments or investments, Lunder said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  