-- 
Virginia ‘Set-Aside’, EU Share Trading Data, Bank Liquidity: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-07T12:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/virginia-set-aside-eu-data-bank-liquidity-compliance.html
Virginia Governor Robert McDonnell’s
proposal to set aside $30 million to offset the impact of any
federal budget cuts is a positive step toward keeping the
state’s AAA credit rating, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Virginia, which receives the most federal funding per
capita after Alaska, is among five states that Moody’s said
could lose top bond rankings because of their reliance on U.S.
money.  On Aug. 18, McDonnell proposed using part of the state’s
$545 million budget surplus to mitigate any spending cuts
proposed by Congress. A committee of Democrats and Republicans
is charged with shaving $1.5 trillion from the federal budget
over the next decade.  Lisa Heller, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in the rating
company’s weekly outlook that the fund, a “part of the
governor’s strategy to counteract anticipated reductions in
federal spending, would be credit positive for the state.”  Compliance Policy  EU May Force Clearing Houses to Share Trading Data  The European Union may require exchanges to share
information with clearing houses operated by rival companies to
remove “commercial barriers” that hinder competition for
handling trades.  Trading venues should provide data access on a
“transparent and non-discriminatory basis,” according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. Banks and trading
facilities would also have to publicize “bid and offer prices
and the depth of trading interests” for bonds and derivatives,
to increase transparency in markets that were previously subject
to fewer regulations, according to the  European Commission 
document.  The measures are part of a wider overhaul by the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, of trading rules
for financial markets following the 2008 contraction in the
credit markets that followed the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The commission has also sought to curb naked
short-selling and trading in non-standardized derivatives.  The proposals “would prohibit discriminatory practices and
prevent barriers that may prevent competition for the clearing
of financial instruments,” according to the document dated Aug.
18. Greater competition would “lower investment and borrowing
costs.”  The commission declined to comment.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk of a trader defaulting. The
business is becoming more valuable amid tougher derivatives
trading regulation and a merger wave that has seen more than $20
billion of exchange takeovers announced in the past seven
months.  Canada Official Says G-20 Close on Final Rules for Big Banks  Group of 20 countries are close to agreeing on new
international rules for the world’s systemically important
banks, a Canadian finance department official said.  The official spoke to reporters yesterday on condition he
not be identified.  European Banks Under Assault in Markets Reminiscent of 2008  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., financial shares in  Europe  are under assault, the cost of
insuring bank debt is at records, and bankers see worrying
parallels to that time.  A Bloomberg index of European financial stocks fell as much
as 2.9 percent to the lowest level since March 2009, while a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other was at the
highest since April of that same year.  The chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Josef
Ackermann , said Sept. 5 market conditions remind him of late
2008, and urged lawmakers to act to avoid a repeat of the
financial crisis, which spawned the worst global recession since
the Great Depression. Investors have driven yields higher on the
bonds of  Greece , Portugal, Spain and Italy on doubts Europe’s
leaders will be able to stop the sovereign debt contagion.  The disarray in financial markets will raise pressure on
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
nations to take further steps when they meet in Marseille,
France, on Sept. 9 and 10.  The collapse of New York-based Lehman Brothers froze credit
markets and forced taxpayer-funded bailouts of banks from
 Washington  and  London  to Berlin. At that time, the concern was
over U.S. mortgage-backed securities. This time, it’s about the
bonds of Europe’s debt-ridden governments.  Many European banks “obviously” wouldn’t be able to
shoulder writedowns on sovereign debt held in their banking
books based on market values, Ackermann said.  For more, click here.  Basel Group Weighs ‘Unintended Consequences’ of Rules  Global bank regulators are examining planned liquidity
rules to guard against possible “unintended consequences” of
the measures designed to protect lenders from another credit
crunch.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has started a
second study into the likely impact of the liquidity rules and
asked banks to submit data to national supervisors to help
assess whether they should be revised, said Stefan Walter, the
secretary general of the group. The results will be given to
national watchdogs in the first quarter of 2012, he said.  The liquidity rules, which include requiring banks to hold
enough easily saleable assets to survive a 30-day credit crunch,
and to have minimum amounts of long-term stable funding, are
part of the last year’s Basel III deal to bolster the defenses
of the world’s financial system. At the end of 2009, lenders had
a 1.73 trillion-euro ($2.45 trillion) gap in the assets
necessary to meet one of the measures known as the liquidity
coverage ratio, LCR, according to an earlier Basel impact study
published in December.  The requirements have triggered unease among some banks and
regulators, which have warned that the range of assets that can
be used to satisfy the LCR is too narrow and overly focused on
 government bonds .  The Basel committee said in December that it would conduct
an “observation period” on the rule until mid-2013 and address
“unintended consequences as necessary.” The LCR is scheduled
to enter into force on Jan. 1, 2015.  For more, click here.  Danish Mortgage Group Warns on Liquidity Caps During Crisis  Denmark’s mortgage bankers group, which represents Europe’s
biggest covered-bond market backed by home loans, said plans to
impose liquidity rules will exacerbate financial market turmoil
amid signs the worst crisis since the Great Depression is far
from over.  Denmark has fought to change rules set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision that it says would penalize the
country’s $470 billion mortgage-bond market. In July, the
European Union agreed to ease Basel’s stance and base liquidity
assessments on tests instead of an asset’s class. Basel had
assigned sovereign debt a higher liquidity status than non-
government bonds. The rules are due to be implemented by 2015.  That may be too early. Denmark’s Local Bankers Group has
warned that the country’s financial crisis could last another
four years as government efforts to avert further insolvencies
are hampered by elections and Scandinavia’s slowest economic
recovery. Banks already face a liquidity squeeze as they
approach a 2013 expiry date on government bond guarantees, the
group’s Chairman Bent Naur said in an interview last month.  The chief executive officer of Deutsche Bank AG, Josef
Ackermann, said this week that market conditions remind him of
late 2008, and urged lawmakers to act to avoid a repeat of that
year’s crisis.  For more, click here, and see Basel bank liquidity story,
above.  Republicans Vow Opposition to U.S. Consumer Bureau Nomination  Senate Republicans hearing testimony from President Barack
Obama’s nominee to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
said they wouldn’t confirm anyone to run the agency without
changes to its structure.  Republicans have a “substantive disagreement” about how
the bureau functions under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory
overhaul, said Senator Richard Shelby, the top Republican on the
Senate Banking Committee, reiterating his opposition to the
nomination of Richard Cordray.  Forty-four Republican senators have vowed to block a
nominee unless the bureau is restructured to remedy what they
call a lack of accountability. The changes they are demanding
include the replacement of the director with a five-member
commission.  In the 100-member Senate, nominees generally need 60 votes
for confirmation.  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who chairs
the banking panel, accused Republicans of doing the bidding of
banks who lobbied against the agency’s creation.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Banks Cut Estimate for Funding Need After Rules Are Delayed  A bank lobbying group cut its estimate of financial
institutions’ funding needs in the next four years by 85 percent
after global regulators postponed implementation of new rules
and lending declined.  Banks worldwide will have to sell $816 billion of
additional long-term debt through 2015, according to a  study 
released by the  Institute of International Finance  in
Washington. That compares with the organization’s June 2010
estimate of $5.4 trillion.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, under pressure
from European and U.S. banks, delayed the effective date of a
long-term liquidity standard until 2018.  The liquidity rules didn’t exist until regulators and
central bankers from 27 nations that make up the Basel committee
completed them in December. The short-term standard requires
banks to have enough cash or easily cashable assets to meet debt
coming due in a month and the long-term rule aims to ensure
funding needs for the next 12 months are met through assets that
can be sold quickly.  The institute, whose 440 members include the world’s
largest banks, tweaked its estimate of the regulatory impact on
global growth. Tighter capital standards by the Basel committee,
as well as banking reforms passed in the U.S., U.K. and other
nations, will reduce gross domestic product by 3.2 percent in
the U.S., euro region and  Japan  by 2015, the institute said. Its
estimate last year was 3.1 percent.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Boerse-NYSE Deal Flouts German Rules, Professor Says  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext’s plan to merge
conflicts with German exchange rules and local authorities
should block the deal as a result, according to the author of a
legal opinion published yesterday.  Control and profit transfer agreements to create the
world’s largest owner of equities and derivatives markets are at
odds with  Deutsche Boerse ’s duty to operate the  Frankfurt Stock
Exchange , a report by Ulrich Burgard, a professor of business
law at the Otto-von-Guericke University of Magdeburg, found.  “The Exchange Supervisory Authority of the State of Hesse
therefore has no choice: It must prohibit the merger,” Burgard
said at a press conference in  Frankfurt , where he presented his
findings. The report was backed by Johannes Witt, who represents
the workers council on Deutsche Boerse’s supervisory board and
who called the press conference.  Witt last week called on German regulators to scrutinize
Deutsche Boerse’s takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , urging Hesse’s
Economy Ministry to evaluate the plan and saying it will damage
Frankfurt as a financial center. Deutsche Boerse is based in the
nearby town of Eschborn and needs approval for the merger from
the State of Hesse, which oversees the Frankfurt bourse and
grants the company its exchange licenses.  Deutsche Boerse, in an e-mailed response, said it “took
note” of the report and expects European Union antitrust
authorities to approve the merger at the end of the year.  For more, click here.  Georgia Commerce Buys Lenders as Failure Tally Climbs to 70  Georgia Commerce Bank, the Atlanta-based firm that caters
to small businesses, purchased two failed lenders as the tally
of U.S. closures this year rose to 70.  Georgia banking officials closed Woodstock-based CreekSide
Bank and Patriot Bank of Georgia in Cumming, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. said Sept. 2 on its  website . The two failures,
the 18th and 19th in the state this year, cost the deposit-
insurance fund $71.7 million.  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell about 49 percent from
the October 2007 peak through April, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Regulators have shuttered more than 390
lenders since the start of 2008, FDIC data show.  Georgia Commerce  picked up almost $208 million in deposits,
more than $250 million in assets and three branches, the FDIC
said.  For a table listing banks that have failed since 1934 and
their cost since 1986 in millions of dollars to the Deposit
Insurance Fund, click here. The data on the table is provided by
the FDIC.  Dutch Regulator Opta Starts Probe Into DigiNotar Certificates  Dutch telecommunications regulator Opta started an
investigation into the reliability of safety certificates of
Internet-safety company  DigiNotar BV , Harriet Garvelink, a
spokeswoman for Opta, said by telephone yesterday.  The Dutch government said Sept. 3 it no longer trusts
certificates issued by DigiNotar, a unit of Oakbrook Terrace,
Illinois-based  VASCO Data Security International Inc. (VDSI) , after an
attack by hackers.  SEC Seeking Comment on Rewriting Obsolete, Burdensome Rules  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking
comments on how it should review its securities rules in
response to a presidential order that agencies deal with
outmoded or unnecessarily burdensome regulations.  The SEC has opened a one-month public comment period “on
the process it should use to conduct retrospective reviews, such
as how often rules should be reviewed, the factors that should
be considered, and ways to improve public participation in the
rulemaking process,” the agency said in a statement yesterday.
The SEC said in its request that it isn’t looking for advice on
specific rules.  President Barack Obama issued a July 11 executive  order 
calling for independent agencies like the SEC to “consider how
best to promote retrospective analysis of rules” that may be
ineffective or burdensome.  Courts  Ex-AOL Finance Chief Kelly Settles SEC Suit for $260,000  Former  AOL Inc. (AOL)  finance chief John Michael Kelly agreed to
pay $260,000 to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
lawsuit claiming he helped overstate Internet advertising
revenue at the company.  The SEC sued eight former AOL executives in 2008, including
Kelly and another former chief financial officer, Joseph Ripp,
claiming they helped inflate revenue at the company by more than
$1 billion from 2000 to 2002.  In a judgment signed by U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon 
in Manhattan yesterday, Kelly agreed to turn over $200,000 in
profits he allegedly made from the scheme and pay a $60,000
penalty. Kelly didn’t admit or deny the allegations in agreeing
to settle.  AOL agreed in 2005 to pay $300 million to settle a related
investigation.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Kelly,
08-CV-4612, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Staley Says Banks Need ‘Harmonized’ Regulatory Framework  James Staley, head of investment banking at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , spoke at a conference in Frankfurt about banking
regulation, compensation and risk processes.  For more, click here.  Japan’s Regulator to Cooperate With Ministries, Jimi Says  Japan’s financial regulator will cooperate with the
country’s relevant ministries to monitor the market amid
concerns about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, said Financial
Services Agency Minister Shozaburo Jimi.  “Japan’s financial system is relatively strong and
stable,” said Jimi, speaking to the press in  Tokyo  yesterday.
“We will monitor closely the global impact on Japan’s financial
system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 