-- 
Vodka, Mariachis, Hot Pink Woo Shopper at New York Fashion Week

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/vodka-mariachis-hot-pink-woo-shopper-at-new-york-fashion-week.html
After an earthquake and a hurricane,
 New York Fashion Week  wants to change the subject.  “Everyone is talking about patterns and prints, new takes
on dots, stripes and florals,” said Ken Downing, the fashion
director of  Neiman Marcus . “A new animal on the scene will be
zebra.”  And the preferred hue for a nation swimming in red ink?  “The designers I’ve spoken to highlighted the importance
of color in their collections, led by shocking, hot pink,”
Downing said.  About 300 designers will show spring/summer collections at
citywide venues from Sept. 8 to Sept. 15. The weak economy again
is a major challenge. U.S. apparel sales grew just 1.1 percent
to $193 billion for the 12 months through July 2011, according
to market researcher NPD Group Inc.,  Port Washington , New York.  “Designers must bring the excitement and passion back,”
said  Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst at NPD. “The
industry has become so risk averse; they have bored the consumer
to death.”  The main event,  Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week , has 98
designers from  China  to  Guatemala  trotting out their zebras and
florals in tents at  Lincoln Center’s Damrosch Park . Fashion
veterans Diane von Furstenberg and  Ralph Lauren  will be joined
by newbies with understated lines like  Pink Tartan  and  Electric
Feathers .  “The thing that designers have to do is know who their
customers are and inspire them,” said  Fern Mallis , fashion
industry consultant.  Free Booze  Or befuddle them. Free booze and unavoidable DJs are among
the come-ons when more than 1,000 stores stay open until 11 p.m.
on Sept. 8 for Fashion Night Out.  Absolut Vodka  will sponsor an event at Nicole Miller, which
will donate 15 percent of the night’s proceeds to Indego Africa.
The fair-trade organization works with woman artisans in  Rwanda .  Luxury designer  Helen Yarmak , whose furs appeared in “The
Devil Wears Prada,” will offer fox and sable along with animal-
skin vests and ponchos in lime green, ruby red and midnight
blue.  The ponchos might work well at Oscar de la Renta’s Madison
Avenue boutique, which will feature live mariachi music.  Designer  Bibhu Mohapatra  said he drew inspiration from the
dominance-submission message in some of Alexander McQueen’s
creations. The late designer’s exhibition at the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art this year drew 661,509 visitors.  Helmut Newton  At Mohapatra’s Manhattan studio a wall was speckled with
arresting imagery by photographer Helmut Newton. Vixens in
minimal garb and provocative poses alluded to hard-core bondage.
Mohapatra attached cut-out words, including “passion,”
“sensual” and “empowering,” among the images to highlight
the feelings he wanted to convey with his new collection of
clashing sheer tulle and solid black grids.  The cost of empowerment ranges from $700 to $8,000 at
 Neiman Marcus  and  Bergdorf Goodman .  “The consumer is definitely aware of the economic
environment,” Mohapatra said. “She looks at clothes as an
investment. It has to be special enough to commit to at that
price point.”  Yara Flinn, who designs for  Nomia  and is showing for the
first time at the  Lincoln Center  tents, appreciated McQueen’s
boldness. “As a designer you have to push yourself and not just
please the stores,” she said  For her debut, she pushed herself away from the subdued
colors she typically favors and into a palette inspired by
Georgia O’Keeffe’s Southwest, rich in red, blue and ochre. Her
neutral this time will be white.  “For the first time, there’s no black,” she said, no
accounting pun intended.  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 