-- 
Walter Energy Jumps After Report Anglo, BHP Mulling Bids

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-09-07T21:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/walter-energy-jumps-after-report-anglo-may-be-considering-a-bid.html
Walter Energy Inc. (WLT) , a producer of
steelmaking coal in southern Appalachia, jumped as much as 30
percent after the London-based Times said  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  may
be considering a takeover bid.  Anglo is said to be weighing a $120-a-share offer, the
Times said in its market report without citing anyone.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is also interested in Walter, the Times said.  Walter rose $15.99, or 21 percent, to $90.98 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
pared gains after Walter said in a statement it isn’t aware of
any “corporate developments” to account for the price
increase. The stock earlier touched $97.30, the biggest intraday
gain since March 8, 1995.  Walter, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , hasn’t hired a
permanent chief executive officer since Keith Calder resigned
June 30. He stepped down about two months after he was appointed
to the position, following Walter’s takeover of Canada’s Western
Coal Corp., where he was the CEO. Investor Audley Capital
Advisors LLP said in July that the company should explore a
sale.  “Met coal assets are still in high demand,”  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst with Brean Murray Carret & Co., wrote in a
research note today. Metallurgical coal, also known as coking
coal, is used to produce steel while utilities use thermal coal
to generate electricity.  Takeover Bids  Walter said it issued the statement in response to a
request from the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of
 Canada  on behalf of the Toronto Stock Exchange. The company said
it doesn’t intend to comment further.  Surging demand from steelmakers in  China  and flood-related
supply disruptions in Queensland, Australia, have driven prices
for coking coal to record highs. Low-volatility metallurgical
coal rose to $291 a ton, Energy Publishing Inc. said in its
latest weekly report, published Sept. 2. It touched $330 a ton
in February.  There were $20.15 billion of takeover bids for coal-mining
companies valued at $100 million or more in the first nine
months of this year, compared with $7.06 billion in the year-
earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the biggest U.S. coal producer, and
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, in August agreed
to buy Macarthur Coal Ltd., a Brisbane, Australia coking-coal
producer, for A$3.64 billion ($3.88 billion).  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc. (ANR)  became the world’s third-largest producer of
coking coal with a $7.1 billion takeover of Massey Energy Co. in
January.  Offer Unlikely  Anglo isn’t likely to make an offer for Walter, mainly
because the U.S. company’s coal reserves aren’t in a suitable
location for export by sea, London-based investment bank Liberum
Capital said today in a note.  Citigroup Inc. also saw an offer as unlikely, “due to
limited potential synergies,” and because the multiple of 5.5
times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization is low compared with recent deals in the sector,
Brian Yu, a San Francisco-based analyst wrote in a note today.  Anglo, which is based in  London , also declined to comment
in an e-mail. Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based
BHP, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  