-- 
Wealthy Investors Stick to Hedge Funds Even With 3.4% Returns

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-09-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/wealthy-investors-keep-paying-hedge-fund-fees-even-with-anemic-returns.html
Almost half of Leslie Quick’s
personal portfolio is dedicated to  hedge funds , a position he’s
increased this year even as the lightly regulated asset pools
have returned less than 4 percent.  “I think we’re coming into a period where stock picking
will be richly rewarded after returns that were anemic,” said
Quick, 58, a founding partner of Morristown, New Jersey-based
Massey, Quick & Co. LLC, an investment advisory firm with about
$3 billion in assets under management. “When the volatility
really started about a month ago, I walked away from the office
with a real sense of calm.”  Wealthy investors like Quick are staying with hedge funds
for protection from the market turmoil that sent the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index up or down by at least 4 percent for four
consecutive days last month, said David Donabedian, chief
investment officer of Atlanta-based Atlantic Trust, the  wealth
management  unit of  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)   Almost 90 percent of 151 single-family office directors
surveyed in the first quarter by Rothstein Kass, an accounting
and advisory firm in Roseland, New Jersey, said they’re likely
to put additional money in hedge funds this year. About 85
percent of the single-family offices surveyed in the study were
already invested in hedge funds.  New money put into hedge funds by institutional and
individual investors totaled about $32 billion in the first
quarter of 2011 and almost  $30 billion  in the second quarter,
making it the strongest half year since 2007, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  ‘Good Middle Ground’  “With the high volatility in the equity market and low
income to be earned in the high quality fixed-income market, a
lot of investors view hedge funds as good middle ground,” said
Donabedian, whose firm oversees $17 billion in assets and builds
customized portfolios of single-strategy hedge funds for
clients.  Hedge funds gained 3.4 percent this year through August,
according to the Bloomberg aggregate hedge-fund index. That
compares with a 3 percent decline for the  S&P 500  during the
same time period. The main Bloomberg hedge-fund index is
weighted by market capitalization and tracks 2,804 funds, 1,238
of which have reported returns for August.  Wealthy investors who put money in hedge funds face high
fees, usually a 2 percent management fee and a 20 percent
performance fee, and a lack of transparency and liquidity, said
Stephen Horan, head of private wealth management for the  CFA
Institute  in Charlottesville, Virginia.  Pro’s Game  “This last subscription period was one of our best months
ever,” said  Uri Landesman , president of New York-based Platinum
Partners, which has about $1 billion in assets. Eighty percent
of those assets come from high-net-worth investors and family
offices, Landesman said.  “When the market is moving uni-directionally, people don’t
feel like they need to bring in managers of our caliber who
charge our fees,” said Landesman. “With significant doubts
about where the markets are going and volatility being
introduced, investors correctly are saying this is a game for
the pros.”  Wealthy investors are attracted to hedge funds because they
generally have low correlation to the market and can enhance the
risk-adjusted returns of portfolios, said Mallory Horejs,
alternative investments analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  “Effective hedging can enable you to remain invested at a
higher level, but enable you to sleep at night because you won’t
get whipsawed by the volatility and market corrections,” said
Michael Tiedemann, chief investment officer of New York-based
Tiedemann Wealth Management, whose average client has about $65
million in investable assets and advises $6.5 billion in total.  Liquidity Issues  Macro events such as the European sovereign debt crisis
have made markets more volatile, which makes hedge funds
important for high-net-worth investors to include in their
portfolios because of their diversification benefits, said
Darrell Cronk, regional chief investment officer in the New York
office of Wells Fargo Private Bank, which manages $210 billion
in assets. “Alternative assets are more critical now than
ever,” Cronk said.  Wealthy investors are putting money in hedge funds even
though they’re still scarred from liquidity issues during the
financial crisis, according to Atlantic Trust’s Donabedian,
who’s based in Baltimore. Some hedge-fund managers such as
 Philip Falcone  of Harbinger Capital Partners LLC declined to
give investors all of their money back in 2008 because that
would have meant divesting hard-to-sell assets at bargain
prices. Harbinger has yet to sell some of those positions almost
three years later.  ‘In the Doghouse’  “You have to ask, ‘Why is new money flowing into an asset
class that was in the doghouse?’” said David Frame, head of
alternative assets at J.P. Morgan Private Bank in New York. In
2008, hedge funds declined 19 percent compared with the S&P
500’s 38 percent drop, according to Bloomberg data. Hedge-fund
returns were 9 percent in 2009 and 8 percent in 2010, Bloomberg
data show.  Almost a quarter of members of a peer investment group
surveyed said the investment that didn’t work out as they had
expected was hedge funds, according to a study in the first
quarter. The group, Tiger 21, has about 180 members, with
collective assets of $15 billion. Quick, the hedge-fund investor
in  New Jersey , is a member of Tiger 21.  The majority of hedge-fund assets were traditionally held
by ultra-wealthy individual investors before being eclipsed by
institutions, such as pension funds and endowments.
Institutional investors made up 61 percent of hedge-fund assets
as of the first quarter of 2011 compared with 44 percent in
2008, according to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.  $1 Million Threshold  Individuals who want to invest in hedge funds must
generally have at least $1 million in net worth under the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s  rules . Some hedge funds may
require individual investors to have at least $5 million in
investable assets.  Quick said he and his partners at Massey, Quick & Co. have
invested more than $100 million of their own money in hedge
funds. When selecting hedge funds, he looks for those that have
low leverage, less than $3 billion in assets, and whose managers
have a significant amount of their own money invested in the
fund, he said.  Cynical Investors  Not all investors are comfortable putting more money in
hedge funds. Alan Zafran, co-founder of Los Angeles-based
Luminous Capital investment advisory firm, which manages $4.6
billion for about 300 families, said he’s seeing some of his
clients’ interest in hedge funds wane after reaching a peak
about four months ago.  “They hire hedge-fund managers under the premise that
sophisticated individuals can navigate turbulent markets, but
ironically, when markets become turbulent, investors want to
have a greater sense of control over the process,” Zafran said.  Investors who continue to put money in hedge funds have
become more cynical and changed the way they approach them
following the 2008 rout and disappearance of 1,471 funds, said
Tiedemann, who’s also chief executive officer of Tiedemann
Investment Group, which is a multimanager hedge-fund platform.  Funds with less than $1.5 billion have started to become
more attractive to individual investors since some larger funds
have struggled with lackluster returns, and the smaller funds
tend to be more nimble, which enables them to take advantage of
the current environment, Tiedemann said. Hedge funds managing
from $500 million to $1 billion of assets brought in $4.7
billion in the first quarter and those with less than $5 billion
increased assets overall by $16.3 billion in the first quarter,
according to Hedge Fund Research.  Smaller Funds  “Nirvana is a fund that has about $200 million to $1
billion, at least a three-year audited track record, and is
under the umbrella of a strong, stable operation,” Luminous’s
Zafran said.  There will be a “mass exodus” from young upstart firms
that lose as much or more than the equity market if the market
continues to struggle, said Peter Rup, chief investment officer
of New York-based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, who has increased
his clients’ hedge-fund allocation to as much as 35 percent this
year from 20 percent.  In terms of the preferred hedge-fund strategies among
individual investors, once all funds’ returns for August are
published, hedge-fund managers’ different approaches will be
tested and investors will gravitate to those that stand apart,
Tiedemann said.  Frustration With Stocks  Wealthy investors who can afford to are more likely to put
money directly in hedge funds instead of going through fund of
funds since some fund of funds were tainted by scandal related
to Bernard L. Madoff, poor performance and a high rate of
failure during the financial crisis, said  Stephen Brown , a
finance professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of
Business. Fund of funds lost 21 percent in 2008, according to
Hedge Fund Research Inc.’s Fund of Funds Composite Index.  Outflows from fund of funds reporting to Morningstar’s
Hedge Fund database were $165 million in June compared with
inflows of $7.2 billion in June 2007, Morningstar data show.
Investors who have less than $5 million to invest in hedge funds
may still be best served by going through fund of funds to
mitigate risk, said Donabedian of Atlantic Trust.  Frame of J.P. Morgan Private Bank said liquidity is more of
a concern now for clients than it was pre-crisis and allocation
to alternative assets is about a third because “our clients
need to be able to access money for certain life events.” The
hedge-fund industry has responded to that issue and become less
levered and more likely to put money in underlying investments
that are easier to buy and sell, Frame said.  Despite the concerns, the frustration with returns of very
liquid investments, such as stocks, will continue to result in
more interest in hedge funds, according to Frame.  “In 2008, people were disappointed with hedge funds, but
the people who only had equities wished they had been in hedge
funds,” said Frame. “They’re the ones who are changing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 