-- 
Weight Watchers Beats Doctors for Weight Loss

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-07T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/weight-watchers-helps-obese-lose-more-than-doctors-treatment-in-study.html
Weight Watchers, which helped singer
Jennifer Hudson and British royal  Sarah Ferguson  slim down by
assigning points to the food they eat, works better than the
local doctor in a new study.  Patients shed double the weight on Weight Watchers than on
a standard program run by health professionals in a 12-month
study published in the medical journal  The Lancet  today. Those
who completed the study lost an average 6.7 kilos (14.8 pounds)
on Weight Watchers, compared with 3.3 kilos on standard care.  The study, funded by New York-based Weight Watchers and
conducted independently by the U.K.’s  Medical Research Council ,
also showed those enrolled in the commercial program continued
to lose weight longer after the end of the test. Susan Jebb, the
lead investigator, said she expected similar results from both
groups and was surprised by the difference.  The trial included 772 overweight and obese adults in
 Australia ,  Germany  and the U.K. Participants benefited from
features of  the Weight Watchers program , including the regular
weigh-ins, advice about physical activity and group support,
according to the study’s authors. They were also more likely to
continue eating a variety of foods, doctors said.  Participants are “learning skills they can use for
managing their weight,” said Paul Aveyard of the School of
Health and Population Sciences at the University of Birmingham
in  England , who co-wrote an accompanying comment in The Lancet.
“Without that support system, it’s difficult to know.”  Lifestyle Advice  Weight Watchers International Inc. (WTW) , the world’s largest
seller of diet programs, teaches participants to assign points
to the food they eat, based on fat and calories, and sets a
target of points they can’t exceed in a day. They are encouraged
to attend regular meetings with fellow weight-watchers where
food and physical activity are discussed. They are also weighed
regularly so they can track their progress.  “In many countries, Weight Watchers sees thousands of
people each week and the capacity to deliver lifestyle advice is
greater than with health-care professionals, who are often over-
stretched and find it difficult to allocate additional time for
weight management,” Jebb wrote in an e-mail.  Weight Watchers has had a relationship with the U.K.’s
 National Health Service , the state-funded medical system, for
seven years, said Zoe Hellman, the company’s head of Dietetics
and Health Policy, in an interview. Weight Watchers funded the
study to show how governments can use commercial programs to
help reduce obesity, Hellman said.  Obesity Costs  "The health care implications and costs of obesity they
simply can’t manage on their own," she said. "We’re across
countries. All health-care agencies have to do is tap into it."  The study investigators found that participants on Weight
Watchers were three times as likely to lose at least 5 percent
of their body weight compared with those on standard care.
Weight loss continued for about nine months in the Weight
Watchers group, compared with only about four months in the
standard group, according to Jebb.  Greater  weight loss  reduces the risk for diabetes and
cardiovascular disease and patients in the Weight Watchers group
showed more improvement in insulin and cholesterol levels, Jebb
said.  The affordability of Weight Watchers, at between 50 pounds
($80) and 60 pounds for 12 weeks, makes including it in
publicly-funded health-care programs “intuitively appealing,”
Aveyard and colleague Kate Jolly wrote in the linked comment.  “This evidence proves what we have believed for some time
-- that Weight Watchers is a highly effective complement to
usual primary care,” Karen Miller-Kovach, chief scientific
officer at Weight Watchers, said in a statement. “It seems that
there is something very powerful in health professionals and
Weight Watchers working together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 