-- 
West Africa Central Bank to Spur Jobs, Growth, Governor Says Before MPC

-- B y   D r e w   H i n s h a w
-- 
2011-09-07T11:08:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/west-africa-central-bank-must-act-to-reduce-unemployment-governor-says.html
The  Central Bank of West African
States  must take action to help spur jobs and economic growth in
the region, Governor Tiemoko Meyliet Kone said before a meeting
to decide on interest rates.  Member states of the West African monetary union, which
includes Senegal,  Ivory Coast  and Mali, expect the  central bank 
to support “strong and inclusive economic growth, indispensable
for reducing youth unemployment,” Kone told reporters in
Senegal’s capital, Dakar, today.  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will probably
keep its marginal lending rate unchanged at 4.25 percent and the
open market rate at 3.25 percent today to help support economic
growth in the region, said Samir Gadio, an emerging-markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  “The CFA zone is basically coming out of a serious macro-
economic and political shock,” Gadio said in a telephone
interview from  London  yesterday, referring to the CFA-franc
currency that is used by the eight members of the central bank.  Ivory Coast is recovering from a violent post-election
crisis that may see its economy, the biggest in the union,
contract by 5.8 percent this year, according to the Finance
Ministry. Inflation in the region is forecast by the central
bank to slow to 3.6 percent in the third quarter from 4.8
percent in the previous three months. The inflation rate was 3.9
percent in June.  “With the end of the crisis, new challenges face us,”
Kone said. “Challenges to which we must give strong and
innovating responses.”  Other members of the Economic and Monetary Union of West
Africa are Niger, Togo, Benin,  Burkina Faso  and Guinea-Bissau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Hinshaw in Johannesburg at 
 dhinshaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  