-- 
Two Swedish Journalists Charged With Terrorism in Ethiopia, Minister Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-07T14:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/two-swedish-journalists-charged-with-terrorism-in-ethiopia-minister-says.html
Ethiopia  charged two Swedish
journalists with terrorism after detaining them in July with
rebels in the Ogaden region, State Minister of Communications
Shimeles Kemal said.  Johan Persson and Martin Schibbye appeared in court
yesterday, Shimeles said in a telephone interview from
Ethiopia’s capital,  Addis Ababa , today. Prosecutors have a video
showing the journalists handling guns, he said.  “They have entered the country with a bunch of
terrorists,” the minister said. “They have even taken weapons
training. Their activity is a bit more than mere journalistic
activity.”  The journalists will be tried for engaging in terrorism,
assisting a terrorist organization and entering the country
illegally, Shimeles said. They were detained with members of the
Ogaden National Liberation Front, which has been fighting since
1984 for self-determination of Ogaden, located in a province
that borders Somalia.  The Swedish Foreign Ministry hasn’t received official
notification of the charges, Teo Zetterman, a spokesman for the
department, said in a telephone interview from  Stockholm  today.  Ethiopia also brought terrorism charges against two ONLF
members and three other journalists, including Elias Kifle, who
runs the Washington-based Ethiopian Review website and Woubshet
Taye, the deputy editor of the Addis Ababa-based Awramba Times.  “He is innocent, everybody is innocent, it is clear,”
Awramba Times’s editor, Dawit Kebede, said in a phone interview
today. “I believe it’s a systematic way to put pressure on our
newspaper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  