-- 
Yahoo Must Keep Bartz’s Strategy of Seeking ‘Most Value’ for Alibaba Stake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-07T20:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/yahoo-must-continue-bartz-s-alibaba-stake-strategy-analysts-say.html
Yahoo! Inc.’s new chief executive
officer should keep the strategy of Carol Bartz, fired yesterday,
in resisting attempts by Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. to end their
venture, analysts said.  “Yahoo is not desperate for cash, so for the new CEO to
give up the stake in Alibaba for anything less than a fair price
won’t go down well with Yahoo shareholders,” said Michael Clendenin, managing director at research company RedTech
Advisors in Shanghai. “And it won’t keep him around for long.”  Disposing of the Chinese company’s shares would deprive
Yahoo of the benefits from a possible listing of Alibaba’s
Taobao, China’s biggest online shopping site, Clendenin said.
Yahoo started the search yesterday for a successor to Bartz, who
turned down Alibaba’s bids to buy back stock held by the U.S.
shareholder, saying she wanted “the most value” from a deal.  Renewed efforts by Alibaba to buy back shares held by Yahoo,
its largest investor, may hamper the new CEO’s attempts to
repair a relationship that further soured over a dispute about
the ownership of the Alipay online payment business this year.  In 2005, Alibaba Group sold a stake of about 40 percent to
Yahoo for $1 billion and ownership of Yahoo’s Chinese unit. The
Hangzhou, eastern China-based company now operates e-commerce
businesses including Alibaba.com and Taobao.com, in addition to
Yahoo’s local website.  ‘Tremendous Dilemma’  “It’s a tremendous dilemma,” said Mark Natkin, managing
director at research company Marbridge Consulting Ltd. in
Beijing. “If the company has great prospects, you don’t really
want to sell out. So it’s a question of how much pain you have
to endure going forward.”  Yahoo would want to stay invested in Alibaba until one or
more of its units do initial public offerings, he said.  Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba is worth $11.45 a share, according
to estimates by Thornburg Investment Management last month.
Yahoo rose 70 cents, or 5.4 percent, to close at $13.61 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  John Spelich, a spokesman for closely held Alibaba,
declined to comment on Bartz’s leaving. Lisa Tam, a spokeswoman
at Yahoo in Hong Kong, declined to immediately comment.  Alibaba expects there to be more opportunities for it to
buy back shares held by Yahoo in the future, Joseph Tsai,
Alibaba’s chief financial officer, said in May.  Falling Sales  Bartz, 63, whose tenure was marked by falling sales and
lost share to rivals such as Google Inc. and Facebook Inc., was
terminated by Chairman Roy Bostock by telephone. The Sunnyvale,
California-based company announced a strategic review aimed at
helping revive growth at the most-visited U.S. Web portal, and
said Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse will be interim CEO.  Taobao, wholly owned by Alibaba, accounts for about 90
percent of China’s consumer-to-consumer e-commerce market, which
may generate 628 billion yuan ($98 billion) of transactions this
year, 44 percent more than a year earlier, according to
RedTech’s Clendenin.  Alibaba reorganized Taobao in June. Alibaba Chief Executive
Officer Jack Ma said at the time the group “won’t rule out the
possibility” of going public, and Spelich said today he had no
update about those comments.  Alibaba ended talks with Yahoo on the share buyback in June
2010, Spelich said last year. The breakdown in talks caused a
“loss of confidence” in Yahoo, Ma said in May.  Compensation Agreement  In July, Alibaba said it reached an agreement with Yahoo
and another shareholder, Japan’s Softbank Corp., over
compensation accruing to the spinoff of the Alipay affiliate,
China’s most-used online-payment operator. The accord ended a
four-month dispute centered on the 2010 transfer of Alipay to a
private company owned by Ma, a transaction that Yahoo said
lacked board approval.  “The damage to the relationship is already done,” said
RedTech’s Clendenin.  Softbank spokesman Takeaki Nukii declined to comment when
reached by phone today.  Bartz’s departure will only have a positive impact on
Alibaba if Yahoo is able to find a CEO who can revive the
company to its former stature, said Allen Weiner, an analyst at
research company Gartner Inc.  “A new leader who has that sort of vision would be a
person who understands the power of a global footprint and how
to make the pieces of an international media company work
together,” Weiner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  