-- 
Yuan Falls on Weaker Reference Rate, Global Growth Concerns

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-07T02:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/yuan-falls-on-weaker-reference-rate-global-growth-concerns.html
China ’s yuan weakened for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak since January, on speculation
policy makers will rein in appreciation as inflation cools and
the global economic recovery shows signs of faltering.  The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate 0.03
percent lower at 6.3968, weakening it for a fourth day against
the dollar. The central bank may loosen monetary policy by a
“certain amount” in coming months as inflation cools, China
Securities Journal said in a commentary today. President  Hu Jintao  said global financial markets are becoming more volatile,
the People’s Daily reported today.  “As consumer-price gains may ease in the second half, the
need for faster yuan appreciation is less,” said Tommy Ong,
senior vice-president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank ( Hong
Kong ) Ltd. “A more uncertain outlook for China’s exports also
makes an acceleration of yuan gains unlikely.”  The yuan weakened 0.03 percent to 6.3926 per dollar as of
10:18 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent
on either side of the central bank’s daily fixing and earlier
touched 6.3933, the lowest it’s been since Aug. 25.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.04
percent to 6.3623 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards fell 0.06 percent to 6.2923, a 1.6 percent premium to
the onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro area’s economic recovery lost momentum in the
second quarter as governments imposed austerity measures in a
bid to tackle a sovereign debt crisis, according to data
released yesterday. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of shares declined 5.5
percent in the past week as U.S. data showed jobs growth in the
world’s biggest economy unexpectedly stalled in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  