-- 
Zapatero Sacrifices Party for Cuts as Spain Debt Beats Italy: Euro Credit

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-07T08:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-07/zapatero-sacrifices-party-as-spain-debt-beats-italy-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is sacrificing his Socialists’ hold on power
at the altar of austerity.  The Socialist premier, whose constitutional amendment to
ban budget deficits goes to the Senate today, has helped push
Spanish bond yields to the lowest in two years relative to
Italian rates. His rollback of the social safety net, along with
a jobless rate of 20.9 percent, has made People’s Party
candidate Mariano Rajoy the favorite to win Nov. 20 elections,
polls show.  While Zapatero sticks to budget cutting, his Italian
counterpart,  Silvio Berlusconi , clings to office as he retreats
on austerity measures demanded by the  European Central Bank  as a
condition for support. The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian
bonds last month to prevent the debt crisis from infecting the
euro region’s third- and fourth-biggest economies.  “There’s a sense in Spain that at least there’s a proper
and timely reaction,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief economist at
Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “Zapatero, knowing that his
political career is nearly over, is ready to do whatever it
takes to appear as  Europe ’s good pupil.”  Zapatero, 51, who isn’t seeking re-election, has focused on
persuading markets Spain can avoid following Greece, Ireland and
 Portugal  into a bailout. Spanish 10-year borrowing costs were 29
basis points below those of  Italy  today, after declining to the
least in two years yesterday. Investors had demanded higher
yields to hold Spanish debt over Italian bonds from May 2010, as
Italy was perceived as a less risky bet, until Aug. 5.  Widening Gap Seen  The spread may widen, said  Harvinder Sian , a fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. He
said he has an “initial target” of 50 basis points for the
gap, which he may extend “if Italy doesn’t do its homework.”  Zapatero’s constitutional budget measure, which follows
moves to cut public wages, freeze pensions and axe a subsidy for
new mothers, is undermining efforts by Socialist candidate
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba to hold his base and woo the so-called
indignant ones who have organized demonstrations across the
country since May.  Zapatero’s move to enshrine “the principle of budget
discipline” in the constitution prompted protests by unions and
a rebellion in the Socialist party. Antonio Gutierrez, a
lawmaker and former union leader, said the measure was
“political suicide.” Thousands of protesters marched in  Madrid 
last night against the amendment, which the Senate is due to
vote on today.  The opposition PP would win 47.1 percent of the vote if
elections were held now, compared with the Socialists’ 32.3
percent, giving it an outright majority in Parliament, according
to a poll published by  El Mundo  on Sept. 4. That 14.8
percentage-point lead compares with a gap of 3.2 percentage
points in November 2009, according to the newspaper.  Taking Photo Down  “As a leftist, you have to talk about the welfare state in
an election campaign,” said Ismael Crespo, head of political
communication at the independent  Fundacion Ortega-Maranon 
research institute in Madrid. “Zapatero is going to be erased
from Socialist history. I think they’ll take down his photo at
Socialist headquarters.”  Investors may remember him differently. Olaf Penninga, who
helps manage 150 billion euros ($211 billion) at Robeco Group in
Rotterdam, has moved back into Spanish bonds and prefers them to
Italian debt, which the fund rates as “heavily underweight.”  “They have got their act together,” Penninga said in a
telephone interview. “The Spanish response has been more
credible and better managed. The government is communicating
clearly and we don’t have this debate that we see in Italy
between government members in public.”  Spanish Handicap  With a deficit of 9.2 percent of gross domestic product and
growth slumping,  Spain  is far from out of trouble, as indicated
by the extra yield demanded on Spanish debt over German bonds.  That spread narrowed to 319 basis points today, compared
with the euro-era intraday high of 418 reached on Aug. 5 before
the ECB started buying Spanish and Italian bonds. The spread
between Italian and German 10-year debt was 348 basis points.  The minority Socialist government’s efforts may smooth the
transition to a government led by Rajoy. While Rajoy, 56, says
Spain needs more spending cuts and a deeper labor-market
overhaul, his government will inherit the benefits of Zapatero’s
changes to labor rules and spending plans that aim to slash the
deficit by half in two years.  “The PP will not have to start from scratch,” said Moec
of Deutsche Bank. “The groundwork has been laid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  