-- 
‘Limitless’ Debuts as Top Film With $19 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-20T18:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/-limitless-is-top-weekend-film-with-19-million-rango-stays-in-second.html
“Limitless,” a thriller from
Relativity Media LLC about a mind-expanding drug, opened in
first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters with sales of $19
million.  “Rango,” the  Johnny Depp  animated comedy, held at second
place with $15.3 million in sales for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount
and Nickelodeon divisions, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office
said today. “Battle: Los Angeles,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s special-
effects thriller about an alien invasion, fell to third from
first with sales of $14.6 million and “The Lincoln Lawyer,”
from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , debuted in fourth place
with $13.4 million.  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 8.7 percent
to $104.5 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said in an
e-mailed statement, as new films failed to match the appeal of
“Alice in Wonderland” and “Diary of a Wimpy Kid,” the box-
office leaders a year earlier.  Domestic box-office sales this year have fallen 20 percent
to $2.02 billion. Attendance is down 21 percent.  “We thought ‘Battle: Los Angeles’ would top the weekend,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of the box-office division of
Hollywood.com, said in a telephone interview. “It’s an action
movie appealing to teen males, and they all rushed to see it
opening weekend. I thought it would do better.”  Blame ‘Avatar’  “Everybody’s laying it on the door of ‘Avatar’ and ‘Alice
in Wonderland,’” Dergarabedian said. “It’s just the malaise
that’s overtaking the industry. We will have an enormous
summer.” Summer releases include new   Harry Potter ” and
“Pirates of the Caribbean” films, he said.  “Limitless” stars  Bradley Cooper  as an aspiring author
who takes an experimental drug that enables people to use 100
percent of their minds. Robert De Niro co-stars as a business
mogul who wants to use the writer’s new intellect to increase
his fortune.  “Bradley Cooper had been sort of an unknown quantity as a
leading man,” Dergarabedian said. “This proves Cooper may be
the leading man for the moment. And Relativity Media did a
fantastic job of advertising this movie.” He said pre-opening
estimates for the box-office gross were in the “low-to-mid
teens.”  Relativity, the studio releasing “Limitless,” is closely
held and independent.  Depp Holds On  “Rango” features Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean
up the Wild West town of Dirt. It marks another collaboration of
the actor and director Gore Verbinski, who oversaw Depp in
Disney’s successful “Pirates of the Caribbean” series and has
ticket sales of $92.6 million since its release three weeks ago.  Revenue for “Rango” fell 32 percent from the previous
week. Dergarabedian called that a “very strong hold” and
predicted the film would gross more than $100 million.  “Battle:  Los Angeles ” features Aaron Eckhart as a Marine
who leads a platoon trying to save the survivors of an alien
attack.  Michelle Rodriguez  and Bridget Moynahan co-star in the
film, which was expected to take in about $18 million this
weekend, the estimate of Gitesh Pandya, the editor of Box Office
Guru.  Sony’s  Columbia Pictures  spent an estimated $100 million
making the movie, according to the  Internet Movie Database , and
has taken in $60.6 million in two weeks of release, according to
Hollywood.com. Portions were filmed in  Louisiana , which has
offered subsidies to producers for almost 20 years.  “The Lincoln Lawyer” stars Matthew McConaughey as a
lawyer who works out of a black Lincoln sedan. His life takes a
dangerous turn after he is hired to defend a Beverly Hills man
accused of rape.  Discounted Tickets    Lions Gate  sold about 190,000 discounted tickets to the
film through the e-mail service Groupon Inc., the Los Angeles
Times reported on March 18. Users paid $6, with the studio
making up the difference in the usual price charged by theaters,
the newspaper said.  The science-fiction comedy “Paul,” also new for the
weekend, had sales of $13.2 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  to take fifth place. In the film, an alien
named Paul escapes from a U.S. military base. Simon Pegg and
Nick Frost play two slackers who try to return him to his space
ship. Seth Rogen provides the voice for the computer-generated
Paul.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 18 and 19 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  