-- 
‘Limitless’ Debuts This Week as Top Film on Sales of $19 Million

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-03-20T16:54:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/-limitless-debuts-this-week-as-top-film-on-sales-of-19-million.html
“Limitless,” a thriller from
Relativity Media LLC about a mind-expanding drug, opened in
first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters with sales of $19
million.  “Rango,” the  Johnny Depp  animated comedy, held at second
place with $15.3 million in sales for  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount
and Nickelodeon divisions, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Last week’s top film, “Battle: Los Angeles,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s
special-effects thriller about an alien invasion, fell to third
place on ticket sales of $14.6 million, while “The Lincoln
Lawyer,” from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , debuted in fourth
place with $13.4 million.  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 8.7 percent
to $104.5 million from a year earlier, according to
Hollywood.com, as new films failed to match the appeal of
“Alice in Wonderland” and “Diary of a Wimpy Kid,” the box-
office leaders a year earlier. Domestic box-office sales this
year have fallen 20 percent to $2.02 billion. Televised college
basketball playoffs may have lured potential fans away from
cinemas as well. Attendance is down 21 percent.  “Limitless” stars  Bradley Cooper  as an aspiring author
who takes an experimental drug that enables people to use 100
percent of their minds. Robert De Niro co-stars as a business
mogul who wants to use the writer’s new intellect to increase
his fortune.  “Rango” features Depp as a chameleon who tries to clean up
the Wild West town of Dirt. It marks another collaboration of
the actor and director Gore Verbinski, who oversaw Depp in
Disney’s successful “Pirates of the Caribbean” series and has
ticket sales of $92.6 million since its release three weeks ago.  ‘Battle’ Slides  “Battle:  Los Angeles ” features Aaron Eckhart as a Marine
who leads a platoon trying to save the survivors of an alien
attack.  Michelle Rodriguez  and Bridget Moynahan co-star in the
film, which was expected to take in about $18 million this
weekend, the estimate of Gitesh Pandya, the editor of Box Office
Guru.  Sony’s  Columbia Pictures  spent an estimated $100 million
making the movie, according to the  Internet Movie Database .
Portions were filmed in  Louisiana , which has offered subsidies
to producers for almost 20 years.  “Battle: Los Angeles” has taken in $60.6 million in two
weeks of release, according to Hollywood.com.  “The Lincoln Lawyer” stars Matthew McConaughey as a
lawyer who works out of a black Lincoln sedan. His life takes a
dangerous turn after he is hired to defend a Beverly Hills man
accused of rape.  Discounted Tickets    Lions Gate  sold about 190,000 discounted tickets to the
film through the e-mail service Groupon Inc., the Los Angeles
Times reported on March 18. Users paid $6, with the studio
making up the difference in the usual price charged by theaters,
the newspaper said.  The science-fiction comedy “Paul,” also new for the
weekend, had sales of $13.2 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  to take fifth place. In the film, an alien
named Paul escapes from a U.S. military base. Simon Pegg and
Nick Frost play two slackers who try to return him to his space
ship. Seth Rogen provides the voice for the computer-generated
Paul.  Among other returning films, “Red Riding Hood,” from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) , dropped to sixth place from third with $7.3 million
in sales. The hungry wolf is replaced with a werewolf in this
retelling of the children’s classic, which features  Amanda
Seyfried  in the title role.  There’s also a forbidden love story with Valerie, played by
Seyfried, planning to run off with Peter, played by  Shiloh
Fernandez . Gary Oldman is Father Solomon, a werewolf hunter.  “Red Riding Hood” was directed by  Catherine Hardwicke ,
whose credits include the first movie in the “Twilight”
vampire-romance series.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  