-- 
Lipsky Says Advanced-Nation Debt Risks Future Crisis as Yields Set to Rise

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-20T08:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/advanced-nation-debt-ratio-to-top-100-lipsky-says-correct-.html
The mounting debt burden of the
world’s most developed nations, set for a post-World War II
record this year, is unsustainable and risks a future fiscal
crisis, the International Monetary Fund’s  John Lipsky  said.  The average public debt ratio of advanced countries will
exceed 100 percent of their gross domestic product this year for
the first time since the war, Lipsky, the IMF’s first deputy
managing director, said in a speech at a forum in Beijing today.  “The fiscal fallout of the recent crisis must be addressed
before it begins to impede the recovery and create new risks,”
said Lipsky. “The central challenge is to avert a potential
future fiscal crisis, while at the same time creating jobs and
supporting social cohesion.”  Lipsky’s view clashes with Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz ,
who told the same forum yesterday that further fiscal stimulus
is needed to aid growth, and that European nations focused on
austerity have a “fairly pessimistic” outlook. At stake is
sustaining the developed world’s rebound without a deepening in
the debt crisis that’s engulfed nations from  Greece  to Ireland.  Long-term bond yields could climb 100 to 150 basis points,
driven by the 25 percentage point rise in sovereign debt ratios
since the global financial crisis and projected increases in
borrowing in coming years, according to Lipsky. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point. Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury
notes closed at 3.27 percent last week, with comparable-maturity
German debt at 3.19 percent and Japanese bonds at 1.21 percent.  ‘Unsustainably Low’    Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  reiterated his view at
a conference four days ago in Beijing that “long-term real  interest rates  are unsustainably low” in the aftermath of policy
makers’ unprecedented monetary stimulus during the 2008
financial crisis.  Total U.S. public debt was more than $14 trillion at the
end of 2010, a 72 percent increase during five years, while  Japan ’s debt is about double the size of its $5 trillion economy.
The European turmoil has forced policy makers to create rescue
packages for Ireland and Greece.  While interest payments on debt have remained stable at
about 2.75 percentage points of GDP over the last three years,
“higher deficits and debts together with normalizing economic
growth sooner or later will lead to higher interest rates,”
Lipsky said. The IMF estimates fiscal deficits for developed
nations will average about 7 percent of GDP this year.  The cost of repaying debt would increase by 1.5 percentage
points of GDP by 2014 even if interest rates rise only about 100
basis points, Lipsky said.  IMF  studies show that each 10-percentage-point increase in
the debt ratio slows annual real economic growth by around 0.15
percentage point because of the adverse effect on investment and
lower productivity growth, according to Lipsky, a former chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  -  Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Shiyin Chen, Chris Anstey 