-- 
Aramco, PetroChina Plan 200,000 Barrel Oil Refinery in China

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-03-20T15:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/aramco-says-accord-signed-with-petrochina-for-china-refinery.html
  Saudi Aramco  and  China  National
Petroleum Corp. agreed to build a 200,000 barrel-a-day refinery
in southern China as producers seek to meet rising fuel demand
in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The state oil company of Saudi Arabia signed a memorandum
of understanding on March 17 with CNPC unit PetroChina to build
the facility in China’s Yunnan province, Aramco said in a
 statement  on its website today. It’s the second refinery
partnership Aramco has announced with a Chinese company in a
week.  Aramco is participating in oil processing and storage
projects in  Asia  to improve access to markets there amid the
region’s increasing consumption of fuel and crude. China may
increase refining capacity by one-third to more than 12 million
barrels a day by 2015 to feed economic growth, the U.S.  Energy
Information Administration  said on its website.  “Saudi Arabia is looking at demand dynamics,” John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi in  Riyadh ,
said by e-mail today. “China, and Asia, is a very strategic and
important demand driver. Aramco is aware that China and Asia are
the markets that drive demand given macro fundamentals.”  Fuel demand is rising in China, spurred by economic and
population expansion. Car sales in China gained 16.2 percent
from a year earlier to 1.53 million units in January, according
to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. The
nation’s rural incomes rose the most in a quarter century last
year, a statistics bureau report showed Jan. 20.  The planned 200,000 barrel-a-day refinery in China’s Yunnan
will process Arabian crude into products including low-sulfur
gasoline and diesel, Aramco said in the statement. Aramco will
supply the refinery with crude through a long-term contract, and
PetroChina will market the refined products.  Aramco didn’t give an exact location for the plant or say
how much the facility would cost. The proposed refinery will be
in a southwestern area of China linked by a $2 billion oil and
natural gas pipeline project from Myanmar. Shipping oil through
the pipeline from Myanmar would cut sailing times needed to
reach the Chinese coast from the  Persian Gulf .  CNPC, China’s largest oil company, said in September it had
started building the Chinese section of the oil and gas
pipelines linking the world’s largest energy consumer to
Myanmar, formerly known as  Burma . It also said it had begun
building an  oil refinery  there. The September statement didn’t
give the refinery’s capacity. The pipelines and refinery are set
to be completed in 2013, CNPC said in September.  The pipeline would be able to supply 22 million metric tons
of crude oil to Yunnan province per year, more than twice the 10
million-ton annual crude-processing capacity the Aramco-
PetroChina refinery is set to have. That facility will be a
“grassroots” plant, Aramco said, and it was unclear whether
the facility announced today was the same as the one CNPC said
it had started building in September.  ‘Strategic Partners’  “This agreement is a significant step forward in our
expanding relationship with CNPC and in our global downstream
strategy,” Aramco Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said
in the statement. “We don’t consider ourselves simply sellers
of oil to China, but rather strategic partners whose many
relationships in that important country are founded on mutual
respect, interdependence and mutual benefit.”  Aramco exported less crude oil to the U.S. and  Europe  as a
percentage of total shipments in 2009, the last year for which
data is available, as the worst recession in a half-century cut
demand. Crude exports to Asia increased that year as a
proportion of the total as China bought on average more than 1
million barrels of Saudi crude a day last year, Aramco said in
its 2009 annual review released last June.  The announcement follows a separate agreement Aramco
reached last week with China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., known
as Sinopec, for construction of a fuel-processing plant at Yanbu
on the Kingdom’s Red Sea coast. Aramco is expanding refining
capacity at home to satisfy demand for gasoline and other
products in  Saudi Arabia .  Domestically, Aramco aims to integrate fuel processing with
petrochemicals at its domestic refineries. The company is
building a joint-venture refinery at Jubail on the Persian Gulf
and another at Jazan in southwestern Saudi Arabia.  The Jubail venture with Total SA is set for completion in
2013, with the Yanbu refinery following in 2014 and Jazan one
year later, Khalid Al-Buainain, Aramco’s senior vice president
for downstream, said in Houston on March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 