-- 
U.K. Stocks Rise; Vodafone, BT, Weir Group Lead FTSE 100 Higher in London

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-03-21T17:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/assetco-essar-energy-hmv-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed for a third day
as Japan made progress in cooling nuclear reactors that were
damaged during the March 11 earthquake and tsunami and investors
speculated declines in equities were overdone.    Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and BT Group Plc rallied more than 2
percent after AT&T Inc. agreed to buy  T-Mobile USA  from Deutsche
Telekom AG for about $39 billion in cash and stock to create
America’s largest mobile-phone company.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  advanced
4.5 percent as Credit Suisse Group AG advised buying the shares.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 67.96, or 1.2 percent,
to 5,786.09 at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in  London . The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also rose 1.2 percent and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index climbed 1.3 percent.  Even after three days of gains, the FTSE 100 is still 5
percent lower than this year’s high on Feb. 8. The gauge has
declined as political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa
sent  oil prices  surging and  Japan  battled to stop its Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant from leaking radiation following
the earthquake.  “We find the backdrop for stocks still constructive,”
said  Mislav Matejka , the London-based head of European equity
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The tragic Japanese natural
disaster should not hurt activity sustainably, and global real
GDP growth will be above trend in the first half of the year
even with the recent move up in oil prices on the back of
geopolitical unrest.”  Libyan No-Fly Zone  The U.S., U.K. and  France  began imposing a no-fly zone over  Libya  this weekend. Allied officials said air and missile
strikes have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force.  Vodafone climbed 3.6 percent to 176 pence and BT gained 2.4
percent to 181.4 pence. Telecom companies led gains in European
shares today after the announcement of AT&T’s acquisition, the
largest in the wireless industry since 2004.  Weir gained 4.5 percent to 1,708 pence as Credit Suisse
upgraded the Glasgow-based engineering company to “outperform”
from “neutral.”    Punch Taverns Plc (PUB)  rallied 6.7 percent to 73.55 pence. The
U.K.’s largest pub owner may be split into two with the Spirit
division spun off to manage pubs, the Sunday Times said, without
saying where it got the information.    Regus Plc (RGU)  surged 16 percent to 116.6 pence as the world’s
largest operator of serviced offices reported earnings before
interest and tax that topped consensus estimates.    Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  slid 7.3 percent to 440.4 pence as the
Indian oil refiner and power plant operator said it incurred
delays in gaining approval for the development of some domestic
coal blocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  