-- 
AT&T Surges on $39 Billion Deal for T-Mobile, U.S. Wireless Market Lead

-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-21T20:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/at-t-agrees-to-buy-deutsche-telekom-s-t-mobile-usa-unit-for-39-billion.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  rose after agreeing to
buy  T-Mobile USA  from  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  for $39 billion in
cash and stock to create America’s largest mobile-phone company.  The deal would allow AT&T, now the second-largest U.S.
wireless operator, to add about 34 million customers and surpass
 Verizon Wireless . The acquisition may face government scrutiny
because it combines the second- and fourth-largest wireless
providers, reducing consumer choice. Though regulatory approval
may take a year, cost savings and revenue gains could total $3
billion a year, Dallas-based AT&T said.  “Phenomenal deal if it happens,”  Jonathan Chaplin , an
analyst with Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a research note
yesterday. “Huge upside for AT&T; DT getting a great price;
however, we believe regulatory risk is enormous.”  AT&T rose 32 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $28.26 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Deutsche Telekom rose
11 percent to 10.67 euros in Frankfurt trading, the biggest gain
since 2008.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which had held talks with Deutsche
Telekom about acquiring T-Mobile according to people familiar
with the matter, slumped 14 percent to $4.36.  ‘Very Confident’  AT&T said that it would expand the rollout of its high-
speed wireless technology, called Long-Term Evolution, or LTE,
under the T-Mobile agreement. AT&T will offer the service to an
additional 46.5 million people as part of the deal, helping
achieve the Federal Communications Commission goal of making
broadband available more widely, the company said.  “We studied this thing extensively over the last few
months and we’re very confident it will be approved,” Randall Stephenson, AT&T chairman and chief executive officer, said in
an interview. “Most local markets have a choice between five
carriers, so the space will remain fiercely competitive.”  The agreement has been approved by the boards of both
companies, Deutsche Telekom said in a statement.  The deal is the largest for AT&T since the acquisition of
BellSouth Corp. in 2006 for about $83 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the largest takeover to be announced
in the wireless industry worldwide since 2004, when Sprint
agreed to merge with Nextel Communications Inc., and the sixth-
largest mobile-phone deal of all time.  IPhone Exclusivity  Since taking over as CEO in 2007, Stephenson had focused on
growth through wireless services, rather than the multi-billion-
dollar acquisitions common under his predecessor,  Ed Whitacre .
AT&T began selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in June 2007, and
wireless data has since become one of its fastest-growing
offerings, with revenue up 27 percent in the fourth quarter.  AT&T lost its exclusive hold on the iPhone in the U.S. this
year, as Verizon Wireless began selling the device to its
customers in February. Analysts estimate Verizon Wireless may
sell 11 million iPhones this year, the company said that month.  The T-Mobile deal may give AT&T a way to boost earnings
because of the money the companies would save by combining their
operations. The companies’ estimate that they could have $40
billion in synergies is a realistic assessment, said Credit
Suisse’s Chaplin.  Regulatory Issues  In the last five years, the median deal price for a
telecommunications company has been 4.5 times earnings before
interest taxes depreciation and amortization, according to
Bloomberg data. Deutsche Telekom said the purchase price is
multiple of 7.1 times 2010 adjusted EBITDA.  The deal drew criticism for its potential to reduce the
number of wireless competitors.  “It’s difficult to come up with any justification or
benefits from letting AT&T swallow up one of its few major
competitors,” Parul P. Desai, policy counsel for  Consumers
Union , said in an e-mailed statement. “AT&T is already a giant
in the wireless marketplace, where customers routinely complain
about hidden charges and other anti-consumer practices.”  There were 296.3 million wireless subscribers in the U.S.
at the end of 2010, according to estimates from researcher
eMarketer. Adding AT&T and T-Mobile would give the combined
companies 39 percent of the total, according to data from
eMarketer and ComScore Inc., while Verizon Wireless has 31
percent.  Spectrum Crunch  To get the deal through, regulators might require that T-
Mobile and AT&T divest some operations or agree to certain
conditions, such as promising to build out their network in
certain, underserved markets, said  Roger Entner , an analyst at
Recon Analytics in  Boston .  Still, the combination would help alleviate some of the
spectrum crunch that regulators have been struggling with, he
said. The two companies would be able to share airwaves, which
may help persuade the FCC and the  Department of Justice  to
approve the deal, Entner said.  Robert Kenny, a spokesman for the FCC, which is to review
the deal alongside antitrust authorities, declined to comment.  AT&T anticipates U.S. regulators will require it to divest
wireless spectrum and subscribers as a condition for approval,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation. The
person declined to be identified because the matter is private.  T-Mobile, which accounts for about a quarter of Deutsche
Telekom’s revenue, has reported declining earnings as it missed
out on the iPhone and it lagged behind competitors in building
out a higher-speed wireless network.  Cash and Stock  The purchase price will include $25 billion in cash and the
balance in AT&T stock, subject to adjustment, according to a
statement yesterday. The deal may give Deutsche Telekom an 8
percent stake in AT&T, which will add a Deutsche Telekom
executive to its board of directors.  AT&T said the cash part of the purchase price will be
financed from the holdings on AT&T’s balance sheet and new debt.
AT&T has an 18-month commitment for a $20 billion unsecured
bridge loan from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The company is not
assuming any debt from T-Mobile or Deutsche Telekom.  AT&T has the right to increase the $25 billion cash portion
of the purchase price by up to $4.2 billion, offset by a
reduction in stock, as long as Deutsche Telekom receives at
least 5 percent equity interest in AT&T, the company said. The
number of AT&T shares issued will be based on a 30-day average
prior to closing, subject to a 7.5 percent collar.  AT&T agreed to a breakup fee of $3 billion and some
spectrum if the deal fails to close, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  AT&T was advised by JPMorgan, Greenhill & Co. and Evercore
Partners on the deal. Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG, and
Credit Suisse Group AG advised Deutsche Telekom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 