-- 
Latest Reactor Status at Japan’s Stricken Fukushima Nuclear Plant: Table

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-03-20T01:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/latest-reactor-status-at-japan-s-stricken-fukushima-nuclear-plant-table.html
The following is the latest status
of each nuclear reactor at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi  power plant .  No. 1: Workers are ready to restore power to the No. 1 and No. 2
reactors, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Tetsuro Fukuyama said
on NHK Television today. The reactor was damaged on March 12 by
a hydrogen explosion that destroyed the building walls. The
reactor is rated level five in terms of threat on an
 international  scale of 1-7.  No. 2: Engineers hope to use the power cable attached to the No.
2 reactor as a hub to restore electricity to the other five
reactors, Tokyo Electric said. A March 15 explosion may have
damaged the containment chamber. The reactor is rated a level
five threat.  No. 3: Firefighters sprayed to control the reactor between 2 p.m.
yesterday and 3:40 a.m. today, NHK reported. Similar actions
March 18 managed to replenish water in the spent-fuel pool.  Japan ’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said the radiation
level has dropped near the reactor. The reading fell to 2,906
microsieverts per hour at 9 p.m. yesterday, down from 3,443
microsieverts per hour seven hours earlier, NHK said. A March 14
explosion damaged the unit’s fuel cover. The reactor is rated a
level five threat.  No. 4: This reactor was undergoing maintenance when the March 11
quake struck. A fire broke out in the pond containing spent-fuel
rods. The nuclear agency said March 17 there may be no water in
the cooling pool. Japanese Self-Defense Forces sprayed water on
the reactor this morning. Another dousing is expected in the
afternoon, NHK said. Rated four in terms of threat.  No. 5: The temperature in the spent fuel pool fell to 37.1
degrees Celsius, as of 7 a.m.,  Kyodo News  said. The temperature
was 67.6 degrees 9 a.m. yesterday, Kyodo said. Temperatures
should be kept below 25 degrees Celsius, according to IAEA
guidelines. The unit was idle for maintenance before the
earthquake.  No. 6: The temperature in the spent fuel pool fell to 41 degrees
Celsius, as of 7 a.m., Kyodo News. A backup generator was fixed
yesterday, according to a company press release. There’s no
concern over water levels at the reactor and the company
believes there hasn’t been any leakage of coolant in the unit’s
containment vessel. The unit was idle for maintenance before the
earthquake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  