-- 
Australian Stocks Advance on Libya Oil Impact, Japan Progress

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-21T05:40:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/australia-s-energy-stocks-climb-on-oil-prices-as-libya-hit-by-airstrikes.html
Australian stocks rose for a second
day as oil climbed after the U.S., U.K. and France launched
airstrikes in Libya,  Japan  made progress in tackling a nuclear
crisis, and amid signs a U.S. economic recovery is strengthening.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  surged 1.8 percent as U.S.
officials said allied forces had grounded Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s air force and driven back his offensive against a
rebel stronghold.  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT)  led gains among uranium
companies amid signs Japan’s post-earthquake crisis is easing.  James Hardie  Industries SE, the biggest seller of home siding in
the U.S., rose 0.5 percent as the  Federal Reserve  cleared the
way for lenders to boost dividends.    Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent to 4,642.80
at the 4:10 p.m. close of trading in Sydney, reversing losses
last week as Japan battled to prevent a nuclear disaster
precipitated by the nation’s worst earthquake on March 11. New
Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index (NZSE50FG)  gained 0.3 percent to 3,348.26 in
Wellington today.  “Investors are gaining confidence that despite all the
event risk that markets have been exposed to in the last eight
weeks or so, recovery in global growth will remain fairly
solid,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.8 billion
at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “As an investor,
you can deal with the downside from natural disasters and wars a
lot better if there is some comfort that the economic
fundamentals will remain protected.”  ‘Enemy States’  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
rose 1.8 percent to A$45.20. Rival  Santos Ltd. (STO)  added 1.1 percent
to A$15.22.  In Libya, allied attacks have effectively groundedQaddafi’s air force and driven back his offensive against the
rebel stronghold at Benghazi, U.S. officials said yesterday, as
the leader vowed to repel “enemy Christian states.”  The Libyan military has not flown an aircraft in two days
and the coalition was in full control of the airspace, Vice
Admiral Bill Gortney told reporters at the Pentagon. It was
possible a Libyan jet or helicopter would still take off, but it
would be targeted by coalition patrols over the country, he said.  Qaddafi denounced the coalition, including the U.S., the
U.K. and  France  allied against him, as “the party of Satan.”  Oil futures advanced as much as 2.3 percent as tensions in
Libya mounted, and as continuing unrest in the region renewed
concerns the turmoil may spread and disrupt supplies. Ninety
percent of Bahrain Petroleum Co.’s employees went on strike last
week in response to a police crackdown on anti-government
demonstrations, while Yemen declared a state of emergency on
March 18.  Oil Prices  Crude oil for April delivery gained as much as $2.28 to
$103.35 a barrel, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $102.97 at 3:41 p.m. Sydney time.  Extract jumped 14 percent to A$8.01. Energy Resources of
Australia Ltd. increased 1.5 percent to A$8.12, and  Paladin
Energy Ltd. (PDN)  gained 2.5 percent to A$3.69.  Japan had some success cooling reactors at the crippled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, 135 miles north of  Tokyo , bringing two
of the six reactors under control and connecting a second
electric cable to the station, according to reports.    Tokyo Electric  Power Co., the operator of the reactors,
declared Units 5 and 6 safe after cooling water pumped into them
reduced temperatures. An electric cable was hooked up to the No.
5 reactor,  Kyodo News  said, citing Tepco, as Tokyo Electric is
also known.  Worst Over  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said the Obama
administration believes the worst of the crisis is over. Unit 2,
where Tepco connected a 1 mile power cable March 18 as it tried
to revive cooling systems knocked out by the magnitude-9 temblor
and tsunami, is the main source of concern, Chu said on CNN’s
“State of the Union” program.  Australia says Japan’s atomic crisis won’t affect the sale
of uranium, Sky News reported, citing an interview with Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  yesterday.  “We do export uranium and we will continue to export
uranium,” Gillard said.  James Hardie rose 0.5 percent to A$6.22. The Fed said some
of the 19 largest U.S. banks will be able to restart dividend
payments, buy back shares or repay government capital after
“significant improvement” in their capital positions and the
economy.  APN News & Media Ltd., a publisher of newspapers, climbed
3.5 percent to NZ$2.07 in Wellington after reporting first-
quarter earnings.  ASX Speculation  Among stocks that fell today,  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , Australia’s biggest
bourse operator, dropped 1.8 percent to A$34.18 amid speculation
the government may oppose its takeover by Singapore Exchange Ltd.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan today dismissed the
speculation, which appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald and
Australian Financial Review.  “I have no idea where those reports have come from” he
told ABC radio. A final decision on the merger would be based on
“the evidence before me” and “a thorough consideration of all
the issues.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 