-- 
Australia Sets Date for Tax Forum to Bolster Mine Levy Support

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-03-20T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/australian-government-will-hold-forum-on-tax-changes-in-october-swan-says.html
  Australia  will host a forum in
October for businesses, labor unions, community groups and
universities to debate changes to the tax system as the
government moves to gain parliamentary support for a proposed
mining levy.  “In the years ahead we’ll continue to face important
decisions about how to maximize the opportunities” from the
resources boom in Australia, Swan said yesterday.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who failed to gain a majority
in last year’s general election, has vowed to press ahead with a
tax on mining companies in Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of coal and iron ore. She also signaled yesterday she
may offer tax cuts to people on low incomes to offset proposed
charges on  carbon emissions .  Gillard’s government needs public backing for its mining
tax plan and a levy to fund rebuilding after floods and cyclones
that battered the nation this year. The tax forum is backed by
independent lawmakers, whose support the government needs to win
parliamentary approval for changes to the system, Swan said in
an e-mailed  statement .  The two-day meeting in Canberra will start Oct. 4 and
involve about 150 people, and address taxes on individuals,
businesses and states as part of the government’s “strategy to
strengthen and broaden the economy,” Swan said. While the
government won’t increase the nation’s goods and services tax,
it expects and welcomes a “broad and constructive discussion,”
he said.  The treasurer promised last year to hold the summit to look
at broader changes to the tax system, including proposals from
former Treasury Secretary Ken Henry.  National Conversation  “The tax forum will continue the big national conversation
we started with the release of our initial reforms to cut
business taxes, simplify personal and small business tax,” Swan
said in yesterday’s statement.  The government will also release a discussion paper in the
middle of the year, and find ways for people to make submissions
and comments to the forum, Swan said.  Speaking yesterday on Sky television, Gillard signaled the
government hasn’t ruled out tax cuts to offset the impact on
low-income families and pensioners from a carbon scheme driving
prices higher.  “Tax cuts are a live option,” Gillard told Sky. “We will
be looking at doing that in the best possible way for the
economy, for communities and for individuals.”  Australia should price carbon emissions at between A$20
($19.92) and A$30 a ton, rising at 4 percent a year, when it
introduces laws aimed at curbing emissions, government climate
change adviser  Ross Garnaut  said March 17.  Tax Cuts  The government would need to offer low-income households as
much as A$600 a year in tax cuts or extra welfare payments to
offset the cost of a carbon tax, the Sunday Telegraph said
yesterday.  Gillard is under pressure on the issue from the opposition
Liberal-National coalition, led by  Tony Abbott , who has vowed to
block the plan because it will raise household electricity bills.  Independent lawmaker  Rob Oakeshott  said in September he’d
like an “open public discussion” on the mining levy as part of
a broader debate on tax.  Following pressure from mining companies, Gillard in July
watered down to 30 percent a proposed levy on  iron ore  and coal
profits that her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  set at 40 percent.
Gillard, Swan and Resources Minister Martin Ferguson signed a
tax agreement on July 2 with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group
and Xstrata Plc.  Flood Levy  Gillard’s government on Jan. 27 also announced a proposed
flood levy on middle- and high-income earners, as well as A$2.8
billion in budget cuts and A$1 billion in delayed infrastructure
projects, to pay for rebuilding following a series of natural
disasters.  Almost two months of torrential rains in the northeastern
state of Queensland killed at least 36 people, shut coal mines,
cut rail lines and roads, and damaged crops.  Writing in his weekly economic note to the nation, Swan
also said yesterday that there is likely to be a short-term
impact on some of Australia’s exports to  Japan  following this
month’s earthquake and tsunami.  “Japanese demand for steel-making inputs could fall in the
near term following the closure of several large steel-making
plants and the disruption to Japanese manufacturing,” the
Treasurer said in his statement.  By contrast, Japanese demand for natural gas and thermal
coal may increase, Swan said. “As time progresses and the
situation becomes clearer, so too will the economic impacts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  