-- 
Australia’s Swan Rejects Reports Government Opposes ASX-Singapore Merger

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-03-21T00:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/australia-s-swan-rejects-reports-government-opposes-asx-singapore-merger.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
today dismissed speculation that his government may reject  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s proposed takeover of the nation’s main
bourse operator.    Singapore Exchange  and  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  submitted their merger
proposal to  Australia ’s Foreign Investment Review Board on March
11, hoping to overcome a key hurdle to a deal that continues to
face political opposition.  “I have no idea where those reports have come from” Swan
told ABC radio today. A final decision on the merger would be
based on “the evidence before me” and “a thorough
consideration of all the issues.” ASX’s shares dropped 2.2
percent in Sydney.  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion ($8.4 billion), a 42
percent premium to ASX’s share price, and worth A$7.4 billion at
the March 18 close of trading in Australia.  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of Swan, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission and parliamentarians, several of whom
have opposed the sale.  The Sydney Morning Herald reported at the weekend that
Australia’s government is unlikely to support the merger, citing
a person it didn’t identify. The government’s disposition is to
reject the merger, regardless of any FIRB recommendation, the
person said, according to the newspaper.  Parliamentary Approval  The Australian Financial Review today reported that
political opposition to the deal was growing, citing unnamed
government sources predicting that it will fail to win
parliamentary approval.  The Singapore bourse offered on Feb. 15 to give more board
seats to Australians as a way of subverting political opposition
to the takeover on national interest grounds.  “Existing Australian regulatory sovereignty will be
preserved under the merger proposal, and there will now be an
equal number of Australian and Singaporean citizens on the
board,” ASX spokesman Matthew Gibbs told Bloomberg News in an
e-mail today.  The proposed combination received a boost last month when  Europe ’s Deutsche Boerse AG and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge,
and after London Stock Exchange Group Plc said it would buy
Canada’s TMX Group Inc., increasing pressure on rival exchanges
to expand.  ‘Dynamic Forces’  These foreign merger announcements “underscore the dynamic
forces driving developments in global exchanges,” ASX’s Chief
Executive Officer Robert Elstone said in a Feb. 17 statement
accompanying the company’s first-half earnings result, which met
analyst estimates. He has also said global exchange mergers are
an “inevitable” feature of globalization.  Even if the takeover wins all regulatory approvals in
Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will need to be
passed in both houses of Australia’s parliament. The minority
Labor government led by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  needs the
support of four independent or Greens lawmakers to pass a bill
to raise ASX’s foreign ownership cap to make way for the
takeover.  ASX’s shares dropped 2.2 percent to A$34.06 as of 10:53 a.m.
in Sydney trading, extending their decline this year to 9.6
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 