-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Advance as Japan Concern Eases, Commodities Gain

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-21T16:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/australian-new-zealand-dollars-rise-versus-yen-as-nuclear-concerns-fade.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars climbed as Japan made progress in cooling nuclear
reactors at an earthquake-damaged power plant, boosting investor
appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie gained versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts and the kiwi, as New Zealand’s currency is
nicknamed, was up against most of them as stocks and commodities
rose. The two South Pacific dollars rose for a second day versus
the yen on speculation the Group of Seven’s efforts to curb the
Japanese currency’s strength will stabilize markets.  “There’s a slight bullish bias this week,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in
Wellington. “High global commodity prices are a big boon for
the kiwi and Aussie.”    Australia ’s dollar rose 0.9 percent to $1.0046 at 12:47
p.m. in  New York , from 99.59 U.S. cents on March 18. The
currency strengthened 1.4 percent to 81.39 yen, from 80.24 yen
on March 18, when it jumped as much as 5.3 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 0.3 percent to 73.33 U.S.
cents, from 73.11 cents at the end of last week, and gained 0.9
percent to 59.41 yen.  Radiation containment units at Japan’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear reactors north of Tokyo are intact and the situation at
the plant “is on the verge of stabilizing,” according to Bill Borchardt, executive director for operations at the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission. He spoke at a commission meeting in
Rockville, Maryland. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he
can see “light at the end of the tunnel.”  Commodities, Stocks Up  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials increased
0.6 percent, while the MSCI World Index of equities advanced 1.6
percent. Japanese markets were closed today for a holiday.  Crude oil for April delivery increased as much as 2.3
percent to $103.35 per barrel in New York as allied air strikes
in Libya threatened to prolong a supply constriction in Africa’s
third-biggest producer. Libyan crude output has fallen to about
a quarter of pre-crisis production levels and may stop entirely,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of the national  oil company , said in a
televised media conference on March 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  