-- 
Bahrain Shia Village Treats Injured Protesters in Homes Amid Arrest Fears

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-03-20T22:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/bahrain-shia-village-treats-injured-protesters-in-homes-amid-arrest-fears.html
Bahraini security forces pushed
into the Shiite village of Karzakan as part of the government’s
efforts to quell more than a month of unrest in the Persian Gulf
island nation.  About 12 young men were injured yesterday when police fired
tear gas and birdshot pellets at them, said Jasim Marzooq, a
nurse who witnessed the incursion.  “We treat the wounded in homes, they are afraid of being
arrested if they go to hospitals,” Marzooq said in an
interview.    Bahrain ’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other
Arab Gulf states arrived to support the kingdom’s Sunni monarch
in suppressing demonstrations. Mainly Shiite protesters started
on Feb. 14 demanding democracy and more civil rights.  Bahrain forces drove protesters on March 16 from their
rallying point at the Pearl Roundabout in Manama, pushing them
back into their villages where they continue demonstrations
against the government. Three days later, the army demolished
the 300-foot (90-metre) monument on the roundabout. The traffic
junction had become the main gathering point for protesters.  The country’s stock exchange fell 1.6 percent to close at
1391.81 in Manama yesterday. Bahrain’s bourse was shut on March
16 for one day after the government declared a state of
emergency.  Missing  At least 13 people have been killed in violent clashes
since the protests began, according to a statement by the
 Bahrain Human Rights Society . As many as 63 are missing since
the Saudi-led Gulf Cooperation Council forces arrived last week,
the society said in a statement.  Nabeel Rajab, the head of the Bahrain Center for Human
Rights was detained for two hours and released yesterday,
according to a statement from Bahrain Human Rights Society. Four
doctors were arrested after treating victims, including Ali al-
Ekri, the spokesman for the doctor’s movement, according to the
Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights.  Bahraini workers, who went on strike last week in response
to a police crackdown on anti-government protests, will continue
to stay away from work, said Sayed Salman, the general secretary
of the Federation of Trade Unions. “The general strike will go
on until workers are safe,” he said in an interview today.  The rallies in Bahrain fueled Saudi fears that unrest may
spread to their kingdom, which holds about 20 percent of global
oil reserves and, like Bahrain, has a Shiite community which
complains of discrimination. Bahrain’s Shiites make up about 70
percent of the population and many retain cultural and family
ties with  Iran  as well as with Shiites in  Saudi Arabia , who are
a minority of about 10 to 15 percent.  Wounded  Bahrain’s government yesterday condemned what it called
“blatant Iranian interference” in its internal affairs, state-
run Bahrain News Agency reported. The government called upon
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon “to take all
necessary measures to put an end to the blatant Iranian
interference in its internal affairs,” the report said, citing
Bahrain UN ambassador Tawfik Al Mansour.  Bahrain yesterday also ordered Iran’s charge d’affaires to
leave the country, Al-Arabiya television reported.  In Karzakan yesterday, one man had pellet wounds over most
of his torso and legs after yesterday’s incursion by the police.
The town is on the island nation’s west coast. He was lying in a
home after receiving some medical treatment for his injuries.  He said the security forces had come in front of the
roundabout and started firing. The man declined to be identified
out of fear of being arrested.  In the near-by village of Dumistan, a man held a Molotov
cocktail and another carried a metal rod yesterday as they
walked through the village’s streets. Police had set up a road
block on the outskirts of the village, searching cars and
checking passengers’ identification.  At about 8 p.m. March 19 in the Shiite village of Daih, on
the outskirts of the capital, men, women and children shouted
“God is Great” from their roof tops in protest of the
government’s crackdown. Bahraini military and security forces
patrolled the main roads in armored vehicles to enforce a
curfew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Manama at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  