-- 
BOJ Reluctance to Finance Borrowing Is Tested as Japan Prepares to Rebuild

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-21T02:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/boj-reluctance-to-finance-borrowing-to-be-tested-as-japan-readies-rebuild.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s reluctance to
fund  government borrowing  is set to be tested by the economy’s
need for stimulus in the aftermath of the March 11 earthquake.  Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s bill for clearing wreckage and
rebuilding roads, housing and utilities is forecast at 5
trillion yen ($62 billion) or higher by Nomura Holdings Inc.,
Morgan Stanley and Barclays Capital. With debt issuance poised
to rise, BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa warned last week the
bank must avoid underwriting debt to retain its credibility.  The BOJ’s reluctance is an echo of the  European Central
Bank ’s initial decision to refrain from buying government bonds
as the euro-region’s sovereign-debt crisis spread a year ago,
before it agreed to do so in May. As the scale of the efforts
needed to restart an economy already shrinking at the end of
2010 becomes clear, Shirakawa and his colleagues may step up.  “This is something the BOJ should have done even before
the earthquake,” said Takeo Hoshi, an economics professor at
the University of  California ,  San Diego  and author of
“Corporate Financing and Governance in  Japan : The Road to the
Future,” winner of Nikkei’s 2002 prize for best economics book.
“It’s even more important for the Bank of Japan to support the
recovery” in the aftermath of the earthquake, he said.  Yen Impact  Additional monetary stimulus would help combat an
appreciating yen, by increasing its supply. The nation’s
currency climbed to a post-war high against the dollar on March
17, prompting Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  the next day to
request that the Group of Seven mount its first coordinated
intervention in the foreign-exchange market since 2000.  The yen fell for a second day today, to 80.94 as of 10:30
a.m. in  Singapore , compared with the high of 76.25 last week.
The currency’s March 18 drop offered a fillip to equities, with
the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average advancing 2.7 percent, limiting
its loss since the temblor to 12 percent. The  Tokyo  market is
closed today for a holiday.  “The need to counter yen strength amid deflation will
oblige the Bank of Japan to monetize the fiscal deficits needed
to fund reconstruction,” Prasenjit Basu, an economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets in Singapore, wrote in a March 17 note.  Policy makers cut the main interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.1 percent last year to help bring an end to prolonged
deflation, leaving asset purchases at their main instrument.  Asset Purchases  Shirakawa and his fellow board members last week expanded
a fund used to buy items including Japanese  government bonds ,
known as JGBs, exchange-traded funds and real-estate investment
trusts by 5 trillion yen, to 10 trillion yen. He told reporters
that the BOJ by law cannot underwrite JGBs.  The BOJ kept a separate program of monthly JGB purchases
at 1.8 trillion yen. The central bank, which can legally buy
the bonds in the secondary market, has a rule of keeping its
holdings at less than the value of banknotes outstanding. It
also has a 3 trillion-yen venture-capital type facility
designed to channel capital to growth industries.  “There are too many uncertainties yet” for the central
bank to decide whether and how it will add stimulus, said
Chiwoong Lee, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Tokyo. Should it take additional steps, they could range from
increasing asset purchases to boosting the venture-capital
program by defining companies that invest in the devastated
northeast as fresh sources of growth, he said.  Power Critical  The key determinant for the magnitude of the hit to
Japan’s economy will be the duration of power outages, which
threaten to disrupt production, according to Lee.  Yesterday, the government said efforts to stabilize the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, crippled from the tsunami
after the magnitude-9 temblor and discharging radiation, had
some success, while a quick resolution is unlikely.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the 40-year-old power
plant, has imposed rolling blackouts extending to Tokyo.    Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nissan Motor Co. said they’re preparing to
resume production at some factories. Sony plans to resume a
plant that makes rechargeable batteries in Tochigi prefecture,
northern Japan, from March 22, Hiroshi Okubo, a Tokyo-based
spokesman, said yesterday. Nissan, Japan’s No. 2 automaker,
said in a statement it will begin the resumption of operations
at six factories today and some vehicle assembly from March 24.  Stringer’s Optimism  Sony Chairman Howard Stringer said that recovery efforts
may jump-start the country’s lagging economy as the country
uses savings to rebuild. Japan last year fell behind  China  as
the world’s second-largest economy, and the legacy of a burst
asset bubble and financial crisis in the late 1990s has left it
with persistent deflation and a record debt load.  Noda said last week that the government will compile a
supplementary budget to pay for the recovery, which it will
take beyond the end of the month to complete.    Barclays Capital  analysts estimated the reconstruction
budget at 5 trillion yen to 7 trillion yen in a March 18
research note. Nomura assumed 6 trillion yen in new spending
during the fiscal year starting April 1. Morgan Stanley
economist Takehiro Sato predicted “10 trillion yen or so,”
noting it will take time to gauge the scope of what’s needed.  Tax Cuts  Japan is considering tax cuts to help companies damaged by
the disaster, including refunding corporate taxes and not
levying fixed-asset taxes from companies and individuals who
are unable to rebuild factories and homes, the Nikkei newspaper
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  World Bank staff today said in a report that it may take
five years for Japan to rebuild, citing private estimates of
damage from the disaster at $122 billion to $235 billion.  With Japan’s public debt already at about twice the size
of its GDP, Moody’s Investors Service said last week that the
disaster may push forward Japan’s “tipping point” for
investors to lose confidence in the nation’s credit quality.  “The unsustainable sovereign debt position suggests that
the BOJ will have to bear a bigger funding burden,” BNP
Paribas SA strategists wrote in a March 18 note.  The financial crisis of 2007-2009 and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt turmoil that began in 2009 have pressed central bankers
into uncharted territory. The  Federal Reserve  accumulated
assets such as junk-rated debt as it sought to forestall a
depression. More recently, the Fed pursued a $600 billion
initiative to buy Treasuries in its effort to bring down the  unemployment rate .  ECB’s Reversal  As the Greek debt crisis threatened to spread in May 2010,
ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet oversaw a policy meeting
where he said the bank hadn’t discussed the option of buying
government bonds. He instead called for “decisive actions by
governments” to curb borrowing. Days later, the ECB said it
would intervene to buy sovereign debt.  The BOJ, too, may want Kan’s government to spell out how
it will pay for additional spending and provide assurance that
debt will be reined in over time, some analysts said.  “The government spent a lot and sold a lot of bonds after
the Lehman shock occurred, and Japan greatly stepped back from
the fiscal rehabilitation,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. “The BOJ is
basically reluctant to rush in expanding its balance sheet.”  Deflation Continues  At the same time, a lack of inflationary pressure
undermines the argument that BOJ debt purchases run the risk of
spurring inflation. A government report this week is forecast
to show consumer prices, excluding fresh food, fell 0.3 percent
in February from a year before.  “Eventually what’s going to happen is the Bank of Japan
has to be a buyer of last resort for JGBs,” said  Julian Jessop ,
an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “The
economic recovery will be more muted so the Bank of Japan will
be forced to do more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  