-- 
Buffett’s Japanese Toolmaker Evacuates Staff in Fukushima After Earthquake

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-03-20T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/buffett-s-japanese-toolmaker-evacuates-staff-in-fukushima.html
  Warren Buffett ’s tool-making unit
Iscar Metalworking Cos. said sales may decline in Japan after
the company evacuated most of the 1,400 employees from its 
local headquarters as radiation leaks from a nuclear plant.  Iscar’s Tungaloy Corp. subsidiary halted work at its
factory in Iwaki, Fukushima prefecture, and postponed opening a
second plant in the area after the record-strong earthquake and
tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, Iscar Chairman Eitan Wertheimer said in an interview yesterday in Daegu,  South Korea .  Wertheimer and Buffett canceled a visit to the Tungaloy
operations, where buildings and machinery were damaged in the
magnitude-9 temblor, and extended their stay in South Korea
until March 22. Wertheimer didn’t quantify the sales impact and
was unable to say when operations in  Japan  would return to
normal because of a lack of information about the damage.  “We may sell a little bit less,” he said. “But we’re
going to keep on sailing. Japan will come out stronger, and I
wish we will also come out stronger out of this crisis.”  Iwaki is about 40 kilometers (25 miles) south of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant that is at the
center of the worst nuclear catastrophe in a quarter century.  Residents in an adjacent region that covers an area
equivalent in size to Los Angeles were evacuated in the first
few days after the disaster. In  Tokyo , 220 kilometers to the
south, people have been watching weather reports for signs that
winds may carry fallout toward them.  Iscar Sales  Iscar aims to increase sales globally at a “nice double-
digit” percentage this year, adding to double-digit growth in
2010, Wertheimer said, declining to be more specific.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  acquired 80 percent of
the Tefen, Israel-based company in 2006 for $4 billion. It has
more than 10,000 employees around the world making cutting
equipment for industries ranging from aerospace to auto
manufacturing at units including Tungaloy and TaeguTec Ltd. in
South Korea.  Wertheimer has his sights on catching market leader  Sandvik
AB (SAND)  and said he is looking for more acquisitions after buying
Tungaloy in 2008.  “We’re looking at anything that’s on the market, but there
are very few things out there,” he said.  Buffett, 80, will travel to Seoul later today to meet South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  after a ground-breaking ceremony
for a new TaeguTec factory in Daegu. He will fly to  India  on
March 22, said Wertheimer, who describes himself as Buffett’s
“travel agent.” 