-- 
Ohio State, Duke Reach NCAA Tournament Regional Semifinals

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-03-21T05:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/butler-beats-top-seed-pittsburgh-in-ncaa-tournament-san-diego-state-wins.html
Top regional seeds  Ohio  State
University, the University of  Kansas  and Duke University are
headed to the regional semifinals of college basketball’s
national men’s tournament.  They’ll be joined in the round of 16 by four double-digit
seeds, including two schools from Richmond, Virginia.  Ohio State, the No. 1 seed in the East Regional, routed
George Mason University 98-66 yesterday in Cleveland, Ohio,
while Kansas, the top team in the Southwest, beat the University
of  Illinois  73-59 in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Defending champion Duke University also reached the round
of 16 at the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament,
holding on for a 73-71 win over the University of  Michigan .
Michigan’s Darius Morris missed a running shot in the lane with
five seconds left in the West Regional game in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina .  The three regional No. 1 seeds advanced a day after the
University of Pittsburgh, which was the top team in the
Southeast Regional, was beaten by Butler University 71-70 on a
free throw in the final second.  Marquette University, the 11th seed in the East Regional,
upset third-seeded Syracuse University yesterday 66-62.  Milwaukee , Wisconsin-based Marquette will next face No. 2 seed
 University of North Carolina , which used three late defensive
stops to beat the University of Washington 86-83.  VCU Advances  Virginia Commonwealth, seeded 11th in the Southwest,
followed its wins over Southern California and Georgetown by
knocking off third-seeded Purdue University 94-76.  The Richmond, Virginia-based Rams, who received one of the
final at-large invitations to the tournament, next play 10th-
seeded Florida State, which eliminated Southwest No. 2 seed
Notre Dame 71-57 last night.  The University of Richmond, the lowest seeded team left in
the tournament at No. 12, will play Kansas in the other
Southwest Regional semifinal in San Antonio.  It’s the first time two schools from the same city have
made the final 16 of the NCAA tournament since 2007, when
Southern California and the University of California at  Los
Angeles  accomplished the feat.  The Jayhawks (34-2) pulled away from Illinois yesterday as
twin brothers Markieff and Marcus Morris combined for 41 points
and 25 rebounds. Richmond made the final 16 two days ago with a
win over Morehead State.  Ohio State ‘Clicking’  Ohio State got 25 points from David Lighty, who made all
seven of his 3-point shots against George Mason, to cruise to an
East Regional semifinal matchup against the fourth-seeded
University of Kentucky in Newark,  New Jersey .  “Everyone was clicking on high cylinders and when that’s
happening, it’s pretty tough to beat us,” Lighty said during
his post-game news conference.  North Carolina and Marquette meet in the other East
semifinal.  Duke , the No. 1 team in the West, is in the round of 16 for
the 20th time in the past 26 seasons under coach Mike Krzyzewski,
who collected his 900th career win to move two wins behind Bob Knight for the most at the sport’s top level.  The Blue Devils (32-4) head to Anaheim,  California , to face
fifth-seeded  Arizona , which knocked off No. 4 Texas 70-69 on a
three-point play by Derrick Williams with nine seconds left.  The other West semifinal pits second-seeded San Diego State
against No. 3  Connecticut , which is one of only two teams from
the Big East Conference left in the round of 16.  The Big East had sent an NCAA record 11 schools to the 68-
team tournament. Eight of the league’s nine eliminated teams
were seeded sixth or higher in their region.  Butler, the No. 8 seed in the Southeast, will follow up its
win over Pitt with a regional semifinal game against fourth-
seeded University of Wisconsin in  New Orleans .  No. 2 Florida plays No. 3 Brigham Young and Jimmer Fredette,
the nation’s leading scorer, in the other semifinal in New
Orleans.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  