-- 
Contractors Rush in as Kan Pledges to Rebuild After Japan Quake

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-03-20T16:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/contractors-rush-in-as-kan-pledges-to-rebuild-after-japan-quake.html
Japanese contractors have rushed
workers, generators and equipment to areas devastated by the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged or destroyed more
than 110,000 buildings and may have killed 20,000 people.  “We’ve had many, many requests” for floodlights, power
equipment and construction gear since the temblor, said Takashi
Yamada, a spokesman for Osaka-based Nishio Rent All Co. “We’re
just sorry we don’t have enough stock for everyone.”  The government has asked companies such as Daiwa House
Industry Co. to supply more than 30,000 temporary houses within
two months to help shelter the 350,000 people now in evacuation
centers. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has also pledged to “rebuild
from scratch” following the magnitude-9 quake and tsunami that
damaged about 1,500 roads, 48 bridges and 15 railways, according
to the  National Police Agency .  “The scale of the rebuilding will be huge,” said Kazuo
Susa, a spokesman for  Fukuda Corp. (1899) , a general contractor based
in Niigata prefecture, northwestern Japan.  Fukuda started inspecting buildings the day after the quake
and it began repairs to facilities including shopping centers
the following day to help customers resume operations, Susa
said. The company is now reinstalling fallen ceilings and
working on other repairs in buildings that avoided the worst of
the damage as it awaits the start of full-fledged
reconstruction, he said.  Shares Jump  Speculation that Fukuda will win rebuilding contracts has
caused it to jump 92 percent on the Tokyo stock exchange since
March 10, the last day of trading before the quake. That’s the
third-best performance among the 1,666 companies on the index,
which has dropped 8.1 percent.  Nissei Build Kogyo Co., a maker of prefabricated houses,
leads gains having more than tripled since March 10. Osaka-based
builder Fudo Tetra Corp. has more than doubled. Construction-
related companies account for 39 of the 40 best-performing Topix
stocks in the period.  Reconstruction and relief efforts in the disaster area have
been hampered by snow, damaged roads and fuel shortages. The
devastation also covered a greater area than the 1995 Kobe quake
and included many smaller towns with few transportation links.  “The damaged area is very wide, and it will be an all-out
battle,” said Nobuyuki Ogawa, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Toa
Corp., which specializes in building harbor facilities. “The
coastline is all destroyed.”  Toa Taskforce  Toa has set up a taskforce to work on temporary repairs so
that ports can handle relief shipments, and it is also sending
in supplies of food and blankets for employees and others, he
said. The company’s office in Sendai has no gas supplies, which
is hampering efforts, he said.  The government said last week that 11 harbors were damaged
in the tsunami, all of which were expected to be at least
partially open for emergency supplies by March 22. Companies
such as Toa and Toyo Construction Co. are repairing broken quay
walls and removing debris clogging waterways.  “The priority is to restore operations at those damaged
ports as soon as possible,” said Atsushi Miyazaki, a spokesman
for Tokyo-based Toyo Construction, which has sent about 30
workers to the region.  The  Japan  Civil Engineering Contractors Association has set
up more than 400 temporary toilets in Tohoku and sent in
supplies including 300 futon sets, 2,000 blue sheets and 12,000
bottles of water, it said by e-mail.  Supplier Damage  Companies that will lead the reconstruction effort also
suffered their damage in the disaster. Osaka-based Daiwa House’s
regional distribution center near Sendai airport was destroyed
in the flooding, Chairman Takeo Higuchi said at a press
conference last week.  Damage to factories or power shortages stemming from a
nuclear-power plant being crippled by temblor may also affect
supplies of construction materials, said Higuchi, who’s also the
head of the  Japan Federation of Housing Organizations .  It took a year to rebuild major infrastructure following
the Kobe quake and the bulk of the repairs after the Sendai
disaster may take as long, said David Edgington, an associate
professor at the University of British Columbia. Rebuilding will
likely be cheaper than the $100 billion (in 1995 dollars) cost
following Kobe as Tohoku has fewer major buildings, he said.  “It will be a fraction rather than a multiple of Kobe,”
said Edgington, author of the  book  “Reconstructing Kobe: The
Geography of Crisis and Opportunity.”  Housing Land  It may also be easier to find land for building temporary
or permanent public housing as Tohoku is largely agricultural,
he said. After the Kobe quake, many people were relocated far
from the city center because the only land available was on the
other side of a mountain, which broke up communities, he said.  There may be less incentive to rebuild in Tohoku as much of
the region’s economy was in decline with younger people already
leaving to find work elsewhere. Job prospects in Miyagi, where
nearly 5,000 people died in the quake, were worse than in most
of the nation’s 47 prefectures in January.  “The government has to make some hard choices as to
whether to keep these coastal communities going,” Edgington
said.  Prime Minister Kan has pledged to rebuild and his
government aims to compile a relief and reconstruction package
as soon as next month. The biggest opposition party is calling
for a 5 trillion yen ($61 billion) effort.  “Rebuilding will take a very long time and a lot of
effort,” said Toa’s Ogawa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Osaka at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 