-- 
Credit Agricole, Renault, Sanofi-Aventis: French Equity Preview

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-21T07:49:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/credit-agricole-and-sanofi-aventis-french-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of
companies whose stocks may have unusual price changes in Paris.
Symbols are in parentheses after company names and prices are
from the last close.    France ’s CAC 40 Index rose 0.6 percent to 3,810.22, while
the broader SBF 120 Index gained 0.7 percent.    Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  : The French bank has become the
biggest investor in Spain’s Bankinter SA, El Confidencial
reported.  Separately, Credit Agricole’s South Korean branch received
a warning from the nation’s financial regulator for breaching
local derivatives trading rules. Credit Agricole’s stock fell
0.5 percent to 11.22 euros.    France Telecom SA (FTE)  : The company wants to lift its
stake in Moroccan operator Medi Telecom SA, or Meditel, to 49
percent from 40 percent, weekly newsletter La Lettre de
L’Expansion reported, without citing anyone. The shares added
0.4 percent to 15.01 euros.    Plastivaloire (PVL)  : The French maker of thermoplastics
wants to buy an unidentified competitor in Germany, French daily
Les Echos reported, citing Chief Executive Officer Patrick
Findeling. The shares surged 11 percent to 22 euros.    Renault SA (RNO)  : The carmaker will today announce that
it plans to make a new generation of engines with a low rate of
carbon generation at its Valladolid factory in Spain, French
daily Les Echos reported, without citing anyone. The shares
gained 1.5 percent to 38.14 euros.    Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  : The French drugmaker said it
received approval from the European Commission for Jevtana, a
treatment for advanced second-line prostate cancer. The stock
fell 0.3 percent to 47.12 euros.    Societe Generale (GLE)  SA: The company’s private banking
unit named Olivier Gougeon chief executive officer of the Asia
Pacific region, according to an e-mailed statement today.
Gougeon was previously the private bank’s CEO for South Asia.
The shares added 2.2 percent to 46.44 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ; Giles Broom in Zurich at   gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 