-- 
Dubai Censures Saxo Bank for Breaching Money Laundering Rules

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-20T10:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/dubai-censures-saxo-bank-for-breaching-money-laundering-rules.html
The Dubai Financial Services
Authority, the regulator of the Dubai International Financial
Center business park, censured Saxo Bank Dubai Ltd. for
breaching anti  money laundering  rules and systems.  This "increased the risk of Saxo Bank’s DIFC business being
used for the purposes of money laundering," the Authority said
in an e-mailed statement today. "However, the DFSA found no
evidence of any money laundering having taken place."  Saxo Bank A/S, the Danish provider of online currency,
derivative and equity trading, opened an office in Dubai in May
2009 to cater to its institutional and individual clients in the
Middle East. The Dubai International Financial Center is home to
the regional offices of top global banks like Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Standard Chartered Plc.  Saxo Bank admitted it had breached rules relating to taking
on clients and DFSA’s anti-money laundering systems by failing
to obtain sufficient and satisfactory verification of clients’
identities, permanent addresses and sources of wealth, and
performing ongoing due diligence on clients, the statement said.
It also failed to adequately monitor client transactions and
establish and maintain appropriate controls in relation to
politically exposed persons, DFSA said.  The DFSA on Jan. 25 asked companies operating in the Dubai
International Financial Center to be vigilant about the outflow
of assets from Tunisia and  Algeria  after protests against
autocratic rulers in these countries erupted. The authority
advised firms with existing clients in those countries to apply
enhanced due diligence to “politically-exposed persons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  