-- 
Egypt Backs Constitutional Changes That May Aid Brotherhood, Mubarak Party

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-03-20T21:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/egypt-backs-constitutional-changes-that-may-aid-brotherhood-mubarak-party.html
Voters in  Egypt ’s first referendum
after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  backed a set of
constitutional changes that some critics say may favor
established groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood in future
elections.  More than 18 million valid ballots were counted, with 77.2
percent of voters approving the changes, Mohammed Attia, the
head of the judicial commission overseeing the referendum, said
today at a press conference in Cairo.  “This is the first referendum after the people regained
Egypt,” said Attia. “The citizen felt after the January 25
revolution that his vote counts.” Turnout was about 41 percent,
he said.  Voters cast their ballots yesterday, many for the first
time, to approve measures including  term limits  for presidents
and fuller judicial oversight of voting. The changes, drafted by
a committee appointed by the military council running the
country since last month’s ouster of Mubarak, are aimed at
paving the way for parliamentary and presidential elections
later this year.  Backers such as the Muslim Brotherhood, banned under
Mubarak, say the amendments will help speed up the transition to
civilian rule, free the army for duties like guarding national
security and end turmoil that is hurting the economy.  Opponents say the proposals aren’t enough to advance
democracy and that a rushed transition will let established
forces -- the Brotherhood, and Mubarak’s former ruling party --
dominate parliament at the expense of young activists who led
the popular uprising.  Muslim Brotherhood  “The support of the Islamic currents and of the
Brotherhood for the amendments has complicated the referendum
and increased the state of polarization,” Amr el-Choubaki,
director of the Alternatives Forum for Political Studies, an
independent research organization, said by telephone in Cairo
before the results were announced. “If the changes are
accepted, then the power of the Brotherhood will increase.”  The Brotherhood and members of the former ruling party are
“well organized and are experienced in contesting elections,”
said Nabil Abdel Fattah, director of Al-Ahram Center for Social
and Historic Studies. “This alliance may try to decrease the
ability of the new youths’ groups to influence the makeup of the
upcoming parliament and the nature of the new president.”  Opponents advocated rewriting the constitution from scratch
and called for more time to prepare for legislative elections.
That’s the reverse of the timetable set out in one of the
amendments, which says that after elections parliament will
create a constituent assembly to write a new constitution.  Elections, Reservations  “We have to double our efforts to contest the upcoming
elections,” said Nasser Abdel Hamid, a member of The Alliance
of the Youths’ Revolution, a coalition of protesting groups that
campaigned for a “no” vote. “We have to accept that the
people have said their word despite the reservations.”  Ali Abdel Fattah, a leading member of the Muslim
Brotherhood, said the results “do not reflect the victory of
one group over another or the strength of one current more than
the others. They reflect the desire of the people for
stability.”  Outside some polling stations yesterday, lines snaked as
voters, some leaning on canes, waited to cast their ballots.
Animated debates broke out among supporters and opponents.
Outside a polling station at a school in Cairo’s Saida Zeinab
district, 49-year-old Sumaia Shaker, who works for the National
Research Centre, lobbied for a “yes” vote.  Polling Debate  “Vote ‘yes’ so that we can have some stability and have a
new parliament,” she told a group of people queuing to vote.
“It’s your duty to spread the word. Otherwise, chaos will
reign.”  “You want us to build on a constitution that is flawed?”
responded merchant Ali Talaat, 22, who rejects the changes.  Inside, Samah Emad, a 32-year-old housewife, stood in line
to cast ballots for the first time.  “Before, we had no elections,” she said. “Everything was
rigged. Now, I am determined to say ‘no’ so that I can feel that
I am in a democratic country. I don’t want the former ruling
party or the Brotherhood to be in charge.”  Egypt’s political transition is still “fraught with
uncertainty” that is damaging the “fiscal position and broader
economic performance,” Moody’s Investors Service said on March
16, justifying its decision to cut the debt rating one level.
Yields on benchmark 10-year dollar bonds, at about 6.8 percent,
have jumped more than 160 basis points this year.  Economic Impact  Egypt’s stock market has been shut for seven weeks, many
tourists have stayed away and factory output has been hit by
strikes. Sharaf said yesterday Egypt’s stock exchange may open
“within days” after remaining closed since Jan. 27. Finance
Minister Samir Radwan has forecast economic growth of 4 percent
this fiscal year, down from a pre-crisis estimate of 6 percent.  The amendments would limit presidents to two four-year
terms, ease restrictions on who can run for the post, and let
judges scrutinize the balloting when elections are held.
Opponents say they fail to curb the powers of the president, a
measure they say is necessary to prevent Mubarak-era abuses.  Those campaigning against the changes included potential
presidential candidates Amr Moussa and  Mohamed ElBaradei ,
prominent businessman  Naguib Sawiris  and the Alliance of the
Youths’ Revolution.  Restrictions Eased  Restrictions on forming political parties will be eased
after the referendum and parliamentary elections will probably
be in September, allowing new parties time to organize and
promote their platforms, Major General Mamdouh Shahine, the
assistant defense minister for legal and constitutional affairs,
told Al Masry Al Youm newspaper.  The Brotherhood has been seeking to assuage fears its
influence is growing, saying it will not field a presidential
candidate or seek a majority in a new parliament.  “We are seeing huge numbers of voters. We are seeing many,
many first time voters and that is very significant,” said
Ghada Shahbender, a member of the board of the Egyptian
Organization for Human Rights, which monitored the vote. “I’m
beyond thrilled with the participation rate. Our silent majority
is finally out.”  Shahbender said there were “procedural errors” like
unstamped ballot cards -- which was dealt with by having members
of the judiciary sign the cards -- but “I didn’t see intent on
fraud.” Voting under Mubarak was regularly overshadowed by low
turnout, violence and widespread allegations of rigging.  Attia said the committee supervising the vote received
about 10 “minor” complaints about the process and prosecutors
were informed to take legal action against offenders. “Before
Jan. 25, results were known and prepared beforehand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  