-- 
Merkel’s Party Stumbles, Greens Soar as Atomic Fears Surface

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-03-21T08:26:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/merkel-s-party-stumbles-greens-soar-as-nuclear-fears-resurface.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party
dropped votes and the Greens doubled their support in the first
electoral test of  Germany ’s response to Japan’s atomic crisis
and refusal to join military attacks on  Libya .  The results of yesterday’s election in the eastern state of
Saxony-Anhalt, the second of seven regional ballots this year,
may be a foretaste of what’s to come for Merkel, said Hans- Juergen Hoffmann, head of polling company Psephos. Next up are
two elections on March 27 in Rhineland-Palatinate and Baden-
Wuerttemberg, where her  Christian Democratic Union  is struggling
to retain a near-six-decade hold on power.  Merkel has sent “mixed signals” on nuclear power as with
Libya that display “wavering and indecision,” Hoffmann said by
phone.   Japan ’s nuclear catastrophe has stirred German angst
about nuclear energy with full force and we’ll very likely see
the Greens score from it in all this month’s elections.”  Merkel’s CDU took 32.5 percent in Saxony-Anhalt, down from
the 36.2 percent it won at the last vote in 2006, ZDF television
projections showed. As the biggest party, the CDU may opt to
continue its coalition locally with the Social Democrats, the
main opposition party nationally, which took 21.5 percent. The
Greens had 7.1 percent, double the party’s 2006 tally and a
record in the state since German reunification in 1990.  “This gives the Greens a boost going into the last week of
campaigning” in the two states voting on March 27, the party’s
national head, Cem Ozdemir, told reporters.  Left Places Second  The anti-capitalist Left Party placed second with 23.7
percent. That ruled out a coalition with the  Social Democrats ,
which had said they would consider a coalition with the Left
only with the Left as junior partner under  an SPD premier .  The Free Democrats, Merkel’s coalition partner nationally,
failed to clear the 5 percent threshold needed to hold its seats
in the state parliament in Magdeburg, about 100 kilometers (60
miles) southwest of Berlin. With 3.8 percent, the FDP scored
less than the anti-foreigner NPD, which also fell short, the
projections showed.  While unemployment was the top election issue for 64
percent of respondents in Saxony-Anhalt, one of six states that
were part of the former communist East Germany, 42 percent said
nuclear power influenced their vote, the FG Wahlen polling group
said in an e-mail, citing exit polls and pre-election interviews
it conducted. That number rose to 60 percent among Green voters.  Merkel’s government last year pushed through an extension
of the lifespan of  Germany’s 17 nuclear plants  by an average of
12 years. She faced opposition claims of double standards after
announcing plans on March 15 to close seven nuclear reactors for
three months pending safety checks in light of the crisis in
Japan.  Germany ‘Alone’  Johannes Teyssen, the Chief Executive Officer of  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,
Germany’s biggest utility, told reporters that Merkel was using
the halt to send “a political message,” and that “Germany is
alone in its reaction.” Polls suggested voters viewed Merkel’s
decision negatively and it gave a lift to the Greens nationally.  Staying out of allied attacks against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces shows “similar vacillation” by Merkel as her
shift on nuclear power, according to Hoffmann. Polls yesterday
suggested that a majority of Germans favor military action, even
as the government defended its decision not to join a coalition
including the U.S.,  France  and the U.K. that launched attacks on
Libya to stop Qaddafi’s forces killing civilians.  “Freedom and democracy in North Africa yes, but let’s not
get too heavily involved,” Hoffmann said of Merkel’s stance.
“Now, when it really counts, it doesn’t show her leadership
qualities in a good light.”  Hamburg Defeat  Merkel began the 2011 election marathon in Hamburg, where
her CDU lost control of the city-state after suffering the worst
defeat since World War II. From Saxony-Anhalt, which the  Christian Democrats  have ruled since 2002, the focus shifts to
Baden-Wuerttemberg, home to companies such as Porsche AG and SAP
AG, where Merkel’s party has been in power since 1953.  Merkel’s CDU and its FDP partner trail the Social Democrats
and Greens by 44 percent to 47 percent, after the Greens soared
5 percentage points in one week, an Emnid poll for Focus
magazine showed yesterday.  A loss in Baden-Wuerttemberg “would be a signal that the
CDU itself is at risk because its bastions in southern Germany
are falling,” Manfred Guellner, head of Berlin-based polling
company Forsa, said in a phone interview. “Once the south goes,
the country will go at some point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;  Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  