-- 
French Socialists Lead First-Round Local Elections, UMP Trails

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-03-20T23:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/french-socialists-lead-first-round-local-elections-ump-trails.html
France’s Socialist Party led the
first round of local elections held yesterday, ahead of the
anti-immigration  National Front  party and the ruling  Union For a
Popular Movement , in an electoral setback for President  Nicolas
Sarkozy .  The opposition Socialist Party may have won 25.1 percent of
the 2,026 seats to be renewed on the so-called General Councils,
one of the two major local assemblies in France, the  Interior
Ministry  reported at midnight local time. Sarkozy’s party may
have won 17.1 percent of the seats and Marine Le Pen’s National
Front 15.3 percent, the ministry said. Abstention may be close
to 56 percent, the ministry showed.  French voters are showing defiance toward Sarkozy in the
last elections before next year’s presidential race.
Unemployment at almost 10 percent, and government policies on
immigration and Islam prompted a “sanction vote” against the
president, political analyst Pascal Perrineau said. The
Socialist Party, which holds most the country’s regional and
local mandates, may gain 60 percent of the local councils,
Perrineau said. The National Front, rising in recent opinion
polls under Le Pen’s leadership, gained also.  “We can see right-wing voters, uneasy with government
policies, reverting their ballot to the National Front or
abstaining from voting,” Perrineau, a researcher at the Paris-
based  Cevipof  political studies institute, told  France Info 
radio yesterday. Prime Minister Francois Fillon in an e-mailed
statement called on his UMP party supporters to “mobilize” for
the final round to be held on March 27.  Sarkozy’s disapproval rating rose to the highest since his
election almost four years ago, an Ipsos institute poll showed
March 14. Sixty-eight percent of those questioned disapproved of
Sarkozy in March, 5 percentage points more than in February, the
survey published by Le Point magazine indicated. Sarkozy’s
approval rating dropped three points to 31 percent.  The elections held across  France  will renew one-third of
the General Council assemblies that overlook the departments,
equivalent to counties. The Socialist Party runs 58 of France’s
100 departments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 