-- 
Gates Says Targeting Qaddafi Goes Beyond UN Resolution on Libya

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-20T23:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/gates-says-targeting-qaddafi-goes-beyond-un-resolution-on-libya.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
the U.S. military campaign against Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi
should be limited to the terms of a United Nations resolution
rather than being broadened to target the leader directly.  The coalition with the U.K.,  France  and Arab countries
relies on the terms laid out in the UN Security Council
resolution adopted last week, Gates told reporters traveling
with him to Russia today on a trip he delayed yesterday so he
could monitor the start of “Operation Odyssey Dawn.” The
resolution backed military action to prevent Qaddafi from using
his forces to attack fellow Libyans.  “If we start adding additional objectives, then I think we
create a problem in that respect,” Gates said. “I also think
that it is unwise to set as specific goals things that you may
or may not be able to achieve.”  The UN resolution backed military action to prevent Qaddafi
from using his forces to attack fellow Libyans.  Whether the U.S. and its partners in the coalition should
aid the Libyan rebels directly “remains to be seen,” Gates
said. “This is basically going to have to be resolved by the
Libyans themselves,” he said, citing the U.S.’s political
approach to revolts in  Egypt , Tunisia and other nations in the
region.  The U.S. expects to turn over the “primary
responsibility” for the operation to others “in a matter of
days,” Gates said.  Arab States  “We will have a military role in the coalition. But we
will not have the pre-eminent role,” Gates said. “And the
president felt strongly, I would say, about limiting the scale
of U.S. military involvement in this.”  Gates said he’s confident that multiple Arab states will
participate in the military coalition.  “We received strong indications from several Arab states
that they would participate,” Gates said. “This is a new
endeavor for them and the notion that it takes a while to get it
organized and get there shouldn’t be a surprise.”  In  Russia , Gates plans to hold talks with President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov on
issues including missile defense,  arms control , Afghanistan and
Iran.  Obama has made it a priority to mend relations with Russian
leaders, which fell to their lowest point since the  Cold War  in
the aftermath of Russia’s 2008 invasion of the former Soviet
republic of Georgia. Gates has said he plans to leave office
this year.  Gates’s visit would be his fourth and last to Russia as
secretary of defense, and brings him back to a country he
studied both as a doctoral student at  Georgetown University  in
Washington and as one of the Central Intelligence Agency’s
“cold warriors” in the 1980s. The defense chief has said he
plans to leave office this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  