-- 
Gem Diamonds Is Said to Hold Merger Talks With Canada’s Lucara

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-03-20T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/gem-diamonds-is-said-to-hold-merger-talks-with-canada-s-lucara.html
  Gem Diamonds Ltd. (GEMD)  is in talks with
Canada’s  Lucara Diamond Corp. (LUC)  over a possible all-share merger,
allowing the two to combine assets in southern Africa, according
to three people with knowledge of the discussions.  The companies have been in negotiations since February and
signed a confidentiality accord, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is private. Talks
between Gem and Lucara, valued at about $606 million and $412
million respectively, may not lead to a deal, the people said.  Diamond producers are seeking new reserves as dwindling
output fails to match emerging-market demand. Global prices of
rough, or unpolished, diamonds rose 26 percent in 2010, beating
pre-recession highs. Prices may climb 25 percent this year, Gem
Chief Executive Officer Clifford Elphick said March 18.  Gem has a confidentiality accord with Lucara, Elphick said
March 18 by telephone. The agreement is one of eight Gem has
with companies, he said.  “Like any mining company, you’re always reviewing all
options,” Elphick said. “We’ve got internal growth options and
we constantly review external growth.”  Sophia Shane, a spokeswoman for Lucara in  Vancouver , said
March 18 she wasn’t aware of any talks or confidentiality
accord.  Gem has advanced 7 percent to 270 pence on the  London  Stock
Exchange this year, while Lucara has risen 18 percent to C$1.12
in Canadian trading. The Bloomberg World Mining Index has
declined 7 percent.  Gem, based in London, operates the Letseng mine in  Lesotho 
and is developing a new mine in Botswana. Lucara has a diamond
project adjacent to Letseng, called  Mothae , as well as
operations in Botswana and Namibia.  Gem also produces diamonds at the Ellendale project in  Australia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 