-- 
Gulf Shares Rise After Saudi King Offers Spending, Extra Pay; Sabic Gains

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-20T13:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/gulf-shares-gain-as-saudi-index-rallies-most-in-2-weeks-on-spending-boost.html
Persian Gulf shares rose and  Saudi
Arabia ’s benchmark stock index gained to the highest in a month
after King Abdullah ordered increases in spending, including $67
billion on housing, to prevent protests from escalating.    Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemical maker known as Sabic, rallied 4.6 percent. In
Dubai,  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, advanced to the highest in almost a month. Saudi’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 4.5 percent to 6,343.79 at the 3:30
p.m. close in Riyadh, the highest since Feb. 19. The market was
closed yesterday for a holiday. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed
2.6 percent and the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  increased 2.4
percent.  “While geopolitical risks remain in Bahrain and the
commencement of United Nations intervention against Qaddafi is
an obvious escalation of the conflict in Libya, the situation in
Saudi Arabia looks relatively positive,” said Amro Halwani,
senior equity sales trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in Riyadh. “The
package is expected to have an almost immediate effect on
different segments of the economy.”  Demonstrators across the Middle East, including Yemen,
Libya, Bahrain and Syria are demanding civil rights, higher
living standards and the removal of entrenched regimes. Libya
was pummeled by more than 110 Tomahawk cruise missiles in the
first phase of an assault by international forces intent on
protecting civilians from attack by their leader Muammar Qaddafi
and his loyalists.  Bahrain Unrest    King Abdullah  announced the construction of 500,000 houses
at a cost of 250 billion riyals ($66.7 billion) and raised the
value of mortgages provided to nationals to 500,000 riyals from
300,000 riyals on March 18. The new package comes after $36
billion in spending was announced Feb. 23. Saudi companies
listed on the Tadawul, including Sabic, will pay their staff two
months pay in bonus in line with a royal decree covering Saudi
civil servants,  the Saudi Press Agency  reported March 19.  Bahrain’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf
states arrived to support the administration. The country’s
measure dropped 1.6 percent, bringing the loss for the year to
2.8 percent.  “Increased spending in the biggest economy of the Middle
East is driving the positive sentiments across regional equity
markets,” said Tariq Qaqish, director and  fund manager  at Al
Mal Capital PSC in Dubai, which manages about $163 million.
“While we believe the short-term sentiments will focus on
geopolitical issues, the longer-term story looks positive.
Regional markets are considered a play on high  oil prices .”  High Oil  Crude oil for April delivery slipped 0.1 percent last week,
settling at $101.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
March 18. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Sabic gained the most since March 5 to 101.5 riyals. Emaar
rose 3.9 percent to 2.96 dirhams, the highest since Feb. 23.  Kuwait’s SE Price Index fell 0.2 percent. Mobile
Telecommunications Co. retreated 4.4 percent to 1,300 fils after
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ended talks to buy a majority
stake in the Kuwaiti phone company. Etisalat gained 0.5 percent
to 11 dirhams.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.7 percent, snapping a
four-day decline. Qatar’s gauge climbed 2.6 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  increased 1.3 percent. Israel’s market was closed
today for a public holiday.  Egypt’s stock exchange may open “within days,” Prime
Minister Essam Sharaf said March 19 in an interview in Cairo.
The market has been shut since the end of trading on Jan. 27
during a popular revolt that ousted Hosni Mubarak more than two
weeks later. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  plunged 16 percent in
the last two trading days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  