-- 
Qaddafi Vows to Repel ‘Christian States’ as Mullen Says No-Fly Zone Set Up

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-03-20T20:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/libya-hit-by-coalition-missiles-air-raids-as-qaddafi-decries-crusaders-.html
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed
to repel allied forces pounding military installations in his
country as the U.S. said the opening phase of an operation to
stop him killing civilians had been “very effective.”  Qaddafi denounced the coalition including the U.S., the
U.K. and  France  allied against him as “the party of Satan”
after Tomahawk missiles were fired at Libyan targets overnight
and fighter jets patrolled the North African country’s skies.
The military action continued today with B-2 bombers attacking
airfields and air-defense sites, CBS reported.  “We will not leave our oil to America or France or Britain
or the enemy Christian states that are now aligned against us,”
the Libyan leader, who has ruled since 1969, said today on state
television. “We will not leave our land. We will fight for
every inch of our land and liberate every inch of it.”  The coalition ordered Qaddafi to withdraw his forces from
major cities after weeks of fighting with rebels that has left
hundreds dead in the bloodiest of popular uprisings to have
swept the Middle East this year.    Libya ’s armed forces announced they were imposing a
nationwide cease-fire starting this evening. United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said “I sincerely hope and urge
that Libyan authorities keep their word” on the halt.  At a Pentagon briefing this afternoon, Vice Admiral William Gortney said that the coalition forces now control the air space
over Libya and that all air crews have returned safely to their
bases. He said that there are no plans to send in ground troops
and that he can’t estimate the cost of the attacks on Libya.  ‘Significant Effect’  A no-fly zone has now been put in place over Libya, said
Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The opening phase of the military strikes has had “a pretty
significant effect very early” and Qaddafi’s forces have been
pushed back from the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, Mullen said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” program today.  “The initial operations have been very effective, taking
out most of his air-defense systems, some of his air fields,”
Mullen said. “Yet there is still, I think, a great deal to be
done.”  Asked in an NBC “Meet the Press” interview today if the
mission could be accomplished with Qaddafi still in power,
Mullen said: “That’s certainly potentially one outcome.”    Italy  has made eight warplanes available for action in
Libya, Italian Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa told RAI
television. The government in Rome has frozen more than 6
billion euros ($8.5 billion) of Libyan assets, an Italian
official said, speaking on the condition of not being further
identified.  Emergency Meeting  Talks are underway for an emergency meeting of Arab League
nations to discuss the situation in Libya, the Egyptian
government-owned Middle East News Agency cited Secretary General
Amr Moussa as saying. Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani was earlier cited as saying the country will take
part in the military action against Libya, the country’s state-
run news agency reported.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in Paris
that Arab participation was “extraordinarily important.” More
can be expected from the Middle East states, she said.  A United Nations resolution passed March 17 permits “all
necessary measures” short of an occupation to protect civilians
from the violence. Western leaders haven’t said what they’ll do
if the no-fly zone fails to force Qaddafi to comply.  U.K.’s Foreign Office said in a statement that “we will
continue to work with our Arab partners to enforce the
resolution for the good of the Libyan people.”  ‘Multiphase Operation’  None of the countries involved in military operations in
Libya “are envisaging a ground offensive,” U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said in an interview with Sky News.  As many as 25 vessels, including the USS Mount Whitney
command vessel, were coordinated to weaken Libya’s command-and-
control capability, U.S. Vice Admiral William Gortley said in  Washington . The military actions late yesterday were the first
in a “multiphase” operation meant to “shape the battle
space,” he said.  The U.K. has deployed a number of Typhoon aircraft to the
Gioia Dell Colle airbase, in southern Italy, “where they are on
standby for future tasking,” defense spokesman Major General
John Lorimer said.  The priority of the coalition forces is to stop Qaddafi
“brutalizing” his own people, not to implement “regime
change,” Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  told the  BBC ’s Politics
Show in  London  today. The Libyan leader could well “hunker
down” and remain in the country, he said.  Qaddafi’s regime “may remain in existence,” Fox said.
“Whether it remains in power is a very different issue.”  Crude Exports  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery slipped 9 cents to $101.07 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Concern about disruption to Middle
East oil supplies has sent futures up about 23 percent from a
year ago.  Qaddafi is likely to use tactics such as his proposed
cease-fire to stall for time, an approach that could prolong the
conflict and affect the oil industry, said Mohammed el-Katiri,
Middle East analyst for the Eurasia Group.  “A prolonged stalemate could also lead to the division of
the country, which is not an outcome that most Libyans prefer,
and which would have negative implications for the energy
sector,” el-Katiri said in e-mailed comments.  No ‘Regime Change’  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said he had been speaking
to Libya’s prime minister and foreign minister, though he had
not had any recent contact with Qaddafi. “I am not here to talk
about regime change,” he said in an interview in Paris today.
“That should be determined by the people of the country of
Libya.”  “Even now, if they stop completely this military action
against the populations then there could be some ways for
discussions,” said Ban.  Libyan state television said 48 people were killed and 150
injured in the air strikes yesterday. Mullen said he has seen
“no reports of any kind of significant civilian casualties.”  Clashes between rebels and Qaddafi loyalists continued in
Misrata, where  Al Jazeera  reported three government tanks
entering the city center.  The Libyan revolt is the bloodiest in a series of uprisings
this year that have toppled Tunisian leader Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and  Egypt ’s former President  Hosni Mubarak . There have also
been anti-government demonstrations in Yemen, Bahrain, Jordan,
Syria, Algeria, Iran, Iraq and Oman.  Describing the military mission as “limited,” Admiral
Mullen said he couldn’t say whether it would end with the
removal of Qaddafi from power.  “How this ends from the political standpoint, I just can’t
say,” Mullen said on CNN. “I think the pressure will continue
to build on him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Rome  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  