-- 
Libya Intervention Risks Prolonged Oilfield Shutdowns, Qaddafi Reprisals

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-21T11:26:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/libya-intervention-risks-prolonged-oilfield-shutdown-reprisals.html
The international military
intervention in  Libya  risks prolonging the shutdown of North
Africa’s most productive oil fields as well as reprisals by
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime against foreign energy assets.  Crude futures in  New York  gained as much as 2.3 percent
today after the U.S., U.K. and France launched missiles and
airstrikes at targets in Libya to halt Qaddafi’s advance on the
rebel-held city of Benghazi. Oil has risen to a two-year high
during the month-long conflict.  Libyan oil output has fallen to less than 400,000 barrels a
day, about a quarter of the production before the crisis, and
may stop, Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Co.,
said on March 19. Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI) , the biggest foreign  oil
company  in Libya, evacuated the last of its expatriate staff
after the United Nations authorized military action.  “The biggest risk for oil companies involves possible
damage to their facilities which would make it harder to bring
production back up once the conflict ends,” said Alessandro
Marrone, a defense analyst at the IAI Institute of International
Affairs in  Rome . “Some facilities could be part of collateral
damage from raids, others could be sabotaged as retaliation.”  Crude oil for April delivery rose as much as 2.3 percent to
$103.35 a barrel today in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures reached $106.95 on March 7, the
highest since 2008. In  London , Brent crude gained as much as 2
percent to $116.22 a barrel today.  ‘Prolonged Uncertainty’  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Barclays Plc analysts said that Libyan oil production is likely
to remain suspended for the rest of 2011.  “Our operating assumption is that there will be very little
Libyan oil exported in 2011,” said  Lawrence Eagles , head of
commodities research at JPMorgan in New York. “Clearly,
political developments could change.”  As well as Rome-based Eni, foreign oil producers in Libya
include France’s Total SA, Austria’s  OMV AG (OMV)  and Spain’s  Repsol
YPF SA. (REP)  The U.K.’s largest oil companies  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and  BP Plc (BP/)  were exploring for oil and gas before suspending
operations when the anti-government uprising started in the east
of the country in mid-February.  Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels of oil a day in January,
making it the biggest producer in North Africa, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That accounted for about 2
percent of global output.  “Western oil companies will have to hope Qaddafi does not
destroy their facilities,” said Johannes Benigni, chief
executive officer of consultants JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna. The
foreign intervention means “prolonged increased uncertainty and
thus volatility in oil markets,” he said.  ‘Other Sources’  There is no need to call a special meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to address the
situation, Abdullah Al-Attiyah, Qatar’s deputy prime minister
and former oil minister, said in Doha yesterday.  “The disappearance of the Libyan production hasn’t really
affected supply and demand because we see compensation from
other sources” including  Saudi Arabia , Kuwait the United Arab
Emirates and others, Attiyah said. “When I look to the
inventory, I see that the inventory is very high, over 60
days.”  Some refiners in Japan have closed because of damage from
the record earthquake that struck March 11, eliminating about 1
million barrels a day of demand that can go elsewhere, he said.  Qaddafi threatened to replace western oil firms with
companies from India and  China  in a March 2 speech and more than
10 days later discussed possible investments with the
ambassadors of the two countries and Russia, state-run
television reported.  ‘Fight for Every Inch’  “We will not leave our oil to America or  France  or Britain
or the enemy Christian states that are aligned now against us,”
the Libyan leader, who has ruled since 1969, said on state
television yesterday. “We will fight for every inch of our
land and liberate every inch of it.”  The push by Qaddafi to take back rebel-held parts of the
country, which provoked international action to protect
civilians, saw fighting near oil installations at Ras Lanuf.
Libyan’s oil and gas fields are split between the east of the
country, where the rebellion is strongest and the west, where
the capital, Tripoli, is situated.  Joint Chiefs  A no-fly zone is now in place over Libya, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
yesterday. The opening phase of the military strikes on Libya
has had “a pretty significant effect very early” and Qaddafi’s
forces have been pushed back from the rebel stronghold of
Benghazi, Mullen said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  The conflict is likely to halt Libyan exports for months,
the  International Energy Agency  said in a report last week,
adding that output had already been reduced to a “trickle.”  “Supplies are already cut, so the question is how long it
lasts,” said Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  in Moscow. “There is no easy way out of this situation.
It’s a matter of how Qaddafi goes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  