-- 
India Defeats Windies in Cricket World Cup, Plays Australia in Last Eight

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-03-20T18:57:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/india-defeats-windies-in-cricket-world-cup-plays-australia-in-last-eight.html
  India  beat the West Indies by 80
runs yesterday to finish second in Group B at cricket’s  World
Cup  and set up a quarterfinal against three-time defending
champion  Australia .  West Indies, who also qualified from fourth spot, will meet
Group A winner Pakistan in the last eight.  “We will be at our best for the quarterfinals,” India
captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni told reporters. “Australia are a
very strong side and very expressive on the field, but it’s
about how we prepare for the game to achieve what we want. In
the process, we hope to give our best.”  Yuvraj Singh scored a century in Chennai as India recorded
its fourth victory in six group matches. He hit 113 from 123
balls and shared a 122-run partnership with Virat Kohli, 59
runs, to help India recover from 51-2.  After Kohli was bowled by Ravi Rampaul the final seven
wickets fell for less than 100 runs, with India bowled out for
268 in its final over. Rampaul finished with 5-51.  In reply, the West Indies collapsed to 188 all out, with
the addition of only 34 runs after opener Devon Smith was
dismissed for 81 at 154-3. Zaheer Khan was the pick of India’s
bowlers, taking 3-26.  West Indies captain Darren Sammy said his team needs to
improve.  “We’re in the knockout stage so we have to tighten up and
tighten up quickly, we have to bring our A game against  Pakistan ,” he said. “We lost eight wickets for 30-odd runs,
that’s a concern. But we’re in the knockout and anything can
happen.”    Zimbabwe  Victory  The top four teams in each of the seven-team groups advance
to the quarterfinals. The other two matchups see Sri Lanka play
England, and Group B winner South Africa face  New Zealand .  Also yesterday, Zimbabwe defeated Kenya by 161 runs in
Kolkata, India, in a match between two teams that couldn’t
advance. After scoring 308-6 from its 50 overs, Zimbabwe bowled
out Kenya for 147.  India is aiming to win the tournament for a first time
since 1983. Australia has won four of the past six events, with
Pakistan and  Sri Lanka  also taking the title. The West Indies
won the first two editions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 