-- 
Initial Strikes ‘Very Effective’ Against Qaddafi, Mullen Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-20T13:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/initial-strikes-very-effective-against-qaddafi-mullen-says.html
The opening phase of the military
strikes on Libya has had “a pretty significant effect very
early” and  Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces have been pushed back from
the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff said today.  “The initial operations have been very effective, taking
out most of his air defense systems, some of his air fields,”
Admiral Mike Mullen said on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program. “Yet there is still, I think, a great deal to be
done.”  Qaddafi’s forces are “stretched” and the international
coalition will soon move to cut off his supply lines and jam his
communications, Mullen said.  “The no-fly zone is effectively in place,” Mullen said.
“We’ve got combat air patrol aircraft over Benghazi and we’ll
have them there on a 24-7 basis and start to move that to the
west.”  While Qaddafi’s forces can still retaliate, Mullen said on
ABC’s “This Week” program, “They’ve not been a very effective
force. We’ve taken out their air defenses. We’ve attacked some
of their forces on the ground in the vicinity of Benghazi.”  Before the launch of Operation Odyssey Dawn to destroy
Qaddafi’s air defenses, Qaddafi’s forces “were on the march to
Benghazi,” Mullen said. “They’re no longer marching there.”  In offering an initial assessment of the first day of
military strikes from British, French and U.S. forces, Mullen
said he has seen “no reports of any kind of significant
civilian casualties.”  Limited Mission  Describing the military mission as “limited,” Mullen said
he couldn’t say whether it would end with the removal of Qaddafi
from power.  “How this ends from the political standpoint, I just can’t
say,” Mullen said on CNN. “I think the pressure will continue
to build on him.”  The Obama administration has said the military strikes are
designed to establish a no-fly zone over  Libya  and to prevent
Qaddafi from attacking Libyan civilians. Qaddafi forces haven’t
flown any aircraft in two days, Mullen said on CNN.  While the  Arab League  endorsed the creation of a no-fly
zone, U.S. officials haven’t confirmed the participation of
fighter aircraft from Arab nations.  “I would like those Arab nations to speak for
themselves,” Mullen said on CNN. “I’m fairly confident there
will be military capabilities from some Arab nations and they
are actually moving into theater now.”  Mission Goals  Asked what Qaddafi would have to do to end the coalition
strikes, Mullen said, “We would like to see him withdraw his
forces across the country back into garrison.” He said Qaddafi
also would have to stop attacking his people and pledge not to
interfere with the delivery of humanitarian aid.  Mullen said there has been no sign of Qaddafi using mustard
gas.  “We expect to sustain this over a period of time,” Mullen
said, referring to the strikes. “And while the  United States 
leads this right now, we expect in the next few days to hand
that leadership off to a coalition-led operation and let the
United States recede somewhat to the background” while still
providing support.  He said Qaddafi “is more and more isolated internationally
than he’s ever been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  