-- 
Chelsea Defeats Manchester City to Go Third in League; Liverpool Victory

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-03-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/liverpool-beats-sunderland-2-0-in-premier-league-on-goals-by-kuyt-suarez.html
Defending champion Chelsea beat  Manchester City  2-0 at Stamford Bridge to move ahead of its
rival into third spot in English soccer’s Premier League.  Brazilians  David Luiz  and Ramires scored to lift the Blues
to 54 points, one ahead of City. Sixth-place Liverpool defeated
Sunderland 2-0 in yesterday’s other game.  Chelsea midfielder Michael Essien said his team has not
given up on the title, even though it trails first-place
Manchester United by nine points. United has 63 points, while
Arsenal has 58. Fifth-place Tottenham is on 49, with Liverpool
on 45. Sunderland remains in ninth with 38 points.  “We take every game as it comes, we’ll work hard in every
game and see what happens,” Essien told  Sky Sports . “We’ll
have to keep believing that we can do it. There’s a long way to
go -- we have to fight for every point.”  Neither goalkeeper had many saves to make in a scoreless
first half. Yaya Toure did test Chelsea’s Petr Cech with a low
shot on six minutes, while  Salomon Kalou  hit an effort straight
at City’s  Joe Hart  just before halftime.  Chelsea fullback Branislav Ivanovic had a close-range
header in the 62nd minute which hit Vincent Kompany and was
cleared, but there were still few clear chances.  Luiz made the breakthrough after 78 minutes, with the
center-back heading the ball past Hart to get his second goal
for the club.  City, without the injured  Carlos Tevez , pressed in an
attempt to tie the game, but Ramires killed off any chance of a
comeback when he sliced through the defense to score in injury
time. It was also his second goal for the Blues.  Injury-Time Goal  Chelsea striker Fernando Torres is still searching for his
first goal since joining from Liverpool for 50 million pounds
($81 million) in January. The Spaniard, who was 27 yesterday,
was substituted after 70 minutes.  “It was a very difficult game,” Chelsea coach  Carlo Ancelotti  told Sky Sports. “We played a good game -- we had
focus, spirit and a good attitude.”  At the Stadium of Light, Torres’s former team recorded its
fourth away league win of the season with goals from Dirk Kuyt
and  Luis Suarez  against Sunderland.  Sunderland was disrupted by two injuries within the opening
25 minutes, Sulley Muntari and Kieran Richardson replaced by Lee
Cattermole and Steed Malbranque.  The home team trailed when John Mensah fouled Jay Spearing
on the edge of the penalty area in the 34th minute and referee
Kevin Friend awarded a spotkick after taking advice from his
assistant. Sunderland’s players protested that the incident was
outside the box.  Kuyt Penalty  Kuyt sent Simon Mignolet the wrong way to score his 10th
goal of the season. Mignolet beat away a shot from Suarez three
minutes later as Liverpool started to apply pressure.  Early in the second half Cattermole stopped an Andy Carroll
header on the line and Mignolet made a diving save from a long-
range Spearing effort on 74 minutes before the Reds got their
second goal.  Suarez cut inside the penalty area before slotting the ball
past Mignolet at the near post for his second goal in five
matches since joining from Ajax in January.  “Suarez looks a good player and scored a fantastic goal
for us,” Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  told the club’s
website.  He was brought down by Mensah five minutes later, resulting
in a straight red card for the Sunderland defender.  Two days ago, 10-man  Manchester United  defeated Bolton 1-0,
Arsenal rallied to tie 2-2 at West Bromwich Albion, Tottenham
was held to a 0-0 draw by West Ham, and last-place Wigan won 2-1
against Birmingham.  Wolverhampton Wanderers beat Aston Villa 1-0, Stoke
defeated Newcastle 4-0, Blackburn and Blackpool tied 2-2, while
Everton beat Fulham 2-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 