-- 
Japan May Curb Food Shipments From Areas Near Nuclear Plant Contamination

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-03-21T03:21:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/japan-may-restrict-food-shipments-from-areas-near-nuclear-plant.html
  Japan ’s government will decide
today whether to limit the sale of produce from the country’s
northeast after some food from near a crippled nuclear power
station was found to have elevated radiation levels.  Spinach and milk samples were found to have higher-than-
normal radiation “but not at levels harmful to human health,”  Yukio Edano , Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, said at a news
briefing in Tokyo yesterday. “We’ll decide Monday whether we
need to restrict intake in some areas and limit distribution.”  Temperatures at all six spent fuel storage pools at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear complex are below boiling point,
indicating that dousing efforts to cool the used fuel rods may
be working. Using a helicopter fitted with infrared equipment,
officials determined that the pools atop the plant’s six
reactors were below 100 degrees centigrade (212 Fahrenheit),
Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa said last night.  Higher-than-normal levels of radiation were found in milk
in four different locations in Fukushima prefecture and in
spinach in neighboring Ibaraki prefecture, Edano said.  He didn’t provide details on the radiation found in the
food in the two prefectures near the plant, saying only that no
milk had been shipped from affected areas. He didn’t specify
what the government considered to be safe levels.  Tap Water  Radiation detected in spinach was 12 times the regulatory
limit,  Kyodo News  said, citing an unidentified official from
Ibaraki prefecture. Residents of the town of Iitate in Fukushima
prefecture were asked to refrain from drinking tap water because
of the presence of radioactive iodine, Kyodo News said.  Samples of tap water taken March 18 in Tokyo and five
nearby prefectures showed traces of radiation that were within
acceptable levels, the Japanese government said.  The government would “increase monitoring” of tap water
and that so far “there’s no information that we need to take
special measures,” Edano said.  Japan’s death toll from the March 11 quake and tsunami rose
to 8,450 as of 9 p.m. yesterday, with a further 12,931 people
missing, according to the  National Police Agency  in  Tokyo . Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  canceled a planned visit to the earthquake
zone today because rain forecasts present problems for
helicopter landings, Kyodo News reported.  Supplies of food, water and other essentials are increasing,
with about 118,000 emergency personnel on the ground, said
Kirsten Mildren, a spokeswoman in Japan for the United Nations
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  Winds, Rain  Shifting winds followed by rain will carry radiation inland
and deposit radionuclides on the ground, said Austria’s
Meteorological and Geophysics Center yesterday.  The center made the forecast using radionuclide data from
the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty Organization. Maps on the
center’s website show radionuclides moving south toward Tokyo.  In the absence of specific data on contamination levels,
the supply of milk and food should be “frozen” from areas near
the plant, Peter Burns, former chief executive officer of the
 Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency , said
in a phone interview from  Melbourne .  Based on the amount of nuclear fallout known to have been
released from the plant so far, the risk to the population from
radiation getting into the  food supply  is “several orders of
magnitude below Chernobyl,” he said.  Contamination Tests  Officials in Japan’s 47 prefectures have been asked to test
agricultural products, seafood and drinking water for possible
contamination to prevent tainted grains, milk, vegetables, meat
and eggs from being consumed, Kumiko Tanaka, an official at the
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, said March 18.  Ibaraki prefecture also produces cucumbers, tomatoes,
onions, strawberries and pears. Fukushima produces cucumbers,
tomatoes and string beans.  Airborne radioactive particles could have landed on spinach
and been absorbed by the leaves, Burns said. Milk may have been
contaminated within days as the time between a cow eating grass,
digesting it and secreting milk is extremely short, he said.    Taiwan  detected “unharmful” levels of radioactivity on a
shipment of fava beans from Japan, Shieh Der-Jhy, deputy
minister of the Atomic Energy Council, said by phone yesterday.  The shipment was “within allowable levels” of radiation,
Shieh said. Four shipments of vegetables imported from Japan in
the past 24 hours were found to have “acceptable” levels of
radiation by Hong Kong’s Food and Environmental Hygiene
Department, Gabriel Leung, undersecretary for Food and Health in
Hong Kong, told reporters. They didn’t include spinach, he said.  Shrimp, Squid  Thai imports of Japanese fish, shells, shrimp and squid
since March 15 contained no radioactive contamination, the
Bangkok Post reported, citing Pipat Yingseri, secretary-general
of the Thai Food and Drug Administration.  Japan exported 481 billion yen ($6 billion) worth of food
last year, accounting for 0.7 percent of total exports,
according to data on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries. In 2009, more than 70 percent of Japan’s
food exports went to  Hong Kong , the U.S.,  China , Taiwan and  South Korea , according to the Japan External Trade Organization.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frederik Balfour at 
 fbalfou@bloomberg.net  