-- 
Fukushima Evacuees Fleeing Japanese Radiation Face Uncertain Return Home

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-21T09:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/japan-starts-rebuilding-roads-as-quake-tsunami-death-toll-nears-20-000.html
  Japan  resumed fuel shipments and
opened roads to areas worst-hit by an earthquake and tsunami 10
days ago, boosting prospects of getting supplies to hundreds of
thousands of people evacuated from their homes.  Japan’s Sendai Shiogama Port received its first fuel-
carrying vessel since the disaster today, according to the
transport ministry. A lack of fuel because of damaged ports and
gas stations had hampered relief efforts for days, according to
aid organizations including the  United Nations  and Doctors
Without Borders.  “Tankers will come in one after another from now on,”
Kuniharu Ebina, manager of the ministry’s coastal cargo
division, said by phone today. “There are many requests for
fuel in the area, so this should boost recovery work and
encourage people.”    Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said it connected a power cable to
the No. 3 and No. 4 reactors at its stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear plant north of Tokyo, prompting Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
to say there was “light at the end of the tunnel.” Officials
earlier reported that temperatures at the plant’s six spent fuel
storage pools are below the boiling point.  The positive news was tempered by reports from Japan’s
Miyagi prefecture, the worst hit by the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, that it may need to resettle some evacuees outside its
borders because of a lack of temporary housing.  ‘Very Big Area’  “Damage is spread across a very big area and we’re not
sure we’ll be able to house everyone within the prefecture,”
Yasunori Saito, a spokesman for the Miyagi government, said by
telephone from Sendai today. “We may be moving entire
communities elsewhere.”  Sendai , a city of 1 million in Miyagi, has compiled an
extra budget of 17.7 billion yen ($220 million) as it struggles
to restore gas and water supplies. Tamostu Watanabe, a spokesman
at the city’s emergency task force, said yesterday that more
funds would be needed in a region that was already lagging
behind the rest of Japan’s economy before the quake.  Relief efforts have been aided by improved transportation
links to some of the worst-affected areas after Japan deployed
about 118,000 emergency personnel, including members of the
self-defense force, the nation’s military.  ‘Improved Considerably’  “Our system of transportation has improved considerably
and is working well enough to get the people what they need,
even to the evacuation centers that are the farthest away,”
Saito said. “There’s been pretty much no issues getting the
basic necessities to the evacuation centers and sending rescue
personnel thanks to the  SDF .”  Forecasts of snow in Miyagi and areas of northern Japan
early tomorrow may complicate efforts to provide support to
refugees scattered among as many as 2,000 temporary shelters in
quake-affected areas.  Temperatures in Sendai  reached a high of 9
degrees Celsius (48.2 degrees Fahrenheit) today with a chance of
snow tomorrow and a low of 0 degrees Celsius in some areas,
according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency .  “If the weather just keeps on staying the way it is it’s
going to certainly make the response efforts so much harder up
there,” said Kirsten Mildren, a spokeswoman in Japan for the
United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs. “This makes a miserable situation just so much more
miserable.”  Kan canceled a planned visit to the earthquake zone today
because rain forecasts present problems for helicopter landings,  Kyodo News  reported. Japan’s death toll from the disaster rose
to 8,649 as of noon, with a further 13,262 people missing,
according to the  National Police Agency  in Tokyo.  Clearing Debris  Closer to Tokyo, cleanup efforts continued. In Asahi, 77
kilometers (48 miles) east of the capital, diggers and front-end
loaders yesterday cleared debris as volunteers fanned out on the
streets to offer help. Several houses were destroyed or had
their front sections ripped out. Women in aprons washed dishes
and clothes in bowls on the streets as trucks hauled away pieces
of masonry and garbage.  Evacuees from Fukushima, who lived closest to the crippled
nuclear plant, began adjusting to a relocation center north of
Tokyo. Sachiko Nakai was at home in Futaba Town about 4
kilometers (2.5 miles) from the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant when the
earthquake hit.  The 44-year-old mother of three grabbed her mobile phone
and purse and ran to the nearest evacuation center, a local
elementary school. She and her family eventually arrived at a
temporary camp north of Tokyo on March 19, and their home’s
proximity to the plant, where damaged reactors have been leaking
radiation, makes it impossible to contemplate a return.  ‘Ran Away’  “We just ran away with barely anything,” Nakai said
yesterday as she rummaged through a pile of donated clothing at
 Saitama Super Arena , which now houses about 2,500 evacuees. “We
don’t know when we can go home.”  Nakai and her family were among 1,200 Futaba residents who
arrived in Saitama aboard 40 buses to escape possible exposure
to radiation. Two town districts were flooded by the tsunami,
one of which was wiped out, Mayor Katsutaka Idogawa told
reporters at the stadium, which hosted a concert by the U.S.
rock band Green Day in January 2010.  Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said today
that the time was not right to comment on a possible lifting or
narrowing of the evacuation zone around the damaged nuclear
power plant.  A widening of the evacuation zone will not be necessary
“even if the situation worsens,” Hidehiko Nishiyama, a
spokesman for the agency said. A worsening situation would be
one in which all power sources failed and the ability to contain
radiation at multiple reactors was lost, Nishiyama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  