-- 
Japan’s ‘BP Moment’ Is Global Economic Problem: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-03-20T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/japan-s-bp-moment-is-global-economic-problem-william-pesek.html
You never want to kick a nation
when it’s down. It’s time, though, to consider the depth of  Japan ’s coming recession.  A week ago, before radiation fears prompted a mass exodus
from Tokyo, a downturn was of the “if” variety. Japan’s
prospects then dimmed with each passing day of blackouts and
panicked news reports. The questions now are when the recession
will officially begin, how bad it will be and when might it end?  There’s this bizarre notion that Japan’s crisis is a non-
event for the world economy -- that at just 9 percent of global
gross domestic product, Japan’s zigs and zags mean little. And
besides, it’s thought, the Group of Seven stepped in to cap the
yen and all’s well again. Perhaps. Yet Japan’s near-term
trajectory may surprise the global bulls out there.  The G-7’s intervention halted the yen’s rally to a postwar
high of 76.25. It was a rare success for a grouping so out of 
its depth as America’s economy burned in 2008 and  Europe ’s debt
crisis heated up in recent months. The G-7 showed that
multilateralism may be making a comeback.  The international response to Japan’s disaster has been
rapid, heartfelt and genuine.  China  and other regional rivals
put aside contentious issues, and Asian relations will be better
off for it. There’s also reason to hope this crisis catalyzes a
sclerotic leadership class to put Japan on a more dynamic course.
Count Sony Corp. Chairman Howard Stringer among those who hope
recovery efforts will jump-start the lagging economy as the
country uses savings to rebuild.  ‘BP Moment’  Yet the fallout from what some pundits call Japan’s “BP
moment” is broadening as we speak. In a perfect world,
rebuilding efforts would help GDP in the second half of 2011.
Lots of infrastructure needs to be restored in Japan’s
northeastern Tohoku region, which accounts for roughly 8 percent
of the economy.  The trouble is the intangibleness of Japan’s current
situation. Many worry that aftershocks and rolling blackouts
following the March 11 earthquake are with us indefinitely. That
augurs poorly both for business investment and household
spending for the remainder of 2011. Household savings may soar
as Japanese worry about another huge temblor or tsunami.  Events at two of Japan’s most fabled names -- Toyota Motor
Corp. and Sony Corp. -- tell the story. Both face worst-case
scenarios of long-term production shortfalls as scores of plants
remain closed and workers are idled. And this will be playing
out for weeks, if not months, to come as the nuclear reactors
Japan Inc. took for granted stay offline.  Reconstruction Efforts  Myriad other industries will be affected as shipments of
chemicals, plastics, steel and other metals, precision ball
bearings and electronic components are disrupted indefinitely.
It’s certainly possible that reconstruction efforts near Sendai
will pick up some of the economic slack, but not all.  Let’s consider, too, the nascent backlash against all
things Japanese. It started with sushi. In  Hong Kong , the
Mandarin Oriental International Ltd.’s flagship and the city’s
Four Seasons Hotel stopped buying food from Japan. In  Taiwan , a
small amount of radiation found in a shipment of peas is the
first case of such contamination on imports from Japan, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday.  A backlash in mainland China would be especially painful.
China turned away a Japanese cargo plane operated by All Nippon
Airways Co. at Dalian airport. Authorities said the plane’s
shipment, which departed from near Tokyo on March 16, had
radiation levels that exceeded limits. A sense of wariness about
the Japan brand among 1.3 billion can’t be good news for  Asia ’s
second-biggest economy.  Cheap Japan  Of course, all this could be a boon for value investors. In
the days before the quake, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and David Herro of Oakmark International Fund were among those viewing
Japanese equities as significantly undervalued. Even  Marc Faber ,
publisher of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, says it’s time to
buy and hold Japanese stocks. Well, now they are cheap for sure.  Yet on top of the uncertainty factor emanating from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant, Japan is afflicted by
political paralysis. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  invited the head
of the largest opposition party to join his cabinet to build
political support for its battle to contain the nation’s deepest
postwar crisis. Sadakazu Tanigaki, who leads the  Liberal
Democratic Party , declined.  Folks, this is no time for partisanship.  Pre-Quake Worries  Japan didn’t enter this crisis in a position of strength.
Its economy shrank at an annualized 1.3 percent rate in the
three months ended Dec. 31. Even before the quake, Japan had the
world’s largest public debt and arguably the lowest  interest
rates .  And now this. The surge in the yen -- as traders front-run
a massive repatriation of money to Japan by insurance companies
-- is a reminder that the quake is the stimulus package that
Japan didn’t want.  There’s every reason to think Japan will bounce back in the
long run. Unless Japan gets a decisive handle on this uncertainty
factor, its prospects will darken in the short run.  Still think that’s not a worry for the global economy?  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  