-- 
Japan’s Coming Recovery Benefits Savvy Investors: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-03-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/japan-s-coming-recovery-rewards-savvy-investor-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average
has fallen about 12 percent since an earthquake and tsunami
ripped the country on March 11. American investors should
consider putting some capital to work there, timing their entry
carefully.  Investment from abroad may help Japan rebuild and also
provide a profit for those willing to wait two to five years.  How can one even discuss profit amid so much human
suffering? Traders are trained and paid to be amoral about such
situations. The rest of us should consider this: by buying
American depositary receipts of Japanese stocks, we’re putting
capital into a country that needs all the help it can get.  More than 260 Japanese stocks trade as ADRs in the U.S.
Among them are some of the world’s largest and best-known
companies:  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) , Honda Motor Co.,  Mitsubishi Corp. (MSBHY) 
and  Sony Corp. (6758) , to name a few.  As of Friday, Toyota was priced at 0.5 times the company’s
per-share sales, Honda at 0.7 times sales, Mitsubishi at 0.8 and
Sony at 0.4. Most stocks in the U.S. are pricier: The price-
sales multiple for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is 1.3.  After challenging the U.S. for world economic leadership in
the 1980s, Japan has endured almost two decades of economic
stagnation.  Phoenix Effect  The devastation from the current crises could make things
worse -- or spark a revival as the nation begins to rebuild.  Before the earthquake, the Nikkei 225 had risen 55 percent,
including dividends, from its 2009 low. As of Friday, the
cumulative gains had melted to only 31 percent.    Japan  is still in crisis. The danger of a nuclear meltdown
at one or more reactors remains. The number of fatalities from
earthquake and flood is more than 6,500 with more than 10,000
reported missing. Tens of thousands of people lack heat,
adequate food or water.  Yet I believe that the Japanese are a resourceful and
resolute people. Hard as it is to imagine now, the crisis will
probably be less acute in a few weeks or months.  As no one can chart the path of a crisis, it makes sense
for U.S. investors to stage their capital commitment over a
period of time. As a first step, consider what percentage of
your portfolio you wish to put into Japan.  Deploying Capital  Five percent might suffice for medium-risk investors. For
those willing to take on more risk, 10 percent to 15 percent
might be suitable. Conservative investors shouldn’t consider it.  After you have figured out what your capital allocation may
be, I suggest deploying it in three stages.  Perhaps one-third of the capital should be invested as soon
as the Japanese stock market shows some signs that it is no
longer plunging. In my opinion, that has already happened.
Another one-third of the investment might be placed when the
Nikkei index has gone two weeks without a significant decline.
The final third might go in when the Nikkei average, now at
9,206, gets back above 10,000.  Let’s look at some of those major companies I mentioned
earlier.  Toyota, based in Toyota City, looks attractive to me,
partly because of its international balance. It gets about 30
percent of its auto and truck sales in Japan, 30 percent in  North America , and 40 percent in the rest of the world.  Earnings Rebound  Although it is mainly a car and truck maker, Toyota also
constructs homes. Its services as a home builder should be in
heavy demand in Japan in the next two years.  Tokyo-based Honda looks reasonably valued, and analysts
expect that its earnings will double in the fiscal year that
ends this month.
     Mitsubishi, also Tokyo-based, is a diversified industrial
conglomerate sometimes compared with General Electric Co. Its
products include  consumer goods , metals, machinery, electronics,
and chemicals.  Mitsubishi stock is trading at what I consider compelling
valuations. The company’s debt is higher than I would prefer; it
exceeds stockholders’ equity.  Sony, which boasts a stronger balance sheet, is just
finishing up its fiscal year this month. Analysts think it will
swing from a loss to a profit this year.  Rebuilding Infrastructure    Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) , located in  Tokyo , has
shown little revenue growth in the past seven years. It seems to
me, though, that rebuilding Japan will result in increased phone
and data traffic. The company has a dividend yield of 3.3
percent, amply covered by earnings. The stock is priced at 0.5
times sales.    Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) , Japan’s largest steelmaker by revenue,
is likely to see demand increase as structures are rebuilt in
northern Japan. It trades for less than 0.5 times sales.  Japan’s recent history of economic stagnation looms as a
major deterrent to investing. So does the present crisis. For my
part, I can’t believe that Japan is as strong as it looked in
1989, when the Nikkei was about four times its present level,
nor as weak as it has looked lately. For patient and careful
investors, I think there are investment bargains to be had.    John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in  Boston ,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  