-- 
New Zealand Economists Slash Growth Forecasts, Survey Shows

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/new-zealand-economists-slash-growth-forecasts-survey-shows.html
  New Zealand ’s economy will grow at
a slower pace than previously predicted this year and next after
an earthquake in Christchurch stalled spending and shut
businesses, according to a survey of economic forecasters.  Gross domestic product will increase by 2 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2012, according to the average estimate of
11 economists surveyed by the Wellington-based New Zealand
Institute of Economic Research Inc. Three months ago, they
forecast a 3.5 percent expansion.  “Revisions over the past quarter reflect weakening
activity in the near term and a delay in reconstruction of
Canterbury,” the  institute  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Slower growth bolsters chances the  Reserve Bank of New
Zealand  will keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
record low of 2.5 percent until at least the fourth quarter.  Central bank governor Alan Bollard on March 10 cut
borrowing costs by half a percentage point, citing the magnitude
6.3 earthquake that struck the South Island city on Feb. 22,
killing more than 160 people and wrecking homes, roads and
commercial buildings.  Economists had expected reconstruction from a September
earthquake in Christchurch would buoy growth this year. The
recovery has been delayed due mainly to the second quake, the
institute said. Annual growth will probably accelerate to 3.9
percent in the year through March 2013, the survey showed.  The economy will grow 0.8 percent in the current year
ending March 31, less than the 2.1 percent expansion predicted
three months ago, and may have contracted in the January-to-
March period, according to the survey.  The quarterly survey includes the forecasts of the  Reserve
Bank , Treasury Department, eight bank economists and the
institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  