-- 
New Zealand Plans Spending Cuts as Earthquake Costs Hit Budget

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-20T21:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/new-zealand-plans-spending-cuts-as-earthquake-costs-hit-budget.html
  New Zealand ’s government will cut
spending across departments so it can afford new health and
education programs rather than raise taxes on consumers to
contain the budget deficit, Prime Minister John Key said.  “We are going to spend more on health and education but
the view of the Cabinet is that that needs to be found for the
most part from savings in other portfolios,” Key told
 Television New Zealand  today. “It’s not going to be a savage
attack on one particular thing. We just need to be very
careful.”  New Zealand is reversing a January pledge to include at
least NZ$800 million ($585 million) of new spending in the May
19 budget amid increasing debt as the nation’s deadliest
earthquake since 1931 increases costs and curbs tax revenue. The  budget deficit  is likely to be about NZ$4.9 billion wider this
year, Finance Minister Bill English said last week.  The government will spend NZ$600 million to NZ$800 million
more on health and education and wants to borrow as little of
that as possible, Key said.  “We must cut our cloth to what we can actually afford,”
he said in an interview yesterday with TVNZ’s Q+A program. All
ministers have been instructed to review their departments and
identify areas for savings, he said.  The government preferred to cut spending rather than impose
a tax on consumers because the economy is “fragile” and that
could “snuff out” a recovery, Key said.  The magnitude 6.3 temblor that struck Christchurch on Feb.
22 wrecked homes, roads and commercial buildings and killed at
least 166 people, the most since a quake that claimed 256 lives
in Napier 80 years ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  