-- 
NFL Fans Suffer New Abuse From Teams They Love: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-03-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/nfl-fans-take-new-abuse-from-teams-they-love-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
What you’re about to read centers
on give and take. And, as so often is the case when professional
sports teams and money are involved, the customer loses.  The  National Football League  might not give its fans a
single game this year. That hasn’t stopped almost all of its
owners from taking money from their most loyal supporters.  As if we needed another example of gridiron greed there’s
this knee-slapper: All but one of the NFL’s 32 teams is
requiring season-ticket holders to submit deposits for next
season, even though there might not be a season.  Only the  New York Giants , the team of the late Wellington Mara, who long ago sacrificed for the good of the game and the
welfare of the league, seems to understand that pay-for-play is
the only plan that makes sense at this moment.  The Giants soon will send a letter to their 21,000 season
ticket accounts, almost all of which have multiple ticket
holders, saying that the team doesn’t think it’s right to take
deposits while owners and players are firing insults over
Twitter on how to share $9 billion in annual revenue.  “Our season-ticket holders have made a significant
financial commitment to our organization over the course of the
last couple of years,” said Pat Hanlon, a spokesman for the
Giants, who, along with the Jets, inhabit the $1.6 billion New
Meadowlands Stadium in  New Jersey . “We just felt, given the
circumstances, that it was the right thing to do and the fair
thing to do.”  Doing Right  What we have here is something rarer than a Jets  Super Bowl 
parade. We have a professional sports team showing more than a
modicum of concern for the customer, not only saying the right
thing but doing it.  Hanlon, a good company man, did his best to portray the
other clubs kindly by saying what’s best for the Giants isn’t
necessarily what other teams should do.  “Each team has to operate within its own personality and
its own way of handling its business,” he said.  Unfortunately, most professional sports teams have a
default personality of greed and avarice. There’s no excuse for
taking the deposit. Not that the NFL didn’t try to invent one,
of course.  League spokesman Brian McCarthy said clubs believed there
could be “operational issues” to not having season tickets
renewed. You know, like getting commitments and processing
payments in a short time after a settlement.  Refund Policy  The Giants, according to Hanlon, have no such worries.  “The process we’ve established has addressed those
concerns,” he said. So let’s get this straight: The Giants can
solve the problem but the other teams can’t. Right.  It gets worse.  The NFL in November, anticipating a possible labor mess,
disclosed its refund policy in the event of a lockout. The
league mandate states that teams must issue full refunds no
later than 30 days after final determination of how many games
will be played during the 2011 season.  The league, however, allowed teams to set their own
policies on whether ticket buyers should receive accrued
interest on their deposits.  Let’s use the  New England Patriots  as an example. The
Patriots in recent weeks sent three letters to their season
ticket holders. The first was from  NFL  Commissioner Roger Goodell, who outlined management’s side of the labor stalemate.
The second came from Patriots owner Bob Kraft and his son,
Jonathan, the club president, echoing much of the commissioner’s
message.  Interest Due  And then the season-ticket renewal package arrived,
requiring full payment by March 31. New England’s refund will
include interest calculated at an annual rate of 1 percent. A
check of  bankrate.com  shows that Aurora Bank offers a 1.08
percent return on a six-month certificate of deposit. It’s
absurd that a team, like the  Chicago Bears , which won’t give
fans interest on their deposits, could make even a penny. It’s
not about the money, which to someone with enough disposable
income to buy tickets is negligible. It’s the principle.  It’s no surprise that the Giants are the only team making
such a gesture to its fans. The team’s chief executive officer
is John Mara, the oldest of his father’s 11 children. It was
Wellington Mara who championed revenue sharing, even though it
meant less for his team.  Right and fair. Two important words. Just like give and
take.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  