-- 
NFL Players Association Says Owners Didn’t Justify Proposed ‘Give-Back’

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-20T04:34:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/nfl-players-association-says-owners-didn-t-justify-proposed-give-back-.html
National Football League owners’
latest proposal would have cost players as much as $3.6 billion
over four years, the NFL Players Association said.  The clubs didn’t justify their demand for “a massive give-
back which would have resulted in the worst economic deal for
players in major-league pro sports,” the association said
yesterday in a  letter  to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.  The association, responding to Goodell’s March 17 e-mail to
players in which he urged them to encourage their negotiators to
return to the bargaining table, said the commissioner had made
false statements.  The association said the owners’ proposed salary cap of
$141 million in 2011, which would increase to $161 million in
2014, was based on “unrealistically low revenue projections”
with the owners getting 100 percent of additional revenue,
including profits from the first year of new broadcast contracts.  Based on 8 percent per-year growth in NFL revenue projected
by Moody’s Inc., the cap would be $159 million per team in 2011
and $201 million in 2014, the NFLPA letter said.  “Your proposal would have resulted in a leaguewide
giveback by the players of $576 million in 2011 increasing to
$1.2 billion in 2014, for a total of more than $3.6 billion for
just the first four years,” the association told Goodell in a
letter posted on its website.  NFL Executive Vice President  Jeff Pash , in a statement e-
mailed by NFL officials, said the league was pleased to receive
the letter and that “the points made in the players’ letter are
precisely the kind of points that collective bargaining is
intended to address.”  ‘Most Sensible Step’  “This letter again proves that the most sensible step for
everyone is to get back to bargaining,” Pash said.  The association’s letter said the clubs’ offer in mediation
was predicated on the players agreeing to a rollback of their
50-50 split of all revenue to the 1980s, before the cap system.  “We understand why the owners would want to keep 100
percent of this additional money, but trying to sell it as a
fair deal to the players is not truthful,” the association said.  The league called a lockout March 12 after the two sides
couldn’t reach agreement on how to divide $9 billion in revenue.
The lockout came a day after the NFLPA said it no longer would
function as a union, a move that allowed players to file suit to
try to prevent the work stoppage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  