-- 
Nigeria Plans to Spend $10 Billion on Petrochemical, Fertilizer Factories

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-03-20T16:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/nigeria-plans-major-expenditure-in-petrochemicals-fertilizer.html
Nigeria plans to spend $10 billion
of foreign investment on 10 new plants in the petrochemical and
fertilizer industries, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke
told reporters today in Abuja, the capital.  The projects include one petrochemical facility, two
fertilizer factories and a liquefied petroleum gas distribution
plant, she said.  “The combination of the planned investment will result in
the significant in-flow of foreign direct investment of over $10
billion between 2012 and 2014 when all the plants will be
operational,” she said.  President Goodluck Jonathan will launch an industrial
investment agenda on March 24, outlining plans for the oil and
gas industry.  Nigeria plans to develop its gas reserves and build new
pipeline networks to supply power generating plants. The West
African nation has proven natural gas reserve of 187 trillion
standard cubic feet of gas, according to the minister.  “We expect to have 2.5 billion cubic feet per day of gas
supply destined specifically to the power sector, supporting
significant additional capacity by 2014,” Alison-Madueke said,
adding that the country will develop the various inland basins,
in addition to the Niger Delta and offshore basins.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. crude imports. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of San Ramon, California,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint
ventures with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
that pump more than 90 percent of the nation’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  