-- 
Obama Tells Rousseff He Wants U.S. to Be Among Brazil’s ‘Best Customers’

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 
2011-03-20T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/obama-tells-rousseff-he-wants-u-s-to-be-among-brazil-s-best-customers-.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
wants the U.S. to become one of Brazil’s “best customers” when
recent oil discoveries come online and pledged to work with his
counterpart,  Dilma Rousseff , to deepen trade ties with Latin
America’s biggest economy.  Obama arrived yesterday to Brasilia juggling the demands of
a five-day tour with a crisis in Libya after an international
coalition began military action against forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi . Today, in  Rio de Janeiro , he’s scheduled to visit a
shantytown and the city’s iconic Christ the Redeemer statue with
his wife, Michelle, and their daughters, Malia and Sasha.  Officials from the two governments yesterday signed 10
agreements pledging coordination within the Group of 20 nations,
the joint development of aviation biofuels and promotion of
educational exchanges. They also completed a trade and economic
cooperation agreement aimed at streamlining trade through the
removal of non-tariff barriers.  Obama’s visit, less than three months after  Brazil ’s first
female president took office, highlights the nation’s growing
clout. Brazil is now the fourth-biggest U.S. creditor, holding
$198 billion in Treasuries, and American exports to the country
have more than doubled over the past five years.  “The  United States  doesn’t simply recognize Brazil’s rise,
we support it enthusiastically,” Obama, 49, told reporters.  The U.S. president highlighted Brazil’s recent offshore oil
discoveries, the largest in the Americas since 1976, as an area
where the two countries can vastly expand their economic
relations.  “We want to help you with the technology and support to
develop these oil reserves safely, and when you’re ready to
start selling, we want to be one of your best customers,” he
said.  Distance From Lula  Rousseff’s efforts to distance herself from her predecessor
and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , assured Obama a welcome
reception. Since taking office, Rousseff has surprised friends
and foes alike by pledging to rein in spending, expressing
concern over China’s policy of undervaluing the yuan and
downplaying Lula’s friendly relations with Iran.  While reciprocating Obama’s praise and acknowledging his
“great” efforts to rebuild the  U.S. economy , Rousseff
reiterated Brazil’s longstanding complaint over U.S. trade
barriers on its agricultural exports. Among them are U.S. farm
subsidies and the 54 cents-per-gallon tariff on imports of
Brazilian ethanol that Congress renewed in December.  “We seek more fairness and balanced trade relations,”
said Rousseff. “For us, it’s fundamental that we eliminate
barriers that have arise against our products” including
ethanol, beef and orange juice.  Currency Imbalances  Rousseff also expressed concern over U.S. policies and
economic imbalances arising from global financial crisis that
“provoke important changes in the relations of currencies
around the world.”  Guido Mantega , her finance minister, blames
the U.S. for a “currency war” that has fueled a 36 percent
rally by the real the past two years.  Obama said he chose Brazil to kick off his first-ever visit
to  South America  in recognition of the country’s ascendancy. He
was joined in Brasilia by business leaders seeking to profit
from Brazil’s oil discoveries and $200 billion in road, airport
and hotel improvements needed before the 2014  World Cup  and 2016
summer Olympics. Brazil’s $2.2 trillion economy grew 7.5 percent
last year, the fastest pace in more than two decades.    Libya   The tour, which includes stops in  Chile  and El Salvador,
will continue even as U.S. armed forces begin what Obama said
are “limited” operations to enforce a no-fly zone over Libya.  “We have no plans to cut the trip short,”  Ben Rhodes ,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters on a
conference call from Brasilia yesterday. The administration is
confident in its ability to maintain secure communications to
stay in touch with the Pentagon and leaders in other nations.
“Right now that’s very much our approach.”  Brazil’s abstention this week in the Security Council vote
authorizing air strikes against Libya underscores the limits to
closer ties with the U.S.  Rousseff yesterday expressed frustration with the “slow
pace of reform” of the council and other multilateral
institutions that she said don’t reflect the growing economic
weight of emerging markets.  “It was necessary a very severe economic crisis to move
conservatism that blocked the reforms of the financial
institutions,” she said.  “In the case of the UN reform, we
now have the opportunity to act in advance.”  Security Council Bid  Obama said he appreciates Brazil’s campaign to become a
permanent member of the council, though did not endorse its bid
like he did  India ’s on a trip to  New Delhi  last year. Instead,
the two leaders agreed the council needs reform and expressed
their support for a modest expansion that improves its
effectiveness and efficiency, as well as its representation.  Relations between Brazil and the U.S. reached a nadir last
year when Lula, pushed by anti-American elements of his and
Rousseff’s Workers’ Party, voted against tighter UN sanctions on  Iran ’s nuclear program. Lula also embraced Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who is  Washington ’s fiercest critic in the region.  A former student activist who was tortured while jailed by
Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, Rousseff criticized
Iran’s human-rights record after Lula hosted Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2009 and visited Tehran in 2010.  China Looming  Obama’s trip comes as Chinese demand for Brazil’s iron ore
and soy beans has allowed it to overtake the U.S. as the South
American nation’s biggest trading partner. Trade with China
jumped 53 percent to $56 billion last year, compared with $45
billion for the U.S.  The windfall hasn’t been friction-free. The real has
strengthened 33 percent against the yuan since the start of
2009, more than all 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, hurting manufacturers competing with Chinese imports.  Rousseff’s shared sense with Obama that  China  is harming
the economic interests of both their countries by undervaluing
the yuan creates an opening for the U.S. leader.  “There is increased recognition, as trade with China has
grown, that it’s not only a cooperative relationship but also a
competitive one,” said Albert Fishlow, a former deputy U.S.
assistant secretary of state who has written a book on Brazil
that was published this month. “There is clearly a degree of
similarity in the U.S. and Brazilian positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Brasilia at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  