-- 
Obama Says Brazil Is Model for Democratic Movements in North Africa

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-20T18:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/obama-says-brazil-is-model-for-democratic-movements-in-north-africa.html
President  Barack Obama , declaring
Brazil’s arrival on the global stage as an economic power and a
thriving democracy, said the country can serve as a model for
democratic transitions around the world, including movements in
North Africa and the Middle East.  Brazil is “a country that shows how democracy delivers both
freedom and opportunity to its people,” Obama told a crowd
at  Rio de Janeiro ’s century-old Theatro Municipal. “A country
that shows how a call for change that starts in the streets can
transform a city, transform a country, transform a world.”  Obama, 49, arrived in Brazil yesterday to kick off a five-
day tour aimed at deepening trade ties with Latin America the
same day that an international coalition began military action
against forces loyal to  Libya ’s leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Along
with official events and sightseeing, he’s had to juggle
competing demands involving the combat in Libya.  “As two nations who have struggled over many generations
to perfect our own democracies, the United States and Brazil
know that the future of the Arab world will be determined by its
people,” Obama said.  After discussions of trade and economic relations with
President  Dilma Rousseff  yesterday in Brasilia, today’s speech,
Obama’s advisers said, was meant to deliver a broader message to
the nation’s people that underscored shared values between the
two countries.  “For so long, you were called a country of the future,
told to wait for a better day that was always just around the
corner,” Obama said. “Meus amigos, that day has finally come.
And this is a country of the future no more.  The people of  Brazil  should know the future has arrived. It is here now.”  Favela Tour  Earlier today, Obama, his wife, Michelle, and their
daughters Malia and Sasha visited a shantytown. Arriving in the
City of God favela, the first family took in a drum performance
by local schoolchildren and afterwards kicked around a soccer
ball, with Obama noting that Brazilians are the “best soccer
players in the world.”  Obama said one of his earliest impressions of Brazil was
watching with his mother the movie “Black Orpheus.” The film,
set in the favelas of Rio during Carnival, won the 1960 Academy
Award for best foreign language film.  “ My mother is gone now, but she would’ve never imagined
that her son’s first trip to Brazil would be as President of the  United States ,” Obama said. “And I never imagined that this
country would be even more stunning than it was in the movie.”  Tonight they’re scheduled to visit the city’s iconic Christ
the Redeemer statue, before heading to Chile tomorrow and then
El Salvador on Tuesday en route back to  Washington .  Libya  Obama was briefed this morning in Rio via a secure
conference call by his team, including National Security Advisor
Tom Donilon, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates , on the latest military operations in
Libya.  Qaddafi denounced the international coalition that includes
the U.S., United Kingdom and  France , today and vowed to repel
allied forces pounding military installations in his country.
Officials have said Obama’s tour won’t be upended in light of
the strikes.  “We have no plans to cut the trip short,”  Ben Rhodes ,
Obama’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters on a
conference call from Brasilia yesterday. The administration is
confident in its ability to maintain secure communications to
stay in touch with the Pentagon and leaders in other nations.
“Right now that’s very much our approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Brasilia at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Brasilia at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  