-- 
Oil Rises as Allied Forces Strike Libya, Turmoil Escalates in Middle East

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-03-21T08:14:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/oil-rises-after-u-s-u-k-france-begin-military-strikes-against-qaddafi.html
Oil climbed as allied air strikes
in  Libya  threatened to prolong a supply outage in North Africa’s
third-biggest producer and renewed concern escalating turmoil
may disrupt Middle East exports.  Futures advanced as much as 2.3 percent after  Muammar Qaddafi  vowed to repel attacks by missiles and warplanes against
military installations. Libya’s crude output has fallen to a
quarter of the production before the crisis and may stop,
according to the chairman of the national  oil company . Bahrain
Petroleum Co. employees went on strike last week in response to
a police crackdown on anti-government demonstrations, while
Yemen declared a state of emergency.  “The likelihood of a swift normalization of Libya crude
oil production looks less and less likely after events over the
weekend,” Soozhana Choi, head of Asian commodities research at
Deutsche Bank AG in Singapore, said in an interview with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  Crude for April delivery climbed as much as $2.28 to
$103.35 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $102.67 at 4:11 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract, which expires tomorrow, last week declined
0.1 percent to $101.07.  The more-actively traded May futures rose as much as $2.42
to $104.27 a barrel. Gains have lagged behind London-traded  Brent crude , widening the spread between the benchmark contracts
to $11.85 from $11.53 a week ago.  Brent crude for May settlement gained as much as $2.29, or
2 percent, to $116.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Front-month futures added 0.1 percent last
week.  Air Strikes  Allied officials said two days of strikes have effectively
grounded Qaddafi’s air force, halting advances into the rebel
stronghold of Benghazi, Libya’s second-biggest city. The leader
denounced the coalition allied against him, which included the
U.S., the U.K. and  France , as “the party of Satan.”  Libyan output has fallen to less than 400,000 barrels a
day,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of Libya’s National Oil Co., said
on March 19. The country produced 1.59 million barrels a day in
January, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Exports
may be halted for “many months” because of damage to
facilities and sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said.  State of Emergency  Bahrain’s government declared a three-month state of
emergency on March 15 after troops from Saudi Arabia and other
Arab Gulf states arrived to support the administration in
quelling more than a month of protests. The Shiite Muslim
majority is calling for democracy and civil rights in the Sunni-
ruled kingdom that neighbors  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter.  “Bahrain is more of the hotspot rather than Libya,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney. “The focus will have to be on Saudi
Arabia and  Iran , that is where the powder keg is at the moment
and it’s based on Bahrain.”  Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh fired his cabinet
yesterday after the deadliest crackdown in two months of unrest
led officials close to him to resign in protest. At least 46
people were killed and hundreds injured earlier this week as
police and pro-regime gunmen shot at protesters in the capital.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds slashed bullish oil bets from an all-time high
on concern demand in  Japan  will tumble after the country’s
biggest earthquake on March 11. About 29 percent of the
country’s refining capacity was shut, data from the Petroleum
Association of Japan industry group showed.  The funds and other large speculators decreased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 13 percent in the
seven days ended March 15, the most since the week to Jan. 25,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report.  “If the oil price does stay above $100 a barrel and move
higher for a significant period of time, we will see some
crimping of global growth,”  David Lennox , an analyst at Fat
Prophets in Sydney, told Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television’s
“Global Connection.” “Where oil goes from here will be
determined basically on the fear factor, in terms how far the
regime changes may spread.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  