-- 
Toledo’s Lead Narrows in Peru Presidential Election Poll as Humala Gains

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-20T13:40:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/toledo-s-lead-narrows-in-peru-presidential-election-poll-as-humala-gains.html
Former Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo’s lead narrowed in an opinion poll ahead of next month’s
presidential election as support for opposition leader  Ollanta Humala  grows,  Ipsos Apoyo  said.  Toledo had 23 percent support, compared with 26 percent a
week ago, according to a survey by the Lima-based group that was
published in  El Comercio  newspaper today. Support for Keiko Fujimori, a congresswoman and daughter of jailed former
President  Alberto Fujimori , was unchanged from a week ago at 19
percent.  Humala, a former army lieutenant and ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez , rose two percentage points to 17 percent,
Ipsos Apoyo said. Humala, 48, favors more state control of the
economy and natural resources.  According to the Ipsos Apoyo poll, Former Finance Minister
Pedro Pablo Kuczynski had 14 percent support, compared with 9
percent a week ago, and former  Lima  Mayor Luis Castaneda fell 3
percentage points to 14 percent.  Support for Humala and Kuczynski, 73, is growing in Lima
and other urban areas where they previously lagged behind the
other main candidates, the poll shows.  The poll of 2,000 people from March 12 to 18 had a margin
of error of 2.2 percentage points.  The poll included covered 5 of the 10 candidates running
for the presidency. The first round of voting is scheduled for
April 10. A second round will be held on June 5 if no candidate
wins more than 50 percent of the first-round vote.  Toledo, 64, would defeat all the main candidates but
Castaneda in a hypothetical run-off vote, according to Ipsos
Apoyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 