-- 
Home Sales Probably Fell, Durables Rose: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-20T04:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/home-sales-probably-fell-durables-rose-u-s-economy-preview.html
U.S. home sales probably fell in
February, while orders for long-lasting goods climbed, a
reminder of an economic recovery reliant on manufacturing as
housing struggles, economists said before reports this week.  Combined purchases of new and existing homes fell 4.3
percent to a 5.4 million annual pace, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Durable-goods
bookings increased 1.2 percent last month, other data may show.  The prospect of more home foreclosures may drive prices
down further, limiting new construction and straining household
balance sheets. Factories have picked up the slack as exports
grow and companies step up equipment purchases, underscoring the
 Federal Reserve ’s view of an economy on a “firmer footing.”  “Manufacturing is making quite a lot of difference; it
has been the real strength of this recovery,” said Rob Carnell,
chief international economist at ING Bank NV in  London .
“Housing is not contributing at all to the U.S. recovery. It’s
bumping along the bottom.”  Sales of existing homes fell 4.7 percent to a 5.11 million
annual pace, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
National Association of Realtors will report tomorrow. Commerce
Department figures two days later may show demand for new homes
rose 2.1 percent to a 290,000 pace. The gain would follow a 13
percent plunge that may have been partly due to bad weather.
Purchases reached an all-time low 274,000 pace in August.  Orders for durable goods rose in February after a 3.2
percent jump the prior period, economists forecast the Commerce
Department will report March 24. Capital goods orders probably
climbed 3.7 percent, the third gain in four months, according to
the median projection.  Auto Sales  The U.S. auto industry is enjoying six straight months of
increasing sales. U.S. purchases at General Motors, Toyota Motor
Corp. and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in February exceeded analysts’
estimates as industrywide sales rose to a 13.38 million annual
rate, the fastest in 18 months.  “We still see good signs of progress despite some of the
challenges that do remain in the U.S. market,” Donald Johnson,
vice president for GM’s North America sales, said on a
teleconference on March 1. “We’re going to see this slow but
steady growth throughout the year.”  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may accelerate this year, helped in part
by President Barack Obama’s December compromise with
congressional Republicans on taxes. Companies will be able to
depreciate 100 percent of investments in capital equipment this
year and 50 percent in 2011.  Increased Exports  Demand from fast-growing countries like  China  and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. American
exports in January rose to the highest level on record.  One potential hurdle is the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
in  Japan , which prompted a nuclear crisis and caused electrical
outages. U.S. companies are still trying to gauge the effects of
the tragedy on international supply chains.  Ford Motor Co. and Boeing Co. are maintaining global
production while waiting for partners in Japan to determine how
long it will take to get back to full production schedules.  “We’re OK for a few weeks, and I can’t tell you beyond
that,” Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said
in an interview in Scottsdale,  Arizona .  Fed policy makers noted the bifurcation of the recovery in
their March 2 Beige Book survey of regional economies through
mid-January.  Fed on Housing  Eleven of 12 Fed districts reported “that manufacturing
activity improved,” while residential sales and construction
“remained at low levels across all districts.”  Homebuilder shares have underperformed the broader stock
market since the middle of last year. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder index of 12 builders has declined 9.7
percent in the 12 months ended March 18, compared with a 9.7
percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index . The S&P Machinery
Supercomposite Index is up 40 percent during the same period.  The foreclosure inventory rose to a record 2.2 million in
January, with another 4.7 million households non-current on
their mortgages or headed for foreclosure, Lender Processing
Services Inc., based in Jacksonville,  Florida , said in a
February report on its website.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
2.4 percent in December from the same month in 2009, the biggest
12-month decrease in a year.  Home prices  were 31 percent below
their July 2006 peak and approaching the 33 percent trough
reached in April 2009.  Americans’ attitudes are also souring as drivers pay more
at the gas pump. The Reuters/University of Michigan final
consumer confidence index for this month, due March 25, may fall
to five-month low of 68, reflecting rising gasoline prices,
according to economists surveyed, from 77.5 in February.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  