-- 
Qaddafi Vows to Repel ‘Christian States’ as Mullen Says Strikes Effective

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-03-20T23:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/qaddafi-vows-to-repel-christian-states-as-mullen-says-no-fly-zone-set-up.html
Allied officials said their attacks
have effectively grounded Muammar Qaddafi’s air force and driven 
back his offensive against the rebel stronghold at Benghazi, as 
the Libyan leader vowed to repel “enemy Christian states.”    Libya 's military has not flown an aircraft in two days and 
the coalition is in full control of airspace, Vice AdmiralBill Gortney told reporters at the Pentagon. It was possible that a 
Libyan jet or helicopter would still take off but it would be 
targeted by coalition patrols over the country, he said.  Qaddafi denounced the coalition allied against him --
including the U.S., the U.K. and France -- as “the party of
Satan” after Tomahawk missiles were fired at Libyan targets
overnight and fighter jets patrolled the North African country’s
skies. The military action continued today with B-2 bombers
attacking airfields and air-defense sites, CBS reported.  “We will not leave our oil to America or  France  or Britain
or the enemy Christian states that are now aligned against us,”
the Libyan leader, who has ruled since 1969, said today on state
television. “We will not leave our land. We will fight for
every inch of our land and liberate every inch of it.”  The coalition ordered Qaddafi to withdraw his forces from
major cities after weeks of fighting with rebels that has left
hundreds dead in the bloodiest of popular uprisings to have
swept the Middle East this year.  Qaddafi Residence  Al-Jazeera television showed live footage of Libyan anti-
aircraft missiles firing into the night. Witnesses said the
weapons were near Qaddafi’s residence, it said, without saying
who the witnesses were.  Qaddafi and his residence were not targeted in the allied
attack, Gortney said. “We are not going after Qaddafi,” he
said. “If he happens to be at a place, if he’s inspecting a
surface-to-air missile site” on the target list, he may be
inadvertently hit.  Gortney said  Spain ,  Belgium ,  Denmark  and the Arab nation of
Qatar have joined the coalition. The U.S., the U.K., France,
Italy and  Canada  have amassed at least 25 ships off the coast of
Libya in the  Mediterranean Sea .  Libya’s armed forces announced they were imposing a
nationwide cease-fire starting this evening.  ‘Lost Legitimacy’  White House national security adviser Tom Donilon, briefing
reporters during President Barack Obama’s trip to  Brazil , said
the administration’s view is that the report of a cease-fire
either “isn’t true” or that the cease-fire has been
“immediately violated.” He said the coalition lined up against
the Libyan leader will monitor Qaddafi’s actions, not his words.  “Qaddafi has lost legitimacy in Libya,” Donilon said, and
will be “increasingly isolated” internationally.  The opening phase of the military strikes had “a pretty
significant effect very early” and Qaddafi’s forces have been
pushed back from the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program today.  “The initial operations have been very effective, taking
out most of his air-defense systems, some of his air fields,”
Mullen said. “Yet there is still, I think, a great deal to be
done.”  ‘One Outcome’  Asked in an NBC “Meet the Press” interview if the mission
could be accomplished with Qaddafi still in power, Mullen said:
“That’s certainly potentially one outcome.”  Italy made eight warplanes available for action in Libya,
Italian Defense Minister Ignazio La Russa told RAI television.
The government in  Rome  has frozen more than 6 billion euros
($8.5 billion) of Libyan assets, an Italian official said,
speaking on the condition of not being further identified.  Talks are under way for an emergency meeting of Arab League
nations to discuss the situation in Libya, the Egyptian
government-owned Middle East News Agency cited Secretary General
Amr Moussa as saying.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in Paris
that Arab participation was “extraordinarily important.” More
can be expected from the Middle East states, she said.  A United Nations resolution passed March 17 permits “all
necessary measures” short of an occupation to protect civilians
from the violence. Western leaders haven’t said what they’ll do
if the no-fly zone fails to force Qaddafi to comply.  The U.K.’s Foreign Office said in a statement that “we
will continue to work with our Arab partners to enforce the
resolution for the good of the Libyan people.”  ‘Future Tasking’  The U.K. has deployed a number of Typhoon aircraft to the
Gioia Dell Colle airbase, in southern  Italy , “where they are on
standby for future tasking,” defense spokesman Major General
John Lorimer said.  The priority of the coalition forces is to stop Qaddafi
“brutalizing” his own people, not to implement “regime
change,” Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  told the  BBC ’s Politics
Show in  London  today. The Libyan leader could well “hunker
down” and remain in the country, he said.  Qaddafi’s regime “may remain in existence,” Fox said.
“Whether it remains in power is a very different issue.”  Libya’s crude oil exports may be halted for “many months”
because of damage to facilities and international sanctions, the  International Energy Agency  said March 15. Crude oil for April
delivery slipped 9 cents to $101.07 a barrel this week on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Concern about disruption to Middle
East oil supplies has sent futures up about 23 percent from a
year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  