-- 
Arabs Back Allied Offensive on Libya as Leader Qaddafi Remains Defiant

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-20T16:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/qatar-says-it-will-join-libya-military-operations-as-arabs-back-offensive.html
Middle Eastern leaders backed an
offensive by international forces seeking to protect Libyan
civilians as President  Muammar Qaddafi  said his country would
become hell for the “monsters” attacking it.  Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani said
the emirate will join the U.S., U.K.,  Canada ,  France  and  Italy 
against Libya, making it the first Arab country to commit
military forces. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called Arab
participation in talks in Paris yesterday “extraordinarily
important” and said more can be expected from Middle East
states.  “Patrolling the skies from afar is fine but they must not
enter the country,” Osama Lamloum, 58, a sales manager at an
Egyptian advertising firm, said in Cairo today. “How can
someone bomb civilians? Enough bloodshed!”  Libya was pummeled yesterday by more than 110 Tomahawk
cruise missiles in the first phase of an assault dubbed
“Operation Odyssey Dawn.” The coalition struck after European,
U.S. and Arab officials gathered in Paris yesterday to discuss
the crisis. Leaders from the  United Arab Emirates , Jordan,  Iraq ,
Qatar and  Morocco  participated in yesterday’s talks.  Regional Unrest  The Libyan revolt seeking an end to the four-decade rule of
Qaddafi is the bloodiest of popular uprisings in the Middle East
this year that have toppled the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .
Anti-government demonstrations continue in Yemen, Bahrain,
Jordan, Syria, Algeria, Iran, Iraq, Morocco and Oman, with
protesters calling for democracy and improved living standards.  “Qaddafi deserves this,” Naif al-Saleh, 31, a Saudi
Arabian investment banker, said in an interview in  Riyadh , the
capital. “As an Arab, I wish the decision had been an Arab one
enforced by Arab military forces. There’s no need for foreigners
to come and protect us.”  President  Barack Obama  said that American involvement would
not include ground troops and, after helping at the onset, the
U.S. would leave enforcement of the no-fly zone to allies,
including Arab nations.  The coalition offensive against  Libya  has been greeted with
widespread support across the region, in contrast to regional
reaction following the 2003 invasion of Iraq, which sparked mass
demonstrations and anti-American sentiments across the Middle
East.  Iraq War  “Iraq was an occupation based on faulty information,”
said  Theodore Karasik , director of the Institute of Near East
and Gulf Analaysis in Dubai. “For Libya, the information is
right there before their eyes as they watch television so nobody
doubts the validity of this response. It’s game over for
Qaddafi.”  Arab officials attending the Paris summit yesterday
included Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa, U.A.E.
Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari, Jordanian Foreign Minister
Nasser Judeh, Morocco’s Foreign Minister Taieb Fassi Fihri and  Qatar  Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Al Thani, according
to an e-mailed list of the participants.  Jordan will not take part in the UN-backed measures to
impose a no-fly zone, the Jordan Times reported today, citing
Foreign Minister Nasser Judeh. No one was immediately available
at the U.A.E. Foreign Ministry when contacted by Bloomberg.  Opposition  Arab League Secretary General Amre Moussa said the no-fly
zone does not require the use of force, the Middle East News
Agency reported, citing remarks by him.  Iraq will not participate in any military operations in
Libya and does “not support unilateral action,” Iraqi State
Minister Ali Al-Dabbagh said in a telephone interview from
Baghdad. “We support actions carried out under  United Nations 
resolutions to stop the violence against the Libyan people.”    Turkey ’s Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, speaking in  Jeddah  in  Saudi Arabia  today, said that the military
intervention “will end the civil war.”  “What the international community is doing in Libya now is
a positive thing in terms of protecting these civilians,” Rabie
Abdel Ati, a senior official of Sudanese President Umar al- Bashir’s National Congress Party and adviser to the information
minister, said today by phone from Khartoum, the Sudanese
capital. “It is not acceptable that the whole population gets
murdered for one person to remain in power.”  Still, some are wary of the involvement of international
forces, saying that foreign intervention can often become
problematic.  ‘Own Agendas’  “They may have their own agendas,” said Reda Mohammed, a
former official with the Egyptian Ministry of Finance, who added
that a better solution would have been to offer support to the
rebels fighting against Qaddafi.  The decision to launch an offensive in Libya came less than
a week after troops from the six-member Gulf Cooperation
Council, including Saudi Arabia, moved into Bahrain, launching
the first cross-border intervention since the wave of popular
uprisings began in January. Bahrain declared a three-month state
of emergency March 15 as protesters, most of them from the
Shiite Muslim majority, continued to stage against the Sunni
monarchy.  Bahrain’s government condemned what it called “blatant
Iranian interference” in its internal affairs, state-run
Bahrain News Agency reported, citing several memos written by
officials including Bahrain’s ambassador to the United Nations.
At least 13 people have been killed in violent clashes since the
protests began Feb. 14, according to a statement by the Bahraini
Human Rights Society.  Yemeni Protests  In Yemen, tens of thousands gathered in the capital,
Sana’a, today for a day of mourning after at least 44 people
were killed in clashes between police, pro-regime gunmen and
anti-government demonstrators, in the deadliest crackdown in two
months of unrest.  Demonstrations calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s three-decade rule have been held almost every day for
the past two months in Yemen, and before yesterday at least a
dozen people had been killed. The Arabian Sea nation declared a
state of emergency March 18 following the unrest.  Residents of two Syrian cities where protests broke out
March 18 handed a list of demands to authorities to halt an
escalation, Damascus-based Al Watan newspaper reported.  In the southern Syrian city of Daraa near  Jordan ,
protesters called for the release of detainees recently jailed
on political charges, the dismissal of some officials and
permission to sell land on border territories without prior
government approval. They also want those responsible for the
killing of two during the March 18 clashes put on trial, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at  vsalama@bloomberg.net  