-- 
Relative Yields at 3-Year Low Boost Bank Bond Buybacks: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-03-21T05:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/relative-yields-at-3-year-low-boost-bank-bond-buybacks-australia-credit.html
Australia’s banks are buying back
bonds sold with a government guarantee during the credit freeze
as relative yields on their debt fall to a three-year low, the
cheapest compared with global peers in nine months.    Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the nation’s second-largest lender,
said it plans to repurchase as much as A$3.57 billion ($3.58
billion) of March 2012 sovereign-backed bonds today, the biggest
such tender offer by an Australian bank, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The lender paid 60 basis points more than
swap rates to investors plus an annual 70 basis-point fee to the
government to guarantee the notes issued in 2009, compared with
a spread of 110 basis points on A$2.1 billion of November 2015
bonds sold last month.  Australian dollar financial debt is the cheapest relative
to global bank bonds since June after spreads narrowed 37 basis
points this year to the lowest since January 2008, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Borrowing costs are
falling as accelerating growth and a currency that’s
strengthened 46 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past two
years draw investors including Pacific Investment Management Co.
and Loomis Sayles & Co. to the nation’s assets.  “The bank bond buybacks, and the narrowing of spreads on
their debt, are very clear indications of the market recovery
that’s taken place,” said Phil Bayley, principal of Melbourne-
based consultancy firm ADCM Services. “Provided we don’t see
any market deterioration from here, I think you will see most of
that government-guaranteed debt from the four majors
progressively bought back.”  Government Fee  Australian banks have about A$412 billion of bonds maturing
by 2015, including A$70 billion in government-guaranteed notes
due before the end of 2012 and about A$50 billion in 2014,
according to Deutsche Bank AG. The government charges a  fee  of
70 basis points, or 0.7 percentage point, to 150 basis points a
year to guarantee the debt, depending on the credit rating of
the borrower.    National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and Citigroup Inc.’s local unit are among
banks that bought back at least A$6.6 billion of guaranteed
securities since October, Bloomberg data show.  Sydney-based Westpac is offering to buy back the March 2012
notes at 10 basis points less than swap rates, plus accrued
interest, according to an e-mailed statement. Philip Christie,
Westpac’s director of global funding, declined to comment.  Survived the Recession  Unlike lenders in the U.S., U.K. and  Europe , Australian
banks survived the worst global recession since World War II
without government bailouts. Then-Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
announced the guarantee in October 2008, saying lenders faced
“acute funding pressures” that had the potential to hamper
Australia’s economic growth.  Westpac,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , National Australia
Bank and ANZ Bank, the nation’s four biggest banks, control 87
percent of Australia’s mortgage market and 73 percent of
business lending, according to  data  from the banking regulator.  They were the biggest users of the program, which stopped
guaranteeing new bonds in March 2010 after Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said banks no longer needed the backing to attract wholesale
funding.  The extra yield investors demand to own Australian
financial bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt fell
to a three-year low of 155 basis points on March 16 from a peak
of 438 in April 2009 and was last at 157, according to Merrill
Lynch index data. The equivalent global index was last at 192
and the gap between the two reached 39 basis points on March 16,
the widest since June, the data show.  Moody’s Review  The average cost of protecting the debt of the four biggest
banks from default has fallen about 1 basis point this year
compared with a 6.6 basis-point rise for the benchmark Markit
iTraxx  Australia  index, prices from CMA show. That’s even after
Moody’s Investors Service said last month it may lower its Aa1
ratings on the lenders because they rely on financial markets
for 43 percent of their funding, making them more vulnerable to
investor sentiment.  Australian financial debt has returned 0.8 percent this
month, compared with 0.3 percent for the industry worldwide,
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  In a sign of investor demand for Australian dollar
financial bonds, Commonwealth Bank sold A$2.5 billion of 4 1/2-
year fixed- and floating-rate notes to yield 105 basis points
more than the swap rate on Jan. 13 in the biggest-ever domestic
sale of bank debt without federal backing, the lender said at
the time.  Slowest Pace  Dwindling demand for credit by households and businesses
has cut bond offerings by the nation’s banks to the slowest pace
since the mid 1990s,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant
Governor  Guy Debelle  said in a March 15 speech in Sydney.  “Banks may be seeing a prolonged period of faster deposit
growth but slower asset growth,” as future economic expansion
is led by companies that can pay for investments from their own
cashflow or by accessing international capital markets, he said.  Australia is undergoing a surge in resource investment as
mining and energy firms boost output to meet demand from China
and  India . That’s helped bolster demand for Australia’s dollar,
the world’s fifth-most traded currency, which touched a record
$1.0256 on Dec. 31.  The currency climbed 9.4 percent in the past 12 months
against the greenback, the fifth-best performance among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It strengthened to $1.0017 at
4:21 p.m. in Sydney today.  Ten-year government bond yields rose 3 basis points today
to 5.42 percent, or 216 basis points more than similar-dated
Treasuries.  Breakeven Rate  The gap between yields on Australian  government bonds  and
inflation-indexed notes shows investors expect consumer prices
will rise an annual 2.91 percent for the next five years, the
fastest among eight developed nations tracked by Bloomberg.  While Australian business investment climbed to a record in
the fourth quarter, households have reined back spending,
according to the statistics bureau. The RBA has raised borrowing
costs seven times from October 2009 to November last year to
4.75 percent, the highest in the developed world.  Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank, the country’s biggest
lender, said in February it’s cutting bond-market borrowings by
almost 10 percent this year after profit rose to a record in the
six months ended Dec. 31 and customers poured A$12 billion into
its term deposits.  ‘Funding Requirements’  “The growth in deposits has allowed the banks to reduce
their wholesale funding requirements,” said Gus Medeiros, a
Sydney-based director of credit research and strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG. “The buybacks reduce the risks associated
with the refinancing of government-guaranteed paper, in
particular in 2012 and 2014, when there are significant
maturities,” he added.  Citigroup’s Australian unit repurchased almost A$1.2
billion of June 2012 debt with sovereign backing in November,
while a month later National Australia Bank bought back A$730
million of March 2012 guaranteed bonds, Bloomberg data show.  National Australia Bank will continue to consider such
buybacks to manage its “redemption profile, reduce the reliance
on government support and replace funding that is tending toward
less than 12 months to maturity with lower funding costs,” the
Melbourne-based lender said in an e-mailed statement.  Commonwealth Bank is evaluating whether it will buy back
government-guaranteed notes, said spokesman Steve Batten.  Westpac bought back $2.1 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated
guaranteed bonds in January and in the same month ANZ Bank
repurchased $752 million of 3.2 percent U.S. dollar notes
maturing in December, Bloomberg data show. Melbourne-based ANZ
bought back the notes, which were priced at 99.89 cents on the
dollar, at 102.66 cents, Bloomberg data show.  “If you can extinguish the government guarantee fee and
refinance the debt at a cheaper price it makes sense,” said  Kevin Foley , a spokesman for ANZ Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  