-- 
Rich Feel Good Again About What They Do Best: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-03-20T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/rich-feel-good-again-about-what-they-do-best-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
The world is beset by crises, from
an earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  to revolution and repression
in the Middle East. For one small segment of the population,
however, it’s party time.  The rich are spending again; the more conspicuous the
consumption, the better. Gone are the exhortations to bankers in
the dark days of 2008 and 2009 to temper extravagant behavior,
act more like an everyman, shun the limo in favor of a yellow
cab, and tone down the annual Christmas bash.  Millionaires, nay billionaires, are back with a vengeance.
Many of the newly wealthy are Asian.  I’m not sure what it all means exactly. The rich always
have money to spend, in good times and bad. While their relative
advantage is greater when low- and middle-income families are
struggling, today’s robber barons want to appear sympathetic to
the plight of the working class.  The fact that flamboyant spending is making a comeback may
be a sign that, Japan’s human tragedy notwithstanding, the worst
is over for the global economy.  Here are a few examples of what the wealthy are spending
money on these days:  No. 1. Dog-Eat-Dog or Dog-Eat-Abalone?  Last week, a Chinese coal baron paid a record $1.5 million
for an 11-month old red  Tibetan mastiff  named Big Splash, or
Hong Dong in Chinese.  Tibetans believe mastiffs have the souls of departed monks
and nuns who didn’t qualify for entry into heaven or
reincarnation.  While Big Splash’s buyer may believe 10 million Chinese
yuan is a small price to pay for a shot at the Big House in the
Sky, it sure sounds like a lot of money, even for a working dog.
(Don’t tell my dachshund Greta I said that.)  Big Splash will be kept in the style to which he is
accustomed, with a menu of Chinese delicacies, including sea
cucumber and abalone, to supplement his kibble.  According to the American Kennel Club, Tibetan mastiffs
have exceptionally strong jaws and teeth and a “legendary
fondness for wood” that can lead to destruction in the house.  That’s one way to deal with a housing glut! Besides, if you
can afford $1.5 million for a furry friend, replacing the
baseboards every so often isn’t going to set you back.  No. 2. My Own Private Jumbo.  For tennis fans,  Roger Federer ’s promotion of  NetJets  gave
private air travel a certain panache. Today’s billionaires don’t
want any part of time-sharing. They’re lining up to buy their
own private jumbos.  According to the Wall Street Journal’s  Wealth Report Blog ,
sales of Boeing 747s and Airbus A380s to private clients are
breaking records.  “Sales of private jumbo jets are so strong that Airbus and
Boeing now have special sales forces devoted to potentates and
the hyper-rich,” according to the blog post, referencing a Feb.
11 article in Aviation Week & Space Technology.  The two companies delivered 37 VIP jumbos last year and
have a growing pipeline of orders.  It may seem extravagant for Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal
to upgrade his Boeing 747 to an  Airbus A380 , which can seat as
many as 853 people, but with so much increased capacity, he
won’t have to spring for hotel accommodations.  No. 3. Indecent Exposure.  If you want a home with a panoramic view of the skyline, by
all means build a 27-story skyscraper for your residence.  That’s what  India ’s richest man, Mukesh Ambani, chairman of
Reliance Industries Ltd., did when he built what’s believed to
be the world’s most  expensive home  in  Mumbai . Antilia, the $1
billion, 400,000-square-foot home named after a mythical island,
has nine elevators, a 50-seat theater, ballroom and helipad. The
spa is complete with lap pool, sauna, yoga and dance studios and
a juice bar.  The first six floors of the building are dedicated to a
parking garage -- just for the Ambani family, guests and
domestic help.  With an estimated half of Mumbai’s residents living in
slums, it shouldn’t be hard for Ambani, his wife and three
children, to find a suitable staff of 600 to serve them.  No. 4. Planes, Trains and Helicopters.  While it’s still customary in some parts of  Asia  for a
bride’s family to offer a dowry to the groom, it’s not every day
the husband-to-be gets a $4 million Bell 429 helicopter.  The wedding itself cost anywhere from $22 million to $55
million, according to  press reports , making it the most
expensive on record.  The son and daughter of two wealthy, well-connected Indian
families celebrated their nuptials over a seven-day period with
2,000 of their closest friends.  “The froth does seem to be forming again among the Dom
Perignon set,” Robert Frank, who writes the Journal’s Wealth
blog, said in an e-mail.  Froth! Now there’s a word I haven’t heard in a long time.  Right before he stepped down as Federal Reserve chairman in
January 2006,  Alan Greenspan  conceded there was some of that in
the housing market. The rest, as they say, is history.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  