-- 
RTS Stock-Index Futures Fall on Japan Nuclear Uncertainty

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-03-20T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/rts-stock-index-futures-fall-on-japan-nuclear-uncertainty.html
  Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell, signaling stocks may decline today in Moscow, after
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said the country’s nuclear
crisis remained “very grave,” spurring investors to sell
higher-risk assets.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in June
fell 0.2 percent in  New York  on March 18. The Market Vectors
Russia ETF, a U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, added
0.3 percent. Contracts on OAO Lukoil, the country’s second-
biggest oil producer, fell 0.1 percent. Futures on OAO Gazprom,
the natural-gas export monopoly, declined 0.5 percent.  “Russia remains within a zone of high risk,” Elena Matrosova, a Moscow-based economist at BDO International, a
financial adviser that lists the central bank among its clients,
said by telephone. “Uncertainty about the Japanese nuclear
crisis” is hurting investor sentiment, she said.    Japan  faces a “battle with time,” International Atomic
Energy Agency Director General Yukiya Amano said March 18 after
meeting ministers in  Tokyo . A magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
March 11 knocked out Fukushima’s back-up generators, pitching
workers into a battle to keep the plant cool and stem radiation
leaks from the worst nuclear accident since Ukraine’s Chernobyl
disaster 25 years ago.  Japan’s efforts to cool reactors at the crippled Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant had some success during the past two days,
with reports two of the six reactors are under control and a
second electric cable was connected to the station.    Libya  Tension  Crude for April delivery dropped 35 cents to settle at
$101.07 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , paring the
one-year gain for the commodity to 23 percent. Urals crude,
Russia’s main export blend, traded above $100 per barrel for
fifth consecutive week. Oil and natural gas account for a
quarter of Russia’s economic output.  Oil fell after Libya said it will cease military operations
against rebels and begin talks aimed at resolving the dispute
that has curtailed production and exports.  The  United Nations Security Council  authorized the use of
air attacks and a no-fly zone over Libya to protect civilians
from forces loyal to Qaddafi trying to end a monthlong uprising.
Libya was soon afterwards struck by Tomahawk cruise missiles and
other weapons in the first Western military action against an
Arab country since the 2003 invasion of  Iraq .  The initial attack may have had “a pretty significant
effect,” Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said on CNN’s “State of the Union” program.  Russia’s Micex Index  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 0.7 percent on March
18. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.4 percent after
Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed up 2.7 percent. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.2 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index advanced to the highest in more than a
week on March 18, advancing 0.6 percent to 1,747.3. Lukoil rose
1.5 percent and OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, gained 2
percent. OAO Novatek, the country’s second-largest natural gas
producer, jumped 3.8 percent. The dollar-denominated RTS Index
increased 0.9 percent.  “Global equities markets are expected to remain nervous
and volatile again this week,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist
at Uralsib Financial Corp., wrote in an e-mailed report.
“Nervousness about oil supply  security, increased demand for
gas producers and other fossil fuel producers is expected to
remain high because of fears over the future of the nuclear
programs worldwide.”  Russia, Weafer said, “is in the right place at the right
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  