-- 
Sony, Nissan Prepare to Resume Operations at Factories Idled by Earthquake

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-03-21T06:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/sony-says-it-plans-to-reopen-battery-plant-in-tochigi-next-week.html
  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nissan Motor Co.
prepared to resume production at some factories in  Japan , as
manufacturers sought to recover after the nation’s strongest
earthquake on record forced them to shut plants.  Sony plans to restart a factory that makes rechargeable
batteries in Tochigi prefecture, northern Japan, from March 22,
Hiroshi Okubo, a Tokyo-based spokesman, said yesterday. Nissan,
Japan’s second-largest automaker, said in a statement it will
begin the resumption of operations at six factories tomorrow and
some vehicle assembly from March 24.  Scores of Japanese companies have been forced to halt some
operations after the March 11 earthquake and ensuing tsunami
that claimed more than 8,600 lives. Manufacturers are also
facing power outages, disruptions in the supply chain and a
strong yen that’s undermining the competitiveness of exports.  The battery plant would be Sony’s third factory to resume
operations since the magnitude-9 earthquake resulted in the
electronics maker halting 10 facilities. The company may restart
a DVD-manufacturing plant in Ibaraki prefecture within a week,
Okubo said.  Sony, Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics,
reopened two other plants in the past week as it tried to
minimize production shortfalls. Four plants in Miyagi prefecture
that make products ranging from Blu-ray discs to semiconductor
lasers are still closed. Two plants in Fukushima prefecture for
rechargeable batteries are also idled, he said.  Toyota Plants    Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest carmaker, and its
subsidiaries continued to idle 21 plants as of today. The
company planned to keep the factories shut through tomorrow and
may make an announcement later today about operations, Keisuke Kirimoto, a spokesman for the Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker, said today by phone.    Toyota Boshoku Corp. (3116) , an auto-parts maker that supplies
Toyota Motor, was ready to restart its plants “anytime” and
was waiting for Toyota Motor to resume operations at its auto
plants, Rei Nega, a spokesman for the component maker, said
today by phone. The supplier’s plants were largely undamaged, he
said.  No Power  Nissan’s engine factory in Iwaki, located in the same
prefecture where Tokyo Electric Power Co. workers are battling
to avert a nuclear meltdown, aren’t getting enough water,
electricity and gas to operate, said Toshitake Inoshita, a
Nissan spokesman.  The carmaker is considering shipping engines from  Tennessee 
to Japan, spokesman  Mitsuru Yonekawa  said by phone today. The
Iwaki plant makes engines for models including Infiniti sedans
and Elgrand minivans, he said.  For Sony, a factory in Tagajo City, Miyagi, where more than
6,000 people live in evacuation centers, suffered the most
damage among the company’s facilities, Okubo said. The plant,
which isn’t receiving any power, is partially covered with
rubble and mud, he said.  Like other Japanese businesses, Sony is experiencing
blackouts, transportation slowdowns, shortages of materials and
suppliers unable to make shipments, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Howard Stringer wrote in an op-ed column published in
the Wall Street Journal March 18. The company is beginning to
recover from the “profound psychic and physical shock to our
bodies and our businesses,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
萩原ゆき in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  