-- 
Syria to Free Youths, Vows to Protect Protesters, SANA Says

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   L i n a   I b r a h i m
-- 
2011-03-20T11:46:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/syria-to-free-youths-vows-to-protect-protesters-sana-says.html
Syrian authorities will release
youths detained in unrest last week and vowed to protect
civilians during any protests, the state  Syrian Arab News Agency 
reported.  A number of young people detained during the March 18
protests in the southern city of Daraa will be freed immediately
as they weren’t guilty of any crime, SANA said, citing
unidentified officials.  Civil rights groups have urged Syrian authorities to free
all people detained during the protests, which have spread
across several Syrian cities, including the capital of Damascus,
to demand more freedoms. The demonstrations in Syria mark the
latest extension of the political turmoil that has engulfed the
region this year. Uprisings have toppled the presidents of
Tunisia and  Egypt , and threatened the rule of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya , where UN-backed international forces have started air
strikes to protect civilian protesters.  Syrians are also asked to report people pretending to be
security officers who have given orders to police troops to use
violence and live shots against protesters, SANA said today.  Syrian security forces fired tear gas and detained
protesters yesterday in Daraa to disperse crowds chanting anti-
government slogans at the funeral of two people killed during
protests a day before.  List of Demands  Residents of Daraa and in the coastal city of Baniyas, where
protests also broke out March 18, handed list of demands to
authorities to halt an escalation, Damascus-based Al Watan
newspaper said today.  Daraa residents demanded the trial of those responsible for
the two killed on March 18, the release of detainees recently
jailed on political charges, the dismissal of some officials and
permission to sell land on border territories without prior
government approval. In Baniyas, people also demanded the
freedom for detainees, an Islamic-teaching school instead of
mixed schools, permission for veiled women to return to teaching
and the ouster of some policemen out of the city.  Bashar al-Assad, who became  Syria ’s president in 2000 at
the death of his father Hafez al-Assad who had ruled the country
with an iron fist for 29 years, “talks of reforms but cannot
tolerate any real reform,” Nadim Houry, Lebanon director for
New York-based Human Rights Watch, said in a statement last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  