-- 
U.K.’s Hague Doesn’t ‘Envisage’ Libyan Ground Troop Invasion

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-20T15:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/u-k-s-hague-doesn-t-envisage-ground-troop-invasion-of-libya.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said there would be no ground invasion of  Libya  to take on
Muammar Qaddafi’s forces “at the moment,” holding open the
possibility of deploying troops in some capacity in the future.  “There can’t be an occupation force,” Hague told Sky News
in London today. “That means you can’t have a ground invasion
of Libya. It doesn’t exclude every possible type of operation.”  There is no question of ground forces being involved “at
the moment,” Hague said. “None of the countries involved in
this operation are envisaging a ground invasion of Libya --
let’s make that clear.”  Eurofighter  Typhoons and Tornados will move to a station in
southern  Italy , Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  told the BBC’s
Politics Show in London today, after British Royal Air Force
 Tornadoes  flew a 3,000-mile, eight-hour mission to carry out a
bombing raid on Libyan targets. That was the longest single
mission since the Falklands War in 1982, Air Vice Chief Marshall
Phil Osborn told reporters in London today.  Separately, a U.K. Royal Navy Trafalgar Class submarine and
U.S. submarines fired more than 110 Tomahawk missiles at Libyan
targets. The U.K. attacks targeted Qaddafi’s air force assets in
the area surrounding the Libyan capital Tripoli, Osborn said.  British Warships  The U.K. also has two warships, HMS Westminster, with HMS
Cumberland as backup, positioned off the coast of Libya. The
government’s emergency response committee, COBRA, will meet
later today, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman Vickie Sheriff said in a telephone interview. Aircraft will be
redeployed to Italy because the U.K.’s sovereign military base
in Cyprus is too far east of Libya for effective operations.  Western allies, under the command of the U.S., are
currently concentrating on enforcing a no-fly zone over Libya in
line with the United Nation’s Security Council Resolution 1973.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  echoed Hague’s
choice of words in saying that the U.K. is not considering
committing ground troops to the conflict for now.  “We are not considering ground forces at the moment,”
Osborne told the BBC’s Andrew Marr Show today, saying the UN
resolution didn’t permit it. “We are undertaking operations
from our navy, through the submarine-launched cruise missiles,
from the RAF and the Tornado planes that flew missions last
night.”  ‘Too Early’  In a news conference in  London  today, the Chief of Defense
Staff’s Strategic Communications Officer Major General John
Lorimer said that “it is too early to say what the impact has
been on the ground,” of last night’s operations. He also
declined to set out timings for an exit strategy for allied
forces. “We will see this one through for as long as it needs
to be done,” he told reporters.  Asked to assess the strength of Qaddafi’s air forces, Air
Vice Chief Marshall Phil Osborn, speaking at the same news
conference as Lorimer, said “there is a threat and we have to
be aware there may remain a threat.” He added that “in no way
would we expect” Qaddafi’s “capability to match ours.”  Fox said he expects Arab participation in the military
campaign to take place within “the next couple of days.”  “I hope that we will see the first of the Arab nations
participating and sending assets into the area,” Fox told the  BBC ’s Politics Show. “I spoke this morning to some of the
leaders of the Arab countries who said that they might be
involved and got a very warm response, and I hope that that will
come apparent. They themselves want to make the announcements.”  ‘Hunker Down’  The priority of the coalition forces is to stop Qaddafi
“brutalizing” his own people, not to implement “regime
change,” Fox said. The Libyan leader could well “hunker down”
and remain in the country, he said. “Our aim is to paralyze the
regime’s capability; to control the military, which they’ve been
using to terrorize their own population,” he said.  “There’s a difference between someone being a legitimate
target and whether you would go ahead with targeting,” Fox
said. “You would have to take into account what might happen to
civilians in the area; what might happen in terms of collateral
damage. We don’t simply go in with a gung-ho attitude and start
firing off missiles.”  The duration of the military campaign, codenamed operation
“Odyssey Dawn” by the U.S., depends upon “how quickly Qaddafi
recognizes the game is up” Fox said. “It also is dependent on
how quickly we can deny to him to use his military against the
civilian population.”  Qaddafi’s regime “may remain in existence,” Fox said.
“Whether it remains in power is a very different issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 