-- 
Worst Is Probably Over in Japan, U.S. Energy Secretary Says

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-03-20T17:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/u-s-believes-worst-is-over-in-japan-energy-secretary-says-1-.html
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu
said the worst is probably over in  Japan  as efforts to
stabilize the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant have had
some success.    Tokyo  Electric Power Co., owner of the crippled 40-year-old
plant, reconnected a 1.5-kilometer (1 mile) power cable
yesterday to unit No. 2 in an effort to revive cooling systems
knocked out after the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami. Work
continues to prevent a meltdown at the plant 220 kilometers (140
miles) north of Tokyo, and the utility connected an electric
cable to the No. 5 reactor,  Kyodo News  reported today.  “I think with each passing hour, each passing day, things
are more under control,” Chu said today on the “Fox News
Sunday” program. “And so, step by step, they are making very
good progress.”  The U.S. remains concerned about unit No. 2 because of
higher radiation levels, which may be an indication of a breach
in the containment vessel, Chu said in a separate interview on
CNN’s “State of the Union.”  The crisis at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant following the
March 11 earthquake is unlikely to be resolved quickly, Japan’s
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo.  Diablo Canyon Plant  Chu said U.S. nuclear plants such as  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Diablo
Canyon in  California  are built to withstand more than the
largest estimated ground motion at their site. The California
plant would endure an earthquake of about 7.5 on the Richter
scale, “well above” the maximum estimate of about 6.2 possible
at that site, the energy secretary said.  “A 9 does not come from the type of faults around that
reactor site,” Chu said.  The Obama administration will review all nuclear reactors
in the U.S. following the Japanese disaster and will verify the
adequacy of evacuation plans, Chu also said on “Fox News
Sunday.”  The U.S. has 23 reactors with similar designs to the
Japanese plant at the center of the crisis, he said.  “The people in the  United States , U.S. territories, are in
no danger” from radiation from the plant in Japan, Chu said on
Fox. “It’s unlikely they will be exposed to danger.”  Also today, Democratic U.S. Representatives  Edward Markey 
of Massachusetts and Frank Pallone of  New Jersey  said in a
statement they asked the Food and Drug Administration to explain
how it will ensure that radioactive food and other agricultural
products don’t enter the U.S. from Japan.  Edano said radiation above government limits was found in
milk and spinach produced near the plant struck by the
earthquake.  -- with assistance from Sophia Yan in Washington. Editors:
Laurie Asseo, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  