-- 
U.S. Envoy to Mexico Resigns After Calderon’s Complaints

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-03-20T01:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/u-s-envoy-to-mexico-resigns-after-calderon-s-complaints-1-.html
U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Carlos Pascual has resigned in the wake of complaints from Mexican
President Felipe Calderon, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said.  Pascual will stay in Mexico City to help with the
transition before returning to Washington for a new position in
the State Department, Clinton said. He had held the post for 1 ½
years.  The ambassador resigned “based upon his personal desire to
ensure the strong relationship between our two countries and to
avert issues raised by President Calderon that could distract
from the important business of advancing our bilateral
interests,” Clinton said today in a statement. “It is with
great reluctance that President Obama and I have acceded to
Carlos’s request.”  The resignation follows Calderon’s repeated public protests
over comments by Pascual contained in cables to the State
Department released by WikiLeaks, in which Pascual expressed
concern that Mexican security authorities weren’t sufficiently
coordinated. Tensions between the U.S. and  Mexico  have risen
over the causes and solutions for drug-related violence that
killed 15,000 Mexicans last year.  Mexican officials often have cited the American demand for
narcotics and gun smuggling from the U.S. as aggravating factors
in the violence in their country.  Drug Tensions  In a Feb. 23 interview with the newspaper El Universal,
Calderon called U.S. cooperation “notoriously insufficient.”
He also said Pascual had hurt bilateral relations through his
criticism.  Tensions between the two countries appeared to ease earlier
this month, when Calderon praised President  Barack Obama  after a
meeting at the White House. Obama pledged more help in Mexico’s
fight against drug traffickers. The two leaders also agreed on a
plan to resolve a longstanding dispute over allowing Mexican
trucks in the U.S.  Clinton, in her statement, lauded Pascual as “an architect
and advocate for the U.S.-Mexico relationship.”  “He has collaborated tirelessly with his Mexican
counterparts,” Clinton said. She cited him for helping build a
cross-border renewable energy market, and for building “a new
border strategy to advance trade while staunching illicit
flows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  