-- 
U.S., British Tomahawk Missiles ‘First Phase’ Opened Airspace Over Libya

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-21T03:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/u-s-u-k-tomahawks-first-phase-to-open-libyan-airspace.html
The U.S. and allied forces began
their assault on Libya by hitting the North African nation’s
air-defense systems with cruise missiles, followed by attacks
from bombers and fighter jets, to reduce the risks for
subsequent overflights by coalition aircraft.  The opening rounds of Operation Odyssey Dawn followed the
script of major operations since 1991 with the launch of  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  Tomahawk  cruise missiles  to clear a path for manned
aircraft. The first strikes on March 19 involved 124 missiles
against more than 20 targets; by contrast, 288 Tomahawks were
fired in the opening hours of the 1991  Gulf War .  In addition to the missile launches, the U.S. used 19
aircraft to strike Libyan targets, including three radar-
eluding, bat-winged B-2 bombers that dropped 45  Boeing Co (BA) .-made
2000-pound satellite-guided  JDAM bombs  on air defense sites. The
B-2s flew from  Whiteman Air Force Base  in  Missouri  to Libya and
back without landing, staying airborne with four aerial
refuelings each, according to  Air Force  Global Strike Command.  The arsenal also included four Boeing F-15E and eight  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16CJ Air Force fighter jets. The Navy
flew Boeing EA-18G Growler electronic-jamming jets and the
Marines flew at least four AV-8B Harrier jets from the
amphibious assault ship USS Kearsarge in the  Mediterranean Sea .
The Harrier short-takeoff and vertical-landing jets attacked
Libyan ground forces, including tanks, with laser-guided bombs.  The U.K. deployed Tornado and BAE Systems Plc’s Eurofighter
Typhoon jets.  Major targets were Muammar Qaddafi’s  SA-5 missiles , which,
at their longest range of 300 kilometers, provide “significant
standoff capability,” said a Pentagon statement. Libya also has
about 50 SA-6 missiles, the type Bosnian Serbs used to shoot
down U.S. Air Force Captain Scott O’Grady’s F-16 in 1995.  ‘Significant Threat’  Libya’s integrated air defense system, similar to  Iraq ’s,
had about 30 surface-to-air missile sites, linked by 15 early
warning radar installations along the Mediterranean coast. They
posed a “significant threat” to foreign warplanes over or near
Libyan airspace, according to declassified Pentagon data.  “Initial operations have been very effective, taking out
most of his air defense systems, some of his air fields,”
Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said yesterday on  CNN ’s “State of the Union” program.  The next phases will likely include setting up systems for
quickly rescuing downed pilots, as well as aerial refueling
patrols, Global Hawk surveillance drone and  RC-135 Rivet Joint 
reconnaissance flights, electronic jamming EC-130H Compass Call
sorties and attacks by F-16CJ radar-killing jets -- all before
coalition pilots start flying no-fly-zone patrols, according
retired military officials.  Suppressing Air Defenses  After air defenses are “suppressed, you can fly more
vulnerable aircraft in there,” retired Air Force General
 Charles Wald , who served as deputy commander of the U.S.
European Command, said in an interview. Wald planned and flew
Bosnia no-fly missions in the mid-1990s.  “It’s kind of progressive -- they don’t have the capacity
to threaten, so you can basically loiter over their country,”
he said.    Libya  has a limited air force, with about 80 percent of its
aircraft “non-operational,” according to the Pentagon. Libyan
pilot training levels and air combat tactics “have remained far
inferior to those of U.S. pilots and well-trained Middle Eastern
pilots,” such as those from  Egypt  and  Saudi Arabia , according
to the Pentagon.  Libya’s air force has more than 100 MiG jets, 30
helicopters and 15 transport aircraft, “but much of it is
obsolete or inoperable,” the Pentagon said.  The first strike came from French warplanes against Libyan
military vehicles, followed by volleys of U.S. and U.K.
missiles.  ‘No-Drive Zone’  “My sense is that the coalition will allow a brief pause
in coming days to see if Qaddafi steps down,”  Cliff Kupchan , a
senior analyst at  Eurasia Group , a New York political-risk
consulting firm, said in an interview.  “If he does not, that will be followed by a much more
intensive campaign, implementing what I would call a no-drive
zone, in which neither Libyan aircraft nor heavy armaments, tank
artillery, would be immune from strike,” Kupchan said.  The airstrikes have so far been “very effective in
degrading the regime,” Vice Admiral Bill Gortney said at a
Pentagon briefing yesterday.  “The ferocity of these initial strikes is impressive,”
said  John Nagl , president of the  Center for a New American
Security , a defense-oriented think tank in  Washington .  ‘Fairly Intense’  “It’s a fairly intense opening blast. This is not a
symbolic use of force. Only the  United States  has the capability
to act against the integrated air defense systems that Libya
has,” said Nagl, a retired Army lieutenant colonel. “Maybe I
should say ‘had’ before these strikes.”  At a Pentagon briefing on March 19, Gortney said the U.S.
and U.K. submarines and surface vessels launched the Tomahawk
cruise missiles, manufactured by Raytheon Co., at more than 20
Libyan air defense targets.  The first of the missiles, programmed with global
positioning satellite coordinates, landed on Libyan coastal
targets at about 3 p.m. Washington time, kicking off Operation
Odyssey Dawn, he said.  Destruction of Libyan missiles, radar and communication
“nodes” was “vital to the enforcement of a no-fly zone, since
so much of the activity we have seen has been in this part of
the country,” he said, referring to the coastline.  Destroying the SA-5s and key communications “opens up as
broad a space as possible for the no-fly zone” and will allow a  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drone to fly over Libya,
Gortney said.  Coalition aircraft will “penetrate a medium to high threat
without putting air crews at risk,” Gortney said.  Still, if Qaddafi’s ground forces sit in place, “then it
gets to be a lot harder,” said  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at
the  Center for Strategic and International Studies  in
Washington.  Removal from Power?  “The question is, can some combination of the rebels and
allied air power drive Qaddafi out of the capability of using
his forces, and eventually from power,” he said. “Or will the
U.S. have to go from providing these command and control and
intelligence assets, and striking at surface-to-air missiles, to
a much more direct form of intervention? At this point, none of
us know.”  The coalition naval forces in the area included about 25
U.S., U.K., Canadian and Italian vessels, including three U.S.
submarines. The French are deploying the aircraft carrier  Charles de Gaulle  to the waters off Libya.  The Tomahawk strikes came hours after a French jet
“neutralized” a tank, a French Defense Ministry spokesman
said. The mission was part of sorties flown by French warplanes
including Mirage 2000s and Rafales in Libyan air space, Defense
Ministry spokesman Laurent Teisseire said March 19.  Canada will deploy six CF-18 fighter jets, Postmedia News
reported, citing people not identified by name.    Norway  will contribute as many as six F-16s and one P-3
Orion reconnaissance plane in five to 10 days, officials said.
The six F-16s  Denmark  sent to the U.S. Naval Air Station at
Sigonella in Sicily took off for Libya yesterday, according to
Italian news agency  Agenzia Giornalistica Italia .  Qatar plans to take part, the state-run Qatar News Agency
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  