-- 
Hubristic Republicans Misread Political Landscape: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-03-20T15:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/hubristic-republicans-misread-2012-landscape-commentary-by-albert-r-hunt.html
Sun Tzu ’s admonition to know thine
enemy is as essential in politics as it is in war.  With Democrats and Republicans locked in a struggle for
supremacy, both are guardedly optimistic that currents are
blowing their way. In dozens of conversations over the past week
or so, while differences emerge among politicians when it comes
to their own parties, there’s a consensus about their opponents’
vulnerabilities.  Republicans already are overreaching, Democrats say, badly
misconstruing any mandate from last November. The opposition’s
presidential field is a historically weak one that will be
further impaired by the demands of the political base.  Republicans think Democrats aren’t in sync with a
nationwide anti-government mood. President  Barack Obama , saddled
with unpopular measures enacted in his first two years and what
his foes consider a leadership void, will suffer next year.  Thus, many believe the president is more vulnerable than he
appears. (There are exceptions: One Republican senator recently
told a colleague from the other side that it’s almost certain
Obama will be re-elected and he’d better decide how he’s going
to govern, especially with a  Republican Congress .)  Most Republicans are convinced the excitement and energy of
2008 have been drained from Democratic constituencies, and
independents are turned off by what the potential presidential
candidate  Newt Gingrich  calls Obama’s “spectator-in-chief”
role in foreign policy and on domestic spending issues.  Middle East Turmoil  The administration, critics say, is reactive on global
changes, reflecting a top national security staff selected
according to political considerations or personal loyalties to
Obama. In the middle of the Egyptian crisis, White House-
inspired stories on the infighting between the change forces at
the National Security Council and the stability faction led by
the secretary of state and the defense secretary were gleefully
distributed by opponents; they made the president appear
indecisive. Similar stories are emerging about the deliberations
around the Libya crisis.  When it comes to the budget battle, congressional
Republicans think the White House is fighting on their turf. The
question for the 2011 budget isn’t whether to cut, rather how
much to cut. When framed that way, Republicans believe they win.  Republicans also see a win-win on a gradually improving
economy. The jobless rate on Nov. 6, 2012, is likely to be about
8 percent, the highest Election Day unemployment figure since
World War II. Obama will be blamed for that, and any improvement
will be attributed by his opponents to the fiscal discipline
Republicans imposed.  In the last election, Obama and the Democrats dominated the
change mandate and the economic-security issue. That won’t be
the case next year, Republican strategists believe.  Spending and Entitlements  “The president refuses to be serious on dealing with  government spending  in general and entitlements in particular,”
says John Weaver, a former top campaign aide to  John McCain  and
currently an adviser to  Jon Huntsman , a possible Republican
candidate next year. “His absence from the playing field has
given the  Republican Party  the high moral ground on one of the
key issues heading into 2012.”  Democrats counter that Republicans, intimidated by the Tea
Party freshmen, are setting a trap for themselves. Tying
extraneous measures like abortion and funding for environmental
protection to the basic spending bill may energize the
conservative base while turning off swing voters.  Long-Term Deficits  Moreover, when the issue turns to longer-term deficits,
Republicans could have a bigger problem. “I don’t know how
they’re going to put together a budget,” says Jack Lew, head of
the Office of Management and Budget, noting that so far, the
party has produced few serious long-term deficit-reducing
measures.  Any plan will have to focus heavily on entitlement cutbacks,
since Republicans have taken tax increases off the table. “When
voters weigh cutting Medicare or killing the Bush tax cuts for
the wealthy,” says Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, “it’s
not a hard choice. Republicans are setting themselves up to be
pretty seriously on the wrong side of the budget priorities
debate.”  As for the Republican presidential field, Democrats can
barely disguise their disdain.  “This is an incredibly incoherent group of candidates who
haven’t put any of the necessary groundwork or infrastructure in
place for a national campaign against a popular incumbent
president,” says Terry McAuliffe, the former Democratic
National Committee chairman. He and others think Republican
candidates will be forced to cater to a very conservative base
on controversial social issues as well as the economy, costing
them the support of independent voters.  Plagued by Controversy  They revel in the almost daily controversies involving
Republicans: Gingrich, rationalizing his sexual affairs, said he
misbehaved in part because he cared so “passionately” about
the country; former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , charging
that Obama derives his policies from his upbringing in  Kenya ;  Minnesota  Congresswoman Michele Bachmann saying the opening
Revolutionary War battles of Lexington and Concord were fought
in  New Hampshire , or former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin
criticizing First Lady  Michelle Obama  for an anti-obesity
campaign.  Former governors who aren’t firebrands,  Mitt Romney  of  Massachusetts  and  Tim Pawlenty  of Minnesota, are the most likely
nominees, Democrats predict. They are divided on Huckabee’s
strength, and more than a few say the most formidable candidate,
if he could win the nomination, would be Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels. Most Democratic strategists don’t believe that either
Huckabee or Daniels is likely to run.  A few Democrats are smart enough and experienced enough to
remember that in politics it sometimes pays to be careful what
you wish for. More than 40 years ago, California Democrats were
dying for a former actor and political neophyte to win the
Republican gubernatorial nomination; he did, and that launched  Ronald Reagan ’s career. Four years ago, more Republicans hoped
against hope that an African-American could knock off the
Democratic frontrunner,  Hillary Clinton ; after all, they
reasoned, Obama would be easier to beat.    Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley in Washington at 
 mberley@bloomberg.net . 