-- 
Lundin Rejects Equinox’s $4.26 Billion Rival Takeover Offer

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-03-20T21:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/lundin-rejects-equinox-s-4-26-billion-bid-for-low-price-reliance-on-debt.html
  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , the Canadian
copper and zinc producer that agreed to be acquired by  Inmet
Mining Corp. (IMN) , rejected  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) ’s C$4.19 billion
($4.26 billion) unsolicited takeover bid.  Equinox’s offer represents an inadequate takeover premium
compared with other unsolicited mining deals and the Australian
company would take on too much debt to finance the acquisition,
Toronto-based Lundin said today in a statement. The all-stock
offer from Inmet, which is also based in the city, was worth
C$3.52 billion as of March 18.  “Taking on $3.2 billion in debt on partially undisclosed
terms, and the basis of their production forecasts are two
things in particular to reflect on,” Lundin Chief Executive
Officer Phil Wright said in the statement.  A dearth of copper discoveries is forcing mining companies
to expand through acquisitions. Inmet, with mining operations in  Spain , Finland and  Papua New Guinea , plans to create a copper
miner called Symterra with the potential to produce more than
500,000 metric tons of the metal a year by 2017. Lundin has
mines in Sweden and  Portugal  producing copper, zinc and lead,
and a 25 percent stake in the Tenke Fungurume copper and cobalt
mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Equinox, which owns the Lumwana copper mine in Zambia, made
its unsolicited offer on Feb. 28. Inmet and Lundin agreed Jan.
12 to their deal. Equinox, which is based in Perth, proposes
paying C$8.10 or 1.2903 shares and 1 cent for every Lundin share,
prorated based on a maximum cash consideration of C$2.4 billion.  Equinox would finance the cash component of its offer
through a $3.2 billion bridging loan arranged through Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, Equinox said Feb.
28. Goldman Sachs is also lead financial adviser to Equinox.  Lundin said today its so-called special committee was
advised by Haywood Securities Inc. that Equinox’s bid was
inadequate. Lundin’s board received the same advice from Scotia
Capital Inc., the company said.  No one immediately returned voicemails left at Equinox’s
Perth and Toronto offices seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 