-- 
Lundin Rejects Equinox’s $4.26 Billion Bid for Low Price, Reliance on Debt

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-03-21T14:23:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/lundin-rejects-equinox-s-rival-takeover-offer-as-too-low.html
  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN) , the Canadian
copper and zinc producer that agreed to be acquired by  Inmet
Mining Corp. (IMN) , rejected  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) ’s C$4.2 billion
($4.3 billion) rival unsolicited takeover bid as too low.  Equinox’s offer represents an inadequate takeover premium
and the Perth-based company would take on too much debt to
finance the acquisition, Toronto-based Lundin said yesterday in
a statement. The all-stock bid from Inmet, also based in the
Canadian city, is valued at C$3.59 billion.  Equinox and Inmet are battling to acquire Lundin’s stake in
a copper and cobalt venture in the Democratic Republic of Congo
and four mines in  Europe  as a lack of new projects forces miners
to expand through acquisitions. Equinox, which said it will
finance its bid with a $3.2 billion loan, dropped 8.6 percent in
Toronto trading through March 18 since making the offer last
month.  “If you look at Equinox’s share price, the fact that it
has come off quite significantly, people are probably expecting
a higher or more competitive bid to get it over the line,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in  Melbourne .  Equinox rose 2 cents to C$5.26 at 9:59 a.m. in Toronto
Stock Exchange trading, while Lundin fell 5 cents to C$7.29 and
Inmet rose C$1.26, or 1.9 percent, to C$67.  Special Advisers  A special committee, advised by Haywood Securities Inc.,
recommended Lundin’s board reject the Equinox bid, Lundin said
in the statement. The board received the same advice from its
own adviser, Scotia Capital Inc., Lundin said.  Michael Vaughan, an outside spokesman for Equinox, wasn’t
immediately able to comment when contacted by telephone.  Inmet, with operations in  Spain ,  Finland  and  Papua New
Guinea , agreed to buy Lundin to create a copper miner called
Symterra with the potential to produce more than 500,000 metric
tons by 2017. Lundin has a 25 percent stake in the Tenke
Fungurume copper and cobalt project in Congo and mines in Sweden
and  Portugal , producing copper, zinc and lead.  Equinox would finance the cash component of its offer
through a $3.2 billion bridging loan arranged through Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, Equinox said on
Feb. 28. Goldman Sachs is also lead financial adviser to
Equinox.  Debt, Forecasts  “Taking on $3.2 billion in debt on partially undisclosed
terms, and the basis of their production forecasts are two
things in particular to reflect on,” Lundin Chief Executive
Officer Phil Wright said in the statement. Lundin directors,
officers and “certain shareholders” have confirmed they will
not tender their shares into the offer, Lundin said.  Equinox’s announced bid was 14 percent more than Lundin’s
average share price over 20 days. That compares with an average
27 percent premium among base-metals deals globally announced in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.    Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, is likely to make a rival
proposal as it seeks to increase its stake in the Tenke project,
jointly owned with Congo’s government and Lundin, said
WallachBeth Capital LLC’s Yemi Oshodi said this month.  “There has been talk that there could be a counterbid,”
Weston said. “That hasn’t materialized yet, maybe they wanted
to see how the board reacted and wanted to test out the waters
before that was going to be the case.”  The average copper price will climb 22 percent this year,
Standard Bank Plc said last month. A combination of Equinox and
Lundin would create a global top-10 copper producer, based on
2011 production forecasts, Equinox said in a presentation.  Saudi Mine  Equinox, with a market value of C$4.59 billion, completed
the purchase of Citadel Resource Group Ltd. in January for
A$970.5 million ($975.7 million), its first acquisition in six
years. Citadel owns the $305 million Jabal Sayid copper and gold
project in  Saudi Arabia . Equinox’s $841 million Lumwana project
is Zambia’s biggest foreign investment.  Canadian companies were involved in $16.4 billion of
announced deals in January, second only to the $21.2 billion
recorded in the same month in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Equinox made its unsolicited offer on Feb. 28. Inmet and
Lundin agreed Jan. 12 to their deal. Equinox proposes paying
C$8.10 or 1.2903 shares and 1 cent for every Lundin share,
prorated based on a maximum cash consideration of C$2.4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net . 