-- 
Warren Christopher, Top U.S. Diplomat, Dies at 85

-- B y   N a n c y   M o r a n
-- 
2011-03-20T22:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/warren-christopher-top-u-s-diplomat-dies-at-85-correct-.html
(Corrects story published yesterday for Haiti timeline in
27th paragraph; adds Panama Canal treaties in 24th graph.)  Warren Christopher, the lawyer
turned diplomat whose discretion and judgment earned him
appointments under three Democratic U.S. presidents, including
as  Bill Clinton ’s first secretary of state, has died. He was 85.  He died yesterday of complications from bladder and kidney
cancer at his home in California, according to a statement from
O’Melveny & Myers, the Los Angeles-based law firm where he was
senior partner.  Reticent and unwavering, Christopher refocused U.S. foreign
policy on the Middle East during Clinton’s first term. With
Richard Holbrooke, who died in December, Christopher brokered
the 1995 Dayton agreement ending the war in Bosnia. He restored
diplomatic relations with Vietnam and pushed for the expansion
of NATO to include countries of central and Eastern Europe.  “Warren was a diplomat’s diplomat -- talented, dedicated
and exceptionally wise,” Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
said in a statement today. “As well as anyone in his
generation, he understood the subtle interplay of national
interests, fundamental values and personal dynamics that drive
diplomacy.”  President  Barack Obama  saluted him in a statement as “a
resolute pursuer of peace.”  While Christopher’s half-century career earned him the
status of elder statesman, critics viewed his reserved style and
loyalty to Clinton as weaknesses.  Interviewed in November 1996, Washington Post columnist Jim Hoagland said Christopher had been “a man without an agenda of
his own” who saw himself as “the president’s lawyer,” and
William Hyland, the longtime editor of Foreign Affairs magazine,
called the administration’s foreign policy “a jumbled mess.”  Regret Over Rwanda  In 2005, while visiting a Rwandan genocide memorial,
Clinton expressed regret for his “personal failure” in
preventing the 1994 killing of some 800,000 ethnic Tutsis at the
hands of Hutu rebels.  In a 1981 commencement address at  Stanford University ,
Christopher said: “Most talking is not glamorous. Often it is
tedious. It can be excruciating and exhausting. But talking can
also tame conflict, lift the human condition, and move us close
to the ideal of peace.”  Again and again throughout his legal career, Christopher
took time off to advise public figures.  In the wake of the 1991 beating of black motorist Rodney King by white  Los Angeles  police officers -- whose acquittal the
following year would spark riots -- Mayor Tom Bradley appointed
Christopher as chairman of an independent commission that
undertook a broad review of the police department’s structure
and practices. Voters overwhelmingly approved reforms of the
department proposed by his commission, including the imposition
of a  limit  of two five-year terms for chiefs.    Florida  Recount  After returning to Los Angeles in 1997, Christopher
rejoined the international law firm of O’Melveny & Myers as its
senior partner. He returned to the political fray in the weeks
after the 2000 presidential election, serving as Al Gore’s top
representative in Florida during the legal and political debate
over recounting ballots. Gore would concede the election to
Republican  George W. Bush  after the U.S. Supreme Court, voting
5-4,  ended  the recounting of ballots in Florida.  Christopher’s Republican counterpart in the Florida fight
was former secretary of state James Baker. Five years later they
joined as co-chairmen of a commission that proposed changes to
the War Powers Act to promote consultation between the president
and Congress before troops are sent into “significant armed
conflict.” The recommendations have not been implemented.  Move to  California   Warren Minor Christopher was born on Oct. 27, 1925, in the
North Dakota prairie town of Scranton. He was the fourth of five
children whose father, Ernest, managed the local bank during the
Great Depression.  Christopher’s family moved to Hollywood, California, in
1939, two years after his father suffered a massive stroke. He
graduated from Hollywood High School in 1942 and attended the
University of Redlands on a debate scholarship.  He enlisted in the Navy in October of 1942 and reported to
the University of Southern California’s Naval Reserve Officers
Training Corps in 1944. He finished USC early, earning a degree
in finance with honors in February 1945, then served aboard the
aircraft-refueling tanker USS Tomahawk in the Pacific during
World War II.  He graduated in 1949 from Stanford Law School, where he was
president of its first law review and elected a member of the
Order of the Coif legal honor society.  Clerk to Douglas  Christopher became Stanford’s first graduate to clerk for a
Supreme Court Justice. Justice William O. Douglas’s advice that
he “get out in the stream of history, and swim as fast as you
can” helped propel him into a career saddling the worlds of law
and public service. It also provided the title for Christopher’s
 1998 book , “In the Stream of History: Shaping Foreign Policy
for a New Era.”  After his clerkship, Christopher joined O’Melveny & Myers
in 1950. He was made a partner in 1958 and later served as the
firm’s chairman and senior partner.  He took leave from the firm to advise California Governor
Edmund “Pat” Brown during his first months in office in 1959
and during the 1965 riots in the Los Angeles community of Watts.  In June 1967, he was named deputy attorney general, the  Justice Department ’s second-ranking official, under President
Lyndon B. Johnson. He participated in the administration’s
decision to send federal troops to  Detroit  to quell race riots.
That October, he helped coordinate security at the Pentagon
during a  Vietnam  War protest that drew more than 100,000
demonstrators.  Hostages in  Iran   After another stint at O’Melveny & Myers, starting in
January 1969, Christopher served from 1977 to 1981 as deputy
secretary of state under President Jimmy Carter. He led
negotiations for the release of the 52 Americans taken from the
U.S. Embassy in Iran and held for 14 months of Carter’s one
term. The hostages finally were granted freedom on the day that
Carter turned over the presidency to  Ronald Reagan  in January
1981.  “I’ve never felt happier than watching those 52 people
come down off that plane,” Christopher told  Charlie Rose  in a
2001 interview. “I had selected some of them to go to Iran,
chosen them because I thought they were strong people, and I
felt a special responsibility and I was kind of obsessed by it
frankly -- getting them out -- and when they came out, I was so
relieved.”  In his role as the No. 2 U.S. diplomat, he also helped to
win ratification of the  Panama  Canal treaties, which pledged to
return control of the waterway to Panama by 2000.  After the Carter presidency, Christopher served as chairman
of O’Melveny & Myers from 1982 to 1992, when he was named co-
chairman of the vice presidential search committee for Bill
Clinton, the Arkansas governor who had clinched the Democratic
presidential nomination. That search culminated in the selection
of Gore, a senator from  Tennessee .  Post-Cold War  Christopher went on to lead Clinton’s presidential
transition team and was named the 63rd U.S. secretary of state.
He told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that his goal was
to define “a strategy for U.S. leadership after the Cold War.”  During Christopher’s tenure, from January 1993 to January
1997, the Clinton administration mobilized international
economic support for  Russia  and the Ukraine, pressured  China  to
improve its human-rights record and promoted NATO’s Partnership
for Peace  program , which aimed to add new members to the
alliance without alienating Russia. The administration also
helped restore Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power
in 1994 after an earlier coup.  Christopher won the trust of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who in August 1993 called him during his vacation in
California to notify him of a breakthrough in peace talks with
the Palestinians in Oslo,  Norway .  Oslo Accords  Less than a month later, on Sept. 13, Christopher oversaw
the signing of the Oslo accords between Rabin and Palestine
Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat in  Washington .
The treaty, under which the PLO recognized the state of  Israel 
and Israel acknowledged the PLO as the government of the
Palestinian people, established a framework for achieving a
lasting peace between the two sides.  Dignified and slow to anger, Christopher could also be
quick to call a foreign leader’s bluff.  In his memoir, he criticized Syria’s Hafez al-Assad as
having missed an opportunity to make progress toward a Syrian-
Israeli peace before Rabin’s 1995 assassination because Assad
was “immobilized by his ingrained mistrust of Israel.” He also
described the late Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic as a
“wily tactician but dreadful strategist” who came to power by
“playing to Serbian nationalism.”  For Clinton’s second term, Christopher was succeeded by
Madeleine Albright, the first female U.S. secretary of state.  Silence and Confidence  Known for his quiet demeanor, Christopher described the
importance of being a good listener in his  2001 memoir ,
“Chances of a Lifetime.”  “Silence, once associated with discretion, begets
confidence as well as confidences,” he wrote. “I learned that
people also tend to read wisdom from silence -- even when
silence means only that you know nothing about what they are
talking about.”  He called his time serving in the Clinton administration
“the greatest four years of my life.”  “I think we succeeded in doing some positive things. I
think perhaps we left the country a little better than we found
it,” Christopher told Rose in 2001.  He said world diplomacy played a role in the U.S. economic
successes under Clinton, a president who “really brought an
economic dimension to foreign policy in a way that nobody else
has.”  Christopher is survived by his wife, Marie, four children
and five grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Moran in New York at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  