-- 
Westinghouse Nuclear Plants Immune to Japan Power Loss, Chief Candris Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-03-20T17:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/westinghouse-nuclear-plants-immune-to-japan-power-loss-ceo-says.html
Westinghouse Electric Co. nuclear
plants being built in  China  and the U.S. and proposed for Brazil
aren’t susceptible to the loss of backup power that triggered a
reactor crisis in  Japan , the company’s top executive said.  “They’re totally immune to loss of off-site power,” Aris Candris, chief executive officer of Westinghouse, a unit of
Tokyo-based  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , said yesterday in an interview at the
U.S.-Brazil Business Summit in Brasilia. “We need to figure out
what was different” at the plant in Japan, he said.  Germany and  India  are among nations reassessing nuclear
power after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami overwhelmed the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, knocking out auxiliary power to keep
fuel rods cool and triggering radiation leaks. China on March 16
halted nuclear project approvals and plans safety inspections of
new facilities. The U.S. is planning an industrywide review.  The six Dai-Ichi boiling-water reactors were designed by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and the company built the No. 1, 2 and 6
reactors, Emily Caruso, a spokeswoman, said last week in an e-
mail response to questions. The No. 1 reactor went into
commercial operation in 1971. Toshiba built 3 and 5.  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501) , which folded its nuclear operations into a venture known
as GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy in 2007, built No. 4.  “We believe there will be and should be a complete
analysis of this event, the causes, and possible actions going
forward,” Michael Tetuan, a GE spokesman, said in an e-mail
today. “Right now, we’re focused on supporting our customers,
partners, and the people of Japan.”  U.S. Applications  Since 2007, U.S. companies applied to build more than 20
reactors using technology from Westinghouse,  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011) ,  Areva SA (CEI)  and GE Hitachi. Westinghouse reactors
would be used in 14 of the projects, according to U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission data.  Candris said the Westinghouse plants in Brazil, China and
the U.S. can operate without relying on external power in the
event of an earthquake matching the 9.0 magnitude temblor,
Japan’s strongest on record.  “They’re designed to be able to passively handle events
like that without the need for external electricity,” he said.  The failure of Fukushima’s backup generators used to pump
cooling water helped cause explosions in at least three
buildings housing Fukushima’s six reactors. A fire also started
in a pond containing spent fuel rods from reactor No. 4.  Damage “appears to have been caused by initiating events
outside the design basis for the facilities,” the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission  said in a March 18 report.  Markey Seeks Review  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey  of Massachusetts, top
Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, has urged a
moratorium on permits for U.S. reactors in seismically active
areas as well as on the current Westinghouse reactor, the AP
1000. Markey has said the AP 1000 may be unable to withstand a
strong earthquake.  “Obviously people are going to be a lot more scared about
the technology so we have to do a better job than we’ve done in
the past in terms of explaining the risks and explaining the
consequences,” Candris said, referring to the nuclear industry.  Brazil paid almost $4 billion to Pittsburgh-based
Westinghouse to build the nation’s first nuclear reactor near
Angra dos Reis, about 120 miles west of  Rio de Janeiro  on the
Atlantic coast. Work on the 630-megawatt plant began in 1972 and
was completed in 13 years.    Brazil  will conduct an assessment of the safety of its
nuclear facilities, without affecting current operations, Energy
Minister Edison Lobao said on March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  