-- 
Wheat Seen Rebounding 11% as Global Stockpiles Decline the Most Since 2007

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g ,   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-03-21T20:06:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/wheat-seen-rebounding-11-as-global-stockpiles-decline-the-most-since-2007.html
Wheat stockpiles shrinking the most
in four years means prices will keep rebounding from their worst
slump in at least a quarter century.  The grain will average $8 a bushel on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade in the second quarter, 11 percent more than today’s
closing price of $7.21, according to the median in a Bloomberg
survey of 22 analysts. Contracts for delivery a year from now
are priced at $8.465, a gain of 17 percent. Farmers reaped 15.4
million metric tons less than demand this season, the biggest
shortage in four years, and stockpiles will drop 7.8 percent,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  says.  Wheat was the worst-performing commodity in the month to
March 16. The drop accelerated after March 11 as the earthquake
and tsunami that hit  Japan  roiled financial markets. Investors
cut bets on raw materials after prices doubled in the past two
years, speculating that consumption would plunge. That concern
may not be justified because wheat demand fell just 0.8 percent
in the season ended in 2008, amid the worst global recession
since World War II.  “Global need for food is as strong as it was before the
Japanese crisis,” said Bill Gary, president of Commodity
Information Systems Inc. in  Oklahoma City , who has worked in
grain markets for more than a half century. “We can only view
the current state of market panic as eventually providing a
buying opportunity.”  Wheat fell 17 percent this year through March 16, its worst
start since at least 1986. Hedge funds curbed bets on higher
prices, cutting so-called net-long positions 58 percent since
Feb. 8, according to U.S. regulatory data. Wheat is already
rebounding, rising 8.9 percent in the past three sessions.  Agriculture Index  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index of eight futures is still 68
percent higher than a year ago, a surge that means U.S. farm
profit will jump 20 percent to a record $94.7 billion this year,
the USDA estimates. It also means higher prices for everyone
from Sam’s Club, a unit of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., to General
Mills Inc., the maker of Wheaties.  Wheat, corn and cotton as much as doubled since June and
soybeans jumped 62 percent as a mixture of droughts and floods
ruined crops. Some governments curbed exports and others hoarded
food. Shortages may worsen should a prolonged price slump
discourage growers from planting.  “The decline in prices now is sending absolutely the wrong
message,” said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president for
Linn Group, a brokerage operating from the CBOT. “There has
never been a planting incentive this year for wheat compared
with the returns offered for growing corn, soybeans or cotton.”  Russian Farmers  Farmers in  Russia , once the second-biggest wheat exporter,
are planting the fewest acres in four years, in part because a
government export ban kept prices low, a Bloomberg survey of
producers, traders and analysts this month showed. Shipments
stopped in August after the country’s worst drought in at least
a half century. Grain markets were already contending with
drought across Europe and flooding in  Canada  by that time.  China , the largest wheat producer, faced drought earlier
this year in the main region growing winter varieties. Concern
eased after rains fell late last month and irrigation increased.
There may be a “bumper summer grain harvest,” Vice Minister of
Agriculture Wei Chaoan said March 12.  “The fundamental situation for now hasn’t improved, but we
could have good weather everywhere and have very good supply,”
said Pierre Raye, an analyst at Paris-based InVivo, the largest
French wheat exporter.  France  is the world’s biggest shipper of
the grain after the U.S.  Crop Production  Production in the crop year that begins in July will rise
3.7 percent to 672 million tons, according to the International
Grains Council, a group of more than 50 nations.  The analysts surveyed by Bloomberg are already anticipating
improved supply by the end of the year, with a median fourth-
quarter average of $7.40 a bushel, 2.6 percent higher than now.  U.S. sowing will rise 7.2 percent to 57.44 million acres,
according to a survey of growers by McHenry, Illinois-based
Allendale Inc. Planting in the 27-nation European Union will
advance 1.1 percent to 64 million acres, according to Copa-
Cogeca, the regional farmers union based in Brussels.  That may be too little to fully replenish stockpiles. The
combined inventory of the seven biggest exporting nations and
the EU will drop 22 percent by the end of the current crop year,
according to the London-based IGC.  Food Prices  Smaller stockpiles may mean more gains in food prices the
 United Nations  says reached a record last month. Rising food
costs contributed to protests across northern  Africa  and the
Middle East, driving up inflation and spurring central banks to
consider higher  interest rates  that may slow global growth.  The riots from  Bahrain  to  Morocco  drove wheat prices higher
because governments accelerated purchases to expand stockpiles,
damp prices and quell unrest. Shipments to North Africa from
Rouen,  Europe ’s biggest cereal-export hub, rose to a 16-week
high in the week ended March 9, data from the French port show.  The extra demand is draining stockpiles at a time when
export curbs are still in place in Russia and Ukraine. Russian
First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor Zubkov said March 2 a ban may
be extended from July through the end of 2011. France may start
running out of wheat for export as early as this month,
according to FranceAgriMer, the national crops office.  In the U.S., snow and rain saturated soil and increased the
risk of flooding that may delay spring-wheat planting in  North
Dakota , the biggest producing state. Dry weather in  Kansas , the
second-biggest grower, left only 26 percent of crops in good or
excellent condition, the worst since 2006, according to the
USDA.  Bakery Products  The jump in wheat means higher costs for bakery products
and meat, Brian C. Cornell, president and chief executive
officer of Sam’s Club, told an investor conference March 8.
General Mills raised some prices this year because of raw
materials, Chief Financial Officer Donal Leo Mulligan told a
conference Feb. 22.  U.S. food costs will rise as much as 4 percent this year,
more than the 2 percent to 3 percent estimated in January, the
USDA said Feb. 24.  Investors in options on CBOT futures also may be
anticipating a resumption of the rally in wheat. On March 18,
the most widely held option gave holders the right to buy grain
at $10 a bushel by April.  Hedge funds  and other speculators increased their net-long
position in CBOT wheat by 4.6 percent to 21,931 contracts by
March 15, the highest since mid-February, according to data from
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “People will need to eat wheat, no matter what,” said
Keith Flury, part of a team of analysts at Rabobank
International in  London  who correctly predicted this year’s
surge in food costs. “The underlying fundamentals in the market
are still there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 