-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Faces Revolt From Within as Generals Defect

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-03-21T17:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/yemen-s-saleh-dismisses-cabinet-as-deaths-spur-regime-defections.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
faced a growing internal revolt as some army leaders joined
ministers and diplomats in abandoning his regime three days
after it cracked down on protesters, killing dozens.  Military officers including Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar, commander
of the first armored division, and Mohammed Ali Muhssein,
commander of the eastern region, have switched sides and vowed
to support protesters. Their move was a result of last week’s
killings, said Mohammed al-Sabri, an opposition leader. Tanks
and military vehicles belonging to the Yemeni Republican Guard,
headed by Saleh’s son Ahmed, were deployed around the
presidential palace today.  The decision of Muhssein and other senior commanders to
join anti-government protesters “was very significant,”
Gregory Johnsen, a Yemeni expert with  Princeton University , said
by telephone from Cairo today. “This is really moving in the
direction that would lead to the fall of the regime. Muhssein is
trying to get ahead of the curve, taking a page out of what’s
happening in  Egypt .”  Army units took up positions around key government
buildings and bank offices in the capital, Sana’a, without
intervening against protesters. Some soldiers have joined with
the demonstrators in Taghyeer Square, the site of the March 18
killing of at least 46 people when police and pro-regime gunmen
shot at a crowd of tens of thousands and snipers opened fire
from rooftops. French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said today
that Saleh’s exit is “becoming unavoidable.”  ‘Coup Plots’  The country’s national defense council, chaired by Saleh,
met to discuss measures to restore stability. Defense Minister
Mohammad Nasser Ali said on state television that opposition
leaders had hijacked the will of the people and that no “coup
against democracy” would be allowed.  Al-Ahmar, whose military command includes the northwestern
region, said the army was united and “sides with the peaceful
demands of the people.” Speaking in an interview with Al
Arabiya television, he said the defense minister had been
“forced” to make his earlier comments by “the leadership.”  Saleh, addressing a group of religious figures, young
people and members from the provincial councils, said today that
those calling for “chaos, violence, hatred and vandalism” are
the minority and that most people support the constitutional
legitimacy of his government, state-run Saba reported today.  Ally Against al-Qaeda  The violence, much of it caught on film and broadcast
around the world, was the worst seen in two months of protests
against Saleh, a U.S. ally against al-Qaeda, and has intensified
opposition efforts to oust him. The crackdown prompted three
ministers, including those responsible for human rights and
tourism, dozens of members of parliament and at least three
diplomats to quit Saleh’s regime. Mohammed al-Shadadi, the
deputy speaker of parliament, also resigned.  The defections are “a sign that the revolution has won,”
al-Sabri, a member of the opposition’s main six-party coalition,
said by telephone today. He ruled out any risk of the army
seizing power, and said protesters will stay on the streets
“till the revolution achieves its objectives in having a modern
and civil state governed by law and order.”  Saleh, who said the official security forces weren’t
responsible for the massacre, yesterday sacked his Cabinet, and
prosecutors today issued 10 arrest warrants in connection with
the deaths.  Sheikh Sadek Al-Hashid, the head of Yemen’s most
influential and second-biggest tribe, the Hashid, said today
they support the popular revolt against Saleh’s regime,
according to his assistant Abdulqawi Al-Kaisi.  ‘Very, Very Bloody’  The course of events may largely depend on the loyalty of
people in the central security forces and the republican guard,
said Johnsen. “If President Saleh steps down, it’ll all go over
peacefully,” he said. “If he attempts to fight this then it
could get very, very bloody.”  Yemen, the Arab world’s poorest nation, has received U.S.
backing to fight al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the group
responsible for sending two parcel bombs to U.S. synagogues in
October and the attempted bombing of a Detroit-bound plane on
Christmas Day 2009.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , on a visit to Yemen in
January, said that Yemen-based terrorists are an “urgent
concern” for the U.S. Yemen, which gets about $300 million a
year in U.S. security and humanitarian assistance, stepped up
operations against al-Qaeda after the attempted Detroit attack,
including air strikes targeting the group’s camps.  The country is also struggling to quell two internal
revolts, and its domestic conflicts have in the past entangled
Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter.  Saudi Intervention  In 2009, Saudi Arabia got drawn into the struggle between
Yemen’s Shiite Muslim Houthi rebels and the government, after
the rebels killed a Saudi soldier during a cross-border
incursion. Yemen’s government accused the Shiite government of  Iran  of arming the Houthis.    Saudi Arabia  sent troops into another neighbor, Bahrain,
last week to help local Sunni rulers repress Shiite-led
protests.  Foreign Policy magazine and the Fund for Peace ranked Yemen
15th of 60 countries on their 2010 Failed States Index, saying
only Afghanistan, Iraq and  Pakistan  are in worse shape among
nations in  Asia  and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  