-- 
Yemenis Holds Day of Mourning Demonstration, Ambassador Resigns

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-03-20T14:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/yemenis-holds-day-of-mourning-demonstration-ambassador-resigns.html
Tens of thousands of Yemeni
protesters gathered today in the capital, Sana’a, for a day of
mourning following violent clashes over the weekend that left at
least 44 dead, according to the country’s health ministry.  Thirty-four caskets were carried over the crowds who
chanted “Martyrs, rest in peace, we will not let killers
alone!” As many as 200 people were wounded in the violence
between police, pro-government gunmen and protesters on March
18, Health Minister Abdulkareem Rasee said at a press conference
today.  Yemen declared a state of emergency after government forces
attacked protesters in Sana’a in the most violent crackdown in
two months of unrest, prompting the opposition to call for wider
protests. Demonstrations calling for an end to President Ali Abdullah Saleh’s three-decade rule have been held almost every
day for the past two months in Yemen.  The unrest was inspired by popular uprisings that overthrew
rulers in Tunisia and  Egypt  and has spread across the region.
Saleh has promised a new constitution, called for the formation
of a unity government and said he won’t seek to extend his term
when it expires in 2013. The opposition movement has dismissed
those offers and insists he must step down.  Yemen’s council of ministers condemned the recent violence
and called for an investigation into the bloodshed, state-run
Saba News Agency reported today. Yemen’s ambassador to the
United Nations Abdullah Alsaidi resigned today in protest over
the violence, making him the third government official to step
down from his post in the last day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 