-- 
Yen Falls as Japan Nuclear Risk Lessens; Euro Gain Before Regional Summit

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-21T21:07:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/yen-drops-second-day-on-speculation-g-7-to-maintain-currency-intervention.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against all of its major counterparts as  Japan  made progress in
cooling nuclear reactors at a crippled plant, increasing
appetite for higher-yielding assets.  The yen extended losses after sliding the most against the
dollar in six months on March 18, when the Group of Seven
nations intervened to bring the currency down from a postwar
high. The euro reached the highest level since November against
the dollar after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker said euro-area
finance ministers have agreed on all elements of a permanent
bailout fund. Commodity-linked currencies gained and  China ’s
yuan reached a two-week high.  “The market seems to have a friendlier disposition toward
stocks and risk taking in general,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business Payments, a
currency-exchange network. “The first G-7 intervention in more
than a decade helped usher in a sense of calm in the financial
markets.”  Japan’s currency weakened 0.6 percent to 81.03 per dollar
at 5 p.m. in  New York  after slumping 2.1 percent on March 18.
The yen depreciated 0.8 percent to 115.26 per euro. Financial
markets in Japan were shut today for a national holiday.  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.4226 from $1.4182 March 18.
It touched $1.4240, the strongest level since Nov. 5. The 17-
nation currency had weakened as much as 0.3 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.5 percent.  Postwar High  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six major peers including the euro, yen and British pound,
declined 0.4 percent to 75.408, after touching then lowest level
since December 2009.  The yen surged to a post-World War II high of 76.25 versus
the dollar on March 17 after a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan on March 11, damaging cooling systems at a
nuclear-power plant north of  Tokyo . The currency’s gain came
amid speculation investors were repatriating assets to fund an
estimated 10 trillion yen ($123.6 billion) for reconstruction.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said today he sees “light
at the end of the tunnel” for Japan’s crisis and that progress
is being made in restoring power to reactors at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  G-7 Moves  The G-7, which comprises the U.S., Japan, Germany, the
U.K., France, Canada and Italy, sold yen on March 18 after
finance ministers spoke on a conference call, according to
Japan’s Vice Finance Minister Fumihiko Igarashi. The G-7
statement promised to “provide any cooperation” with Japan.  “Today there is a bit of relief that the situation in
Japan is not deteriorating,” which is damping demand for the
Swiss franc, said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of currency
research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  Switzerland ’s franc weakened 0.7 percent against the euro
to 1.2868 per euro and depreciated 0.4 percent against the
dollar to 90.45 centimes.  The euro rose earlier after the National Wellbeing Fund,
one of Russia’s two funds the state uses to safeguard windfall
oil revenue, was authorized to buy Spanish  government bonds  with
maturities of between three months and one year starting today,
the  Finance Ministry  said on its website.  Ministers Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers plan to meet in Brussels to
further develop a package of measures on the region’s debt
crisis and economic governance. European Union leaders will hold
a summit March 24-25 to discuss the measures.  “Maybe people are more optimistic that there’s going to be
an agreement for policy this week,” Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The Australian and New Zealand dollars climbed for a second
day as higher  oil prices  increased demand for currencies linked
to commodities. Crude oil futures rose as much as 2.3 percent in
New York.  Australia’s currency advanced 1 percent to $1.0063 while
New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to 73.57 U.S. cents.  Canada ’s dollar gained 0.7 percent to 97.78 cents per  U.S.
dollar . Oil is the nation’s biggest export.  Mexico’s peso rose 0.6 percent to 11.9870 per dollar. The
nation said it may boost the amount and frequency of its
auctions of dollar options to boost international reserves,
Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said.  Mexico Sells  The government is considering “increasing the rhythm of
international reserve accumulation,” Cordero said in an
interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On
The Move” today. “But certainly that’s not going to be in such
an amount that it could affect the market in Mexico.”  Mexico is opposed to  capital controls  and doesn’t plan to
intervene to restrain the peso, which gained 4.9 percent in the
last 12 months, Cordero said.  The Group of Seven nations’ agreement to jointly intervene
to sell the yen is likely to be “successful,” according to UBS
AG, the world’s second-largest foreign-exchange trader.  Joint intervention has marked turning points for currencies
targeted on four of five previous occasions during the past
three decades, a history that suggests the yen will “peak
now,” wrote Mansoor Mohi-uddin, Singapore-based head of global
currency strategy at UBS, in a note today. The Swiss bank also
maintains its forecast for the yen to weaken to 85 per dollar in
three months, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  