-- 
Yen Undermined as G-7 Combines With Deficits After Hitting Post-War High

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-03-21T17:28:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-20/yen-undermined-as-g-7-combines-with-deficits-after-hitting-post-war-high.html
The Kobe earthquake in 1995 sparked
a 20 percent yen surge in three months. After the latest
disaster, world leaders are uniting to ensure a stronger
currency doesn’t derail efforts to rebuild the economy as
Japanese officials flood the financial system with cash.  While  Japan ’s currency rose 3.7 percent against the dollar
in the six days after the March 11 temblor, it is poised to drop
in 2011 by the most in six years, Bloomberg surveys of
economists show. Derivatives traders cut wagers on further gains
March 18 after Group of Seven nations followed Japan’s lead and
sold the yen as it reached a post-World War II high of 76.25
versus the dollar. The currency fell for a second day to trade
at 80.99 per dollar at 1:20 p.m. in New York.  The yen appreciated on speculation investors will
repatriate assets to fund the estimated 10 trillion yen ($124
billion) needed to rebuild after the nation’s biggest earthquake
and the tsunami that followed. Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. say the gains will reverse as Bank of
Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa injects cash into the financial
system just as his peers prepare to tighten monetary policy,
unlike in 1995 when Germany’s Bundesbank and the  Federal Reserve 
cut interest rates.  “The yen will weaken over time,” said  Nick Bennenbroek ,
head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo, the second most-
accurate predictor of the yen against the euro in the six
quarters through December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “The policy response from the authorities is going
to be quite substantial. We have already seen action from Japan
and other G-7 countries. We would expect further intervention,
at least from Japan.”  Yen Strength  The yen rose 1.56 percent to 80.58 per dollar last week and
weakened 0.5 percent to 114.31 against the euro. Japan’s
currency jumped 1 percent in the week against a group of 10
developed-country currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, trailing the Swiss franc and euro after the
intervention.  Bennenbroek expects a decline to 86 in 12 months, while  Lee Hardman , a strategist at Bank of  Tokyo  in  London , says it will
depreciate to 89 by year-end. The yen will hit 88 this year,
down 8 percent for the year, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the biggest
annual drop since 2005.  “This is a classic unexpected productivity shock,” said
Daniel Ahn, an adjunct fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations in New York. “Japanese growth and demand for money
will fall, which should be negative for the yen.”  Sony, Toyota  The 9.0 earthquake and the tsunami that followed on March
11 killed more than 8,400 people, exceeding the 6,400 toll in
the 6.8 Kobe quake. The current crisis at two nuclear facilities
has disrupted industrial production in Japan and around the
world as the supply of parts made in Japan dwindles.  Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758)  has shut eight plants in Miyagi,
Ibaraki and Fukushima prefectures, while Toyota City, Japan-
based  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  has said it will keep 21 auto and
components plants closed until March 22.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. predicted in a March 18 report that
growth in Japan’s economy will slow to 0.9 percent this year
from 4 percent in 2010, as industrial production falls 5 percent
next quarter.  Coordinated Action  In the first coordinated action since support for the euro
in 2000,  Europe ’s central banks, the Federal Reserve and the
Bank of Canada followed the Bank of Japan’s yen sales on March
18, sending the currency down the most against the dollar since
September.  Japan’s unilateral sale of 2.12 trillion yen in September
prompted then-U.S. Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  to accuse the nation of breaking international accords. Yen
losses after that action, the first since 2004, didn’t last.
After sliding 3.26 percent on Sept. 15 to 85.75 against the
dollar, the yen resumed its gains in less than a week,
strengthening to a 15-year high of 80.22 on Nov. 1.  This time, intervention has more “potential to work,”
Alessio de Longis, a New York-based money manager who is part of
a team that oversees about $20 billion at Oppenheimer Funds
Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television on March 18.
“We may get more success on the euro-yen cross because of the
cyclical divergence in monetary policy,” he said.  Weakness Limited  Weakness in the yen may be limited as the nation sells
foreign assets and brings the money home to pay for rebuilding,
which  Barclays Capital  said may be as much as 10 trillion yen.
Reconstruction after Kobe cost 9.9 trillion yen, equivalent to 2
percent of economic output at the time, Barclays Capital’s
Tokyo-based economists Kyohei Morita and Yuichiro Nagai wrote in
a March 17 report.  “They will turn to their foreign asset holdings, liquid
asset holdings, to get financing,” BlueGold Capital Management
LLP Managing Director Stephen Jen said at a conference in London
on March 17. “They are wealthy enough to do this on their own.
But that means repatriation. So you can have a little bit of
temporary coordinated intervention, but I think we’re going to
see 75, the low 70s for a while.”  Japan’s fiscal position has deteriorated since 1995. The
amount of debt outstanding has risen to 919 trillion yen from
less than 350 trillion yen, while its economy has shrunk to
$5.07 trillion from $5.25 trillion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Trade Support Threatened  The yen has appreciated because of its export strength even
though government finances have weakened and the economy has
struggled to avoid deflation. Japan posted a surplus every year
since at least 1986 in its current account, the broadest measure
of trade.  Unlike the U.S. or the euro region, that means Japan
doesn’t rely on foreign capital to finance its  budget deficit .
Now, even that could be in jeopardy.  “The most significant threat to the yen isn’t the BOJ or
JGB issuance,”  Jan Loeys , JPMorgan’s chief market strategist,
wrote in the firm’s March 18 report in reference to Japanese  government bonds . “It is the possible erosion of Japan’s trade
surplus, since quake damage will increase demand for some
imports and limit exports of others.”  The New York-based bank said in the report it expects the
yen to range between 80 and 82 per dollar “for the next few
months” and may strengthen to 79 by year-end if the Fed
refrains from tightening monetary policy.  Risk Reversals  Traders trimmed bets on yen gains following G-7 finance
ministers and central bank chiefs pledges after a conference
call on March 17 to “provide any needed cooperation.” The  Bank
of Japan  decided in a March 14 policy meeting to double its
asset-purchase program to 10 trillion yen and kept the benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.1 percent. It pumped 38 trillion
yen last week into the financial system in one-day operations.  The so-called risk reversal rate for one-month options on
the dollar versus the yen pulled back from a nine-month high.
The rate fell to a 1.0 percentage-point premium in favor of
calls granting the right to buy Japan’s currency over puts
giving the right to sell, from a nine-month high of 2.5 points a
day earlier, showing expectations for a stronger yen are
abating. The premium was as small 0.21 percentage point on March
11.  “We will be confronted with a phase of ongoing yen
stability, perhaps ongoing moderate strength, but this will be
followed in six months plus by a phase of moderate yen weakening
when the repatriation is cooling down and there will be an
appearance of rate differentials,” said Stefan Keitel, who is
responsible for about $200 billion as the chief investment
officer at Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG.  Diverging Yields  Interest rates were already moving against the yen before
the quake struck, in contrast to 1995 when the U.S. and  Germany 
cut interest rates. The extra yield that investors get from
holding German 10-year bunds instead of their Japanese
counterparts was 197 basis points, or 1.97 percentage points,
last week, approaching the most since January 2010. The spread
averaged about 3.42 percentage points in 1995.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet has
signaled he will raise rates, as early as next month, from 1
percent.  The “joint action by the G-7 -- like four of the five
previous bouts of coordinated currency market interventions
during the last three decades -- is likely to succeed as it is
consistent with future interest rate changes,” Mansoor Mohi- uddin, the Singapore-based chief currency strategist at UBS AG,
wrote in a report to clients on March 19. “So investors should
forget about yen strength.”  Deflation Deepens  Consumer prices fell in Japan for a 23rd consecutive month
in January, declining by 0.2 percent. Inflation in the 17-nation
euro area quickened to 2.4 percent in February, the fastest
since October 2008 and above the ECB’s 2 percent limit. In the
U.S., the consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent last month,
the most since June 2009.  Prospects for slower growth also suggest a weaker yen. The
economy may expand 1.49 percent this year, trailing a 3.1
percent expansion in the U.S. and 2.6 percent in Germany,
Bloomberg economist surveys show. In 1995, the U.S. grew 2.5
percent, 2.4 percent in Japan and 1 percent in Germany.  “Japan’s infrastructure has been significantly damaged,
and with the focus on the nuclear situation there hasn’t been
much attention paid to the impact on the economy and trade,”
said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in Sydney at
Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-biggest lender. “If
the nuclear situation is brought under control, then they will
still have a lot of problems with power supplies and that will
cause difficulties in a number of industries such as steel, auto
parts and technology parts.”  ‘Tipping Point’  Demand for Japanese assets may wane as investors demand a
higher premium while its debt nears what Moody’s Investors
Service said was a “tipping point.” The nation’s record public
debt will probably increase 5.8 percent to 997.7 trillion yen in
the year starting April 1, from a projected 943.1 trillion yen
this year, the government said in January.  Government debt may reach 210 percent of GDP in 2012, the
highest percentage in the developed world, compared with an
estimated 101 percent in the U.S., according to the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “The recent events will require Japanese policy makers to
be even more aggressive than they were before,”  Michael Hasenstab , who runs the $49.6 billion Templeton Global Bond Fund
in San Mateo,  California , said in an interview with Pimm Fox on
Bloomberg Television’s ‘Taking Stock’ on March 17. “That should
further drive that trend over time for a weaker yen.”  ---With assistance from Liz Capo McCormick and Erik Schatzker in  New York  and Jennifer Ryan in London, Candice Zachariahs and
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney, Monami Yui in Tokyo. Editors:
Philip Revzin, Robert Burgess.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  