-- 
Perry Proposes 20% Flat Tax for Individuals, Companies

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-25/perry-proposes-20-flat-tax-for-individuals-companies.html
Rick Perry  moved to re-frame the
Republican presidential race with a proposal to tear up the  tax
code  and draw a distinction with the more incremental approach
of  Mitt Romney , the party’s front runner.  The Texas governor brandished a postcard-sized  tax return 
he said would replace the web of paperwork and complex
calculations Americans now face with an optional 20 percent flat
tax for individuals.  Americans “aren’t searching for a reshuffling of the
status quo, which simply empowers the entrenched interests,”
Perry said yesterday in South Carolina. “This is a change
election, and I offer a plan that changes the way that
 Washington  does business.”  Perry’s challenge is that his approach isn’t as simple as
 Herman Cain ’s “9-9-9” overhaul and it comes late in the
process for the Texas governor who rose to the top of national
polls within days of announcing his bid only to find himself in
single digits after five debate performances.  After a “terrible September,” Perry’s central task now is
to emerge as the anti-Romney, said Fergus Cullen, a Republican
strategist who is a former chairman of  New Hampshire ’s
 Republican Party .  The flat-tax plan, his effort to sharpen debate
performances and Perry’s recent hire of seasoned campaign aides
“really shows that he’s putting up a fight,” Cullen added.
“He’s either going to win or be defeated; he’s not
going to roll over.”  Job Creation Plan  Perry’s tax proposal is part of his job-creation plan to
balance the budget by 2020, which also includes cutting federal
spending to 18 percent of gross domestic product from about 25
percent and overhauling entitlement programs -- including
potential cuts to future retirees’ Social Security and Medicare
benefits.  He would lower the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35
percent and give multinational companies a temporary incentive
to bring home foreign-earned income at a far lower rate of 5.25
percent.  “My plan doesn’t trim around the edges and it doesn’t bow
down to the establishment, but it is the kind of bold reform
that is needed to jolt this economy out of the doldrums,” Perry
said. “Those who oppose it, they’re going to wrap themselves in
the cloak of status quo.”  Opponents of a flat tax say it would be a  tax cut  for the
wealthy because it lacks the current system’s progressive design
in which the higher-earners pay more.  Layer of Complexity  Perry’s version, while billed as simple, also could add
another layer of complexity for taxpayers. Because it is
optional, it would leave people to calculate each year which
system -- the Perry plan or today’s tax code -- would be to
their best advantage.  Perry brushed off that concern during a news conference
following his speech, saying most people would opt for the flat
tax without bothering to do the math. Some businesses, Perry
told reporters, may believe they benefit from the current
system.  “But for the people who don’t need that, don’t want that,
this is the way to go,” he said.  Perry is seeking to recharge his campaign, which surged
after he entered the race Aug. 13 yet lost steam following the
debates that raised scrutiny of his backing for a Texas law that
lets children of illegal immigrants pay in-state tuition at
state universities.  ‘Sea Legs’  “Perry’s timing is very good because Cain’s 9-9-9 plan is
under attack, and he’s being severely questioned about it,”
said Greg Mueller, a Republican media strategist. He said Perry
has “never gotten his sea legs back after those initial
performances” at debates, and was overdue “to start talking
about what he’s going to do as president.”  Perry added campaign veterans to his staff this week and
scheduled his first major ads in  Iowa , with 10 weeks to go
before voting begins there.  Perry’s economic plan includes changes to social programs
that he said would end the “entitlement culture” in America.  Those include raising the age at which future senior
citizens become eligible for Social Security and Medicare;
limiting future retirement benefits for younger people and
letting them invest part of their payroll taxes in private
accounts; and requiring wealthier seniors to pay more for
Medicare services. Perry said state and local governments should
be able to opt out of Social Security and allow workers invest
in state and local retirement programs.  Romney Plan  Perry’s tax plan sets him apart from Romney, the former
Massachusetts governor and second-time presidential candidate
who is leading in some Republican primary polls. Romney last
month released a 59-point, 160-page jobs proposal that keeps the
existing tax system while extending income tax cuts now set to
expire and reducing investment taxes and the corporate rate.  Perry said his own plan “is not the length of the novel
War and Peace, by the way.”  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign criticized both proposals
as extreme ideas that wouldn’t create jobs. Romney’s and Perry’s
plans “would shift a greater share of taxes away from large
corporations and the wealthiest onto the backs of the middle
class,”  Ben LaBolt , the campaign’s press secretary, said in a
statement. “The belief that middle class Americans will benefit
if we just give another special break to those at the top was
long ago discredited.”  A flat tax -- even an optional one -- by definition would
be less progressive than the current system, where the top
individual income and corporate tax rates are 35 percent.  Tax Plan Details  The 20 percent individual income tax would preserve some
deductions, including those for mortgage interest and charitable
contributions, and exempt $12,500 for each individual and
dependent. The plan also would eliminate taxes on Social
Security benefits, inheritances, dividends and long-term  capital
gains .  Perry drafted his proposal with help from  Steve Forbes , who
proposed a flat tax when he sought the Republican presidential
nomination in 1996 and 2000 and has endorsed the Texan’s
candidacy. At the time, Forbes was criticized by Republican
primary rival Pat Buchanan, who said it seemed to have been
drafted at a yacht club, and by Romney for pitching “a tax cut
for fat cats.”  Asked about the criticism, Perry told CNBC of Romney: “I
consider him to be a fat cat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Columbia,  South Carolina , at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  