-- An Ambitiously Modest Agenda for the G-8
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-16T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/an-ambitiously-modest-agenda-for-the-g-8.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
will preside this week over the Group of Eight summit in
Enniskillen,  Northern Ireland , and he’s already  telegraphed  his
three top themes: trade, taxes and transparency.  OK, we’ll stop with the alliteration if he does. Still,
there’s a lot to be said for Cameron’s “three T’s” -- so long as
the governments attending can deliver.  That can’t be taken for granted. Cameron has rightly noted
the tendency of these meetings, which gather the leaders of the
U.K.,  Canada ,  France ,  Germany ,  Italy ,  Japan ,  Russia  and the U.S.
(plus two representatives from the European Union), to issue
grand proclamations leading nowhere. He’s right to aim for
something more modest but also more productive.  Cameron would like to move forward on trade policy, he
says, where bold regional initiatives are under discussion even
as attempts to conclude the  Doha Round  of global talks, begun 12
years ago, continue to flounder. On taxes, the focus will be
information-sharing and plans for greater cooperation in
fighting evasion. This overlaps with the third topic,
transparency, which also has a narrower development aspect --
notably in proposals for extractive industries to disclose more
information about the payments they make in countries where they
operate.  That’s a pretty good agenda, even if it takes modesty a bit
far. As we’ve argued many times, international cooperation on
financial regulation is moving too slowly and timidly. G-8
participants may say the issue is for other forums, but it can’t
be given too much attention.  That aside, the single most consequential thing the G-8
could do for the world economy is resuscitate the  Doha Round .
Sadly, governments seem to have given up on that, and look ready
to settle for a face-saving mini-deal at the end of this year
that they’ll agree to call a success. Instead, the G-8 is likely
to discuss the proposed U.S.-EU and Trans-Pacific Partnership
trade pacts. These agreements can expand global trade in
mutually advantageous ways. But the global economy still needs
to guard against  creeping protectionism , and the best way to do
that is a viable process for truly multilateral liberalization.  Aggressive  tax avoidance  and outright evasion by rich
individuals and multinational corporations have become hot
political issues in many of the G-8 countries. Often, the outcry
is justified. Coordinated measures to address the problem are
long overdue. Information sharing is critical, and the U.S. has
achieved a lot lately by bullying other countries into helping.
This ad-hoc approach is flawed: It unduly prioritizes U.S.
interests. Again, a genuine multilateral framework would be
better.  What would this require? Although the G-8 will probably
settle for less, there’s still a chance it might move toward
requiring multinational companies to publish consolidated
financial reports that clarify their activities in each tax
jurisdiction. Another good idea, also meeting some resistance,
is to create public international registries of companies’
beneficial owners. This would help in fighting corruption as
well as  tax evasion . A drive for fuller disclosure by  extractive
industries , aimed at exposing not tax evasion but side payments
to corrupt officials, would complete a trio of valuable pro-transparency initiatives.  Another truth about G-8 summits -- one that Cameron hasn’t
so far emphasized -- is that they’re apt to be driven off their
agendas by events. Habitual summit-watchers will be interested
to see, for instance, whether the civil war in  Syria  might flare
at a moment that would demand some kind of collective statement,
or maybe even action. In any case, there’s a good chance the
news will torpedo (trash? total? Sorry, we promised we’d stop)
Cameron’s “three T’s.” If it doesn’t, a little progress on
trade, taxes and transparency will do fine for now.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 