-- Angels Win 6-2 to Hand Yankees Fifth Loss, Teixeira Hurts Wrist
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-06-16T04:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/angels-win-6-2-to-hand-yankees-fifth-loss-teixeira-hurts-wrist.html
Tommy Hanson allowed two runs and
struck out eight as the Los Angeles Angels won 6-2 to hand the
New York Yankees their fifth straight Major League Baseball loss.  Yankees first baseman  Mark Teixeira  left the game in the
fourth inning last night with an aggravated right wrist which
will be examined today by a team physician. Teixeira missed the
first 53 games of the season after he suffered a torn sheath in
his wrist.  “I’ve been concerned about it since he’s come back, really,
just because it was a tough injury that he had,” Yankees
manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters. “You’re never sure how it’s
going to hold up, or how it’s going to react.”  In last night’s game at Angel Stadium of Anaheim, Teixeira,
who was injured in March while training for the World Baseball
Classic, flied out to right and fouled out to third before
leaving the game. He was replaced by David Adams.  The Yankees have been plagued by injuries among their
veteran players.  Alex Rodriguez ,  Derek Jeter  and  Curtis Granderson  are still out.  Kevin Youkilis  went back on the
disabled list two days ago. Teixeira came off the list on May 31.  The Angels won their third straight game as Hanson (4-2)
went 6 1/3 innings in giving up five hits to the Yankees.  David Phelps (4-4) allowed four runs on nine hits and
struck out two in six innings for the Yankees.  The Yankees (37-31) are in third place in the American
League East, four games behind the first-place Boston Red Sox.
The Angels (30-38) are 10 games behind the Oakland Athletics to
hold fourth place in the AL West.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  