-- Asian Futures Advance Before Fed After U.S. Stocks Rally
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-17T21:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/asian-futures-retreat-after-imf-sinks-u-s-as-yen-climbs.html
Asian equity futures tracked gains
in  U.S. stocks  while the yen held declines against most major
currencies as investors assessed prospects for less economic
stimulus before this week’s  Federal Reserve  meeting. Treasuries
dropped and natural gas rebounded.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed 0.8 percent higher
at 1,639.04 in New York, trimming an earlier advance of as much
as 1.2 percent. Futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average were
little changed, after the index jumped 2.7 percent yesterday,
while  contracts  on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index added 0.4
percent. S&P/ASX 200 futures expiring this month gained 0.2
percent.  Japan ’s currency depreciated against 14 of 16 major
peers after surging versus the dollar last week. Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose five basis points to 2.18 percent.  With the  Federal Open Market Committee  starting its two-day
policy meeting today, data in the U.S. showed manufacturing in
the  New York  area climbed to the highest level since March this
month and U.S. homebuilder confidence soared to a seven-year
high. The MSCI All-Country World Index gained 0.9 percent
yesterday as a British official said Group of Eight leaders see
downside risks to the global economy abating even as growth
prospects remain weak.  “We continue to have these momentary scares around what
the next step for the Fed might be, which seems to send some
chills up the spine of the market, but that’s a little
overdone,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $112 billion as
chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, said by phone. “We’re ahead of ourselves with
regard to the Fed acting anytime soon in reducing the support
that it’s providing for the economy.”  Anticipating Bernanke  About $2.7 trillion has been erased from the value of
global equities since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22
that U.S. policy makers “could” scale back stimulus efforts
should the employment outlook show “sustainable improvement.”
Stocks retreated from earlier highs today after the Financial
Times reported that Bernanke may signal the central bank is
close to tapering its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.6 percent June 14, and slid 1 percent
last week, after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
forecast for U.S. economic growth in 2014 to 2.7 percent from 3
percent and said any trimming of Fed support needs to be handled
properly. The benchmark equity gauge rallied an average 16
percent over two years the last four times the Fed started
raising  interest rates , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If the Fed does decide to remove some if its support, the
truth of the matter is, historically, equity markets can survive
in a rising rates environment,”  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist
at RidgeWorth Capital management in Richmond, Virginia, which
oversees about $48 billion of assets, said in a phone interview.  Worst Passed  Leaders of the G-8 nations say the worst has passed for the
global economy, an aide to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said after summit talks on promoting employment and growth.
While economic prospects remain weak, risks of weakness have
eased due to actions taken by policy makers in the U.S., euro
area and Japan, and to the resilience of emerging-market
economies, the aide said, following the meeting in Enniskillen,
Northern Ireland.  The yen weakened 0.2 percent to 94.65 per dollar by 6:24
a.m. in  Tokyo , after slipping 0.2 percent to 94.51 yesterday.
The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 126.49 per euro. The
Australian dollar was little changed at 95.53 U.S. cents before
the release of the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s June policy
meeting minutes, when the regulator kept the cash rate target at
2.75 percent. U.S.Treasuries declined for the first time in
three days.  U.S. Homebuilding  Investors have been monitoring U.S. economic reports to
determine whether growth is strong enough to prompt the Fed to
scale back stimulus measures. The Fed Bank of New York’s general
economic index climbed to 7.8, a report yesterday showed.
Readings of greater than zero signal expansion in New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut . The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey of 51 economists called for a
reading of zero.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders surged in June to the
highest level in seven years, reflecting gains in sales as
Americans rushed to take advantage of low  mortgage rates . An S&P
 index  of homebuilders jumped 2 percent, with PulteGroup Inc. and
Toll Brothers Inc. advancing more than 2.4 percent.  Nine of 10 groups in the S&P 500 advanced, with energy and
technology stocks rising the most.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
 VIX (VIX) , fell 2 percent to 16.80. The equity volatility gauge, which
moves in the opposite direction as the S&P 500 about 80 percent
of the time, reached a six-year low in March and has since
surged 49 percent.  Gas Gains  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.7 percent after
posting four straight weeks of losses, with trading volume 20
percent less than the 30-day average. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index rose 0.4 percent.  Natural gas climbed, capping the biggest gain in seven
weeks, on forecasts for hotter weather in late June that would
spur demand from  power plants . Futures for July delivery rose
3.8 percent to $3.875 per million British thermal units.  Crude oil fluctuated near a nine-month high, settling at
$97.77 a barrel in New York, down 0.1 percent. The price climbed
as much as 0.9 percent, the most since Sept. 14.  Soybeans declined for the fourth straight session in the
U.S., capping the longest slump in seven weeks, as drier
conditions in the U.S. accelerated planting and boosted crop
development. Futures slid 1 percent to close at $12.855 a
bushel. Corn rebounded, reversing an early decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  