-- Aussie Extends Weekly Gain Amid Speculation Short Bets Overdone
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-17T07:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/aussie-holds-biggest-loss-in-a-week-ahead-of-rba-minutes-fomc.html
Australia ’s dollar rose, extending
its first weekly gain against the greenback in six, amid
speculation record bets on its decline may be overdone.  The Aussie rebounded from its biggest drop in a week before
minutes tomorrow from the  Reserve Bank of Australia  that could
point to the timing of a potential interest-rate cut. The
Australian and New Zealand dollars climbed against their 15
major peers before a Federal Reserve meeting this week that may
provide clues on when policy makers will begin curtailing
quantitative easing. The kiwi dollar touched the highest this
month against its Australian counterpart after New Zealand’s
 consumer confidence  climbed to the most in three years.  “Positioning is at record extremes” in the Australian
dollar, said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . Trading “should remain largely
choppy, but there’s a risk of potential short-covering,” she
said. A short position is a bet an asset’s price will fall.  The Australian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 96.21 U.S. cents
at 5:02 p.m. in Sydney from June 14, when it dropped 0.7
percent, the most since June 7. It gained 0.8 percent last week.
The Aussie strengthened 1.7 percent to 91.55 yen.  The New Zealand dollar advanced 0.6 percent to 80.94 U.S.
cents, and gained 1.5 percent to 76.97 yen. It was little
changed at NZ$1.1894 per Australian dollar after earlier gaining
to NZ$1.1850, the highest since May 29.  Record Shorts  Futures traders extended record bets that the Aussie will
fall against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission from last week showed. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the Aussie compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 63,277 on June 11, the
most in data going back to January 1993.  Loomis Sayles & Co.’s  Dan Fuss  saw the record short
positioning as an opportunity to buy.  “We bought because of the fear and the decline” in the
Australian currency, said Boston-based Fuss, who also said he
purchased Australian-dollar debt of a  U.S. bank .  One-month implied volatility in the Aussie versus the
greenback, based on currency options, slipped three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.88 percent, after
touching 14.54 percent on June 13, the highest in a year.  Australia’s dollar has tumbled 8.4 percent in the past
three months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  RBA Minutes  Traders are  pricing  in 39 basis points of interest-rate
cuts by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia within 12 months,
according to a Credit Suisse AG index based on swap contracts.
Tomorrow’s RBA minutes will be from the central bank’s policy
meeting on June 4, when it kept the overnight cash-rate target
at 2.75 percent and said the Aussie remains high.  “The main focus of the minutes will be its concern about
the  exchange rate , which the statement indicated that the RBA
would like to see fall further,”  Kieran Davies , chief economist
at Barclays Plc in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients.  The  yield  on Australia’s benchmark 10-year government bond
rose three basis points to 3.39 percent.  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee will start a two-day
policy meeting tomorrow. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
month the Fed may consider reducing its purchases of $85 billion
in bonds per month within “the next few meetings” if there are
signs of sustainable improvement in the labor market.  “If they come out and say they’re definitely going to
start winding back stimulus, then that’s bullish for the U.S.
dollar,” said Stan Shamu, a strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in
Melbourne. “It’ll weigh on the rest of the risk space.”  The New Zealand dollar was supported after a consumer
confidence  gauge  by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller
Ltd. climbed to 116.6 this quarter, the most since the three-month period ended June 30, 2010. A reading above 100 indicates
optimists outnumber pessimists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  