-- Bearish ETF Bets Most Expensive in Two Months: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-17T02:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/bearish-etf-bets-most-expensive-in-two-months-china-overnight.html
Options traders are paying the most
in two months to protect against drops in the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S. on concern a local money-market
cash crunch will deepen a slump in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  The cost of three-month puts on the  iShares FTSE China 25
Index Fund (FXI)  soared to the highest since September last week,
option data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The 4.3-point premium
of puts over calls was the widest since April 17. The Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the
U.S. slumped the most in four months last week, led by a 16
percent drop in Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. The Shanghai Composite
Index fell 0.5 percent to 2,150.76 at 10:43 a.m. local time,
extending last week’s losses.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index declined the most in
a month last week after Morgan Stanley joined banks from UBS AG
to Barclays Plc in lowering predictions for China’s economic
growth. The  Finance Ministry  failed to sell all of the debt
offered at an auction for the first time in 23 months and the
one-year interest-rate swap climbed to the highest level since
2011 as banks hoarded funds, causing a cash squeeze in the
 interbank market .  “People are pretty nervous about what we’ll find out once
liquidity is withdrawn,” Derrick Irwin, a portfolio manager of
the Wells Fargo Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, who
helps manage $10.9 billion of assets in  Boston , said June 14.
“We haven’t seen action from China’s central bank and there’s
curiosity from investors on what happens to the liquidity from
the  Federal Reserve  as well. Markets that have really thrived on
large amounts of global liquidity have struggled.”  ETF Plummets  The  iShares China ETF  plunged 4.7 percent last week in  New
York  to $33.98, the steepest slump in a year. The Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index lost 1 percent for the week to 1,626.73 as
investors scrutinized economic data to determine whether growth
in strong enough to prompt the Fed to scale back stimulus
measures before its two-day policy meeting this week.  The China-US gauge’s fourth weekly slide in five weeks has
left its members trading at  11.8 times  estimated profit on
average, the lowest level since April, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest coal mining company,
dropped to $8.5 in New York last week, the lowest price since
2009. Trading volume was more than twice the daily average over
the past three months.  ADRs of  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
maker of the metal, declined 11 percent last week to $8.37, the
biggest slump since November 2011.  The company’s Hong Kong-traded stock was removed from the
Hang Seng China enterprises gauge effective after markets close
June 14, according to a  statement  posted on the website of the
Hang Seng Indexes Co. May 10 after a quarterly review of its
components.  Oil Producers  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , the nation’s biggest oil producer, fell 8.2
percent last week to $105.75, the lowest level since June 2010
for the Beijing-based company.  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp. , Asia’s biggest oil refiner, known as Sinopec, slid 7.3
percent to $92.09 for the biggest weekly loss in four months.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced the price goal for
PetroChina to $129 from $146 on June 13, while cutting the
estimate for Sinopec by $17 to $122.  “Even if we see a rebound in the near future after recent
weakness in the stocks, it won’t be strong due to the lack of
notable recovery signs in the economy,” Qinwei Wang, an
economist focused on China at Capital Economics Ltd., a London-based research firm, said by phone June 14. “Big commodity
producers won’t perform well as China’s investment slows.”  Yuan Positions  China’s industrial production expanded 9.2 percent in May,
compared with a median estimate for a 9.4 percent increase, the
statistics bureau reported on June 9. Separate data showed May
 exports  rose 1 percent from a year earlier, the slowest growth
in 10 months, trailing the 7.4 percent median estimate of
analysts.  Yuan  positions at Chinese banks accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases, which helps measure foreign capital inflows
into China, rose the least since November, according to data
from China’s central bank June 14.  As bad data come in, “investors would say, what if they
can’t engineer a soft landing,” Wells Fargo’s Irwin said.
“China hasn’t been aggressive recently in increasing the
liquidity.”  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based mobile-chip maker, surged 10 percent last week to $21.16, its best
weekly gain since March. It had the biggest gain on the China-US
gauge for the week.  The company boosted its second-quarter sales forecast by as
much as 61 percent from a year earlier to $278 million in a
statement June 13.  The Hang Seng China gauge in  Hong Kong  rebounded 0.7
percent today. It posted a weekly loss of 5.1 percent, the
biggest in 13 months. Its 12-day decline was the longest since
1993. The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  slid 2.2 percent last week, a
second week of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  