-- BMI Unit Shunned by British Airways Plans North Sea Oil Shuttle
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/bmi-unit-shunned-by-british-airways-plans-north-sea-oil-shuttle.html
BMI Regional , spurned by  British
Airways (IAG)  when it bought the former British Midland unit of
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , plans to target oil industry executives
with services across the  North Sea  ignored by bigger carriers.  BMI Regional will commence flights between its home base of
Aberdeen,  Scotland  -- the focus of the U.K. oil industry -- and
Kristiansund in  Norway  starting in August, it said today.  “There is latent, locked-up demand on these routes,”
Chairman Ian Woodley said in an interview. “We are going into
key regional commercial and industrial centers.”  Woodley led last year’s buyout of BMI Regional by Sector
Holdings Ltd. after BA-parent IAG SA inherited the unit as part
of a purchase aimed at securing flight slots at London Heathrow
airport. Since then the airline has added bases and expanded
into secondary markets where home carriers have retrenched.  BMI Regional generally offers morning and evening services
as well as a mid-day flight to lure higher-paying business
travelers, said Woodley, in his second stint at the carrier
after founding a forerunner sold to British Midland in 1986.  The new incarnation, with 400 staff, has established bases
in Birmingham and Bristol and added locations such as Antwerp,
Hanover and Milan. A route between Bremen, Germany, and
Toulouse,  France , is its first not directly involving the U.K.  The purchase from International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA was sealed in June 2012 and the business is “fast
approaching a cash neutral position,” Woodley said, adding that
the target is to be profitable in the second full year of
operations.  BMI Regional has a fleet of 18 aircraft -- mainly 49-seat
 Embraer SA (EMBR3)  ERJ-145s with four 37-seat ERJ-135s -- and leases-in
extra planes for specialized services, including the transport
of Airbus SAS employees between sites in France and England and
a contract to fly pop group Depeche Mode on its concert tour.  The carrier isn’t averse to links with larger carriers and
is pursuing code-share deals with Lufthansa and SAS, though
progress is slow as network carriers focus more on reviving
unprofitable short-haul activities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  