-- Boeing Seeks KC-46A Tanker Exports as Talks With Buyers Progress
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-16T12:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/boeing-seeks-kc-46a-tanker-exports-as-talks-with-buyers-progress.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s largest
planemaker, is in talks with several potential buyers for its
KC-46A aerial refueling tanker as it aims to make the aircraft
available for export one year ahead of its 2018 target.  Boeing’s defense unit is working with the commercial
division to offer the aircraft to overseas customers from 2017,
Jeff Kohler, Boeing’s vice president for military international
business development, told reporters in Paris today. The company
is discussing export orders for about 20 tankers, with more in
the pipeline, he said.  Delivering on the U.S. Air Force program remains the
priority, even as the company explores  Middle East , Asian and
European sales prospects, said Chris Raymond, who oversees
business development for Boeing Defense. Boeing has committed to
delivering 18 KC-46As, which are based on the 767 commercial
airliner platform, to the Pentagon before 2018.  Faced with budget reductions in its home market, Boeing is
hunting for overseas sales to keep production lines open and
bolster sales. Building the C-17 transport planes has been
sustained by exports, with the company seeking 10 to 30 more
orders to keep the jet in production beyond 2014, Kohler said.  Boeing also is in talks for additional exports of its P-8
maritime patrol plane based on its best-selling 737  passenger
jet .  India  is already an export customer, with talks to sell 25
more units outside the U.S. underway, Kohler said. Boeing is
working to adapt the P-8 technology to a smaller plane to appeal
to customers that can’t afford the larger version.  The company, based in  Chicago , is in talks with  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  about providing a business jet for the P-8 platform, with
other manufacturers available as a backup, he said.  Boeing is modifying a company-owned Challenger business
jet, also built by Bombardier, to demonstrate the technologies
for its small maritime-watch plane, Kohler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  