-- California’s Misleading Pension ’Losses’
-- B y   D a v i d   C r a n e
-- 2013-06-16T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/california-s-misleading-pension-losses-.html
The executive of Sacramento County
in  California  recently  attributed  the increase in his county’s
pension costs to “investment losses during the recession.”  The official, Brad Hudson, is right that public pension
costs are growing, but not that investment losses are to blame.
To the contrary, these expenses are rising despite gains in
pension-fund investments.  If not because of investment losses, what’s the reason?  Let’s start by assuming you left the Earth on Dec. 31,
2007, returned June 3, 2013, and had no news in the interim
five-plus years.  When you left, the  Dow Jones  Industrial Average stood at
13,264. On your return it was 15,252, up 15 percent. Dividends
provided an additional 2 percent each year. Fixed-income
investments did even better because  interest rates  declined
while you were away, with AA corporate bonds producing returns
bettering 8 percent per annum.  From your perspective, it looks as if investments did just
fine during your trip. And for long-term investors, you would be
right. For example, the assets reported by the largest U.S.
public pension fund, the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System , are greater today than in 2007. So to whom is Sacramento
County’s  executive  referring?  He’s referring to short-term investors who were forced to
sell at the wrong time. Handed a newspaper from 2009, you learn
that the country suffered a recession while you were away and
that at one point the stock market dropped below 7,000. When
that happened, short-term or leveraged investors who had
borrowed money to buy stocks suffered investment losses when
they were forced to sell equities at low prices.  Long-Term Investors  That category of investor doesn’t include public pension
funds. They don’t have short-term liabilities and aren’t forced
to sell at the wrong time. Instead, they are invested for the
very long term -- decades -- and are run by professional
investors with the expertise to take advantage of market
volatility. They are more like  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., another long-term investor that isn’t forced to
sell when prices decline and has the resources to take advantage
when prices fall.  The reason for rising pension costs has nothing to do with
the recession or short-term declines on  Wall Street . Public
pension costs are increasing simply because liabilities are
growing faster than assets.  Calpers is a good example. As an intermediary that
administers pension promises made by the state of California and
other public-sector employers to their employees, it collects
contributions from employers and employees, invests those funds
to generate earnings, and uses the proceeds to pay benefits to
retired employees.  In 2007,  Calpers  reported that the pension liabilities of
its largest pool of employers totaled $248 billion. By 2011,
just four years later, those liabilities had grown 32 percent,
to $328 billion. That rapid growth happens because pension
liabilities grow (“accrete”) at the rate used to discount those
obligations to present value, which at Calpers is a very high
7.5 percent per year. Pension assets must grow at that “hurdle”
rate or pension costs rise. For example, to meet the rate at
which pension liabilities were increasing in 2007, Calpers
needed the Dow to reach 20,000 by now. Because it is at 75
percent of that level, pension costs must rise to make up the
difference.  This isn’t a new phenomenon. To meet the rate at which
pension liabilities were growing in 1999,  Calpers  needed the Dow
to reach 30,000 by now. Because it is half that level,
California has spent $20 billion more on public pensions than
would have been the case had pension assets grown at the hurdle
rate.  Hurdle Rates  It’s very hard for Calpers, or any other professional
investor, to grow at such a  high rate , which is almost double
the rate at which Buffett’s pension liabilities accrete. Looked
at another way, the Calpers hurdle rate is almost 15 percent
greater than that at which the typical portfolio of pension
investments grew in the 20th century. Calpers is a good
investor, but the odds are against outperforming markets for
decades, especially for very large investors.  Because public pension liabilities continue to grow faster
than assets, Calpers recently announced a 50 percent increase in
pension costs for governments, starting in 2015. For the same
reason, Sacramento County needs to spend more on pensions to
keep up with the growth of its liabilities.  Public officials need to be clear with their constituents
that pension costs rise whenever pension funds fail to earn
their hurdle rates. They should also acknowledge that total
costs would be lower if the funds reduced their hurdle rates and
 required  larger upfront contributions when pension promises are
made.  That way, more money would be invested earlier, reducing
the need to outperform markets. That shift would also be fairer
to future taxpayers, who get no benefit from the services
provided by past employees but have to cover pension
deficiencies when hurdle rates aren’t met.  ( David Crane , a former financial-services executive, is a
lecturer at  Stanford University  and president of Govern for
California, a nonpartisan government-reform group. He was an
economic adviser to California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger 
from 2004 to 2011.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Crane in  San Francisco  at  davidgcrane@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  