-- Cameron Says U.K. Has Made No Decision to Arm Syrian Rebels
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-16T18:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/cameron-says-u-k-has-made-no-decision-to-arm-syrian-rebels-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. government is sticking with plans to give non-lethal
support to the Syrian opposition and that lawmakers would have a
say on any decision to provide weapons.  “We’ve made no decision to arm the rebels, to arm the
opposition, but it’s very important that we continue to work
with them, train them and assist them,” Cameron said at a press
conference in London today. He said the Group of Eight leaders’
summit starting tomorrow will bring “new momentum and
leadership to start negotiations to deliver a transitional
government and to keep  Syria  intact and to stop the killing.”  Cameron’s position contrasts with that of President  Barack Obama , who has pledged to send light weapons to the Syrian
rebels. The U.S. and U.K. say President Bashar al-Assad’s
departure is essential to any political transition, while
 Russia , another member of the G-8 nations, is a long-time ally
and arms supplier to Syria.  Cameron and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  spoke after
talks today at 10 Downing Street. Putin said the provision of
arms to the Syrian government contravened no law.  “Russia supplies arms to the legitimate government of
Syria according to international law,” he said. “We breach
nothing. And we call on our partners to act the same way.”  Parliament’s Decision  Cameron’s position on arming rebels reiterated his comments
in a Sky News interview taped yesterday and broadcast today.
When asked in the interview about U.K. lawmakers voting on
arming the rebels, Cameron said he’d “never want to stand in
the way of Parliament having a say.”  Cameron’s Conservatives are trailing behind the opposition
 Labour Party  less than two years before the next general
election. A poll of voting intentions by  YouGov Plc (YOU)  for the
Sunday Times showed Labour in the lead with 39 points, followed
by the Conservatives at 30. The Liberal Democrats, the junior
partner in the coalition government, had 10 points, behind the
U.K. Independence Party at 14. The survey of 1,897 people was
conducted June 13-14. A margin of error wasn’t given.  Voter opinion of Cameron was 23 percent favorable and 52
percent unfavorable, according to a ComRes Ltd. poll for the
Sunday Mirror. London Mayor  Boris Johnson  had a 44 percent
favorable view, with 27 percent unfavorable, and Labour Party
leader  Ed Miliband  had a 20 percent favorable rating and 49
percent unfavorable.  Cameron’s government is seeking additional budget cuts as
it prepares to present a spending review to Parliament on June
26. He told Sky “there are efficiencies we can make” on
 defense spending .  Political Solution  G-8 leaders discussed a political solution to the conflict
in Syria in an hour-long videoconference call before a two-day
summit that starts tomorrow at the Lough Erne resort in County
Fermanagh,  Northern Ireland .  The U.S. decision to arm the opposition came as rebels
suffered losses and following confirmation that forces loyal to
Assad had used chemical weapons. Some Sunni extremist groups
allied with al-Qaeda are also seeking to replace Assad.  Cameron said the U.K. is providing non-lethal support such
as vehicles, and that some of the “greatest assistance”
Britain can provide is advice, training and technical support.  “There are elements of the Syrian opposition that are
deeply unsavory, very dangerous, very extremist, and I want
nothing to do with them, I want them driven out of Syria,” he
said. “There are elements of the Syrian opposition who want to
see a free, democratic, pluralistic Syria that respects the
rights of minorities, including Christians, and we should be
working with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in London at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  