-- Meet the Fisherman Who Caught Your Filet-O-Fish
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-17T14:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/mcdonald-s-fisherman-jostles-with-kermit-to-woo-smartphone-users.html
Oleksiy Makhmutor, a fisherman who
trawls the sub-Antarctic and sells his catch to  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD) , is joining Filet-O-Fish fans at tables across  Australia 
as the world’s largest restaurant chain introduces diners to the
folks who supply its beef, fish and buns.  McDonald’s  “Track My Macca’s”  iPhone application in
Australia, where locals refer to the chain as “Macca’s,” lets
users scan Big Mac, Filet-O-Fish and Chicken McNuggets boxes to
track where the ingredients came from and learn more about the
suppliers, such as the fact that Makhmutor has been fishing
since he was 13 and loves life on the trawler deck.  As portable screens get bigger and networks become faster,
advertising is migrating from the desktop to devices on the go.
The free McDonald’s app is part of a new generation of mobile
marketing that’s more engaging than simple banner ads and pop-ups. They’re attracting eyeballs through apps, interactive
billboards, digital window displays and sites such as Facebook
and Twitter.  “Mobile advertising is going to be huge and the majority
of our traditional Internet business will migrate to mobile,”
said Paul Gunning, chief executive officer of Omnicom Group
Inc.’s  Tribal DDB Worldwide  unit, the  New York  digital ad shop
that created the McDonald’s app.  Cannes Gathering  As the world’s advertising community gathers on the French
Riviera at the annual Cannes Lions industry event this week,
mobile campaigns will be high on the agenda among the glitzy
parties, yachts and attention-grabbing ad stunts. Actor  Jack Black  spoke on a  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  panel on personalizing content
today, and photographer  Annie Leibovitz  will appear tomorrow for
a talk on “iconic storytelling.”  Mobile advertising will jump to $47.2 billion worldwide by
the end of 2016, from $8.8 billion in 2012, according to New
York-based researcher eMarketer.  Facebook, the world’s largest social network, said mobile
ads made up 30 percent of its $1.46 billion in revenue in the
first quarter, up from 23 percent in the last three months of
2012. At  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  YouTube , mobile ads tripled in six months
and made up some $350 million in sales, the company said this
month. EMarketer predicts that Twitter will get more than 60
percent of its estimated worldwide ad revenue of $1.33 billion
in 2015 from mobile ads.  “Track My Macca’s” may remove “some confusion about just
how real our food is,” according a McDonald’s promo video. The
app -- introduced in January -- was downloaded more than 20,000
times in its first week and uses the Global Positioning System
in phones, plus time, date and scanned codes to access
McDonald’s supply chain.  Flu Tracker  “Every campaign we do now for McDonald’s has mobile
advertising and that wasn’t the case 18 months ago,” Gunning
said. Tribal is also testing a McDonald’s app in  France  called
“GoMcDo,” so users can place orders before arriving at a
restaurant. Tribal handles advertising for McDonald’s in 40
countries and gets about 20 percent of its revenue from mobile
work, he said.  The company also built a flu-tracker app for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,
so Robitussin cough-medicine users can track flu activity in the
U.S. and locate shops selling Robitussin products. Based on data
showing which areas of the U.S. are most affected, Pfizer could
then place more media and promotions, Gunning said.  “The PC is about productivity and Word documents, Excel,
but the iPad and the phone give out entertainment where you
watch videos and engage socially,” said Greg Stuart, chief
executive officer of the  Mobile Marketing Association .  Kermit Game  A  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  campaign linked its Band-Aid adhesive
strips for children to a “Magic Vision” app. With so-called
augmented-reality software, Walt Disney Co.’s Muppet characters
such as Miss Piggy came to life on screen when an iPad or iPhone
hovered over a bandage. Among the interactive features, users
could manipulate video of Kermit the Frog sitting on a swing and
singing by tilting their phone or tablet.  Omnicom’s TBWA Worldwide division created a mobile campaign
for sporting-goods maker Adidas AG in  Germany , featuring an
 interactive window  and allowing users to pose digital mannequins
and put clothing into virtual shopping bags for purchase.  TBWA also worked with McDonald’s in  China  to develop
“Angry Birds” games that could be played in restaurants,
resulting in a 20 percent increase in visits, said Vaino
Leskinen, director of mobile labs at the ad agency.  Smartphone Personalities  “Mobile is bringing in capabilities that aren’t just about
the size of the screen, but the functionality of the device,
data and location,” said Francisco Cordero of InMobi, a
Bangalore, India-based digital advertiser whose  customers
include  Unilever, Nokia Oyj and Volkswagen AG’s Audi unit.
Cordero, general manager for Australia and  New Zealand , will
move to New York after Cannes to handle brand sales for  North
America .  InMobi’s research shows that the type of smartphone a
person uses may determine how open they are to advertising.
Owners of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones are more accepting of entertainment
and media, while people with BlackBerry phones tend to be more
business focused and concerned with data, according to the
company.  “People we see are also coming back to Samsung and being a
lot more comfortable there with media,” Cordero said.  Second Screens  Another area of growth is in the use of second screens, so
a person watching TV may also be surfing the Web on a smartphone
or tablet, possibly on a social site relating to the program. An
estimated 95 percent of TV viewers with a smartphone or tablet
use the device while watching the tube at least once a month,
and 40 percent do so daily, according to a 2012 Nielsen study.  “Advertisers are recognizing that they can add to the
value of TV campaigns by engaging with social media,” said
 Brian Wieser , a media analyst at New York-based Pivotal Research
Group.  Even so, Wieser attributes much of mobile’s rapid growth to
Facebook and Google, which he said account for more than 70
percent of online spending, and a large proportion of that is
reallocated advertising expenditure that used to be targeted at
desktop users.  “It’s a bit of a distorted perception of the growth of
mobile,” he said. “There is definitely growth there, but maybe
not quite the story you’re led to believe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net  