-- Central Banks’ Failure to Communicate Boosts Bond Yields
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-17T10:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/central-banks-failure-to-communicate-boosts-bond-yields.html
What central banks may have the
world over is a failure to communicate.  Officials are struggling to spell out their visions for
monetary policy, often amid a chorus of competing views.
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is trying to manage expectations about
when the Federal Reserve will slow asset purchases and raise
interest rates. Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s
reflation-push is backfiring by driving up bond yields. European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi is dashing investors’ hopes
he once kindled for extra stimulus.  The muddied messaging already is roiling financial markets,
threatening to undermine the confidence of investors, households
and consumers and so undoing efforts by central banks to
strengthen their economies. The opacity puts policy makers under
pressure to improve the communication techniques they’ve been
using to restrain borrowing costs.  “The purpose of central-bank transparency was to give
markets clarity and reduce volatility,” said  Ed Yardeni ,
president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research
Inc. in New York. “Instead it’s increasing volatility and been
counterproductive. Clearly the back-up in bond yields and sell-off are disconcerting.”  Bernanke will get a chance to clarify the U.S. central
bank’s stance on June 19 when he holds a press conference after
the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee completes a
two-day meeting. Rather than focusing on when the Fed will start
reducing its bond buying, Bernanke probably will stress the how
and why of such a step, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Not Tightening  Bernanke will “want to emphasize that a tapering of asset
purchases is not a tightening of policy and isn’t necessarily
irreversible,” said Feroli, a former researcher with the Fed
board in  Washington .  Bond prices have slumped since Bernanke told Congress’s
Joint Economic Committee on May 22 the Fed could scale back
stimulus efforts “in the next few meetings” if the employment
outlook shows “sustainable” improvement. He stressed that any
decision would depend on what the economic data showed and that
a move to reduce the pace of purchases would be delayed if
recovery falters and inflation falls further.  His remarks came in response to a question from
Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican and chairman of
the committee.  Bond Vigilante  The dumping of debt is reminiscent of the waves of selling
that took place in the 1980s, only back then investors were
worried about fiscal, not monetary, policy. Yardeni coined the
phrase “bond vigilante” to describe the financial institutions
involved.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note was 1.93 percent the
day before the committee hearing and went on to trade at a 14-month high of 2.29 percent last week. The yield was 2.12 percent
at 11:40 a.m. in  London  today.  The sell-off in Treasuries has triggered convulsions in
capital markets elsewhere, with the more than $40 trillion of
bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Index falling an average of 1.1 percent since May 21 as of June
13.  “Central banks have given a sense of near total control,
driving volatility and bond yields to historic lows and
compressing risk premia,” said Michala Marcussen, global head
of economics at Societe Generale SA in London. As the
“countdown” to the end of the Fed’s quantitative-easing
program advances, “volatility and higher bond yields are making
a return.” She predicts the 10-year Treasury yield will rise to
5 percent by 2017.  ‘Very Worried’  Alan Blinder, Fed vice chairman from 1994 to 1996, said
he’s “very worried” financial markets will overreact to steps
by the Fed to reduce and eventually exit from its efforts to
support the economy.  “I’m afraid it’s going to be worse than 1994,” when 10-year yields jumped almost 2.5 percentage points as the Fed
tightened credit, said the Princeton University professor. And
capital losses will be larger because the starting point for
yields is lower, he added.  Policy makers are aware of the potential pitfalls. The Fed
will need to “think carefully about what combination of actions
and communications” it should take to head off a market
overshoot once it begins “normalizing policy,” Federal Reserve
Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said on May 21.  Bernanke may be “trying to help the market build up
immunity” to future Fed actions with his suggestion that the
central bank could cut back on its bond buying, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City,
New Jersey. “This is a little verbal vaccination.”  Reverse Move  Treasury yields will “probably even reverse some of the
recent upward move” if Bernanke succeeds in getting investors
to buy into the Fed’s complicated message, said Roberto Perli, a
partner at Cornerstone Macro LP in Washington and a former
researcher at the central bank’s Division of Monetary Affairs.
The Fed has a history of making markets understand its
intentions, reducing fears of a sharp policy tightening in 2004
and introducing a time frame for a rate increase in August 2011,
he said.  That message has three parts, according to Perli. While the
Fed probably will scale back asset purchases in the next few
months, it won’t do so unless it is increasingly confident in
the economic outlook. It is prepared to stop tapering, or even
reverse it, if growth falters. And a slowdown in quantitative
easing doesn’t mean the Fed is accelerating its plan for its
first interest-rate increase since 2006.  Near Zero  Policy makers have held the target for their benchmark rate
 near zero  since December 2008. They’ve promised to keep it
around there as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.
Joblessness was  7.6 percent  in May, while inflation, as measured
by the personal-consumption-expenditure price index, was 0.7
percent in April.  Investors also have been confused by a “mixed message”
from Fed policy makers, said Marvin Goodfriend, a professor at
Carnegie Mellon University’s Tepper School of Business in
Pittsburgh and a former central-bank official. “They’re
divided, so the market is divided and therefore you’re getting
more volatility.”  James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis, said on June 10 that the low level of inflation may
warrant prolonging the “aggressive” use of bond buying to spur
growth. Just five days earlier, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said the central bank should already have begun to cut
back on its purchases of mortgage-backed securities, adding that
he wasn’t concerned about deflation.  Surging Yields  In Japan, Kuroda also has faced a surge in 10-year
government-bond yields to  0.815 percent  on June 14, even as the
Bank of Japan boosted its bond-buying to defeat 15 years of
deflation. The yen also  has climbed  to the highest against the
dollar in two months, having touched its weakest level since
2008 in May after Kuroda began easing.  Such gains conflict with Kuroda’s efforts to juice
borrowing and spending by lifting inflation expectations and
wages. He said May 22 that higher yields could be expected as
the economy improved, after saying previously that the central
bank aimed to lower market interest rates.  “Kuroda needs to be consistent with what he says,” said
Masaaki Kanno, a former BOJ official and now chief Japan
economist at JPMorgan Chase in  Tokyo . “The market expectations
were for a more market-friendly BOJ.”  Bond-Market Volatility  The central bank last week refrained from tackling bond-market volatility, and  Yoshiki Shinke , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, says investors may have
looked for too much from the BOJ.  “It’s a typical pattern that investors and traders expect
a central bank to implement policy measures to support markets,
and their expectations are betrayed by monetary authorities,”
he said. “Investors were prompted to anticipate more easing
measures, but the central bank unveiled nothing.”  Policy makers should explain that bond yields probably will
rise as inflation expectations take hold and that its purchases
are designed to hold down real interest rates, said Goodfriend,
who just returned from attending a BOJ conference in Tokyo.  The officials may be tuning in. “The bank should make
greater efforts to promote an understanding among the public and
market participants of its monetary strategy and pursue more
effective communication strategies,” BOJ board member Sayuri Shirai said June 13.  ‘Some Self-Correction’  At the ECB, Draghi is undertaking what Deutsche Bank AG
economist  Gilles Moec  calls “some self-correction” in its
perceived stance after remarks Draghi made on May 2 triggered an
increase in stimulus bets. The central bank cut its benchmark
rate to a  record low  of 0.5 percent, and Draghi said officials
had an “open mind” about reducing the so-called deposit rate
 below zero .  Draghi then played down these measures on June 6, helping
to push the euro to its highest against the dollar since
February and yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds to
their highest since April.  “Communications have been a bit hard to follow lately,”
said Moec, co-chief European economist in London and a former
Bank of France official. Investors need to “average out”
Draghi’s last two press conferences to divine the ECB’s true
stance, he said.  The change in tone reflects “complete disagreement”
within the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council, forcing Draghi to
find a consensus after actively pushing stimulus, said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.  Not Realistic  Hours after Draghi said in May the ECB was technically
prepared for a negative deposit rate, Governing Council member
Ewald Nowotny told CNBC that such a move “shouldn’t be seen as
something that’s realistic in the foreseeable future.”
Colleague Christian Noyer said in a May 28 interview he also
doubts the merits of such a policy.  The clarifications may not be over. Laurence Boone, chief
European economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, says ECB
officials still will want to correct market interest rates to
ensure they remain low.  Draghi rejects talk of splits as a “dramatization” and
said the diversity shows a debate is under way with few
conclusions made.  “You have different views in all central banks, and in a
period of such uncertainty you obviously have a variety of
opinions,” he said on June 6. “That is actually very good.”  Investor Insight  The communications challenges represent a speed bump after
a period in which transparency has been hailed as key for
policy. The more insight investors are given into the minds of
officials, the theory goes, the more they’ll be able to
interpret correctly a central bank’s plans and reinforce them in
the market.  At the Fed, for example, Bernanke has begun regular press
briefings, adopted an inflation goal and released the
 expectations  of officials for the appropriate path of policy
rates.  The dilemma now is that officials are in what Sylvester Eijffinger, a professor of financial economics at Tilburg
University in the Netherlands, likens to what old maps would
call “terra incognita” -- the Latin for “unknown land.”  In the case of the Fed, while good communications are vital
for controlling markets, they’re complicated by the officials
themselves not knowing when to exit, disagreeing over the right
timing to do so and political pressure to hold back.  “Those factors make it very hard for the central bank to
communicate,” said Eijffinger, who advises the European
Parliament on monetary policy. If the Fed isn’t able to
“control the process” to recovery and manage inflation and
interest-rate expectations, then the U.S. could “be confronted
with a kind of abrupt slowdown of growth” two or three years
from now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  