-- Chambliss Calls for Removal of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/chambliss-says-removal-of-syrian-president-assad-is-imperative-.html
Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia
Republican, said it’s “imperative” that Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad be removed, adding that he favors imposing a no-fly zone if the military determines it’s necessary.  Chambliss said he isn’t concerned about arming the Syrian
opposition because “we’ve done a pretty good job of ferreting
out who are the good guys,” speaking on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” yesterday.  The Obama administration said last week that the U.S. will
provide small arms and ammunition to the Syrian opposition
following recent battlefield setbacks for the rebels.  The decision followed confirmation that Assad’s forces used
chemical weapons in the civil war. More than 93,000 people have
been killed in a two-year conflict between Assad’s regime and
opposition forces.  “We’ve got to tie up all the unconventional and advanced
conventional weapons,” Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat,
said on “Meet the Press.” Udall, who said he’s open to all
options, added that “we ought to be listening to the president
and to military leadership. This is a very fragile situation. If
 Jordan  falls, I fear for the region.”  The U.S. is considering a limited no-fly zone inside  Syria 
along the Jordanian border to protect refugees and rebels based
there, the Wall Street Journal reported June 13. The no-fly zone
would be enforced from Jordan, according to the newspaper.  Egypt Urges No-Fly  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi urged an international no-fly zone over Syria in a speech televised from Cairo June 15.
 Egypt  has decided to recall its envoy to Damascus and to close
the Syrian embassy in Cairo, he said.  White House chief of staff  Denis McDonough , speaking on
CBS’s “Face the Nation,” declined to say whether the U.S. is
considering a no-fly zone in Syria.  Former Vice President Dick Cheney said the decision to arm
the Syrian opposition may have come too late, speaking on “Fox
News Sunday” yesterday. Cheney criticized the Obama
administration’s handling of the situation in Syria, noting that
it’s taken the use of chemical weapons to spur the White House
to provide weapons to Assad’s opposition.  “It’s not clear to me what the mission is here, or that
they understand what it is,” Cheney said. “Is it strictly
humanitarian? Is it geostrategic? Does the United States have a
vested interest in the outcome?”  Fewer Choices  Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida  also said the
U.S. has fewer choices now because of waiting too long to help
the Syrian opposition.  “Now the strongest elements against Assad, unfortunately,
are al-Qaeda-linked elements,” Rubio said on ABC’s “This
Week.”  “We should continue to search to see if there are any
elements fighting Assad that are reasonable, that we can work
with, that will respect human rights and hopefully build a new
Syria,” Rubio said. “I just think it’s a lot tougher now when
you’ve got Hezbollah running around and  Russia  fully arming
Syria and  Iran  fully engaged in this as well.”  The U.S. and  Israel  consider Hezbollah a terrorist group.  During a June 13 briefing, Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy
national security adviser, said Assad’s forces had used the
nerve gas sarin on a “small scale” several times, causing 100
to 150 deaths. Obama repeatedly has said the use of chemical
weapons by Assad’s regime would cross a “red line” for the
U.S.  G-8 Summit  Ending the conflict in Syria is atop the agenda for this
week’s Group of Eight summit in Northern Ireland. The U.S., U.K.
and  France  are among G-8 members that have said Assad’s
departure is essential to any political transition. Russia,
another G-8 member, is a long-time ally of the Assad regime and
one of the Syrian government’s top arms suppliers.  Obama discussed Syria in a call with leaders from Britain,
France,  Italy  and Germany in advance of the summit, according to
a White House statement. They talked about the regime’s use of
chemical weapons and ways to support a political transition to
end the conflict, according to the statement.  The G-8 is composed of leaders from the U.S., France, U.K.,
Germany, Italy,  Japan ,  Canada  and Russia. Leaders will gather
June 17-18 in Northern Ireland to discuss topics that also
include tax havens and trade proposals. Obama was scheduled to
depart yesterday evening and will travel to  Germany  after G-8
meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  