-- Cheney Says Obama Decision to Arm Syrian Rebels May Be Too Late
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/cheney-says-obama-decision-to-arm-syrian-rebels-may-be-too-late.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
send weapons and ammunition to the Syrian opposition may have
come too late in the two-year civil war, former Vice President
Dick Cheney said.  “You had an opportunity earlier to provide support without
having to get American forces directly involved,” Cheney said
on the “Fox News Sunday” television program. “And they took a
pass. Now they are going to do it, but the question is whether
or not they are a day late and a dollar short.”  The 72-year-old Republican said the Obama administration’s
handling of a “complex, difficult situation” in Syria has left
unanswered many questions. At the same time, it’s taken the use
of chemical weapons to spur the White House to deliver small
arms to President Bashar al-Assad’s opposition.  “It’s not clear to me what the mission is here, or that
they understand what it is,” Cheney said. “Is it strictly
humanitarian? Is it geostrategic? Does the United States have a
vested interest in the outcome?”  Still, Cheney said, “it is important that Assad go down”
and supporting the opposition sooner might have been a more
successful strategy.  Any Obama administration decision to impose a no-fly zone
over  Syria  is not without risk either because Assad’s military
has sophisticated anti-aircraft capabilities, Cheney said.  U.S. Interest  “If the only reason you’re going is because now you have
evidence that they used chemical weapons and killed 150 people
with chemical weapons, is that our national interest?” Cheney
said. “And I’m not sure that they have got it straight in their
own minds what the objective is.”  During a June 13 briefing, Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy
national security adviser, said Assad’s forces had used the
nerve gas sarin on a “small scale” several times, causing 100
to 150 deaths. Obama repeatedly has said that Assad’s use of
chemical weapons would cross a “red line” for the U.S.  More than 93,000 people have been killed in the civil war
between Assad’s regime and opposition forces.  Cheney also took issue with recent comments from Obama that
the war on terrorism is at a “crossroads.” In describing a
reduced threat around the world, Obama said in a speech last
month in  Washington  that “our systematic effort to dismantle
terrorist organizations must continue, but this war like all
wars must end.”  Terrorism Threat  The president is “just dead wrong on the status of the
threat,” which “is bigger than ever,” the former vice
president said. “The problem from the standpoint of terror is
bin Laden may be dead but al-Qaeda and a lot of al-Qaeda
wannabes and al-Qaeda affiliates are out there operating.”  Cheney defended the National Security Agency’s program of
telephone and Internet data collection that he said safeguards
the U.S. from terrorists. Obama should tell Americans that the
surveillance efforts are beneficial, he said.  “We’re at an important point where the president of the
United States ought to be able to stand up and say this is a
righteous program, it’s a good program, it’s saving American
lives and I support it,” Cheney said. “The problem is the guy
has failed to be forthright and honest and credible on things
like Benghazi and the IRS. So he’s got no credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  