-- Chevron’s $10 Billion Angola LNG Ships First Gas Cargo
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-06-16T16:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/chevron-led-angola-lng-ships-first-cargo-after-18-month-delay.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s $10 billion Angola
LNG plant shipped its first cargo today after an 18-month delay
prompted by fires, labor shortages and U.S. shale drilling that
erased demand for African fuel in the world’s largest gas
market.  The shipment of gas that was cooled to -256 degrees
Fahrenheit (-160 degrees Celsius) to shrink its volume was sold
to state-owned Sonangol EP for transport to  Brazil  aboard the
ship Sonangol Sambizanga, Artur Pereira, chief executive officer
of Angola LNG Marketing, said in an e-mailed statement today. A
“large number” of LNG sales from the plant have been signed or
are in negotiation, the London-based company said.  Chevron, the world’s third-largest energy company by market
value, has made LNG a linchpin of its goal to raise its
worldwide output by 20 percent through the end of 2017 to the
equivalent of 3.3 million barrels of crude a day. The company is
spending more than $77 billion on two LNG projects in  Australia ,
and in December acquired a 50 percent stake in the proposed
Kitimat LNG terminal on  Canada ’s Pacific Coast.  “First gas at Angola LNG is an important milestone in
support of our strategic plan to grow our production,” George Kirkland, vice chairman of San Ramon, California-based Chevron,
said in a statement distributed by Business Wire today. “This
project will commercialize natural gas resources in western
 Africa  to meet growing demand in the region and
internationally.”  Shipments Planned  Production at the liquefaction plant, with a capacity of
5.2 million metric tons a year, was postponed because of fires,
pipeline collapses and a lack of skilled workers, three people
with knowledge of the situation said last month.  The facility in Soyo in northern Angola plans one or two
shipments in June and July before performing checks on its
systems and resuming output in the fourth quarter, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public.  Global LNG demand is expected to exceed production around
the end of this decade with the deficit growing to 100 million
metric tons a year by 2025, Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer John Watson said in a presentation to analysts in New
York on March 12. Demand for the fuel will increase at an
estimated average rate of 15 million tons a year through 2025,
led by growth in Asian nations such as  Japan , South Korea and
 Taiwan , Watson said.  Reduced Flaring  “Angola LNG is entering the market at an exciting time,”
Pereira said. “The world LNG market is expected to remain tight
over the coming years, with very limited new LNG capacity.”  Chevron is Angola LNG’s largest shareholder with a 36.4 
percent stake.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Total SA (FP)  each hold 13.6
percent, while Sonangol has 22.8 percent.  “Angola LNG’s vision is to be a reliable and competitive
supplier, a strong community partner, and a role model for the
economic development of Angola,” Sonangol Chairman Antonio
Órfao said in the same e-mail. “The project provides a solution
to minimize flaring and environmental pollution by gathering
associated gas from Angola’s offshore oil fields.”  Angola produced 1.87 million barrels of oil a day in May,
equal to Nigeria, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Chevron and its partners built Angola LNG in part to market gas
that otherwise would have been burned off because of the lack of
a local demand for the fuel.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the world’s largest energy company by
market value, followed by  PetroChina Co. (857) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  