-- Czech Parties Seek PM After Spy Affair to Avoid Elections
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-06-17T17:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/czech-prime-minister-necas-to-resign-tomorrow-amid-spy-scandal.html
The Czech Civic Democrats and their
coalition partners are working to quickly replace Petr Necas as
premier to keep the conservative government in power through
2014 and fend off Socialist attempts to force early elections.  Leaders of the ruling parties are trying to narrow the
field of candidates for prime minister after a scandal over
spying and bribery charges forced Necas to quit. He submitted
his resignation to President Milos Zeman at  Prague  Castle today,
rather than face an opposition-led no-confidence vote tomorrow.  Necas leaves a $217 billion  economy  mired in the longest
 recession  since current records started in 1996. He focused on
austerity, which hurt household consumption while businesses
curbed spending amid the euro-area debt crisis. The country has
endured seven governments and six prime ministers since Zeman
finished his four-year term as premier in 2002.  “For us, the priority is to preserve this coalition
project,” Martin Kuba, the Civic Democrats’ first deputy
chairman and industry minister, told reporters at the party’s
headquarters in Prague. A government formed from current
coalition parties “is important to allow the continuation of
responsible budget policy.”  The koruna strengthened 0.4 percent to 25.611 per euro by
6:29 p.m. in Prague, after losing 0.6 percent in the two days
following the raids on government offices last week. The
benchmark PX stock  index  fell 0.3 percent to 924.41, its lowest
close since Aug. 13, 2012.  Party Talks  Zeman will meet the leaders of political parties starting
on Friday to hash out the options, he told reporters today after
receiving Necas’s resignation. Necas will remain as caretaker
Prime Minister until Zeman names his successor.  “I assume that the political parties will use the time
until then to negotiate the new situation within their
leadership and eventually also among themselves.” Zeman said.  If attempts to re-create a government of the current
parties fail and the country moves toward early elections,
trials of people connected to the former prime minister and his
party may put it at “a further disadvantage,” Peter Attard Montalto, a strategist at Nomura International Plc in  London ,
said in an e-mail today.  “An opposition win would result in looser fiscal policy,
reversal of tax increases and social security reforms on
pensions in particular,” he said.  Bulgarian Strife  Parts of former communist eastern  Europe  have been rocked
by political instability as Europe’s debt crisis forced
economies still in transition to tighten spending and follow
 Germany ’s austerity blueprint.  Bulgarian Prime Minster Plamen Oresharski came to power one
month ago following nationwide anti-austerity protests that
brought down the government. Now he, too, is facing calls to
step down today because of the unpopular appointment of a
security chief.  Necas said he wants his replacement to come from the same
party to ensure continuity and keep the poll-leading Social
Democrats from forcing early elections.  In 2009, Prime Minister  Mirek Topolanek , also a Civic
Democrat, lost a no-confidence motion halfway through the
country’s six-month term as EU president, after his rival, then-opposition leader Jiri Paroubek garnered enough support to push
a confidence vote through in the split parliament.  Majority Evaporates  Necas took power with what then was the biggest
parliamentary majority since the  Czech Republic  gained
independence two decades ago. That cushion disintegrated last
year when bickering over austerity resulted in the breakup of a
junior coalition member and the defection of other deputies.  While Necas managed to hang on and defeat a no-confidence
vote with the help of independent lawmakers, his fate was sealed
after last week’s raids.  The  Social Democrats , led by Bohuslav Sobotka, has promised
to raise some taxes to pay for higher spending it says is needed
to revive the economy. Sobotka may need to rely on the Communist
Party to pass some bills if he doesn’t win an outright majority
in parliament or fails to find other coalition partners.  The three current coalition parties, which control 98 seats
in the 200-member parliament, have to secure a simple majority
in the assembly to install a new government. They have relied on
the votes of former coalition deputies who defected their
parties to pass legislation.  Necas urged Zeman to respect tradition and name a successor
from parties that show majority support in parliament.  Illegal Surveillance  The government has been rocked by a scandal that erupted
June 13 after nighttime police raids resulted in the detention
of eight people including Jana Nagyova, the head of Necas’s
office. She is charged with abuse of power in ordering the
illegal surveillance of three people and is linked to a bribery
case in which prosecutors say former members of parliament were
offered jobs at state-controlled companies.  “I was very closely following the developments of the
political situation that began on Wednesday and I am aware of
consequences for me,” Necas, 48, told reporters in Prague
yesterday.  Nagyova, who has worked with Necas since at least 2006, was
charged along with seven other people, including the former and
current heads of military intelligence. During the raids,
officers from the organized crime police unit seized as much as
150 million koruna ($7.8 million) in cash and some gold after
raiding 31 homes.  Corruption, Bribery  Civil servants and military officials were charged with
abuse of power, while other detainees were charged with bribery
and corruption, prosecutor Ivo Istvan said. In the bribery case,
ex-lawmakers were offered jobs in state-owned companies,
according to Istvan.  Nagyova illegally asked intelligence officers to spy on a
person in a “private” matter, Istvan said, without identifying
the victim.  He didn’t elaborate on other victims. She faces as much as
five years in prison if convicted, according to Robert Slachta,
the head of the police organized crime unit. Nagyova will appeal
the court decision to keep her in custody, CTK reported, citing
her attorney Eduard Bruna.  Nagyova said she may have made a mistake, though she didn’t
understand it as illegal activity, CTK cited Bruna as saying.  Prosecutors suspect that one of the detainees, a former
head of military intelligence service, was involved in spying on
Necas’ wife, which was ordered by Nagyova, CTK reported, citing
attorney Tomas Sokol. Necas, who is separated from his wife,
said in a statement on June 11 that the couple had agreed to an
uncontested divorce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  