-- Don’t Underestimate Iran’s Election Upset
-- B y   S h a s h a n k   J o s h i
-- 2013-06-16T22:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/don-t-underestimate-iran-s-election-upset.html
Iran ’s presidential election
presents a paradox. The vote was free enough for Hassan Rohani
to score a shocking win and for the favored conservative
candidate to finish a dismal third. And yet it was blatantly
unfair because hundreds of reformist and pragmatic candidates
were blocked from running.  For policymakers in the U.S. and Europe, this presents a
challenge: How should they respond to this remarkable upset
victory for Rohani, who was the eventual candidate of Iranian
reformists and is also a regime-approved insider?  In answering this question, it is essential that
governments don’t just focus on how much influence the new
president will or won’t have on the Iran’s nuclear negotiations
with the major world powers. What he does to expand individual
liberties within the country will be at least as important.  To borrow a slogan from President  Barack Obama ’s first
election campaign, this vote was about hope and change. Iranians
were deeply disillusioned by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s
stolen re-election in 2009. That ballot box theft and the
failure of huge popular protests to overturn it made Iranians
skeptical of their ability to change anything. Nevertheless,
turnout on Friday exceeded 72 percent according to the interior
ministry, a level the U.S. hasn’t managed in a century.  Under the most difficult political circumstances, Iran’s
electorate broke with eight years of Ahmadinejad’s intemperate
rule and cast scorn on Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei’s
apparatchiks. Voters chose in Rohani a man who had promised to
establish a ministry for women’s affairs, aimed at restoring
some of their “trampled rights,” and rejected former nuclear
negotiator Saeed Jalili, who said during the campaign that women
are best kept as mothers. Rohani won almost 51 percent of the
vote, according to preliminary results, avoiding the need for a
run-off.  Rohani’s victory therefore marks a pivotal moment for Iran.
He certainly will serve in the shadow of Supreme Leader Ali
Khamenei, but it is a serious mistake to believe that the new
president will be powerless.  In the 1990s, Presidents Ali Akbar Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami both put their personal stamps on Iranian policy,
foreign and domestic. They moderated the bellicose government
rhetoric of the 1980s, emphasized economic development (even
American  oil companies  flooded back into Iran), and cooperated
with the U.S. and its allies in the early days of the war in
 Afghanistan .  Ahmadinejad came to office intent on confrontation with the
regime’s perceived enemies. He dismissed the threat that the
international dispute over  Iran’s nuclear program  would be
referred to the  United Nations Security Council , and welcomed
sanctions as good for the economy. He also deeply embarrassed
many liberal-minded Iranians with his denials of the Holocaust
and generally crass manner.  Rohani’s power to shape policy in the two areas of great
interest to the U.S. and Europe -- Iran’s nuclear program and
its assistance to the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
-- will be limited, constraining his ability to deliver on
campaign promises to ease tensions and thereby ease Iran’s
economic woes.  The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, a parallel military
organization to the regular army and a major player in the
Iranian economy, is deeply invested in the Syrian civil war, and
may even benefit from the smuggling opportunities created by
sanctions. The negotiations over the nuclear program, meanwhile,
have fallen increasingly under the purview of Khamenei since
Rohani led them as chief negotiator in the mid-2000s.  As during Ahmadinejad’s final years, the key battles for
Rohani may be over personnel. It will be a positive sign, for
example, if Rohani is able to influence who succeeds his
defeated rival Jalili as Iran’s nuclear negotiator. Even if
Rohani is cut out of the nuclear talks, he may yet play an
important role in shaping opinion, easing the path to an
eventual compromise. Despite appearances, the supreme leader
pays attention to what the public and elites think. In 2009, for
instance, Khameini allowed a nuclear fuel swap to be negotiated
with the West, but then quashed it after vigorous opposition
from parliament.  The U.S. and  Europe  need to seize any opportunities that
Rohani creates, putting meaningful sanctions relief on the table
in exchange for concrete and verifiable reductions in Iran’s
nuclear capability. If they instead meet any overtures with
sullen distrust, Rohani’s political rivals will use the failure
against him.  These geopolitical issues aren’t the only ones that matter,
though. Iranians live under an autocratic, repressive and
economically stagnating system. Anything that eases those
conditions is an unalloyed good. More important, the events of
the past several years underscore that evolutionary political
change is far preferable, both to its participants and
bystanders, to the revolutionary violence witnessed in places
like  Syria . Rohani’s regime credentials may allow him to serve
as a bridge figure, capable of couching modest reforms terms
that are politically acceptable to the hardliners.  Another way to judge his intentions and influence will be
in his handling of former presidential candidates Mehdi Karroubi
and Mir Hossein Mousavi, leaders of the Green Movement that was
crushed in 2009, who have been under house arrest for two years.
Their detention is a reminder of the cruel realities of the
Islamic Republic, where bloggers and journalists are routinely
jailed, freedom of information and association are tightly
curtailed and minorities are frequently treated as second-class
citizens. If Rohani frees Karroubi and Mousavi, whose supporters
were ecstatic at Friday’s election result, it would be very
encouraging.  It is understandable that we, on the outside, treat
geopolitical issues as the litmus tests of Iran’s trajectory.
But if Rohani can start renewing and protecting cultural, social
and political freedoms, the longer-term effects may be just as
consequential for the rest of the world.  (Shashank Joshi is a research fellow at the Royal United
Institute in  London .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Shashank Joshi at  joshi@fas.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  