-- U.A.E. Shares Retreat as Syria Civil War Concern Grips Region
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-06-16T14:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/dubai-shares-slump-most-in-more-than-year-on-syria-escalation.html
United Arab Emirates shares fell the
most in almost a week as concern the civil war in Syria may
escalate hurt investor sentiment across the Middle East.  Dubai’s DFM General  Index (DSM)  posted the biggest drop in the
Middle East, losing 2.3 percent, the most since June 10, to
2,345.47 at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate.  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
registered its biggest decrease since April. The ADX General
 Index (MSM30)  fell 0.9 percent, while the Bloomberg  GCC200 Index (BGCC200)  was
down 0.2 percent.  Middle East shares are reacting after President Barack Obama said the U.S. would send light weapons to the Syrian
opposition as the regime of Bashar al-Assad made military gains
on the ground. Jordan’s  King Abdullah  II vowed today to act if
the turmoil in Syria endangered the kingdom, while Egyptian
President Mohamed Mursi urged an no-fly zone over  Syria  in a
speech televised from Cairo yesterday. Egypt’s EGX 30  Index (ADSMI) ,
which plunged into a  bear market  last week, fell 1 percent.  “Shares are tracking what happened yesterday in the Saudi
market,” said Montasser Khelifi, Dubai-based senior manager for
global markets at Quantum Investment Bank Ltd. “The drop is due
to a mix of profit taking and concerns of escalation of the
Syria conflict.”  ‘Escalating Concerns’  The Arab world’s largest bourse in Saudi Arabia recovered
after plunging the most in almost two years yesterday. King Abdullah interrupted his vacation in Morocco and returned to
Jeddah because of “escalating concerns relating to events in
the region,” the state-owned Saudi Press Agency said yesterday.
The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  climbed 0.5 percent today, while
Kuwait’s measure advanced 0.3 percent after earlier falling as
much as 2.1 percent.  Yesterday’s 4.3 percent drop for the Tadawul also triggered
selling in Qatar today, where the QE Index decreased 0.6 percent
while Oman’s MSM30 Index retreated 1.1 percent, the most since
March 27.  “The markets are reacting to what happened in the Saudi
market yesterday on fears there could be an escalation to the
Syria crisis,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at Abu Dhabi-based
Al Fajer Securities. The drop in U.A.E. markets may be temporary
as the nation is isolated from regional tensions, according to
Farhat.  Emaar, the third-biggest decliner on the BGCC200  Index (TA-25) ,
lost 2.6 percent, the most since April 18, to 5.63 dirhams.  The conflict in Syria, which has killed at least 93,000
people based on a  United Nations ’ study, is threatening to
become a larger regional proxy war as the U.S. steps up its
involvement in the conflict.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, Bahrain’s  gauge  was little
changed and Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index advanced 0.2 percent
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The yield on the country’s
benchmark 4.25 percent bonds maturing in March 2023 dropped 14
basis points, or 0.14 of a percentage point, to 3.70 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  