-- Egypt’s Mursi Seeks Home Reprieve in Syria, Ethiopia Crises
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-06-16T17:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/egypt-s-mursi-seeks-domestic-reprieve-in-syria-ethiopia-crises.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi cut
ties with  Syria  and sent his foreign minister to  Ethiopia  over a
dam dispute as the Islamist leader flexed political muscle two
weeks before he faces mass rallies against his rule.  In suspending diplomatic relations with Syria and calling
for a no-fly zone over the war-ravaged country, Mursi builds on
earlier efforts to paint himself as a leader trying to reclaim
Egypt’s position as an Arab political powerhouse. The move drew
a sharp rebuke from Syria, which said he was pandering to U.S.
and Israeli interests in the region.  Egypt and its army will stand by the Syrian people “until
their rights are granted and a new elected leadership is
chosen,” Mursi told a stadium packed with Islamist supporters
on June 15 as he took direct aim at Hezbollah, the Lebanon-based
and Iran-backed Shiite militia that has joined the fight against
Syrian rebels. “Today we stand against Hezbollah for Syria.”  More than two years after the uprising that ousted his
predecessor  Hosni Mubarak , Mursi faces rising criticism over his
stewardship of the economy and the polarization in the Arab
world’s most populous nation. Secular and youth activists have
called for mass anti-government demonstrations at the end of the
month designed to strip him of legitimacy and build pressure for
early presidential elections.  ‘Delusionary’ Opponents  Mursi used his speech to assail his detractors, spearheaded
by the Tamarod or “Rebel” campaign. He repeated that the push
for protests was backed by former regime supporters, and said
there are those who are “delusionary” and who want to undercut
the “stability” that is growing day by day.  Egypt has decided to close the Syrian embassy in Cairo and
is also recalling its envoy from Damascus, Mursi said. Syria
condemned the decisions as “irresponsible” and reflective of
Mursi’s “attempt to implement the Muslim Brotherhood’s
agenda,” the state-run Syrian  News Agency  reported, citing an
unidentified senior government official. The official said
Mursi’s call for a no-fly zone violated Syria’s sovereignty and
aimed to “serve the goals of Israel and the U.S.”  The opposition has criticized Mursi’s government for its
inability to work to block Ethiopia’s construction of a dam that
Egyptians say may curtail their country’s access to vital Nile
River water.  Approval Ratings  The U.S.-trained engineer’s approval rating continued its
decline. By the end of his 11th month in office, 42 percent of
respondents to a poll taken by the Egyptian Center for Public
Opinion Research, or Baseera, voiced approval for him compared
with 46 percent in the prior month. Of the 2,051 people
surveyed, 54 percent said they supported early presidential
elections, Baseera reported in a poll released on its website.
The survey, conducted May 29 and May 30, had a margin of error
of less than 3 percent.  Mursi’s critics argue the dam dispute is an example of the
government’s inability to steer the country forward or safeguard
its interests. The Syria decision, while juxtaposed with a
growing international outcry against the regime of Bashar al-Assad, was seen as another attempt by the president to obscure
his domestic challenges.  Cutting relations with Assad’s regime is a necessity though
it shouldn’t be used as a “political maneuver” ahead of June
30 to secure satisfaction and mobilize Salafi support against
those who want change, Amr Hamzawy, a secular former lawmaker,
said on his Twitter account. “This is a presidency that
presents evidence every day of its failure.”  Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr was scheduled to meet
Ethiopian officials today to discuss the dam project and voice
 Egypt ’s reservations, including concerns with its design, the
state-run Ahram Online reported. Mursi’s secretary for foreign
affairs, Khaled Al-Qazzaz, told foreign reporters on June 13
that Egypt supported African nations’ rights to develop, though
he emphasized that their development couldn’t and shouldn’t come
at Egypt’s expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  