-- Mercator Sale Helps Stabilize Slovenian Banks Amid Crisis
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-06-17T17:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/mercator-sale-helps-stabilize-slovenian-banks-amid-crisis.html
The sale of Mercator Poslovni Sistem
d.d. to  Croatia ’s Agrokor d.d. will inject needed cash into
Slovenian banks, helping stabilize the country’s financial
system as it scrambles to avert a bailout, the sellers said.  “A successful sale of Mercator would increase capital
inflow to its shareholders, including the financial institutions
that need additional capital,” a sellers group said by e-mail
on June 14 through Ljubljana-based PR firm Futura. “This would
help stabilize Slovenia’s banking system in accordance with
European Union demands.”  Slovenia’s two biggest banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.
and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , are among shareholders
that on June 14 sold a 53 percent stake in the Balkans’ largest
retailer to Zagreb-based Agrokor for 240 million euros ($320
million). Slovenia is working to avoid becoming the six euro-area country to require international aid with a 900 million-euro capital increase to banks as the European Commission warns
more cash may be needed.  The “transparent and competitive procedure” of the
transaction will also boost Slovenia’s image among international
investors, the sellers said. Premier Alenka Bratusek said on May
5 that the ruling coalition wants to proceed with the sale of
state-owned companies, including Nova Kreditna.  Previous Attempt  Agrokor, the largest company by revenue in the former
Yugoslav region, agreed to pay 120 euros a share for its stake
in Mercator, about half what it offered in its previous attempt
to buy its biggest rival in the fall of 2011, before the crisis
escalated in Slovenia.  The transaction will help lower Mercator’s debt burden of
1.1 billion euros, Chief Executive Officer Toni Balazic told
reporters today in the Slovenian capital, Ljubljana.  The sale agreement is the first step in consolidating the
company’s ownership, Balazic said today. Mercator will co-operate in creating the biggest retail chain in the region, he
said. The company will keep its brand in regions where it’s
dominant and its headquarters will remain in Ljubljana,
according to Balazic.  Seventy-three percent of respondents said they are against
the sale of the Slovenian retailer to its Croatian rival, while
21 percent said they support the transaction, according to a
Delo Stik poll carried out among 404 people between June 11-12
and published in Ljubljana-based newspaper  Delo . In the same
poll, 52 percent said they endorse the Slovenian government’s
push to sell state-owned assets.  Closely held Agrokor has sought to buy Mercator for years
to expand into its neighbor, an EU member since 2004, and the
rest of the Balkans. Croatia will join the bloc on July 1.  ‘Best News’  The acquisition is expected to create the largest retail
chain in central and eastern  Europe , excluding  Russia , with
annual revenue of as much as 7 billion euros. It would also
employ about 60,000 people and have about 2,600 stores.  “Agrokor’s expansion into the region is the best piece of
news for Croatia before the EU entry,” Viktor Vresnik, an
economic analyst at Europa Press Holding, Croatia’s largest
newspaper publisher, said by phone. “It also coincides with
probably the most difficult moment in Slovenia’s history as an
independent state.”  Croatia is struggling to emerge from a four-year recession,
as 2012 foreign direct investment shrank to almost a fifth of
the $4.2 billion it recorded in 2008. The Adriatic nation stands
to receive 10 billion euros in EU funds through 2020, which the
government of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  plans to channel
into infrastructure, energy and tourism.  Approval Needed  Agrokor still needs regulatory approval from all the
relevant countries to complete the deal, which is also subject
to a  “successful restructuring of Mercator’s debt,” Agrokor
said in a statement on June 14. Completion is expected by the
end of the year, the company said, adding Agrokor would then be
obliged to submit an offer for the remainder of the stock.  Croatian and Slovenian media reported earlier this year
that Agrokor plans to finance the purchase by boosting its
capital instead of borrowing funds. Agrokor spokeswoman Anja Linic wouldn’t comment on the plans when reached by phone.  Gilles Mettetal, the  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development ’s representative on Agrokor’s supervisory board,
said the bank “will continue to have a favorable view of
Agrokor’s development,” according to the statement e-mailed by
Agrokor. The bank holds 4.37 percent of Agrokor’s stock.  Mercator’s shares last week surged the most in almost five
years on news of the impending sale, rising 11.8 percent on June
14 to 105 euros per share. Today, Mercator reversed earlier
gains, dropping 1.90 euros, or 1.8 percent to close at 103.15
euros in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mercator Race  “There are still some laps and hurdles with a water jump
for 3,000 meters, a steeplechase runner under the name of
Agrokor to finish the race called Mercator,” Jernej Kozlevcar,
who helps manage 480 million euros at Triglav Asset Management
Co. in Ljubljana, said in an e-mail today. “Today, some of the
race’s spectators obviously saw some high hurdles, too high for
Agrokor to jump over, and decided to sell shares. Despite the
signed agreement there are still crucial laps to run for a
successful finish of the race,” he said.  The company posted its first full-year loss in 2012,
reporting a net loss of 104 million euros, followed by a first-quarter loss this year, as the economic crisis in Slovenia and
the region continued to hurt sales.  While some of Agrokor’s subsidiaries, such as its retail
arm  Konzum d.d. , are publicly traded on the  Zagreb Stock
Exchange , the holding company is not listed and founder and
Chairman Ivica Todoric owns more than 90 percent. Agrokor
releases its results only to investors. Todoric in February said
the 2012 results were “excellent.”  The bid was the fifth attempt by Agrokor to buy its biggest
competitor in the Balkans. It last offered 221 euros per
Mercator share in 2011, valuing the retailer at 832 million
euros, before abandoning the bid in early 2012 amid opposition
from Slovenian politicians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  