-- Dollar Gains Amid Fed Taper Timing Speculation; Yen Declines
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-06-17T07:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/euro-rises-versus-yen-before-trade-data-dollar-index-declines.html
The dollar gained versus the euro
and yen before the Federal Reserve starts a two-day policy
meeting tomorrow as investors weigh whether the central bank
will curb bond purchases.  The Dollar Index snapped a five-day drop before a report
tomorrow economists said will show the cost of living in the
U.S. rose in May after two months of declines. The yen fell at
least 0.3 percent versus all 16 of its major peers as stocks
gained, damping demand for haven assets. The euro climbed
against the yen before data on the common-currency bloc’s trade
balance as inflows to the region support this year’s best-performing developed-market currency.  “We’re generally positive on the dollar for the rest of
this year,” said  Mitul Kotecha , the global head of foreign-exchange strategy in Hong Kong at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)  “We would
see the strengthening of the U.S. economy also giving support to
push yields higher alongside this impact of less Treasury buying
by the Fed.”  The dollar rose 0.7 percent to 94.96 yen at 8:33 a.m.
London time, following a 3.3 percent decline last week. It
gained 0.2 percent to $1.3327 per euro. The euro added 0.8
percent to 126.59 yen after posting a 2.6 percent slump last
week, the most since the five days ended July 6.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trade partners, added 0.2 percent to 80.791.  Bond Buying  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22 the central
bank could reduce its monthly purchases of $45 billion of
Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities, a
program known as quantitative easing, if the employment outlook
shows sustained improvement.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury  yields  were little changed at
2.14 percent after reaching 2.29 percent on June 11, the most
since April 4, 2012.  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index rose to a one-year
high of 11.43 percent on June 13. The gauge has climbed from
7.05 percent in December, the lowest since July 2007, and was at
10.49 percent today.  “The changing prospects for U.S. quantitative easing are
causing great confusion,” said Kengo Suzuki, the chief currency
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s
third-biggest financial group by market value. “The market
consensus is that Bernanke will clarify this week the difference
between QE tapering and policy tightening and emphasize the
point that monetary easing is still needed.”  The U.S. consumer-price index rose 0.2 percent in May after
falling 0.4 percent in April, economists estimated in a
Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department figures released
tomorrow.  Asian Stocks  Japan’s currency dropped versus the dollar as Asian stocks
climbed for a second day with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index rising
1.3 percent. The  Topix (TPX)  index climbed 2.7 percent, after slumping
16 percent over the previous four weeks.  “Some of the calm in markets today and strengthening of
Japanese equities play negatively for the yen,” said Kotecha of
Credit Agricole.  The yen’s 14-day relative-strength index against the
greenback climbed to 70 on June 14, a level that some traders
see as a signal that an asset’s price has risen too far, too
fast and is due to reverse course. It was at 65 today. The RSI
for  Japan ’s currency against the euro was 61.  Trade Balance  The European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg is due
to release April trade data for the region today. Euro-area
exports  exceeded  imports by 18.7 billion euros in March on a
seasonally adjusted basis, the biggest trade surplus on record,
figures showed last month.  The 17-nation euro region will post a current-account
surplus this year equivalent to 1.7 percent of gross domestic
product, according to economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with a 2.8 percent deficit for the U.S. and a 1
percent surplus for Japan. A surplus in the balance, the
broadest measure of international trade, reduces reliance on
foreign capital to fund deficits.  “We spend so much time waiting for the next Cyprus or the
next  Greece  that sometimes we can’t simply see the good news,”
said Robert Rennie, a Sydney-based chief currency strategist at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “There’s a lot to be said about the euro
being a default asset at the moment if we’re worried about a
slower Asia and if it’s not clear to us whether the Fed is going
to be tapering sooner or later.”  Bearish Bets  Futures traders cut bearish bets on the 17-nation currency
against the dollar at a record pace in the past two weeks.  The  difference  in the number of wagers on a slide in the
euro compared with those on an advance narrowed by 77,111
between May 28 and June 11, according to figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. That’s
the biggest two-week advance in bullish euro sentiment on
record.  The euro has strengthened 3.6 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 2.5
percent, while the the yen has lost 7.3 percent.  Australia ’s dollar rose versus all but one of its 16 major
peers, extending its first weekly gain against the greenback in
six, amid speculation record bets on the currency’s decline may
be overdone.  “Positioning is at record extremes” in the Australian
dollar, said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. Trading “should remain largely
choppy, but there’s a risk of potential short-covering,” she
said. A short position is a bet an asset’s price will fall.  The Australian dollar rose 0.4 percent to 96.08 U.S. cents
from June 14, when it dropped 0.7 percent, the most since June
7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  