-- Federer Secures First Title of Season as Murray Wins at Queen’s
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-17T00:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/federer-beats-youzhny-to-win-wimbledon-warm-up-event-in-germany.html
Roger Federer  beat  Mikhail Youzhny 
in the Gerry Weber Open final to win his first tennis title
since August, while  Andy Murray  also tuned up for Wimbledon by
winning another grass-court event at Queen’s Club in London.  Third-ranked Federer of Switzerland defeated Russia’s
Youzhny 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-4 yesterday to win the tournament in
Halle, Germany, for the sixth time. It was his 77th career
title, moving him into a tie with  John McEnroe  in third place on
the all-time list.  “I’ve been preparing well for this part of the season and
I’m happy it’s paying off,” Federer, who will begin the defense
of his Wimbledon title next week, told reporters. “It’s
obviously important for my confidence looking forward to
Wimbledon now.”  Second-ranked Murray also lost the first set before coming
back to beat defending champion Cilic of Croatia 5-7, 7-5, 6-3
and win his third title at Queen’s Club. The start of
yesterday’s final was delayed three hours by rain.  Britain’s Murray, who lost last year’s Wimbledon final to
Federer, was playing his first tournament after missing the
French Open because of a back injury.  “The most important thing next week is just to make sure I
keep improving the strength of my back, make sure there’s no
setbacks and just keep working hard on the rehab,” Murray told
the British Broadcasting Corp. “Then, when Wimbledon comes
round, it’s all about how you play.”  Slovakia’s Daniela Hantuchova beat Donna Vekic of Croatia
7-6 (7-5), 6-4 in the final of the Aegon Classic grass-court
women’s tournament in Birmingham,  England , to win her sixth
career title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  