-- Felda Taps $2 Billion Cash Pile to Expand Abroad: Southeast Asia
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-06-17T09:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/felda-taps-2-billion-cash-pile-to-expand-abroad-southeast-asia.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) ,
the world’s third-largest manager of  palm oil  plantations, plans
to tap its 6.2 billion ringgit ($2 billion) cash pile to expand
abroad as  Malaysia  runs short of available land.  Felda, which completed the world’s third-largest initial
public offering in 2012, will take advantage of lower prices to
buy more land in neighboring Indonesia this year, start rubber
processing in Myanmar and form a port storage joint venture in
West Africa, Chief Executive Officer Sabri Ahmad said.  “Prices of plantations are more reasonable now,” Sabri
said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur, where the company is based,
on June 14. “There are potential opportunities.”  Malaysia has reached the limit of land it can use for palm
cultivation. While output of the edible oil can grow through
higher productivity, it may not increase much above today’s
levels, the government said March 5. A tripling in palm oil
prices from 2006 to March 2008 drove Southeast Asian planters to
expand abroad, spurring  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and Golden Agri-Resources Ltd., the world’s top two palm oil producers, to turn
to new countries with suitable climates such as Liberia.  Felda raised $3.3 billion in its share sale in June last
year, with demand from institutions exceeding supply by more
than 40 times. After jumping 16 percent in its debut, the  stock 
has slipped and closed at its offer price of 4.55 ringgit today.
Sime Darby dropped 3.7 percent during the same period, while
 Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd. (KLK)  fell 6.7 percent as palm oil prices
slumped about 18 percent.  Sell Calls  Slower growth in  China  and recessions in Europe crimped
demand for the world’s most-used cooking oil, hurting prices and
pushing  inventory  to record highs in Malaysia and Indonesia at
the start of this year. Palm oil futures for delivery in August
gained 1 percent to 2,464 ringgit a ton as of 5:06 p.m. in  Kuala
Lumpur  trading today.  Futures may trade at 2,400 ringgit to 2,600 ringgit a
metric ton for the rest of this year, said Sabri, who will step
aside as CEO on July 15 and be replaced by Mohammed Emir Mavani
Abdullah. This is lower than his forecast of 2,500 ringgit to
2,800 ringgit in February.  Felda is rated the equivalent of  sell  by 12 out of 20
analysts at banks including Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse
Group AG, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its outlook
is “challenging” due to its replanting program of 15,000
hectares (37,065 acres) per annum, Arhnue Tan, an analyst at
Alliance Bank Bhd., wrote in a May 30 report.  IPO Cash  Lower palm oil prices have hurt producers’ earnings, with
Sime Darby reporting a 21 percent drop in third-quarter profit.
Felda Global’s  first-quarter  net income fell 29 percent to 136.7
million ringgit from a year earlier, it said May 29.  The stock trades 20.6 times  earnings , compared with an
average 32.2 times for 38 agricultural product makers listed in
Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If they acquire estates with a younger age profile that
will help grow the business and offset some of the older trees
that they need to replant,” Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd., said in a phone interview. “The cash from
the IPO is currently sitting in banks. If they can buy something
that gives a higher return and grow the overall business of the
group in the medium term, then it’ll be positive.”  Felda plans to spend 300 million ringgit to buy and plant
another 20,000 hectares of palm oil land in  Indonesia ’s
Kalimantan province, said Sabri. Last year, the company acquired
about 15,000 hectares through its 95 percent-owned PT Citra
Niaga Perkasa.  Record Crop  Malaysia, the world’s second-largest producer after
Indonesia, had a planted area of about 5.1 million hectares at
the end of 2012, according to data from the country’s palm oil
board. The Southeast Asian nation’s output may total 18.9
million tons in 2013, matching the country’s record crop in 2011,
the board forecast in January.  Indonesia’s harvest may rise 9 percent this year to 28
million tons, Indonesian Palm Oil Board Chairman Derom Bangun
said May 7. The two countries account for about 85 percent of
global production of the commodity used in foods, cosmetics and
biofuel.  Output of palm oil, which represents more than 30 percent
of global cooking oil production, will expand 5 percent to 58.1
million tons in 2013-2014 after doubling since 2002, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. Demand for palm oil is
increasing globally, helping spur total world export volume of
17 major oils and fats to a record 75.65 million tons in the
2012-13 marketing year that began Oct. 1, Hamburg-based
researcher Oil World said June 4.  Africa Expansion  Felda has been in talks to create a palm oil hub with
storage facilities in West Africa for about a year and should
reach an agreement by December, said Sabri, without giving the
location. This will be used by the company for processing,
packaging and distribution to the region, he said.  About a million hectares of land is available for
development in the West and Central Africa region, according to
Doug Hawkins, an agribusiness specialist at Hardman & Co., a
London-based market research group. Singapore-based  Olam
International Ltd. (OLAM)  and Wilmar International Ltd. are also
expanding in the region with interests in the  Ivory Coast  and
plans for  Ghana .  Felda is awaiting investment authority approval to start
downstream rubber-processing operations in Myanmar, its CEO said.
The planter signed a deal in October with Pho La Min Trading Ltd.
to potentially set up rubber plantations there.  Ringgit’s Rise  Demand from the biodiesel industry should cushion slowing
sales to India and China, Sabri said. Malaysia may win some
market share after the European Union imposed tariffs on
Indonesian and Argentinian biodiesel, a type of fuel made from
vegetable oils and animal fats, he said. The duties punish
exporters for allegedly selling it in the EU below cost, a
practice known as dumping.  “A lot of people are not importing from Indonesia and
 Argentina , so there’s a vacuum in terms of the palm methyl ester
supply to  Europe ,” said Felda’s CEO. “So this is potential for
our biodiesel industry to revitalize itself.”  Felda would benefit from a weaker ringgit as about 80
percent of its revenue is denominated in dollars, said Sabri.
The Malaysian currency has strengthened 0.8 percent over the
past year to 3.1325 per dollar.  “By the end of the year, the ringgit could be at 3.00 to
the dollar,” Sabri said. “The current level is a bit of a
distortion; recently it’s been very volatile.”  The ringgit is expected to strengthen to 3.05 by the end of
2013, according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  