-- Michelin Star Gives Way to $10 Meal in Ulster Slump: U.K. Credit
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-06-17T11:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/michelin-star-gives-way-to-10-meal-in-ulster-slump-u-k-credit.html
When  Deanes Restaurant  in Belfast
won a Michelin Star in 1997, it signaled a new era for a city
better known for bombs than bon viveurs. With rising
unemployment and bankruptcies, lunch now costs as little as 6.50
pounds ($10.20) as it tries to lure customers.  “The boys in the Bentleys are gone,” owner Michael Deane
said in an interview last week. “Things are tight in general
with the way the economy is. Most people are looking for a
cheaper spend. They have 20 quid instead of 50.”  As  Northern Ireland  hosts the Group of Eight Summit
starting today, the province has yet to benefit from record-low
government borrowing costs and the 375 billion pounds of
stimulus pumped into the economy by the  Bank of England ’s
quantitative easing. Unemployment, while still officially about
8 percent, is growing at the fastest pace in the U.K., according
the Ministry for Enterprise in Belfast.  The U.K. 10-year gilt yield set a record 1.41 percent in
July as the  European debt crisis  worsened and investors turned
to places perceived as safe. While it has since risen to 2.07
percent, or 56 basis points  more than  German bunds, it is still
1.8 percentage points less than the average of the past decade,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cameron’s Ad  Speaking after meeting Northern Irish leaders in  London  on
June 14, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the G-8 summit is
“an excellent advertisement” for the province. “It’s a great
opportunity to show the world a Northern Ireland that is open
for business, for investment and for tourism,” he said.  The summit is taking place in Enniskillen, 75 miles (120
kilometers) from Belfast, almost 26 years after an Irish
Republican Army bomb ripped through its center on Remembrance
Day, killing 11 people. The buildup to the meeting of leaders
was marred by controversy over efforts to hide empty shops and
derelict buildings from dignitaries.  At the end of last week Cameron gave the Northern Ireland
Assembly a temporary increase in borrowing powers as part of a
plan to help spur economic activity in the region.  Companies in Northern Ireland, which remained part of the
U.K. after the rest of Ireland won independence in 1922, are
finding it hard to get credit. Bankruptcies are 50 percent
higher than in 2008, according to the Department of Enterprise.  Cash Flow  “Lending isn’t as big a problem as it was, but it is still
a problem,” Glyn Roberts, head of the  Northern Ireland
Independent Retail Traders Association , said last week. “There
are issues around credit cards used by businesses as  cash flow 
also, as well as that people aren’t spending.”  A year after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
introduced the Funding for Lending Scheme designed to boost the
flow of credit to households and businesses, loans from the 40
participating banks fell 300 million pounds in the first quarter
after declining 2.4 billion pounds in the final three months of
2012, the Bank of England said two weeks ago.  Then there’s the question of outstanding debt. Foreclosure
demands in Northern Ireland by mortgage lenders are rising at
the fastest rate in the U.K.  “There are still strains there on the system and overhang
of property debt being attached to businesses,” said Angela McGowan, an economist with Danske Bank A/S in  Belfast .  ‘Peace Walls’  Under Cameron’s plan to help the economy, Northern Ireland
will get “targeted support” to create jobs and also bring down
the “peace walls,” 10-foot high structures that separate
Catholic and Protestant areas of Belfast.  Dissident republicans are also attempting to inflame
 conflict  in the province, where the 1998 Good Friday peace
accord ended three decades of violence known locally as the
“Troubles.” They have killed two British soldiers and two
policemen since restarting their campaign in 2009.  The province endured three months of street protests and
riots since December, when pro-U.K. loyalists demonstrated
against a decision to stop the British flag flying outside
Belfast city hall. Deane, the restaurateur, said the protests
took business to “the brink.”  While the province’s economy expanded by almost 70 percent
in the decade after a 1997 cease-fire by the IRA, the financial
crisis has seen a rollback of the gains.  Northern Ireland has the highest level of empty shops in
the U.K. The economy, forecast to barely grow this year, is
hurting after employers such as  Seagate Technology (STX)  Plc and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  cut workforces in the region. The average
annual  salary  in the province is 22,169 pounds, 12 percent below
the U.K. average, figures from the Department of Enterprise,
Trade and Investment in Belfast show.  Deanes Restaurant, which lost its Michelin star in 2010
after closing for a flood, employs about 150 people at six
eateries and still has a good relationship with its bank, the
owner said. Others aren’t so lucky and that’s hurting the flow
of money in the economy, he said.  “You used to go into the bank and say ‘I need this, I need
that,’ now it’s not as easy,” said Deane. “Sometimes it seems
the banks don’t want to back anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  