-- Index Ventures Invests $11 Million on Clot-Busting Drug
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/index-ventures-invests-11-million-on-clot-busting-drug.html
Index Ventures, an early investor in
photo-sharing service Dropbox Inc., spent $11 million creating a
company to develop an antibody-based clot-busting drug intended
to treat heart attacks or strokes while limiting bleeding.  The new company, X01 Ltd., represents London-based Index
Ventures’ largest-ever initial investment in a life sciences
project, said David Grainger, a partner in the venture-capital
fund who is also the drug developer’s interim chief executive
officer. Funds will be used to complete research prior to human
testing and finance manufacturing of the antibody, Grainger said
in a telephone interview.  An estimated 7.3 million people died from coronary  heart
disease  and 6.2 million from stroke in 2008, according to the
Geneva-based  World Health Organization . Current preventive
medicines include clot-dissolving drugs such as warfarin, which
can cause excessive bleeding when given in the doses needed to
stop formation of the blockages that cause heart attacks and
strokes, Grainger said.  “You would expect to see really substantial gains in
reducing those events” in people taking the antibody, called
ichorcumab, Grainger said. “You can maintain patients more
anti-coagulated, because that risk of bleeding is reduced or not
present.”  Patient’s Role  The treatment was developed by researchers at  Cambridge
University  in  England  after Trevor Baglin, a blood specialist at
the affiliated Addenbrooke’s Hospital, treated a patient in her
50s who had suffered a head injury in 2008. The patient’s
condition was resolved without medical intervention, even though
tests of her clotting ability showed she was at risk of severe
and possibly fatal bleeding from the injuries, said Jim
Huntington, a biologist who collaborated on the project.  Their analysis found that the woman’s blood carried a rare
form of an immunoglobulin A, or IgA, antibody. They tested an
anticoagulant compound based on the antibody on mice, whose
tails didn’t bleed at the rate expected when clipped,
Huntington, a professor of molecular hemostasis at the
university who is based at the Cambridge Institute for  Medical
Research , said in a telephone interview.  The antibody seems to affect thrombotic clots, which
develop inside blood vessels, Huntington said.  The researchers have a “good idea” how the antibody works
and that will form the basis for additional patent applications,
Grainger said. X01 plans to file a regulatory application and
begin safety testing of the antibody in humans in the U.S. in
two years, he said.  Index Ventures’ investment is derived from its $200 million
Life Sciences fund, which the venture-capital company began in
March 2012. Investors in the fund include  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
and the venture capital arm of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Janssen
pharmaceutical unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  