-- India’s Opposition Fractures as BJP Ally Severs Ties Over Modi
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-06-16T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/india-s-opposition-fractures-as-bjp-ally-snaps-ties-over-modi.html
India ’s political opposition
splintered less than a year before the next election as the
largest ally of the  Bharatiya Janata Party  severed ties over its
aversion to the growing power of Gujarat leader  Narendra Modi .  The  Janata Dal (United) , which had run a coalition
government in the eastern state of Bihar with the BJP and has 20
lawmakers in the lower house of parliament, yesterday announced
after a meeting of senior leaders in Patna, the province’s
capital, it was quitting the National Democratic Alliance.  While not mentioning Modi by name, Janata Dal chief Nitish Kumar said he’d “been compelled” to pull out as the BJP’s new
leadership was following a path that violated his party’s
principles. Sharad Yadav, another JD(U) leader, said the BJP had
been warned of repercussions ahead of its June 9 convention
where Modi was appointed to run the party’s campaign for polls
due by May 2014.  “This is a big jolt to the BJP as they can’t win power
alone and need allies,” said  Sanjay Kumar , a New Delhi-based
analyst at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies.
“The toughest challenge to the BJP and Modi in the run up to
elections is going to be to keep everyone together.”  Modi, 62, has fended off challengers within the party to
emerge as the BJP’s preeminent force. While the BJP is seeking
to translate his reputation among business leaders as an
economic reformer and able administrator into votes amid the
slowest growth in a decade, some parties are concerned they may
lose the support of Muslim voters who blame Modi for failing to
control riots in Gujarat in 2002 that targeted the community.  One-Man Party  “When you are trying to form a government, you should
follow an agenda that will attract more allies,” Kumar told
reporters in Patna yesterday. “The BJP is not trying to do
that.”  The “BJP was never a one-man party in the past and we fear
it will be a one-man party in the future,” Devesh Chandra
Thakur, a JD(U) leader, told CNN-IBN television channel in an
interview.  The political temperature is rising in India as the
Congress Party of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is struggling to
shake off corruption allegations, reboot  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy and enact a stalled legislative agenda. Leaders of the
Congress, which has lost the support of two key allies since
September, have stepped up attacks on Modi.  Third Front  And as opinion polls point to no clear mandate for either
of the two big parties once votes are counted, smaller regional
groups are bidding to revive a so-called Third Front coalition.
Kumar has said he has held consultations with other parties and
the chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha on forming a
political alternative to the Congress and BJP.  While similar attempts have collapsed before recent
elections, a grouping of provincial parties did govern India
from 1996 to 1998, propped up by the Congress.  “It is hard to see a Third Front forming,” said Ramesh
Dixit, a professor of politics at Lucknow University, based in
the capital of  Uttar Pradesh , the country’s most populous state.
“Many of the smaller parties that would need to come together
to form a government clash because of different ideologies or
compete locally.”  Modi’s promotion has triggered a tumultuous week for the
BJP. Lal Krishna Advani, who drove it from the political fringes
in the late 1980s to the seat of power a decade later, briefly
resigned his posts June 10, citing a takeover by leaders he said
were putting personal ambition before the party. He rescinded
the decision after visits from BJP chiefs.  Gandhi Role  Neither Congress nor the BJP is yet to name an official
candidate for prime minister. That hasn’t stopped the local
media from portraying the coming battle has a face off between
Modi and  Rahul Gandhi , scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family that has
dominated Indian politics since independence from British rule.  Gandhi, 42 and son of the Congress President  Sonia Gandhi 
and assassinated Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , was appointed as
his party’s vice president in January and will lead its election
campaign.  Singh’s second term as prime minister has been punctuated
by corruption scandals -- including over the award of mobile-phone permits and coal mines. Protests in parliament paralyzed
policy making for almost two years. In his latest bid to inject
new energy into his administration, Singh will today announce a
cabinet overhaul.  Rupee Slide  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram last week vowed
more steps to boost economic growth and stabilize the rupee
after it slid to a record low.  Sixty-one percent of those polled last month for CNN-IBN
said Singh should be replaced as prime minister, while 37
percent supported him continuing in the post. About 67 percent
said Singh’s government has lost its credibility in the face of
graft scandals and rising prices. Only 31 percent said the
Congress party-led coalition represented the best option for
running India.  While 38 percent want Modi as the country’s next prime
minister, only 14 percent favor Gandhi, according to the poll.  A C-voter survey for the Times Now TV channel found in
April that a drop in support for Congress would slash its
strength in parliament after an election. The party may win 113
seats, a fall of 90, in the 545-member lower house, it said. The
main opposition alliance led by the BJP was on course to make
only marginal advances as regional parties are gaining in
strength, the survey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  