-- Infosys’s Painful Recovery May Take Three Years, Murthy Says
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-16T04:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/infosys-s-painful-recovery-may-take-three-years-murthy-says.html
A sales recovery at  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,
 India ’s second-largest software exporter, will take at least 36
months and may be painful, Chairman and co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy said.  The company will adopt flexible pricing and refocus on
winning large outsourcing deals as it looks to boost growth and
narrow the lead of bigger rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
Murthy said yesterday at the annual shareholders meeting in
Bangalore.  “There will be some pain along the way,” said Murthy, a
billionaire who was voted to the company’s board as a director
yesterday. “I request your understanding and patience.”  The 66-year-old Murthy, who helped Infosys become the first
Indian company to list on the Nasdaq stock market, will have to
steer it through proposed tougher visa rules and spending cuts
in the U.S., its biggest market. Sales growth in the 12 months
ending March 31 may be the slowest in four years, according to
analyst  estimates , as fewer customers commit to long-term
contracts amid economic uncertainty.  Revenue at Bangalore-based Infosys may increase 8.2 percent
in the year to March, according to the median of 64 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at larger competitor Tata
Consultancy may rise 15 percent, according to a survey of 63
analysts.  Infosys recalling Murthy echoes the returns of former
leaders, including Apple Inc.’s  Steve Jobs  and Starbucks Corp.’s
 Howard Schultz . Yet similar comebacks at Dell Inc. and Yahoo!
Inc. didn’t reverse sagging fortunes.  Procter & Gamble Co . last
month hired back A.G. Lafley as its chief executive officer.  19-Year Tenure  Under Murthy’s 19-year tenure as chief executive officer
until 2002, Infosys achieved market capitalization of 234
billions rupees ($4.1 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s almost as big as  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and HCL
Technologies Ltd. combined. Tata Consultancy was closely held
when Murthy stepped down.  Infosys in April forecast revenue will rise 6 percent to 10
percent in the year ending March. That compares with the 10
percent to 14 percent estimate of the industry group NASCOMM.  Net income for Infosys rose 3.4 percent to 23.9 billion
rupees in the three months ended March from a year earlier, the
company said. That beat the 23 billion-rupee median of 41
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 18 percent
to 104.5 billion rupees, less than the 107.5 billion-rupee
median of 46 projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  