-- Mining Firms Face New Regulator Scrutiny Amid Deal Probes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-17T04:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/mining-firms-face-new-scrutiny-from-regulators-amid-deal-probes.html
For an industry that routinely makes
multi-billion dollar deals with developing-world governments and
an array of sometimes controversial leaders, the mining sector
has been remarkably free of political scrutiny.  No longer. World leaders gathering in Northern Ireland for
the Group of Eight summit beginning today have mining
transactions and companies in their cross hairs. They are
proposing tighter oversight by requiring companies to disclose
all payments made to foreign governments. The new rules, aimed
at exposing corruption, come as U.S. and British regulators
probe mining companies including  Eurasian Natural Resources
Corp. (ENRC)  and a firm backed by Israeli billionaire Beny Steinmetz.  The spotlight may change how mining groups, which have
participated in $524 billion of takeovers since 2008 according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, make deals worldwide, restraining
acquisitions of assets tainted with allegations of bribery or
corruption. It may also put new assets in play as mining
companies under legal pressure look to sell projects or, in
extreme cases, have them seized.  “Mining has been caught in the headlights in the past few
months,” said Raj Karia, a partner in London at law firm Norton
Rose Fulbright. For deals in the sector as a whole, “the
environment has changed,” he said. “There is more need now to
be very sure of what you’re buying, and aware of the history of
an asset.”  Britain and the European Union are pushing for new laws
that require mandatory disclosure by petroleum and mining
companies of all payments including taxes and licensing fees to
governments and officials, and for  developing countries  to
report all resource revenues in a standardized way.  Lift Veil  The goal is to “lift the veil of secrecy that too often
lets corrupt corporations and officials in some countries run
rings around the law,” British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
wrote last month.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted similar
disclosure rules last year as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.
The measures are being challenged in court by entities including
the  American Petroleum Institute  on the grounds that they
disadvantage U.S. companies against foreign-owned ones.  BHP Evidence  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, said
it has provided evidence to authorities investigating alleged
breaches of anti-corruption laws, including the SEC. It began an
internal inquiry in 2009 following an SEC request for
information related to dealings with foreign officials,
including Chinese dignitaries.  “The group is cooperating with the relevant authorities
and reporting the facts found in the investigation,” BHP said
today in an e-mailed statement. “It is not possible at this
time to predict the likely outcomes of the matter.”  The Melbourne-based company declined to say which other
authorities it was liaising with, or offer details of specific
allegations being investigated.  BHP is the subject of a joint U.S.-Australian bribery probe
examining its multimillion-dollar hospitality and sponsorship
program at the 2008 Olympics, The Age newspaper reported in
March. Projects in Cambodia and the Philippines are also being
studied in the inquiries, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.  Canada, home to the world’s largest number of mining-company listings, will also impose mandatory reporting
standards, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said last week. While
penalties for failing to disclose payments aren’t yet
established, the filings will provide greater transparency to
fight corruption, he said.  Pursuing Bribes  The efforts represent a change to the governments’
relatively hands-off approach to the  mining industry . Until
recently, there’d rarely been a major investigation of a mining
company under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. That law
prohibits “the payment of bribes to foreign officials to assist
in obtaining or retaining business” worldwide, according to the
SEC, and can be applied to companies that aren’t based in the
U.S.  Even in the U.K., home of mining giants including  Rio Tinto 
Group, the  Serious Fraud Office  has focused its efforts on
probing deals in the defense and energy sectors, largely
avoiding mining. An SFO spokesman declined to comment. Rio Tinto
said in a statement last week that it’s supportive of Cameron’s
efforts to increase oversight of the industry.  This year there has been plenty to scrutinize. A British
shareholder group has called for an investigation of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ,
the product of a $3 billion 2011 deal between a company
controlled by financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  and a pair of
Indonesian coal exporters.  Unwinding Bumi  London-based Bumi on May 31 said a review of its accounts
found about $201 million of spending at one unit for which there
was “no clear business purpose.” An independent probe at the
company’s other investment, coal exporter PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI) ,
followed the discovery of “irregularities” in September of
last year.  The findings have led Bumi to seek to unwind part of the
deal that created it by splitting into two entities. One will be
controlled by Indonesia’s billionaire Bakrie family and listed
in Jakarta, while Bumi keeps its 85 percent holding in  PT Berau
Coal Energy (BRAU) , remaining listed in London. As part of an effort to
recover missing funds, it’s in talks with Indonesian regulators
as well as the U.K.’s SFO.  Opt Out  To avoid potential future controversy, big mining companies
may simply choose to steer clear of countries with questionable
deal-making histories, said Paul Gait, a mining analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  “The real victims in all of this are those developing
countries with a significant resource endowment that are going
to find it harder to access capital because of the alleged
criminal behavior of certain mining companies,” Gait said.  In particular, deals with middlemen who obtain mining
assets from governments, and then sell them to international
mining groups, may get an especially cool reception, said Tim
Bush, the head of governance and analysis at the U.K.’s Pensions
Investment Research Consultants shareholder group.  “In a proper free, fair, transparent market such
intermediaries shouldn’t have a role,” he said. “They’re there
to oil the wheels un-transparently.”  U.S. prosecutors are examining a deal between BSG Resources
Ltd., a company linked to Israel’s Steinmetz, and Guinea’s
government to obtain part of the Simandou  iron-ore  concession,
which was later re-sold to Vale SA for $2.5 billion.  Glencore Xstrata  BSGR denies wrongdoing, and has argued the Guinean
government is trying to strip the company of the concession. If
that occurs, it could spur a race among mining companies like
Rio and Vale to increase their ownership of the asset, part of
the world’s richest undeveloped iron-ore deposit, said Liberum
Capital analyst  Richard Knights .  Meanwhile ENRC’s legal troubles, which also include an SFO
probe of suspected bribery at its operations in Kazakhstan, may
similarly put significant new assets into play.  The three billionaires who control the company are seeking
to take ENRC private in the wake of investigations that have
helped wipe more than $4 billion from its market value. After
the deal, they may seek to break up the company, selling off
assets to suitors that could include  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) ,
according to people familiar with the situation. Analysts at
Nomura Holdings Inc. value the firm’s Kazakh business at more
than $11 billion and its African unit at $1.8 billion.  A spokeswoman for ENRC declined to comment.  Still, a broad range of mining assets are for sale for more
prosaic reasons as resource firms look to unload less-promising
projects amid weakening commodity prices, reducing demand for
those with uncertain histories.  Fewer Deals  So far this year global mining takeovers have totaled just
$24.3 billion, compared with $93 billion in the same period in
2012.  Rio Tinto is considering a sale of at least part of its
coal business in  Mozambique , which it acquired for $4.1 billion
in 2011, after flagging a $3 billion writedown of the value of
the project, a person familiar with the matter said in January.
Glencore is also seeking buyers for its Las Bambas copper
development in  Peru , which could fetch as much as $10 billion.  The broad crackdown on the mining sector is part of the
hangover of the last commodities boom, which saw prices for
minerals like iron ore and copper jump on the back of Chinese
economic growth, said  Robert Talbut , who heads the investment
committee of the  Association of British Insurers . It represents
some of the U.K.’s largest institutional investors.  “There was a sense that because the sector was hot you
were prepared to severely compromise on due diligence,” Talbut
said. “Maybe the experience of the past 18 months or so shows
that if you take shortcuts simply because a sector is hot, the
chickens can come home to roost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  