-- Kenya May Face Fuel Shortage and Price Rise From July, Vivo Says
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-06-16T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/kenya-may-face-fuel-shortage-and-price-rise-from-july-vivo-says.html
Kenya  may face a “spike” in
gasoline costs and a shortage next month because of a dispute
between fuel retailers and the country’s only refinery, said
Vivo Energy Kenya Ltd. Managing Director Polycarp Igathe.  Ten fuel-marketing companies have refused to adhere to a
rule that they purchase 40 percent of their fuel needs from the
refinery, the Oil Industry Supply Coordination Committee said in
a letter sent to Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd., or KPRL. The
April 19 letter from the committee, which represents companies
including KenolKobil Ltd., Total Kenya Ltd. and Nairobi-based
Vivo Energy, the  three biggest  fuel suppliers by market share,
was forwarded to Bloomberg by two of its members.  From July 1, “fuel supply into Kenya is at risk and
perhaps supply costs will spike due to an increase in demurrage
costs as all players import their product needs,” Igathe said
in an interview on June 14 in Nairobi, the capital. Offloading
at the port in  Mombasa  may be delayed as multiple companies
import instead of only KPRL, he said.  Kenyan fuel retailers want KPRL to stop importing crude and
selling them the refined output because equipment at the 50-year
old facility is outdated. Inefficiencies at the refinery mean it
costs petroleum companies 10 shillings (12 cents) per liter more
than importing it themselves, according to the committee.  “If you don’t pick from KPRL you make more profit than the
competitor because KPRL supply is expensive” Igathe said. “It
is unfair for KPRL-compliant oil marketers to make losses for
obeying the law.”  The refinery has a processing capacity of about 80,000
barrels per day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Closure Threat  Last month, the Energy Ministry threatened to close the
refinery unless it details a plan to finance an upgrade. Workers
at the plant held a strike last week over concerns that they may
lose their jobs. Losses at the facility, which is managed by
 Essar Energy Plc (ESSR)  of  India  in a joint venture with the
government, have cost the state 13.1 billion shillings over the
past 28 months, according to the ministry.  “In response to that letter, the oil marketing companies,
the Ministry of Energy and KPRL have agreed that the companies
continue uplifting whatever stock we have bought up to June,”
Managing Director Brij Mohan Bansal said by phone. After the
stock of crude oil purchased by refinery is finished “the
government has to think of what will be done,” he said.  KPRL said in April its considering raising $1 billion of
debt and equity for a planned upgrade of the facility.
Renovations at the Mombasa-based refinery will increase
processing capacity to 4 million metric tons by 2019 from 1.6
million tons now and improve efficiency, it said.  Upgrade Delayed  The upgrade has been delayed by at least three years. In
April 2011, the government said it expected work to be completed
by 2015-16.  Under the merchant model, the refinery began sourcing and
processing its own fuel and selling it to oil marketers.
Previously, under the toll system, it refined products bought
from the fuel distributors and sold it back to them for a fee.  Imports of refined petroleum rose to 2.8 million metric
tons in 2012 compared with 2.24 million tons in 2011 as imports
of crude dropped as the refinery was being converted to a
merchant facility, according to the Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics’ 2013 economic survey.  The Energy Regulatory Commission, the industry regulator,
reviews retail prices every month and set pump prices for
gasoline at 108.18 shillings per liter on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  