-- Kuwaiti Court Dissolves Assembly for Vote Under Amended Law
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-06-16T17:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/kuwaiti-court-dissolves-assembly-for-elections-under-amended-law.html
Kuwait’s top court ordered the
dissolution of parliament and the holding of elections under an
amended voting law decreed by the emirate’s ruler and rejected
by the opposition.  Constitutional Court  head judge Yusuf Al Mutawa’a issued
today’s ruling in response to challenges to last year’s election
decree by Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah and some electoral
procedures. The emir said in October that he had asked the
government to change the electoral system, restricting voters to
choosing one candidate instead of four, to “bolster the
democratic process” and safeguard unity.  The amendment sparked Kuwait’s most violent street protests
and led the opposition to boycott National Assembly elections
held in December, the second vote in less than a year. The
opposition said the changes to the voting rules were
gerrymandering aimed at reducing their chances of winning and
had made it easier for candidates to buy votes.  “What was issued today is the worst decision,” former
lawmaker Waleed Al-Tabtabai wrote on Twitter. “We don’t care
about dissolving this parliament as much as we care about
canceling the single-vote decree and going back to the four-vote
system, which was established by the people’s will.”  ‘Bitter Experience’  Kuwait ’s emir, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed, said he accepts the
ruling and called on citizens to respect it.  “What the country has witnessed was a bitter experience
but not a battle with a winner or loser,” the emir said during
an address to the nation aired on state television. He asked the
Cabinet to implement the decision.  Earlier, Information Minister Sheikh Salman Al-Sabah said
the court decision “enhances the durability of the democratic
system that is enjoyed by Kuwait,” according to a post on his
ministry’s Twitter account.  Opposition members have been calling for political reforms,
including more power-sharing by Kuwait’s hereditary rulers.
Political clashes between former parliaments and governments,
chosen by the ruling Al-Sabah family, have slowed Kuwait’s $110
billion development plan to diversify the oil-reliant economy.  In the December elections, which took place under the
amended rules, Shiite Muslims won a record number of seats. The
opposition that boycotted the vote is led by former lawmakers
and comprised Sunni Islamists, liberals and youth groups
inspired by the uprisings of the region’s so-called Arab Spring.  Today was the second time in a year that the court ordered
parliament dissolved. On June 20, the court voided election
results that had seated an opposition-dominated parliament four
months earlier and reinstated the previous assembly of
lawmakers.  “We see this decision by the Constitutional Court as being
one of the most positive of the possible outcomes, from an
economic standpoint,”  Monica Malik , Dubai-based chief economist
at investment bank EFG-Hermes, said today in an e-mailed note.
“The opposition-dominated parliament’s confrontational stance
towards the government has been a central factor behind the poor
implementation of the investment program and Kuwait’s weak
economic performance overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  