-- N. Korea Proposes Talks on Peace Treaty, Denuclearization
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-06-16T16:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/n-korea-proposes-high-level-talks-with-u-s-to-ease-tensions.html
North Korea  proposed its first talks
with the U.S. in more than a year to discuss nuclear disarmament
and a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War, less than a
week after it scrapped a meeting with the South.  Any talks must have no preconditions, an unidentified
spokesman of North Korea’s National Defense Commission said in a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
North Korea confirmed its denuclearization commitment on the
condition that it’s discussed as part of broader talks toward a
“nuclear free world,” the commission headed by North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un said.  The U.S. is unlikely to agree to today’s proposal after
repeatedly demanding North Korea take steps toward disarmament
as a condition for any dialogue. China, North Korea’s biggest
benefactor, also has taken a tougher stance against Kim’s regime
after it tested an atomic weapon in February and threatened pre-emptive nuclear strikes in response to sanctions.  “Dialogue is our preferred outcome,” said  Denis McDonough , the White House chief of staff, on today’s CBS’s
“Face the Nation” program. “Those talks have to be real.”  North Korea’s envoy Choe Ryong Hae told Chinese President
Xi Jinping on May 24 his country wants to find ways to resolve
its conflicts via talks. In a statement about Choe’s meeting
with another top Chinese official in Beijing on May 23, the
official Xinhua News Agency said the North “is willing to
accept advice from the Chinese side and carry out dialogue.”  ‘Strategic Tactic’  “There is no sincerity in North Korea’s offer today for
dialogue with U.S., nor do the Americans have any reason to
accept the proposal when the North shows no change in its stance
regarding its nuclear weapons program,” Park Young Ho, senior
research fellow at the state-run Korea Institute for National
Unification in  Seoul , said by telephone today. “Ultimately, the
offer is aimed to appease  China , to show that the North is
heeding Beijing’s calls for a return to dialogue.”  Today’s proposal is part of North Korea’s tactic to tell
China “that it has been for peace and dialogue all along, while
other involved parties are not,” Park said. “This is a
strategic tactic to appear as if it is now ready to return to
dialogue, after months of escalating tensions -- not a sincere
sign of the North’s willingness to denuclearize.”  North Korea’s June 6 suggestion to hold “high-level”
talks with South Korea over reopening a joint factory park came
one day before the U.S. President  Barack Obama  met his Chinese
counterpart Xi Jinping in  California . The leaders had “quite a
bit of alignment” on stopping North Korea’s nuclear program,
according to White House national security adviser Tom Donilon.  Obligations  Park and Xi will hold their first summit meeting in Beijing
on June 27-30, where the North Korean nuclear issue will be a
central issue, according to Park’s office.  Glyn Davies , the top
U.S. envoy on North Korea, will hold talks with his Japanese and
South Korean counterparts this week in  Washington , according to
the U.S. State Department, which had no immediate comment on
North Korea’s proposal today.  “As we have made clear, our desire is to have credible
negotiations with the North Koreans, but those talks must
involve North Korea living up to its obligations to the world,
including compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, and
ultimately result in denuclearization,” said Caitlin Hayden, a
National Security Council spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.  North Korea’s relations with the outside world haven’t
improved under Kim, who succeeded his father in 2011.  Scrapped Plans  A rocket launch last year broke a food-aid deal agreed to
with the U.S. in February 2012.  Kim’s regime unilaterally scrapped plans for a meeting last
week with  South Korea , which would have been the first such
inter-Korean dialogue in six years, after a dispute over who
would lead the two delegations. Both sides had agreed to discuss
reopening the jointly run Gaeseong industrial complex, shuttered
since the North withdrew its workers in April.  Proposing talks with the U.S. may be North Korea’s tactic
to put pressure on the South, according to Yang Moo Jin, a
professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul,
said by telephone today.  “Strategically, North Korea is saying it wants to settle
the issues raised by the U.S., including denuclearization and
peace talks, with the U.S.” and not with South Korea, he said.  The Obama administration and South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s government have emphasized the importance of the six-party process members in sending a unified message to the North.
The U.S. has said North Korea must live up to past commitments
to denuclearize before six-party negotiations, which last took
place in 2008, can resume.  North Korea today proposed that talks with the U.S. include
a formal peace treaty to replace the armistice that ended the
1950-1953  Korean War . U.S. Army Lieutenant General William
Harrison signed the armistice on behalf of United Nations
Command, which fought against North Korea in the war.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  