-- Newcrest Facing Scrutiny Over June 7 Disclosure of Writedown
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-06-17T06:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/newcrest-facing-questions-about-june-7-disclosure-of-writedown.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s
largest gold producer, is facing scrutiny from regulators about
its disclosure of a possible A$6 billion ($5.7 billion)
writedown after bullion slid into a  bear market .  Newcrest, which flagged the charge on June 7 as it halted
some of its higher-cost  gold mines , received a letter the same
day from ASX Ltd., operator of Australia’s main stock exchange,
asking why it didn’t halt trading before disclosing the cost,
according to a June 12 response from the company. Newcrest’s
market  value  has fallen more than A$2 billion this month to
A$8.7 billion. It fell to an eight year low today.  The Australian Financial Review reported June 15 that
Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about A$1.2 billion at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd., got an e-mail from an unidentified equity
analyst predicting how much gold Newcrest would produce before
the company’s official announcement. The  Australian Securities
and Investments Commission  is in discussions with ASX, Andre Khoury, a spokesman for ASIC said today.  Kerrina Watson, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for Newcrest,
had no comment when contacted by phone on June 15, and referred
to the company’s June 12 statement.  “Newcrest treats its disclosure obligations seriously and
engages with the investment community in a manner consistent
with these obligations,” the Melbourne-based company said.  Shares Tumble  Newcrest tumbled 15 percent in the week ended June 7, when
it announced the likely A$5 billion to A$6 billion charge and
said production would be relatively flat next year as it stopped
certain high-cost operations. The company had already flagged
the possibility of production cuts and announced a review of all
activities in April. The shares fell 1.9 percent to close at
A$11.35 in Sydney, as  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
rose 0.7 percent.  “We are aware of the trading and are in discussions with
the ASX,” ASIC’s Khoury said by telephone.  ASIC would determine whether action will be taken as a
result of initial inquiries, Matthew Gibbs, a spokesman for ASX
said by phone today.  “ASX remains available to assist ASIC in any inquiry that
ASIC might be undertaking,” Gibbs said from Sydney. “Any
further action is entirely a matter for ASIC as the regulator.”  Credit Suisse Group AG, Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG cited
likely lower output among the reasons for cutting their ratings
on Newcrest in the three days before it announced the result of
the review.  Daniel Seeney, an analyst at Citigroup who cut his rating
on Newcrest, said Monday he could not provide any comment on the
issue. Credit Suisse spokeswoman Liz Rudall and UBS spokeswoman
Erica Borgelt, declined to comment.  “Some sections of the market were clearly aware of
something happening, though they may not have had the exact same
details,” Patkar said in a June 7 interview with  Bloomberg News .
He declined to comment yesterday on the AFR story.  Writedown Scale  The scale of Newcrest’s writedown compares with Rio Tinto
Group’s $14 billion charge last year against the value of some
of its aluminum and coal operations. In 2009,  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  wrote down the value of its mine assets by
$13.1 billion.  Gold has retreated 17 percent this year, making it the
third-worst performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
raw materials, curbing revenue for gold miners. While Newcrest
plunged 49 percent this year,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  has lost 44
percent and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  dropped 29 percent.  UBS cut Newcrest to sell from neutral on June 4, citing
expected production cuts. Credit Suisse downgraded the stock to
underperform from outperform on June 6 amid concern it will
lower output and halt expansions. Citigroup cited a shift to
focusing on returns and cash generation at the expense of
production when it cut Newcrest to sell from neutral on June 5.  Bear Market  Cathy Moises, senior analyst at Evans & Partners Pty Ltd.
and the most-accurate Newcrest analyst tracked by Bloomberg,
raised the company’s rating to neutral from negative on June 12
even as some banks cut their ratings. Of the  five most-accurate 
analysts tracked by Bloomberg, only one rates Newcrest
negatively. Moises declined to comment yesterday.  Gold, which tumbled into a bear market in April, is on
track for the first annual drop since 2000. Some investors are
losing faith in it as a store of value as the  U.S. economy 
improves and speculation builds that the  Federal Reserve  may
back off quantitative easing. Newcrest said April 23 that it was
reviewing its operations because of rising costs and falling
prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  