-- Nissan Yen-Aided Cuts Threaten Detroit’s Price Discipline
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-16T21:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/nissan-yen-aided-cuts-threaten-detroit-s-price-discipline.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s take-no-prisoners
approach to gaining U.S. market share has the auto industry
worried that a price war is brewing that will erode the profit
progress made since the recession ravaged auto sales.  After cutting prices on seven models and boosting
incentives, Nissan’s U.S. sales surged 25 percent in May, triple
the industrywide gain. Sales of its Altima family sedan, which
had a $580 price cut, jumped 41 percent, surpassing  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s Fusion and closing in on  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord.
Nissan’s U.S. market share rose a full point to 7.9 percent last
month, the biggest gain of any automaker.  Nissan’s sales boom has the industry on edge. It’s the
first sign of a Japanese automaker taking advantage of the
weakening yen that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has pushed down to
improve Japan’s economy. That currency’s 15 percent swoon versus
the dollar since Oct. 31 gives Japanese automakers an extra
$1,500 per car they can use to cut prices or offer additional
features while keeping prices even, according to Morgan Stanley.  Nissan’s marketing moves “strike me as a scorched earth
policy of going for market share and sales volume at seemingly
all costs,” said Michelle Krebs, a Royal Oak, Michigan-based
analyst with auto researcher Edmunds.com.  That’s pressuring  Detroit  to maintain new-found discipline
on discounting. An over-reliance on rebates and price cuts
helped lead to Detroit’s downfall last decade. In order to
survive, the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC required government-funded bankruptcies in 2009 and
Ford needed a self-financed reorganization.  Resisting Temptation  Detroit has implemented discounts on some models, such as
the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid, and offered promotions such
as free oil changes. To resist further temptation, the U.S.
automakers are armed with some of their best models in a
generation, such as the Ford Fusion family car and GM’s Cadillac
ATS sports sedan.  Stronger lineups from Detroit may be driving some of the
discounting at Nissan, said Jeff Schuster, an analyst with
researcher LMC Automotive in Troy, Michigan.  “So far, Detroit has responded by having more competitive
products that are putting some pressure on other brands that
just didn’t exist before,” Schuster said. “Now we’re seeing
how the other brands are dealing with it.”  Detroit’s delicate discipline could crumble if Nissan’s
price cuts are duplicated by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
best-selling automaker, said Brian Johnson, Chicago-based auto
analyst for Barclays.  ‘Next Move’  “If Nissan keeps up this pace, then the next move on the
chess board would be from Toyota,” said Johnson, who recently
spoke with top executives at GM and Ford about Nissan’s pricing
strategy. “Ford and GM view Toyota as the price-setter in the
market. They’re not as worried about these type of moves coming
out of Nissan, which has a history of erratic incentives.”  Nissan cut prices from $580 to $4,400 on seven models last
month so car shoppers using price-search engines can find them
online, said Jose Munoz, the automaker’s senior vice president
of sales and marketing.  “Our strategy is not to be at a discount,” Munoz said in
a June 11 interview. “We want to be simply competitive so that
we are included in search engines which are used by consumers.”  Munoz said Nissan’s incentives were $600 per-vehicle below
the industry average in May.  However, Autodata Corp. estimated Nissan had incentives of
$2,805 per vehicle last month, up 5.8 percent from a year
earlier and $141 per model above the industry average. The
researcher said the announced price cuts affected only newly
produced models and those already on dealers’ lots were treated
as having cash incentives known as equipment allowances.  Advertising Changes  Nissan will soon begin more aggressive advertising of its
price cuts, Munoz said.  “Consumers are going to realize that we are present in
some pricing segments where before they were not seeing us,”
Munoz said, adding that he expects some competitors to match
Nissan’s price cuts “if they think they do not have the right
position.”  Toyota sees no need to modify its incentives and pricing in
response to Nissan, said Carly Schaffner, a company spokeswoman.
Rather than across-the-board price cuts, the automaker has taken
a more surgical strategy for offering deals.  Toyota is offering discounts on models that need them, such
as the Camry family car, which has had four consecutive months
of declining sales in the U.S. Toyota is offering $500 cash back
on the Camry in various regions of the country, including Los
Angeles and central  Ohio , according to the carmaker’s website.  Mid-Size Segment  “We definitely have incentives on Camry,” Schaffner said
of the model that has been the top-selling car in the U.S. for
the past 11 years. “Our position on the mid-size segment is
that it is absolutely competitive. There are a lot of great cars
and everybody is coming out with their new vehicles.”  Toyota’s incentives declined 5.1 percent to $1,844 per
vehicle in May, according to Autodata, which is based in
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  Honda, which reduced discounts 23 percent last month to
$1,811 per model, is holding the line on pricing, said John Mendel, the automaker’s executive vice president for U.S. sales.  Honda’s models are “selling primarily on their merits
despite increasing price and incentive pressure from the
competition,” Mendel said. “A good price can certainly bring
shoppers, but in the end, a buyer is really looking for value.”  Japanese automakers may wage a “silent price war,” in
which they outfit new models with extra features while keeping
sticker prices in check, Adam Jonas, an analyst with Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a June 5 report. Honda’s new 2014 Acura MDX
has $4,000 in additional content, yet that model’s price is only
$1,710 higher, Jonas said.  ‘You Bet’  “Is that a discount? You bet it is,” Jonas wrote. “We
believe the Japanese will not slash prices, risking accusations
of predatory behavior and spoiling Abenomics for everyone. The
Detroit players won’t want to cut prices, risking negative share
price reactions from investors.”  The yen has strengthened during the past month, rising 9.6
percent since May 17 after tumbling 32 percent since September
to 103.21 yen per dollar. At 94.11 at the close of last week, it
remains stronger than a decade ago, when the yen averaged more
than 120 yen per dollar from 2001 through 2003. It averaged
almost 200 in the 1980s.  GM has already responded to the stealth price cuts from its
yen-aided competitors. The Detroit-based automaker said June 5
it’s offering free maintenance, such as oil changes, for two
years or 24,000 miles on 2014 Chevrolet, Buick and GMC models.  ‘No Doubt’  Price cutting destroys profits. A $1,000 per car discount
reduces revenue by about 4 percent, Barclays’s Johnson said. In
an industry where a 5 percent margin is considered healthy, a
$1,000 price cut can turn a car from a modest money maker into a
money loser, he said.  “There’s no doubt that some of the improved profitability
in Detroit is from having better cars at better price points,”
Johnson said. “They’ve learned their lesson on discounts and
they’re very reluctant to go back there.”  Even with their newfound restraint, Detroit offers above
average incentives because their big-ticket trucks often feature
hefty discounts. GM’s incentives rose 8.4 percent in May to
$3,651, Ford’s jumped 17 percent to $3,073 and Chrysler’s
increased 3.2 percent to $3,282, according to Autodata.  GM responded last week to Nissan’s 18 percent price cut on
its Leaf electric car. GM cut the price of its Volt plug-in
hybrid by $4,000 on the 2013 model and $5,000 on the 2012
version. GM said it was seeking to remain competitive in the
electric vehicle category and looking to reduce Volt inventory,
which is twice the industry standard.  Rogue Soars  Nissan’s price cuts lowered the average price consumers
paid for its models by $500 in May, Johnson said. The biggest
decline came on the Rogue small sport-utility vehicle, which had
a 12 percent drop in average transaction price, according to an
analysis by Edmunds, which is based in Santa Monica. The Rogue,
with a $2,300 price cut, saw sales soar 45 percent in May.  “The discounts were pretty high for that model,” said
Jessica Caldwell, Edmunds chief analyst. “The Rogue had its
best sales month ever. So for that car, the price cut really
worked.”  Nissan had more room to cut prices on the Rogue because it
builds that model in  Japan , where the weakened yen now makes it
much cheaper to manufacture. Imports make up 31 percent of
Nissan’s sales in the U.S., more than Toyota or Honda, according
to a Feb. 27 report from Deutsche Bank entitled “Re-rising
Sun?”  Weaker Yen  Even the models Nissan builds in the U.S. benefit from the
weaker yen, according to Deutsche Bank. Citing data from the
National Highway Transportation Safety Administration, Deutsche
Bank said 15 percent to 35 percent of parts in Nissan’s North
American-built models come from Japan.  The weaker yen will add $2.7 billion to Nissan’s operating
profit this year, Deutsche Bank estimated. The automaker’s net
income margin will grow to 5.7 percent in the 2015 fiscal year
from 3.6 percent last year, Deutsche Bank forecast.  Nissan’s Munoz disputed that foreign-exchange rates, known
as forex, have played a significant role in the automaker’s
pricing or profits.  “In reality, the forex is not a factor for American-produced vehicles,” Munoz said. “What we see is some of the
key models that are coming from Japan actually are not the best-performing at the moment.”  Nissan will continue to be scrutinized by its competitors
as they weigh whether to stay on the sidelines or engage in a
price war, LMC’s Schuster said.  “All eyes will certainly be on June to see what kind of
numbers Nissan produces,” Schuster said. “If we see any kind
of trend here, then we’ll see other Japanese brands acting first.
And then Detroit will be under the microscope.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  