-- Now’s Best Time to Buy Art, Collector Rachofsky Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2013-06-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/now-s-best-time-to-buy-art-collector-rachofsky-says.html
Now is a good time to buy
contemporary art, even though prices have never been higher, the
Dallas-based collector Howard Rachofsky says as he digests his
bratwurst.  The former hedge fund manager and his wife Cindy are
grabbing lunch at  Art Basel , the world’s biggest fair devoted to
21st- and 20th-century works. Dealers did plenty of business at
this year’s 44th edition, following the $1.1 billion achieved at
the  New York  contemporary sales in May.  The Montreal-based dealer  Landau Fine Art  sold Rene Magritte’s 1960 canvas, “Un peu de l’ame des bandits” (A Little
of the Spirit of Bandits), priced at $12.5 million.  “The market for masterpieces and trophies couldn’t be
stronger,” says Rachofsky, 69, dressed in a cobalt-blue jacket
and canary-yellow pants. “There’s plenty at more modest levels,
particularly by younger artists. There are opportunities.”  He’s just bought works by Italian postwar artists  Mimmo
Rotella  and  Mario Merz  for $500,000 and $150,000 each. He’d also
snapped up a 1954 abstract by the Japanese Gutai (“Embodiment”)
group’s  Kazuo Shiraga  for about $300,000 from the London-based
dealer David Juda.  The Rachofskys are one of the most prominent art-buying
couples in the U.S. Their collection is primarily devoted to
American and European postwar movements such as 1960s Minimalism
and  Italy ’s Arte Povera. Selections are displayed in their
modernist  Dallas  house, designed by  Richard Meier , as well as in
a new Dallas warehouse space.  Japanese Collection  In the last four years, they’ve been buying Japanese
postwar art, amassing what Howard calls a “definitive”
collection of as many as 100 pieces by artists such as Shiraga,
 Saburo Murakami  and  Shozo Shimamoto .  “Japanese postwar is an undervalued area of the market,” he
says. “Our primary concern isn’t financial. There’s a whole
evolution of thinking right now about mid-20th-century art
movements and we’re trying to be part of the dialogue.”  Curators, dealers and collectors are ahead of the auction
houses in rediscovering  Japan ’s 1950s and ’60s avant-garde.  The Gutai group was the subject of a recent survey at the
Guggenheim Museum in New York. The Belgium-based dealer Axel
Vervoordt sold an abstract by Shiraga -- who painted with his
feet -- to a Swiss collector for 1.2 million euros ($1.6
million) at the Dutch Tefaf art fair in March.  The Rachofskys are currently showing the exhibition 
“Parallel Views,” exploring the relationship between Japanese 
art and Arte Povera, in their Texas warehouse space.  Balloon Crash  Rachofsky deftly negotiated the art-market crash of 2008-2009. In June 2008 he sold  Jeff Koons ’s 1995-2000 sculpture
“Balloon Flower (Magenta)” at Christie’s International for a
record 12.9 million pounds (then $25.8 million).  “We sold it specifically to buy a suite of four Sigmar Polke paintings from 1982,” said Rachofsky. “At that time the
market seemed unsustainable and unimaginable. If you want to
continue to collect, it is highly unlikely that one has the
resources to play the game without occasionally selling things.”  Rachofsky attributes the rise in prices to what he calls
the concentration of wealth. “After you’ve bought three homes,
two yachts and a plane, the most visible manifestation of
affluence is what’s hanging on your walls -- particularly if
your friends know what’s there,” he said. “Bragging rights are
important.”  He thinks a cataclysmic event like last decade’s subprime
crisis would cause a “pause” in the art market. Otherwise he can
only envisage the business growing as usual. “There seems to be
something new that rises each season,” he says.  Affordable Artists  He buys established names combined with more affordable
works by younger artists. He owns paintings by Polke, Marlene Dumas and  Luc Tuymans , as well as pieces by Richard Aldrich,
Katy Moran and Jacob Kassay.  The former partner at Regal Asset Management in Dallas
finds  Damien Hirst  less to his taste. “I don’t own any paintings
by him,” says Rachofsky. “I respect the work. It just didn’t
follow the paths of our collections.”  He’s altogether more dismissive of Chinese contemporary
art, which was bought speculatively by Western collectors during
the last boom. “Don’t get it, don’t like it,” he says.  Rachofsky is saddened by the commodification of art. “We’ve
all become so quantitatively preoccupied,” he says. “When we
look at a work, we don’t say that’s an extraordinary painting,
we say that’s $10 million. It’s sad, if you’ve been around for a
while, though not surprising.”  He’s still happy to encourage new collectors. “I tell them
to get a good adviser, pay him a fee, not a commission, and go
to art fairs and exhibitions,” Rachofsky says. “Have a look
around. You don’t have to buy things straight away. Begin the
journey. You may start at point A and wind up at point K.”  Information:  http://rachofskyhouse.org/  and
https://www.artbasel.com/  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris culture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 