-- Friendships Die Hard for Hezbollah Angering Gulf Over Syria
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-17T10:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/old-friendships-die-hard-for-hezbollah-angering-gulf-over-syria.html
Allegiances are proving costly for
Islamic militant group Hezbollah as the war in  Syria  deepens the
sectarian divide in the  Middle East .  Days after the town of al-Qusair fell to President Bashar al-Assad’s forces this month with help from Lebanon’s Shiite
Hezbollah, the group was shunned by the six-nation  Gulf
Cooperation Council . The oil-rich, mainly Sunni GCC labeled it a
terrorist group and threatened unprecedented measures against
its loyalists and their financial transactions. The U.S. said
last week it will help arm the Syrian opposition.  Hezbollah’s involvement in Syria has led to greater
polarization between Islam’s two main sects, said Salman Shaikh,
director of the  Brookings Institution’s Doha Center in Qatar .
Without the group, it “would have been more of an inter-Syrian
fight rather than being a sectarian one,” he said.  The result is a watershed in the 31-year history of
Hezbollah, which seeks to portray itself as an anti- Israel 
resistance group and a champion of the downtrodden and
oppressed, irrespective of their brand of Islam.  Its fighters are also likely to get mired further in
Syria’s civil war to protect its central conduit of weapons and
prevent the well-armed rebels from strengthening Sunni militias
in Lebanon, said Torbjorn Soltvedt, senior analyst at
Maplecroft, a U.K.-based risk consultant.  Sunni Militias  “Combined with significant pressure from  Iran , these
factors are likely to lead to even stronger involvement by
Hezbollah in the Syrian conflict despite the hostile GCC
stands,” he said.  Most of the rebels fighting Assad are  Sunni Muslims  while
the president belongs to the minority Alawite sect, an off-shoot
of Shiite Islam. The split resulted from a dispute over
succession following Prophet Muhammad’s death in 632.  Hezbollah’s open alignment with the Syrian regime has
triggered an escalation in the Sunni rhetoric, including from
 Saudi Arabia ’s top cleric.  Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdul-Aziz Al al-Sheikh called Hezbollah
a “loathsome, sectarian” group in a statement carried June 6
by the official Saudi Press Agency. He also endorsed Egyptian-born cleric Yusuf al-Qaradawi’s call on Sunni Muslims from his
base in Qatar to fight a holy war in Syria.  Saudi Arabia’s stock market, the Arab world’s biggest,
dropped the most in almost two years on June 15 after  King Abdullah  interrupted his vacation in  Morocco  because of what the
official Saudi Press Agency said were “escalating concerns
relating to events in the region.”  ‘Arm Us!’  Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi, who hails from the Sunni
Muslim Brotherhood, on June 15 suspended diplomatic relations
with Assad. Egyptians stood by Lebanon and Hezbollah against
Israel in 2006, and “today we stand against Hezbollah for
Syria,” Mursi told a stadium packed with his supporters.  Khaled Al-Qazza, Mursi’s secretary for foreign affairs,
last week said Egyptians were free to make up their minds about
going to Syria.  More fighters may make their way to Syria after Mohammad
Al-Areefi, an influential Saudi scholar whose comments are often
cited, gave a sermon in a Cairo mosque on June 14 urging Sunnis
to take up arms against Assad and Hezbollah. Scores of
worshipers jumped to their feet after his comments, also
broadcast on Egyptian television, and erupted into chants of
“Arm us, arm us, to Syria, to Syria!”  Lebanon Spillover  The tension has also led to a rise in violence in Lebanon,
where Shiites, Sunnis and Christians each make up roughly a
third of the population of 4.3 million people. Groups clashed in
the northern city of Tripoli, most recently this month, and
rockets launched from Syria fell on Shiite areas in Lebanon.  Lebanon’s army leadership urged restraint last night
following the killing of four people in a remote Bekaa Vally
area close to the Syrian border. The victims included three
Shiites and a Turk with a Shiite mother, the  Daily Star 
reported.  Gunmen fanned out in the region following the killings,
that show how Shiite-Sunni tensions have spilled over from the
Syria crisis. The army, in a statement carried by the official
National News Agency, called on residents to “transcend their
injuries” and said it won’t allow anyone to exploit the
incident to “strike national unity.”  Risk Premium  The chaos in Syria is already weighing on the economy of
Lebanon, whose modern history is marred by sectarian conflicts.
Growth, which averaged 8 percent from 2007 to 2010, won’t exceed
2 percent in 2013, Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said in a
June 5 interview. The risk premium investors demand to hold
Lebanon’s debt over U.S. Treasuries surged in the past four
weeks to 467 on June 14, the highest since September last year,
according to  JP Morgan Chase & Co. data.   Lebanon’s benchmark  BLOM Stock Index (BLOM)  fell for a sixth day
today, declining 0.1 percent. The measure dropped 2.7 percent
last week, the biggest weekly slide since December 2011.  Arabic for “Party of God,” Hezbollah, is the only group
that refused to disband following the end of Lebanon’s 1975-1990
civil war, swelling from a small militia in 1982 to the most
powerful political group in the country with seats in parliament
and ministers in the cabinet in  Beirut .  Hezbollah says it needs its arsenal of weapons to defend
against Israeli attacks. It spearheaded the fight against
Israel’s 18-year occupation of an enclave in south Lebanon.
Israel withdrew in 2000, a move Hezbollah claimed as a victory.
The group also fought an inconclusive war against Israel in
2006, earning popularity among Sunnis as well as Shiites.  Hezbollah chief  Hassan Nasrallah  has linked the group’s
involvement in Syria with its resistance narrative. He called
the fighting part of a broader struggle against Israel, saying
Hezbollah “won’t keep silent and watch its back break.”  Loyal Fighters  In funerals this month for fighters who died in Syria,
Hezbollah officials repeated that message, while members of the
group say they are not fighting a sectarian war.  “No one should consider the al-Qusair achievement as a
victory for Shiites against Sunnis,” said Hezbollah lawmaker
Hussein al-Moussawi in Nabi Sheet on June 5, according to a
transcript of his comments e-mailed by Hezbollah. He said it was
a victory against the Zionist-Western plot targeting Syria.  Syrian opposition groups, which the U.S. government will
supply with small arms and ammunition, say Hezbollah is
mobilizing its fighters along with Syrian troops outside Aleppo
in the north for a push into the city, which unlike al-Qusair,
is far from the borders of Lebanon.  One of the consequences of Hezbollah’s engagement in Syria
is the possibility that Lebanese Shiites who work in Gulf
countries and send money back home would be expelled, said  Peter
Harling , project director with the Middle East Program of the
 International Crisis Group  think tank.  Dire Impact  “It’s happening on a small scale, but you could have an
exodus of Lebanese Shiites who are present in the Gulf in large
numbers, making a lot of money which they send home,” he said
in a phone interview. “This can have a very dire economic
impact on the Shiites in Lebanon.”  The crisis in Syria has also deepened tensions between the
Western-backed March 14 group and the Hezbollah-led March 8
group, which dominates the caretaker government of  Najib Mikati .  What is Hezbollah “doing in the alleys of al-Qusair and
amid the rubble of its houses and buildings?” former Prime
Minister Fouad Siniora, who heads the Future Movement in the
March 14 bloc, said in a June 7 statement. “What is Hezbollah
doing to Lebanon and the Lebanese, to the Arabs and Muslims?”  For now, the group is stuck on its side of the sectarian
divide. Hezbollah won’t change its position on Syria or give up
support for Assad government, leader Nasrallah said in a June 14
speech. “The alternative in Syria is chaos,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  