-- Housing Market Probably Brightened in May: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-16T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/housing-market-probably-brightened-in-may-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales of existing homes probably
rose in May to a three-year high and builders began work on more
new properties, extending gains in residential real estate that
are boosting the U.S. expansion, economists said before reports
this week.  Purchases of  previously owned houses  climbed 0.6 percent to
a 5 million annualized rate, the strongest since November 2009,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of a June 20 report from the National
Association of Realtors.  Housing starts  may have increased to a
950,000 pace last month.  Americans with access to credit have taken advantage of
cheaper borrowing costs, spurring construction and optimism
among companies such as  Plum Creek Timber Co. (PCL)  Federal Reserve
officials meeting this week will weigh how long to continue with
record monetary stimulus as a recent surge in  mortgage rates , if
sustained, threatens to slow housing’s progress.  “The housing market continues to improve, and builders are
seeing demand recover significantly,” said  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . Still,
“we have conditions where unemployment remains high and
inflation is actually decelerating, and I think that gives the
Federal Reserve room to remain engaged.”  The Fed has pressed on with $85 billion a month in asset
purchases, including $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities,
to bolster growth and reduce the  jobless rate . Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said on May 22 that the central bank could scale back
stimulus efforts should the economy show sustained improvement.  Mortgage Rates  Speculation that the Fed is getting closer to paring its
bond buying has caused  mortgage rates  to increase. The average
rate on a 30-year fixed loan jumped to a 14-month high of almost
4 percent last week from a four-month low of 3.35 percent in
early May, according to data from  Freddie Mac .  “You may see some slowing in the pace of homebuilding and
home sales, depending on how far the rates go up,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . In the short term, the pickup in borrowing
costs may encourage more Americans to buy a home before they
appreciate further, he said. “You’re seeing improved consumer
demand, you’re seeing prices improving and that encourages
people on the fence.”  The projected pace of existing-home sales in May, up from a
4.97 million annual rate in April, would be the fastest since a
tax credit for first-time homebuyers was first due to expire in
November 2009. It would be the third-highest since July 2007,
five months before the start of the last recession.  Home Construction  Limited inventory has held back sales, the group has said.
Homebuilders are stepping in to fill the void with new
properties, data from the Commerce Department are projected to
show on June 18.  Builder shares have outperformed the broader market in the
past year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index, which includes  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  and PulteGroup Inc., has
climbed 60.3 percent in the last 12 months compared with a 22.4
percent gain the  S&P 500 .  A measure of homebuilder sentiment may have climbed in June
to a four-month high. The  National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  index of confidence tomorrow is projected
to increase to 45 from 44 in May, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  Building materials suppliers including Plum Creek Timber
are benefiting from the housing pickup.  ‘Fundamental Improvements’  “We’re going to see some fundamental improvements in our
business just by the nature of the economic improvement,
particularly with housing and the repair and remodel segment
which uses lots of wood,” Rick R. Holley, the company’s chief
executive officer, said in a June 6 presentation. “Most
important thing is we see housing and demand continue to go in
the right direction.”  Strength in the housing market has helped make up for
weakness in manufacturing. Two regional factory reports from the
Federal Reserve banks of  New York  and Philadelphia are projected
to show little signs of progress in the industry.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  