-- Raytheon Patriot Missile Finding New Buyers as Kuwait Nea
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-16T14:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/raytheon-patriot-missile-finding-new-buyers-as-kuwait-nea.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN)  said its Patriot
technology is enjoying renewed demand that may help the world’s
largest missile maker double its customer base for the air
defense system.  The system, which is already deployed in  Turkey  and Jordan
to track air threats in Syria, is “going through a resurgence”
that may lift the customer count from 12, Dan Crowley, president
of the Waltham, Massachusetts-based Integrated Defense Systems
unit, said in Paris today.  Proliferation of ballistic missiles in Asia and the  Middle
East  has spurred global interest in equipment that can shoot
down the rockets. Crowley said he’s confident his unit can
exceed 50 percent of sales from exports amid higher demand.  Negotiations to sell Patriot systems to Kuwait are near
conclusion, said Sanjay Kapoor, vice president of Integrated Air
and Missile Defense at Raytheon. The Pentagon estimates the
accord has a value of as much as $4.2 billion.  Turkey is exploring a Patriot purchase as it considers
options from western Europe, China, and Russia, Kapoor said,
adding a deal may be completed this year.  Discussions are also taking place with Germany to upgrade
its Patriot systems. The country is reviewing its air defense
capabilities after dropping a plan with the U.S. and  Italy  to
build the Medium Extended Air Defense System developed by
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and the European MBDA missile venture.  Germany has said it wants to make use of some of the
technology developed in the tri-national effort, and Raytheon is
not opposed to incorporating other systems, Kapoor said.  Contract negotiations are advancing in Oman for an export
of the so-called Nasams air defense program first developed for
 Norway , Kapoor said. The system is designed to fire from the
ground the so-called Amraam missile that was built for combat
jets to shoot down planes.  “We see a huge future” in Nasams, Kapoor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in Paris at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  