-- Record Soybean Glut Seen Worsening as China’s Appetite Eases
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-17T06:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/record-soybean-glut-is-seen-worsening-as-china-s-appetite-eases.html
Soybean imports by China, the
biggest buyer, may be lower than official U.S. forecasts,
deepening a glut and weighing down prices as global reserves are
set to reach a record.  Inbound shipments  will be 63 million metric tons in the 12
months starting Oct. 1, less than the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s June 13 projection of 69 million tons, according
to the median of 14 estimates of China-based crushers and
researchers by Bloomberg. Soybeans, which rose to a record
$17.89 a bushel in  Chicago  during the 2012 drought in the U.S.,
slumped 15 percent this month and are in a bear market along
with corn and wheat.  Demand for soybean meal for animal feed plunged in China
April and May as farmers culled poultry following an outbreak of
the H7N9 bird flu virus that led consumers to shun chicken,
according to Tommy Xiao, analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence
Co., the nation’s biggest agricultural researcher. Growth in
cooking oil and meat consumption is slowing as economic
expansion cools and the nation’s new leadership frowns on lavish
banquets and expensive meals.  “The USDA grossly overestimated  China ’s demand,” said
Xiao, who forecast 60.5 million tons. While demand is stronger
than it was at the height of the virus scare, full recovery will
take several more months, he said by telephone on June 14.  Imports in the 12 months through Sept. 30 may drop for the
first time in almost 10 years to 58 million tons, Bloomberg’s
survey showed. The USDA projects 59 million tons.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a June 13 report it
expected soybeans to trade around $11 a bushel over the next
three to 12 months. That compares with $12.88 at 2 p.m. Beijing
time.  Soybean meal fell 0.7 percent to 3,217  yuan  ($525) per ton
on Dalian Commodity Exchange, extending this year’s loss to 1.7
percent, while soybean oil lost 12 percent in 2013 to 7,622
yuan. The two contracts traded are derived from crushing of
imported soybeans, while domestic soybeans in China are mainly
for food consumption.  Morgan Stanley last week lowered China’s economic growth
estimate to 7.6 percent from 8.2 percent, joining banks
including UBS AG and Barclays Plc in cutting estimates after
weaker expansion in exports, industrial output and new lending
last month.  The State Administration of Grain, which oversees the
country’s grain marketing and logistics, last month ordered
staff to curb conspicuous food consumption, joining other
ministries in echoing the top leadership’s drive to be more
conservative in spending.  Lavish Receptions  Communist Party boss Xi Jinping in December urged officials
to cut lavish receptions and live more frugally.  “Meat and cooking oil use is slowing with the lackluster
economy, and government officials aren’t dropping as much money
on banquets and fancy restaurants,” Xiao said.  Soybean output in the U.S., the world’s second-biggest
grower and exporter, will be a record 3.39 billion bushels in
the season that starts Sept. 1, 12 percent more than a year
earlier, the USDA said on June 12.  Worldwide soybean inventories will rise 19 percent to 74.04
million tons in the 12 months ending in September 2014, the
biggest pre-harvest reserve ever, according to the average of 16
analyst estimates from an earlier survey compiled by Bloomberg.  Li Peng, managing director for investment at Beijing Ruigu
Investment Co. and former head of research at the China unit of
Louis Dreyfus, said imports would be about 65 million tons next
year.  “In general we are bearish on the price outlook of
soybeans,” he said.  Consumption of cooking oil will probably stall this year
after falling last year, said Gao Yanbin, Shanghai-based
director of research at Jinshi Futures Co. Soybean oil and palm
oil are mostly used in restaurants and catering, so a slowdown
in the food-service industry will hurt demand, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  