-- Rockwood to Sell Ceramics Unit to Cinven for $2 Billion
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-06-17T20:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/rockwood-to-sell-germany-s-ceramtec-to-cinven-for-2-billion.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the largest
producer of lithium products, agreed to sell German ceramics
unit CeramTec to Cinven Ltd. for 1.49 billion euros ($2 billion)
to focus on its metal business and  return cash  to shareholders.  Cinven, a buyout firm dedicated to investing in  Europe ,
expects to close the acquisition of CeramTec in the third
quarter, subject to European Union competition clearance,
Rockwood said yesterday in a statement.  CeramTec makes ceramic parts for replacement knees and hips
as well as components for the electronic and auto industries.
Rockwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Seifi Ghasemi is
selling the business as he narrows the focus of the company. He
said yesterday Princeton, New Jersey-based Rockwood will use the
proceeds to support its “balanced approach” to  debt reduction ,
return of capital to shareholders and investment in other
businesses.  “Successful execution of this transaction at an attractive
multiple will bring Rockwood one significant step closer to our
strategic objective and commitment to become a more focused
specialty chemical company,” he said in the statement.  Cinven, with offices in Guernsey, London, Frankfurt, Paris,
Milan, Luxembourg and Hong Kong, won the bid for CeramTec over
competitors, which included Permira Advisers LLP and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , according to three people familiar with the matter in
April. The  firm , which raised 5.3 billion euros this month,
invests in companies with needs of more than 100 million euros
in equity.  Innovative Products  “We are particularly impressed with CeramTec’s ability to
consistently launch high value, innovative products through
economic cycles,”  Bruno Schick , a partner and co-director of
Cinven’s German unit, said in a separate statement. “We are
keen to support the company’s growth outside its core European
markets, specifically in  North America  and Asia, both
organically and through acquisitions.”  CeramTec , founded in 1903 as a porcelain factory, has more
than 3,600 employees worldwide, according to its website. It had
sales of 425 million euros last year, Cinven said. The company,
based in Plochingen, Germany, got its current name after Dynamit
Nobel’s Cerasiv unit took over Hoechst CeramTec. Rockwood agreed
to buy the business in 2004.  “Cinven’s investment will enable us to capitalize on the
opportunities in our existing markets as well as further expand
the business internationally.”  Ulf Zimmermann , CEO of CeramTec,
said in the second statement.  Rockwood rose 0.9 percent to $67.18 in  New York .  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  acted as Rockwood’s financial adviser and
Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP provided legal advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  