-- Rohani Victory May Curb Support for Israeli Attack on Iran
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-06-17T16:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/rohani-victory-may-undermine-support-for-israeli-attack-on-iran.html
Iranian President-Elect Hassan Rohani’s vow to improve ties with the world carried him to a
surprise first-round win. It also may have rewound the clock on
a potential military strike against his country over its nuclear
program.  “Those advocating an attack on  Iran  have been dealt a
setback,” said Suzanne Maloney, a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution ’s Saban Center for  Middle East  Policy in
 Washington . “The chances of an attack on Iran are even more
remote than they have been in many years.”  While Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, 73, retains the power
over national security, especially the nuclear program, past
presidents have been able to influence the tone of foreign
policy. The departure of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whose
anti- Israel  rhetoric and questioning of the Holocaust made Iran
a pariah and helped prompt more sanctions, removes a lightning
rod for global scorn.  Western countries signaled an interest in engaging with
Rohani. The British Foreign Office urged him to set a new course
for Iran, and the European Union’s foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  said she hoped his victory will lead to a
“swift diplomatic solution” to the standoff over the nuclear
program.  The question is whether Rohani will have influence beyond
changing the image Iran presents to the world.  “Ahmadinejad was a figure everyone loves to hate,” said
 Gerald Steinberg , professor of political science at Bar Ilan
University in  Ramat Gan , Israel. “Rohani is more sophisticated
and a softer face of the same Iranian leadership.”  Winning Trust  Rohani, 64, in the first news conference since his surprise
first-round win this weekend, said he will pursue a policy of
moderation to improve Iran’s relations with regional countries
and beyond. He takes office in August.  “We will try to win back trust,” Rohani said. “We can
make it clear to the whole world that the measures and
activities of the Islamic Republic of Iran are totally within
international regulations and mechanisms.”  All six Iranian candidates for president were approved by
Khamenei, and all of them said they backed Iran’s right to
nuclear energy. Still, Rohani, who was Iran’s chief nuclear
negotiator under former President Mohammad Khatami, said
progress shouldn’t come at the expense of the economy and the
well-being of the population.  “It’s fine for centrifuges to spin if people are also
getting by,” he said during a debate this month.  Israel’s Warning  The Obama administration said in a statement after the
election results that the U.S. “remains ready to engage the
Iranian government directly in order to reach a diplomatic
solution that will fully address the international community’s
concerns about  Iran’s nuclear program .”  Iranian officials say the nuclear program is for energy and
medical research. Israel and the U.S. say they believe Iran is
trying to develop a nuclear-weapons capability. The Jewish state
has threatened to attack Iran should other means fail to stop
the Islamic republic from trying to obtain nuclear weapons.  Rohani’s victory revealed an internal opposition to the
policies that have ostracized Iran.  He promised in April that he would pursue “dialogue and
interaction with the world.” He has spoken in favor of
increased freedom for the press as well as non-governmental
organizations and vowed to improve the economy, which is set to
contract 1.3 percent this year, according to  the International
Monetary Fund.   Oil Exports  Iranian officials have at times threatened to close the
 Strait of Hormuz  if attacked and as the U.S. and  Europe 
intensified sanctions targeting its financial and energy
industries. An average of 14 crude tankers sail each day through
the strait, which is 21 miles (34 kilometers) wide at its
narrowest, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration, indicating a closing of the waterway would lead
to a spike in  oil prices .  Most of the oil exported by  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest
producer, as well as crude from  Iraq ,  Kuwait , the  United Arab
Emirates , Qatar and Iran itself passes through the waterway,
making Hormuz the world’s most important energy choke point,
with a daily flow of 17 million barrels a day in 2011, according
to  EIA data .  West Texas Intermediate Crude for July delivery gained 10
cents to $97.95 a barrel at 11:32 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange after rising to $98.74, the highest intraday
level since Sept. 17.  Maintain Pressure  Rohani’s grace period with world powers may be short after
talks about the nuclear program over the past two years have
failed to narrow differences.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday urged
the world to maintain its pressure, saying Khamenei, not Rohani,
holds the nuclear strings. Israel is not “deluding” itself
over Rohani’s win and Iran’s nuclear program must be stopped no
matter how, Netanyahu said.  “I don’t think any policy would have the ability to really
change the attitude of the U.S. and the European Union in trying
to squeeze Iran over the nuclear issue,” said Edward Bell, an
analyst at the London-based Economist Intelligence Unit.  President  Barack Obama  reached out at least twice to the
supreme leader without success. Iranian officials have said the
U.S. approach was never genuine, designed only to curtail Iran’s
rights and influence in the region.  Renewed Effort  Rohani’s election offers hope for a renewed diplomatic
effort, said Geneive Abdo, a research fellow at the Washington-based Stimson Center.  “If the rhetoric from Iran changes, this gives Obama once
again the opportunity to call for some type of engagement,” she
said. “It will completely de-escalate the sense of urgency for
the U.S. to take action on Iran.”  Rohani trained as a lawyer and serves on the Assembly of
Experts, a religious body that nominates the supreme leader.
He’s also head of the Center for Strategic Research at the
Expediency Council, an advisory panel headed by former president
Ali Akbar Rafsanjani. He holds master’s and doctorate law
degrees from  Glasgow Caledonian University , according to his
website.  Rohani’s careful grooming  contrasts  with Ahmadinejad’s,
whose unkempt appearance and casual dress initially connected
him to some voters.  Easing Restrictions  The new president may be measured against the standards set
by Ahmadinejad’s predecessor Khatami, who eased social and media
restrictions and promoted interaction with the West.  At his campaign rallies, Rohani vowed to end Iran’s
isolation and pursue a policy of reconciliation. He has little
choice if he wants to revive an economy hurt by inflation at 30
percent and an economic crisis that left a quarter of Iranians
age 15 to 29 unemployed in the year ended March 20.  Sanctions punishing Iran for its nuclear program include
curbs on financial transactions and crude oil exports, the
country’s main source of revenue.  “Sanctioning Ahmadinejad was very easy, it comes very
naturally to the entire international community,” said  Cliff Kupchan , director for the Middle East at the New York-based
Eurasia Group. “Sanctioning a moderate, well-respected,
judicious, articulate cleric is one heck of a lot harder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  