-- Justin Rose Wins U.S. Open as Mickelson Is Second for Sixth Time
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/rose-ends-43-year-wait-for-english-champ-at-u-s-open-correct-.html
Justin Rose  became the first
Englishman to win the  U.S. Open  in 43 years by holding on for a
two-stroke victory over  Phil Mickelson , who was the golf
tournament’s runner-up for a record-extending sixth time.  The 32-year-old Rose is the first golfer from England to
win the season’s second major championship since Tony Jacklin’s
seven-stroke victory in 1970. The most recent player from the
country to claim one of golf’s four major titles was  Nick Faldo 
at the 1996  Masters Tournament .  Rose, whose father died of cancer in 2002, looked up,
kissed his hand and pointed to the sky after tapping in for par
on the 18th hole to finish with a four-round total of 1-over par
281 yesterday, when the U.S. marks Father’s Day. He shot even-par 70 during the final round at Merion Golf Club in Ardmore,
 Pennsylvania , to move past Mickelson, who closed with a 3-over
73 after taking a one-shot lead into the final round. Mickelson
and Jason Day of Australia tied for second at 3-over par.  “On such an emotional day, I couldn’t help but look up to
the heavens and think that my old dad Ken had something to do
with it,” Rose said during the trophy presentation ceremony.  It’s the second straight year that the winning U.S. Open
score was over par, with  Webb Simpson  capturing last year’s
championship at the Olympic Club in San Francisco at 1-over. It
matched the highest winning score for the U.S. Open since  Angel Cabrera  and  Geoff Ogilvy  won in 2006 and 2007 with a total of 5-over-par 285.  Mickelson’s Eagle  Mickelson holed out from the fairway for eagle on the par-4
10th hole to regain the top spot on the leaderboard. He had made
double-bogeys on two of the first five holes, then bogeyed the
121-yard, par-3 13th hole when his tee shot flew over the green.
He added another bogey at the par-4 15th, where his approach
shot spun backward and off the green.  Rose watched the action on television from the scoring
trailer as Mickelson missed a potential tying chip for birdie
from off the green on the 18th hole. Mickelson, who was
celebrating his 43rd birthday, made bogey on the hole to equal
his second-place finishes in 1999, 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2009.  “Heartbreak,” Mickelson said in a televised interview.
“This is tough to swallow after coming so close. This was my
best chance of all of them. I felt like this was as good an
opportunity as I could ask for, and to not do it hurts.”  Rose Rallies  Rose had five birdies and five bogeys yesterday after
starting the day two shots behind Mickelson following rounds of
71, 69 and 71.  Rose entered the tournament ranked fifth in the world and
with 25-1 odds of winning, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book, tied for seventh-best in the 156-man field. He had
four previous victories on the U.S.  PGA Tour , including last
year’s World Golf Championships Cadillac Championship and the
2010 AT&T National, which also came in the Philadelphia area at
Aronimink Golf club.  “Philadelphia has been my town,” said Rose, who received
$1.44 million for the win. “I had such good support here all
week. There were a lot of people in the crowd who remembered me
from Aronimink and I felt like I had a lot of good will.”  Hunter Mahan  tied for fourth place at 5-over par with  Jason Dufner , Ernie Els and Billy Horschel.  Contenders Fade  Tiger Woods , Rory McIlroy and  Adam Scott , the top three
players in the world rankings, never were a factor yesterday,
finishing a combined 42-over par.  Steve Stricker ,  Luke Donald 
and Charl Schwartzel all started the final round within two
strokes of the lead and slipped out of contention early.  Stricker, who at 46 was seeking to become the oldest U.S.
Open winner, played the first five holes in 5-over par. He made
a triple-bogey 8 on the par-5 second hole, hitting his tee shot
out of bounds before shanking an approach shot into the trees
right of the fairway.  Donald, formerly ranked No. 1 in the world and seeking his
first major title, hit a tournament volunteer in the head with
his tee shot on the 266-yard, par-3 third hole. He had five
bogeys and a double-bogey over the first nine holes.  Schwartzel, the 2011 Masters winner from  South Africa ,
opened the round with a birdie to tie Mickelson for the lead and
then played the next nine holes in 8-over par.  Dufner made a final-day push with a 3-under 67 that
included a triple-bogey 7 after hitting a tee shot out of bounds
on the 15th hole. It was Dufner’s only blemish in a round that
had six birdies.  Merion Return  The U.S. Golf Association’s decision to return after a 32-year absence to Merion, where  Bobby Jones  in 1930 became the
only golfer to win four majors in the same season, was
considered by some golf enthusiasts and players to be risky.  The tournament’s organizing body took an estimated $10
million loss to hold its marquee event -- and accompanying fans,
sponsors and media -- at a suburban Philadelphia club that was
built more than 100 years ago.  At 6,996 yards, Merion was the shortest U.S. Open venue
since New York’s Shinnecock Hills played at the same yardage in
2004. With greens softened by rain for several days ahead of the
tournament and during the first round, some players expected a
high number of birdie chances.  Instead, a club that hosted 17 previous USGA championships
-- the most of any course -- got the better of the world’s best
players with deep, thick rough and fast, challenging greens.
There wasn’t a single bogey-free round during the tournament,
with an average score of 74.55.  Woods Struggles  Woods was the pre-tournament favorite to win his first
major title since 2008. He finished 13-over and failed to break
par with rounds of 73, 70, 76 and 74.  “It was a little bit of a struggle,” Woods said. “Not a
lot of low scores out there, for sure.”  Sergio Garcia , who faced heckling from fans for a racial
comment he’d made last month directed at Woods, finished 15-over
par. He played the 14th and 15th holes in a combined 16 over --
with an 8 and a 10 on the par-4 15th -- and the other 16 holes
at 1-under.  McIlroy, the 2011 U.S. Open champion and No. 2-ranked
player in the world, finished 14-over par. He bent a club in
frustration yesterday after hitting two balls into the water at
the 11th hole, where he made a quadruple bogey.  Scott, who in April became the first Australian to win the
Masters, was 15-over par with rounds of 72, 75, 73 and 75.  “There was talk of 62 earlier in the week and 4-under par
winning this  golf tournament ,” Rose said. “I thought 6-under
par would maybe be the winning total. It surprised everybody.
This course held up amazingly well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  