-- Rudd as Leader Seen Boosting Labor in Election, Poll Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-17T00:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/rudd-as-leader-seen-boosting-labor-in-election-poll-says.html
Axing Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
in favor of her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  would boost the  Labor
party ’s chances in elections due in three months, polls show, as
a two-week window for lawmakers to switch leaders begins today.  Rudd’s return would lift Labor by 11 percentage points in
the primary vote to 40 percent, compared with the Liberal-National coalition’s 42 percent, according to a Nielsen survey
published in Fairfax newspapers today. It showed support for
Labor under Gillard slid 3 points to 29 percent, versus the
opposition’s 47 percent.  Rudd, toppled by Gillard in a backroom coup three years
ago, revived speculation of a contest after starting campaign
appearances for colleagues in marginal seats this month. Gillard
needs an unprecedented recovery to win the Sept. 14 ballot
against  Tony Abbott ’s coalition and Labor would save as many as
18 seats, including Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s, if it switched to
Rudd, according to a separate Galaxy survey published yesterday.  “It’s going to be a very dangerous period for Gillard,”
said Zareh Ghazarian a lecturer in politics at  Monash University 
in  Melbourne . “The polls are more a reflection of what’s going
on at the moment within the Labor party and the government than
just Gillard.”  Today’s Nielsen survey showed Rudd would raise Labor to an
even footing with the opposition on a two-party preferred basis
that predicts the final distribution of votes. The Galaxy poll
published in the Herald Sun newspaper yesterday also showed Rudd
would give Labor 50 percent of the two-party preferred vote
versus 45 percent under Gillard.  Even Struggle  Consistently rated Labor’s most popular leader, Rudd failed
in a challenge to unseat Gillard in February 2012 and has said
he stands by a commitment not to seek the leadership again.  Swan, Treasurer under Rudd before he switched his support
to Gillard in 2010, when he was also elevated to deputy prime
minister, dismissed the constant flow of poor poll data.  “Opinion polls used to come every month, then they came
every fortnight, then they came every week and now they come
every day,” he said yesterday. “All of the commentary that
comes with it, I don’t pay any attention to that.”  Parliament convenes today for the final two weeks before
the scheduled election, a danger zone for the prime minister as
her Labor colleagues will all be in Canberra, enabling a snap
challenge.  Danger Zone  Labor hasn’t led in polls for more than 18 months and was
16 percentage points behind the opposition on a two-party
preferred basis in a Newspoll published June 4 in the Australian
newspaper.  Gillard’s backers are reluctant to reinstall Rudd because
they blame him for leaks during the 2010 election campaign that
damaged the government and triggered a slide in opinion polls,
resulting in the closest ballot in 70 years.  Today’s Nielsen poll indicated a revival of the gender
debate last week by Gillard, the nation’s first female prime
minister, had backfired. The June 11 speech in which she
signaled that an Abbott-led government may wind back abortion
rights and see women’s voices banished from frontline politics
lost her male votes and failed to secure new female support.  “The speech was ill-conceived and unfortunate as it sought
to divide the electorate rather than bring it together,”
Ghazarian said. “It was just really, really poor judgment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net 
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  