-- Rupee Seen Failing to Help Lift Infosys Profit Margins
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-17T10:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/rupee-seen-failing-to-help-lift-infosys-margins-corporate-india.html
The rupee’s slide to a record low
may fail to lift profit margins for  India ’s biggest software
exporters as  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) 
pass on the currency benefit to clients in a race for orders.  India’s rupee has slumped 6 percent this quarter, making it 
the worst performer in  Asia , and touched an all-time low of 
58.985 a dollar on June 11. A weaker currency makes exports 
cheaper for overseas buyers, boosting demand. Still, Infosys 
shares  fell  2.1 percent last week and Tata Consultancy  tumbled  
4.5 percent, the biggest declines since the five-day period 
ended April 26.  Profit margin at Tata Consultancy, the nation’s No. 1
software maker, has  shrunk  in six of the past nine quarters,
while the gauge for Infosys has  narrowed  in the last two amid
spending cuts by customers in  North America  and  Europe . Sales
recovery at Infosys may be painful and may take at least 36
months, Chairman N.R. Narayana Murthy said on June 15. While a
weaker rupee may help increase revenue from existing contracts,
prospective customers may negotiate cheaper rates, countering
any gains, said Hitesh Shah, an analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd.  “This is what we saw the last time too, when the rupee
plunged,” Mumbai-based Shah said in a telephone interview.
“Neither Infosys nor TCS could improve their margins despite
the rupee depreciation. To win deals, they will explore all
possible ways.”  Profit Margin  In the three months through June 2012, when the currency
had tumbled almost 9 percent against the dollar, the profit
margin for Tata stayed little changed from the previous quarter,
while for Infosys, it slipped to 23.8 percent from 26.16
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bangalore-based Infosys’  shares  rose 1.2 percent to
2,422.60 rupees in Mumbai today, extending this year’s advance
to 4.5 percent. Tata Consultancy has  risen  16 percent in 2013 to
1,452.45 rupees, while the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has  declined 
0.5 percent in the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Every 1 percentage point swing in the rupee moves Infosys’
operating margin by 40 basis points, or 0.4 percentage point, V. Balakrishnan, a member of the board and former chief financial
officer said in an e-mailed response. Tata Consultancy
spokeswoman Harsha Ramachandra said the company doesn’t comment
on the impact of currency fluctuations.  Order Slowdown  Indian computer-services companies, which typically depend
on North America for 60 percent of their revenue and Europe for
25 percent, are struggling to win orders as spending slowed down
after the financial crisis that started in 2008. The combined
value of contracts in the two regions tumbled 28 percent to
$18.7 billion in 2012 from four years earlier, according to a
report by Bloomberg Industries.  Orders worth at least $1 billion, seen by the industry as a
benchmark for success, dropped to as few as 5 last year, from 22
in 2010, the data show. Worldwide spending on  information
technology  is projected to increase 4.2 percent to $3.7 trillion
in 2013, according to a study by Gartner Inc.  Both Tata Consultancy and Infosys said this quarter that
they have a “strong pipeline” of deals, with the latter
forecasting a 6 percent to 10 percent increase in revenue for
the financial year ending March 31, lagging behind the 10
percent to 14 percent estimate given by the industry group
NASSCOM. Tata doesn’t provide sales forecasts.  Tougher Rules  The two companies are also battling the potential approval
of legislation in the U.S. that would discourage outsourcing of
technology jobs using H-1B visas by barring the program’s
heaviest users from obtaining permits and raising fees.  If enacted, the law could prompt Indian software makers to
hire local workers in the U.S. at higher wages, said Urmil Shah,
an analyst with Kim Eng Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  “The biggest worry to these companies is the immigration
bill, which is going to make it more expensive for Indian
companies to send workers to the U.S.,” Shah said. “Infosys
and TCS may find it cheaper to re-invest any currency incentive
back into the U.S. by hiring locally instead of paying for
expensive visas.”  While a weaker rupee will help the companies win contracts
overseas, the volatility in the currency always poses a
challenge to their hedging strategy, said Walter Rossini, who
manages $200 million of Indian market funds at Milan-based
Aletti Gestielle Agr SpA.  Rupee Volatility  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility rose 171 basis
points, or 1.71 percentage point this month. It touched 11.62
percent on June 11, the highest level since July 2012,
indicating a greater risk of exchange-rate swings impacting
profits.  “Volatility is always a problem,” Rossini said on the
phone. “A good management team can plan in some way the
important part of the income. They are accustomed to doing
this.”  Infosys, which became the first Indian company to list on
the Nasdaq stock exchange, brought back its co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy, 66, this month as its chairman to steer the
software maker through tougher visa rules and spending cuts in
the U.S., its biggest market.  He told shareholders in Bangalore on June 15 that the
software maker will adopt flexible pricing, refocus on winning
large outsourcing deals and narrow the lead of its bigger rival
Tata. Sales growth in the 12 months ending March 31 may be the
slowest in four years, according to analyst estimates.  Software companies “can’t hang on to the conversion
benefits this time around,” said Harit Shah, an analyst at
Nirmal Bang Equities Ltd. in Mumbai. “They need to reinvest
that money into markets like the U.S. and U.K. to win deals and
maintain existing contracts. I don’t see an improvement in
margins.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  