-- South Korea Tightens Capital Flow Checks to Catch Tax Dodgers
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-06-16T06:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/south-korea-tightens-capital-flow-checks-to-catch-tax-dodgers.html
South Korea is strengthening
supervision of foreign exchange transactions as President Park Geun Hye broadens her country’s part in a global crackdown
against  tax evasion .  The Financial Supervisory Service and Korea Customs Service
will have enhanced rights to investigate cross-border
transactions at companies, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement today. Failure to report details of funds
wired, assets acquired or the annual balance in investments may
be subject to fines, the statement said.  Policing tax evasion has crept up the political agenda
worldwide as governments struggle to pay for social programs
amid high unemployment and weak economic growth. U.K. Prime
Minister David Cameron yesterday said  tax havens  under Britain’s
legal supervision pledged to fall in line with international
agreements on exchange of information, a key topic at a meeting
of the Group of Eight nations that begins tomorrow.  Finance ministers from the Group of 20, which includes
 South Korea , are considering plans for exchanging tax
information, Russian Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Storchak
said on June 7 after a meeting of his counterparts in  St.
Petersburg . Tax was “about the hottest issue,” he said.  South Korea’s Park aims to raise 135 trillion won ($120
billion) without increasing tax rates to fulfill her welfare
pledges. Of that, 53 trillion won will come from cracking down
on the underground economy, according to the finance ministry.  Task Force  The Financial Supervisory Service in Seoul recently
launched a  task force  to investigate some 2,000 undeclared
foreign exchange transactions uncovered since 2011.  The National Tax Service collected 479.8 billion won in
back taxes on cross-border tax cheats in the first five months
of the year, compared with 825.8 billion won for all of 2012,
Bloomberg BNA reported yesterday. The tax authority said 45 more
cases are under investigation, BNA said.  Rewards for whistleblowers who give details on hidden
foreign accounts will jump as much as tenfold to 1 billion won,
BNA said. The government will also start a naming-and-shaming
campaign for individuals and corporations failing to declare
more than 5 billion won in foreign account assets. The same
violations will trigger criminal penalties next year, BNA said.  At a meeting with top executives of foreign banks, insurers
and brokerages in South Korea, Choi Soo-hyun, governor of the
FSS, called for “strict compliance” with reporting obligations
concerning shell corporations set up by South Korean taxpayers
in offshore tax jurisdictions, the agency said in a statement
June 13.  Switzerland , U.K.  The focus on offshore havens is ratcheting up pressure on
governments to end or ease their traditions of secrecy or risk
being labeled rogue jurisdictions and facing sanctions.  A Swiss government-appointed panel on June 14 said the
country should join the international push against tax dodgers
by allowing banks to share customers’ details.  Switzerland faces pressure from the European Union to join
a system that automatically shares bank-account data. That would
end a tradition of banking secrecy as the government tries to
resolve a U.S. Justice Department probe of at least 14 financial
firms, including Credit Suisse Group AG and  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER) , which allegedly helped Americans dodge taxes.  Switzerland is broadening  anti-money laundering definitions
to include serious tax crimes.  Britain’s network of overseas territories and dependencies
agreed to Cameron’s request that they adopt extended
transparency rules aimed at preventing tax evasion.  Secrecy Jurisdictions  The islands around Britain known as the Crown Dependencies
--  Jersey , Guernsey and the  Isle of Man  -- joined the British
Virgin Islands,  Bermuda ,  Cayman Islands , Gibraltar, Anguilla,
Montserrat and the  Turks and Caicos Islands  in agreeing to
support an automatic exchange of information begun by the U.K.,
Germany, France, Italy and Spain.  They also agreed to join the Multilateral Convention on
Mutual Administrative Assistance on Tax Matters, and to publish
plans on how they will force companies to reveal “beneficial
ownership” -- the details of who is really behind a firm.
Cameron has put securing wider agreement on these matters at the
heart of his agenda for the G-8 he’s hosting in Northern Ireland
June 17-18.  “It is important we are getting our house in order,” the
prime minister said in a statement after the talks at his office
in  London . “Britain’s voice in the G-8 and the campaigning on
this issue around the world for proper taxes, proper companies
and proper laws will be stronger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brooker at 
 mbrooker1@bloomberg.net  