-- Stripping Treasuries Up Most Since 2011 as Real Yields Gain
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-06-17T17:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/stripping-treasuries-rises-most-since-2011-as-real-yields-gain.html
Demand for the Treasury  securities 
most vulnerable to inflation is climbing to an almost two-year
high as pension funds and insurance companies snap up discounted
debt with consumer prices rising at the slowest since 2010.  Investment banks have increased Treasury Strips -- zero-coupon securities created by separating the interest and
principal payments of a bond and selling them at a fraction of
their face value -- by 4.8 percent to $203.2 billion from
December through May, Treasury Department data show. The
outstanding amount had dropped to as low as $171.7 billion in
November 2009 from as high as $231.5 billion in April 1996.  While the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost  1.9
percent (BUSY)  since April on speculation the  Federal Reserve  could
disclose plans to slow debt purchases as soon as at this week,
consumer prices are increasing at the slowest pace since
November 2010. Pensions and insurers, which need the longest-term investments to match payments for retirees and death
benefits, are locking in the highest inflation-adjusted yields
in  26 months , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With inflation pretty much under control, real returns on
Strips are offering better value than they have in quite a
while,” Frank Salem, the head of liability-driven investing in
New York at Columbia Management Investment Advisers, which
oversees $341 billion and has been buying zero-coupon bonds for
pension funds and insurers, said in a telephone interview June
11. “Investors still need yield.”  Funding Gap  U.S. public pension funds alone are facing a $1.38 trillion
funding gap for promises to retirees, according to the Pew
Center on the  States , the Washington-based nonpartisan group
that studies and develops policy solutions.  Principal strips maturing in May 2042, the longest U.S.
zero-coupon bond, traded at a price of $36.11 per $1,000 face
value on June 14, to yield 3.56 percent. The bonds, which pay a
lump sum equal to the initial investment plus the imputed
interest at maturity, offer a real yield of 2.49 percent once
the 1.1 percent annual rate of inflation is taken into account.  Real returns on 30-year Strips were as low as 1.35 percent
on March 1 amid concern $85 billion in federal spending cuts
scheduled to go into effect would slow economic growth.  “It’s an economically attractive yield environment
relative to recent history,” Kelly Cliff, the chief investment
officer of public markets at Callan Associates in  San Francisco ,
which advises institutions with assets totaling $1.8 trillion,
said in a June 12 phone interview. “Strips are more
attractive.”  Single Payment  Buying 30-year Strips, which have lost 9.1 percent this
year according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, is the
biggest bet bond investors can make that inflation, which erodes
the value of fixed returns, will remain low.  Losses have been greater than on 30-year Treasuries, which
have declined 5.6 percent, because bonds pay interest every six
months, while Strips make single payments upon maturity, making
them riskier as  interest rates  climb.  The  bond market  is showing the lowest inflation
expectations in a year. The difference between yields on 30-year
bonds and debt indexed for changes in the  consumer price index ,
known as the  break-even  rate that projects the annual inflation
rate over the life of the securities, dropped to 2.11 percent on
June 13 from as high as 2.69 percent in September. It was at
2.15 percent today.  Faster Growth  Inflation is declining even as the economy expands. Gross
domestic product will increase 1.9 percent this year and 2.7
percent in 2014, according to median estimates of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The last time  yields  rose while
inflation slowed was four ago, following President  Barack
Obama ’s $787 billion stimulus plan. Yields later fell.  Even so, yields on benchmark 10-year notes climbed to a 14-month high of 2.29 percent on June 11 on concern the Fed could
taper its $85 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and
Treasuries if the economy exhibits sustained improvement.  The 10-year note rose last week, with the yield falling
four basis points to 2.13 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices, the first weekly drop in yields since the period
ended April 26. The yield fell two basis points to 2.11 percent
as of 8:15 a.m. in New York.  Yields have risen from 1.76 percent at the start of the
year, though they’re still below 4.83 percent average for 10-year securities over the past two decades.  ‘Long-Term Trend’  “Even though rates have risen some, they are still
extremely low, and there isn’t enough yield in Strips to
compensate for the risk of much higher rates,” said Rich Sega,
the chief investment officer for Hartford, Connecticut-based
Conning Inc., which manages almost $87 billion for insurance
companies. “The long-run trend is for the economy to bump up
with positive growth, which will eventually mean inflation and
higher rates.”  Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 7.6 percent in May as the
economy created 175,000 jobs, more than the forecast of 163,000
in a Bloomberg survey. While the jobless rate is down from 7.9
percent in October, it’s above the Fed’s goal of 6.5 percent
before the central bank would consider raising its target rate
for overnight loans between banks from the record-low zero to
0.25 percent it has maintained since December 2008.  Fed officials meeting June 18-19 in  Washington  may weigh
how much changes in inflation and the labor market will
influence the pace of monthly asset purchases.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will trim
bond purchases 24 percent to $65 billion a month at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , according to
the median estimate in a survey of 59 economists.  Record Yields  An investor buying $10 million of the current 30-year Strip
now would gain about 0.07 percent if 30-year bond yields end the
year at 3.4 percent, as forecast by economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares to a projected 0.007 percent loss for
30-year bonds, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Strips, conceived by Salomon Brothers Inc. and Merrill
Lynch & Co., were first sold in 1985 as investors sought to lock
in returns on 30-year bonds that yielded more than 15 percent,
after surging consumer prices began to recede. Inflation reached
a 14.8 percent annual rate in March 1980 before then Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker  raised  rates  as high as 20 percent.  Zero-coupon securities have traditionally been most popular
for investments on which taxes can be deferred, such as
individual retirement accounts and pension plans, since any
increase in value is accrued annually. The known cash value at
specific future dates enables savers and investors to tailor
their use.  “At these higher rate levels, Strips give a lot of bang
for your buck,” Sean Kurian, a portfolio manager at JPMorgan
Asset management in Columbus,  Ohio , who is advising insurance
companies and pension funds to buy zero-coupon bonds, said in a
telephone interview June 14. “There is still a lot of money
looking to get in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  