-- Sweden to Raise Borrowing as Higher Unemployment Erodes Revenue
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-06-16T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/sweden-to-raise-borrowing-as-higher-unemployment-erodes-revenue.html
Sweden’s debt office will have to
raise its estimated borrowing need this year as the largest
Nordic economy struggles with a recession in the euro area.  The agency may raise its borrowing requirement for this
year to between 170 billion kronor ($26 billion) and 184 billion
kronor from 165 billion kronor in February, according to
estimates by  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and SEB AB. For 2014,
the estimates range from 69 billion kronor to 73 billion kronor,
up from a February forecast of 63 billion kronor.  “The economic recovery is going slowly and unemployment is
higher than forecast,” said Knut Hallberg, an analyst at
Swedbank AB in Stockholm. “That will have a slight effect on
the debt office’s new forecast for tax income and expenses.”  Sweden needs to continue to inject energy into the economy
as the export-reliant nation struggles with “significant
uncertainty” abroad, Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said last
month. The Nordic country exports about half of its output.  The nominal bond sales target will stay unchanged at 74
billion kronor in 2013 and 84 billion kronor in 2014, according
to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Nordea and Swedbank. SEB predicts the debt
office will raise issuance by 3 billion kronor to 4 billion
kronor in both 2013 and 2014.  The debt office will release new targets on June 18.  Negative Direction  The agency has “consistently had to revise its forecast in
a negative direction,” said Mats Hyden, chief analyst at Nordea
Bank. “They will keep their forecast for nominal  government
bonds  unchanged and they will meet the increased borrowing
requirement through treasury bills and possibly also by issuing
somewhat more inflation-linked bonds.”  The government in April predicted it will have to borrow
more money to fund a widening budget deficit as it boosted
spending to stimulate demand. The government predicts the
economy will grow 1.2 percent this year and 2.2 percent in 2014.  A sluggish recovery means the government of Prime Minister
 Fredrik Reinfeldt  won’t be able to balance the budget until 2015
as the shortfall reaches 1.6 percent of gross domestic product
this year and narrow to 1 percent in 2014, it said.  Nordea Joker  “There are a few signs that public finances could end up a
bit worse after all,” said Olle Holmgren, an analyst at SEB AB
in Stockholm. “The joker is Nordea” which is “something that
could change” the debt office forecasts, he said.  The government has said it wants to divest its remaining
13.44 percent  stake  in Nordea, which according to Hallberg at
Swedbank is valued at about 43 billion kronor.  The debt office is unlikely to announce any plans to
increase issuance of nominal bonds maturing in 12 years or more,
said Michael Bostroem, chief analyst at Danske Bank in
 Stockholm .  “There’s nothing when it comes to demand for very long
rate risk that is different today than it was in February.” The
government last year told the debt office it raise long-term
debt sales to 70 billion kronor from 53 billion kronor.  The ruling four-party coalition said in April that it will
add about 3 billion kronor to education and infrastructure
spending this year to lower unemployment. Sweden’s total debt
burden, including borrowing by municipalities, will reach 42
percent of GDP this year, the government predicted in April.
Debt will ease to 41.8 percent of GDP next year and 39.5 percent
in 2015, it said. Debt by that measure was 38.2 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  