-- U.K. Home Asking Prices Increased 1.2% in June, Rightmove Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/u-k-home-asking-prices-increased-1-2-in-june-rightmove-says.html
U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices for a sixth consecutive month, pushing average values
above 250,000 pounds ($392,000) for the first time.  Prices sought  rose 1.2 percent in June to an average
252,798 pounds, property-website operator Rightmove said in a
report today. The biggest increase in the year so far has been
in the southeast, where asking prices have risen 14.8 percent.  The report is the latest to show strength in the housing
market, after Acadametrics and LSL Prpoerty Services
Plc said last week prices rose to a record. Government measures
to unblock credit markets have helped a rally broaden from
London, where prices reached another record, Rightmove said.  “These increases, along with reports from agents and
developers of a pickup in transactions, suggest a wider and
more sustainable recovery as the price buoyancy of the  London 
market shows signs of spreading across the country,” the report
said.  Prices are up 2.7 percent from a year earlier, today’s
report shows. Of the 10 regions tracked by Rightmove, six showed
increases, led by a 1.7 percent gain in the northwest. The
biggest decline was in East Anglia, where asking prices dropped
0.8 percent.  The 1.1 percent gain in the capital took average prices to
515,243 pounds. The biggest increase in London was in Camden,
where prices rose 4.9 percent from May to an average 1.1 million
pounds.  London Gains  In England and Wales, asking prices rose 10.4 percent in
the first six months of the year. All regions showed gains, with
the smallest posted by the East Midlands, at 5.8 percent. London
increased 10.9 percent.  Bank of England  markets director  Paul Fisher  said last week
that a shortage of supply in the housing market is helping keep
prices high, and that what’s needed for the market is a pickup
in transactions.  “I do have some concerns that the level of real  house
prices  is still high,” he said in a speech in London last week.
“The best form of adjustment would really be to have more real
wage growth than excessive house price growth and bring down
the cost of housing that way.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  last year announced a Funding for
Lending plan to give banks that improve lending cheap access to
finance. Data so far show that net lending still hasn’t turned
positive, though some  mortgage rates  have dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  