-- Turkey Police Escalate Crackdown as Erdogan Rallies Support
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-17T10:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/turkish-police-block-off-taksim-after-street-battles-overnight.html
Police in Istanbul stepped up their
attacks on protesters, detaining hundreds amid some of the worst
violence this month, as Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  told
a mass rally a few kilometers away that those behind the unrest
will be made to pay.  The clashes spread in all directions out of Taksim Square
yesterday, a day after police moved in to clear demonstrators
out of Gezi Park where they had been camping out to oppose a
development plan. Late yesterday, police were firing tear gas
along side streets off the square and nearby districts, beating
and arresting protesters. The Istanbul Bar Association said 350
were detained, according to Hurriyet daily. Scattered and
bedraggled groups of demonstrators sought to escape or regroup
and head back toward Taksim as a thunderstorm lashed the city.  As the violence escalated, Erdogan was addressing hundreds
of thousands of supporters on the other side of the city’s
historic Golden Horn waterway. He attacked business leaders and
foreign media as well as extremist groups for fueling the
unrest, warning that there will be legal repercussions for
people involved, including teachers who encouraged students to
participate. “We will demand a reckoning,” the premier said.  Escalation Risk  The protest movement has broadened from an environmentalist
rejection of proposals to build in the park into a wider
movement targeting Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted government for what
demonstrators say is its increasingly authoritarian approach to
dissenting views and different lifestyles. His response, a
security crackdown, has drawn condemnation from the U.S. and
European Union, and sent Turkish financial markets reeling.
Stocks extended losses today on the latest tensions.  Interior Minister Muammer Guler warned that police are
ready for further action if labor unions push ahead with strikes
or marches today, saying their plan was “illegal.” He also
said police are pursuing people who have disseminated false
information about the protests on social media, and put the
figure for arrests nationwide yesterday at 393.  Five unions representing about 800,000 workers had said
they will stage a strike today to protest against the
government’s “aggressive” policies.  “The risk of an escalation of the crisis, which could pave
the way for more clashes and unrest, is now substantial,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst at political-risk assessor Teneo
Intelligence in London, said in an e-mailed report. “Despite
the government’s heavy-handed approach, there is little prospect
of an imminent end to the protests.”  Election Wins  Erdogan has won three elections with a growing share of the
vote, reaching 50 percent in 2011. Many protesters say that the
prime minister has used his majority to override their concerns.
As well as police violence, they cite curbs on alcohol and
increased attention to religion at schools.  Erdogan has rejected the charge, saying he governs on
behalf of all Turks, and accuses opposition parties of backing
the protests because they couldn’t beat him at the ballot box.
He has urged supporters to answer the demonstrators by
delivering him an election win in local polls due in March.  At his rallies in Istanbul yesterday and Ankara the
previous day, he said the huge crowds he drew were a better
representation of  Turkey  than the protesters in Istanbul and
other cities.  “We won’t let these people hijack the will of the
nation,” Erdogan told supporters in Istanbul, many brought by
buses that stretched back kilometers along the Marmara Sea
coastline where they parked.  Tourists Cancel  Stocks (XU100)  fell today after rallying last week, when the
government had adopted a more compromising tone. Erdogan said on
June 14 that the Gezi Park development plan will be put on hold
until courts rule on its legality and it is then submitted to a
public vote.  The benchmark  index  fell 0.4 percent at 12:30 p.m.,
extending its decline this month to 7.3 percent. Yields on two-year  lira bonds  were unchanged at 6.21 percent. The lira fell
0.4 percent against the dollar.  Cancellations of tourist bookings to Istanbul have reached
50 percent, endangering the government’s target this year of 32
million tourists and $25 billion in revenue, Hurriyet said today
citing Timur Bayindir, head of the Turkish Hoteliers
Association.  At least four people have been killed during protests. The
Turkish Medical Association said more than 11,000 people were
exposed to tear gas in the week through June 15.  In Taksim and Gezi Park, hundreds of municipal workers have
been cleaning the square, carting off garbage and planting
flowers. The square was open again this morning.  Erdogan says he wants to reconstruct an Ottoman-era
barracks near Gezi Park. An Istanbul court order on June 1
stopped construction of a sidewalk around the park.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  