-- Weyerhaeuser to Buy Longview Timber for $2.65 Billion
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2013-06-17T20:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/weyerhaeuser-to-buy-longview-timber-for-2-65-billion.html
Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , a U.S. real-estate
investment trust that owns timberland, agreed to buy Longview
Timber LLC for $2.65 billion including debt from affiliates of
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  in the third-largest forestry
acquisition in North America.  The deal is expected to close in July and immediately add
to Weyerhaeuser’s  funds for distribution , the Federal Way,
Washington-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Weyerhaeuser plans to boost its quarterly cash dividend to 22
cents a share in September from 20 cents.  Weyerhaeuser, which also said that former Temple-Inland
Inc. Chief Executive Officer Doyle Simons will take over as its
CEO in August, will get about 645,000 acres (261,000 hectares)
of timberlands in Washington and  Oregon  from buying Longview.
The deal will boost the U.S. acreage that it owns or controls to
about 6.6 million.  Weyerhaeuser is paying $4,109 per acre for the timberland,
more than the estimated $3,200 per-acre value of the company’s
existing lands in the Pacific Northwest,  Paul Quinn , a
Vancouver-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who has a buy
rating on Weyerhaeuser, said today in a note to clients.  “We believe the price is reasonable given the high-quality
assets and over-mature timberland” that will allow Weyerhaeuser
to accelerate its tree harvesting, Quinn said in the note.  About two-thirds of the trees on the Longview lands are
Douglas fir, a species that commands a premium in exports
markets, Weyerhaeuser CEO Dan Fulton said on a conference call
today.  Deal Financing  Weyerhaeuser said it plans to finance the deal by raising
about $2.45 billion through selling debt and equity and has a
committed senior unsecured bridge loan facility with Morgan
Stanley. It will offer 28 million common shares in a public
offering, it said in a statement today.  The company will also offer 10 million mandatory
convertible preference shares at a price of $50 per share, which
will automatically convert into a variable number of common
shares on July 1, 2016, it said in a separate statement. Morgan
Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG. and Citigroup Inc. are managing the
offerings, Weyerhaeuser said.  More details on the debt-financing terms will be released
after the equity financing is completed, Patricia Bedient,
Weyerhaeuser’s chief financial officer, said on the call.  Weyerhaeuser rose 1.3 percent to $28.66 in  New York . The
shares have gained 3 percent this year while the Dow Jones U.S.
Real Estate Industry Group Index has climbed 4.9 percent.  Forestry Takeovers  The takeover is the largest forestry acquisition in  North
America  after Resource Management Service LLC’s $5 billion
purchase of  International Paper Co. (IP)  assets in 2006 and Plum
Creek Timber Co.’s $3.34 billion acquisition of a timber
business from Georgia-Pacific LLC in 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said yesterday in a statement that Simons will
take over Aug. 1 from Fulton, who will retire this year. Simons
was chairman and CEO of cardboard-packaging company Temple-Inland for four years until its acquisition by International
Paper Co. in 2012.  Weyerhaeuser said yesterday in another statement that it’s
looking at options including a sale or spinoff for its
Weyerhaeuser Real Estate Co. homebuilding and real estate
development business.  Brookfield agreed to sell its Longview Fibre Paper and
Packaging Inc. unit to  KapStone Paper and Packaging Corp. (KS)  for
$1.03 billion in cash, the Toronto-based  investment company  said
yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  