-- What We Don’t Know About Guns Might Be Killing Us
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-16T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/what-we-don-t-know-about-guns-might-be-killing-us.html
How do criminals get their guns? Are
there observable patterns to gun crime? Who is at the greatest
risk of injury, or causing injury to others, from firearm use?
Which gun-safety practices are most effective at preventing
accidental injury?  The answers to these and other basic questions remain
difficult and obscure in part thanks to a  senseless  ban, on the
books for a decade, that limits research on gun violence and
denies researchers and even police and prosecutors access to
federal gun data. The  laws  prohibit the public disclosure of a
gun’s sales history, make that data inadmissible in court,
require the Justice Department to destroy background-check
records within 24 hours and prohibit the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives from requiring gun dealers to
check their inventories annually for theft.  A  recent report  from the Institute of Medicine, an
independent, nonprofit research organization, details just how
thoroughly Americans are in the dark. The report, commissioned
by President  Barack Obama  after the massacre of 26 students and
educators in Newtown,  Connecticut , underscores how little even
serious scholars know about gun violence and shows how such
ignorance jeopardizes public safety and health.  A better understanding of the “characteristics of firearm
violence,” the “risk and preventative factors” for gun-related
injuries, and the “impact of gun-safety technology,” the report
says, would undoubtedly help save lives. By making reliable gun
data scarce, the research ban has hamstrung police, prosecutors
and public health officials in their response to an onslaught of
30,000 gun deaths a year.  Congressional opposition to gun data, which advances the
anti-research agenda of the National Rifle Association, isn’t
merely a policy position. The lack of information has
successfully restricted public debate itself. Healthy
democracies do not resolve conflicts by stifling inconvenient
evidence. Imagine banning doctors from studying cancer cells or
requiring radiologists to destroy X-ray records within 24 hours.  These laws, known as the Tiahrt amendments after their co-author, former Republican Representative Todd Tiahrt of  Kansas ,
should be repealed in full. Given the influence of the NRA in
this Congress, however, repeal will probably have to wait for
the arrival of less easily cowed legislators. In the meantime,
Congress should confront the gun lobby on the issue that most
directly hurts public safety: the inadmissibility of gun-tracing
data in court. Police can’t stop criminals if prosecutors can’t
bring them to justice.  Incremental repeal has also worked in the past. The NRA
acquiesced to sharing gun-tracing data between police and
criminal prosecutors in 2008 and to police use outside of
criminal investigations in 2010. Prosecutors’ inability to use
the evidence, though, neuters these expansions.  Obama’s efforts to aid research via executive action are
having some effect.  One of his orders  instructs the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention that a ban on spending “to
advocate or promote gun control” is not a ban on research
funding, as the CDC had long interpreted it. That opens the door
to research -- but academics still lack money and data.  Vice President Joe Biden, who is working with Majority
Leader Harry Reid and Democratic Senator Joe Manchin of West
Virginia, says he hopes the Senate will revisit the issue of
background-check legislation. Background checks can make gun
purchases more difficult for criminals and the mentally ill, but
there is also a desperate need for research to better understand
gun violence and responses to it. Repeal of the Tiahrt
amendments should be at the top of a sensible to-do list.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 