-- WTI Crude Trades at Nine-Month High on Mideast Unrest
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-06-17T12:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-16/wti-crude-trades-near-four-month-high-as-u-s-arms-syria.html
West Texas Intermediate crude traded
at the highest price in more than nine months because of renewed
speculation that unrest in  Syria  will spread to other parts of
the  Middle East  and disrupt supplies.  Futures gained as much as 0.9 percent after rising the most
in five days on June 14, capping a second weekly gain. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  was said to authorize arming Syrian rebel
groups. Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani’s vow to improve
ties with the world carried him to a surprise first-round
election win. Stronger summer demand and supply risks continue
to support the market, Morgan Stanley said in a research note.  “We’ve seen prices rising over the past week primarily
over geopolitical worries,” Ole Hansen, the head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said by phone. “We are
settling in for a range-bound day of trading and any major moves
will have to be geopolitical related.”  WTI for July delivery was at $98.23 a barrel, up 38 cents
in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange as of
12:59 p.m.  London  time. It had climbed as high as $98.74, the
most since Sept. 14. The volume of all futures traded was 62
percent above the 100-day average. The contract rose 1.2 percent
to $97.85 on June 14, advancing the most since June 7 to the
highest settlement since Jan. 30.  Syrian Unrest  Brent for August settlement gained 21 cents to $106.14 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. That’s
the most since April 9. The European benchmark grade was at a
premium of $7.71 to WTI compared with $7.86 on June 14.  Crude supplies are being affected by the escalating U.S.
involvement in Syria, a reduction in the availability of  North
Sea  oil due to the Ekofisk field being halted and increased
buying from  South Korea , Morgan Stanley said today.  Production at the Oseberg Field Center in the North Sea was
halted earlier today due to a gas alarm, Ola Anders Skauby,
spokesman for the operator  Statoil ASA (STL) , said by phone from
Stavanger in  Norway .  The U.K. government is sticking with plans to give non-lethal support to the Syrian opposition, Prime Minister  David
Cameron  said yesterday at a press conference in London. The U.S.
and U.K. say President Bashar al-Assad’s departure is essential
to any political transition, while  Russia , another member of the
G-8 nations, is a long-time ally and arms supplier to Syria.  President Obama is authorizing lethal military aid to rebel
groups under a classified order instructing the Central
Intelligence Agency to arrange delivery of the weapons, a U.S.
official familiar with the decision said last week, asking not
to be identified discussing the move.  Iran Elections  Western countries signaled an interest in engaging with
Rohani after he captured about 51 percent of the vote on June
15. The British Foreign Office urged him to set a new course for
 Iran , and the European Union’s foreign policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , said she hoped his win will lead to a “swift diplomatic
solution” to the standoff over the nuclear program.  Iran, the sixth-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is under U.S. and European Union
sanctions aimed at pressuring its leaders to abandon aspects of
its nuclear program, which Iran says is for civilian use.  “The market is responding to the news that the U.S. is
going to arm the Syrian opposition,” said Robin Mills, the head
of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and
Project Management. “The Iranian elections are calming the
geopolitical tensions.”  WTI’s rally is stalling near technical resistance along the
30-day upper Bollinger Band, at about $97.95 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crude also fell in
early April after reaching that indicator. Sell orders tend to
be clustered around chart-resistance levels.  Hedge funds  raised bullish WTI oil bets to a 15-month high.
Money managers increased net-long positions, or wagers on
climbing prices, by 9.5 percent in the week ended June 11,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s June 14
Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest level since
March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  