-- Macquarie Faces ‘Squeeze’ From Wall Street, Boutiques
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2011-02-09T05:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/macquarie-faces-squeeze-from-wall-street-boutiques-ubs-says.html
  Macquarie Group Ltd ., trying to win
business in  North America  from mid-sized companies, risks being
caught in an unsustainable position as it’s “squeezed” between  Wall Street  giants and smaller advisory firms, UBS AG said.  Macquarie’s approach, after at least $766 million of
acquisitions in the region in less than two years, entails high
costs without the guaranteed or diversified income to deliver
adequate returns, UBS analysts led by Jonathan Mott said in a
report yesterday. They cut their rating on  Australia ’s biggest
investment bank to “neutral” from “buy” after a share rally.  “This is a challenging proposition,” the analysts wrote.
“Few competitive industries are likely to sustain ‘middle-
market’ players, not least  investment banking , given the short
life cycle on perceived competitive advantages.”  Sydney-based Macquarie, which yesterday cut its second-half
earnings forecast, has become increasingly reliant on the U.S.,  Canada  and Latin America after acquisitions in the past two
years. Tim Bishop, head of the U.S. business, said yesterday
it’s a challenge to differentiate Macquarie from its largest
rivals and to raise the bank’s profile in a region where it’s
poorly known.  Macquarie today fell 3.3 percent to A$39.75 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney trading. The stock yesterday lost 0.3 percent
after the bank said profit in the six months to March 31 will
drop about 5 percent, reversing a forecast for growth.  U.S. Expansion  Macquarie’s workforce in the Americas almost doubled to
3,732 people in the two years ended Sept. 30, helped by
takeovers including Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller LLC.
In that period, the proportion of group income from the region
more than tripled to 27 percent, company filings show.  New York-based Bishop said in an investor presentation in
Sydney yesterday that while it takes time to generate revenue,
the bank is making progress.  “The traction we’re getting with the client is real,” he
said. “It’s now coming through in terms of the revenue and the
pipeline of mandates we have.”  Bishop said the largest U.S. investment banks are focused
on the biggest companies, while boutique firms have a narrower
range. Macquarie is targeting companies worth $5 billion or less,
he said.  “The opportunity that we see is to wedge ourselves in the
middle,” he said. “We’re not walking into the Americas and
saying we want to compete with the bulge-bracket firms head-to-
head. There is a significant market that exists just below those
bulge-bracket firms.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  