-- Madoff Lawsuit Turns on What JPMorgan Knew of Fraud: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2011-02-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/madoff-suit-turns-on-what-jpmorgan-chase-knew-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
In everyday life, a gap often
separates what you know from what you should have figured out.
Blissfully ignorant, you plunge past signs of lurking trouble
only to crash into it and wonder how you could have been so
stupid.  But what if you’re having so much fun or reaping so much
profit that you consciously ignore warnings? And what if others
get hurt because you do?  In criminal law, there isn’t a lot of room between known
and should have known. Turning your head to avoid facing the
truth is called willful blindness, or in some circles, plausible
deniability. It probably won’t save you from getting nailed for
your crime.  Now,  Irving Picard  is trying to bring that idea to
bankruptcy court, where, as trustee in the Bernard Madoff
matter, he chases claw backs for victims of the Ponzi scheme. In
lawsuits, he says Madoff’s bankers and several investors either
knew the  fund manager  was crooked or should have known. It
doesn’t matter which, he says.  JPMorgan Chase and the owners of the New York Mets baseball
team had every reason to know, the suits say. Alarms blared.
Warnings issued. Secrecy cloaked his operation. Still, they kept
pouring money into Madoff funds.  This is a novel extension of the legal concept of willful
blindness, says Peter J. Henning, a Wayne State University law
professor who teaches  securities law  and white collar crime.  Constructive Knowledge  Also called deliberate ignorance or constructive knowledge,
it isn’t something you normally see applied to people who aren’t
accused of actually committing a crime, Henning said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s a stretch, but he’s not going to get laughed out of
court,” he said, declining to predict an outcome.  Picard uses this concept to go after more money than the
relatively easy claw back of false profits and fees these folks
and their firms made off of Madoff, which amount to $300 million
for the Mets owners and almost $1 billion for JPMorgan.  To win the bankruptcy equivalent of punitive damages on top
of those sums, Picard is trying to show that they knew or should
have known they were raking in money that Madoff had ripped off
from others.  The Mets owners, Fred Wilpon, Saul Katz and Sterling
Equities, “consciously disregarded” alarms, the suit claims.
They decided “to blindly accept their good fortune without
conducting any investigation whatsoever.”  Wilpon and Katz called the lawsuit “an outrageous ‘strong
arm’ effort to try to force a settlement” by publicizing
allegations that are “abusive, unfair and untrue.”  Duty to Victims  Yes, Picard had the lawsuit unsealed after settlement
negotiations failed. We won’t know about the truth of the
allegations for some time. From the Mets owners, the trustee
wants a total of $1 billion. That’s $300 million in fictitious
profits and $700 million in principal invested with Madoff.  To get the bigger number, is it enough to show that they
should have known their profits were bogus? How red must those
flags be, how loud the siren?  And did the Mets owners have a duty to Madoff’s victims?
Not in any legal sense. Not unless Picard can persuade the  bankruptcy court  to buy into his theory.  As for JPMorgan, the trustee’s suit claims it was
“thoroughly complicit” in the fraud as primary banker for
Madoff’s investment advisory business for 20 years. From 1986
on, all the money Madoff collected from victims went through a
single account opened with Chemical Bank, which eventually
became part of JPMorgan.  Inconsistencies  As banker, JPMorgan had legal duties to make sure it wasn’t
laundering ill gotten gains, duties Picard says it blew off. The
lawsuit accuses the bank of allowing the “stolen money” to be
washed under its roof, seeming not to notice suspicious activity
and glaring inconsistencies and omissions in regulatory reports.  We are talking jump-off-the-page inconsistencies. Madoff’s
business repeatedly underreported the account’s cash on hand to
regulators, once by as much as $290 million, according to the
suit.  Madoff turned in at least 15 reports that should have shown
millions of dollars in customer activity but which showed none.  (Of course, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
somehow missed the fraud, too.)  The bank also should have noticed that the Madoff account
had money coming in from customers and money going out to other
customers, the suit claims, but no purchases or sales of stocks,
bonds or Treasury bills. What did it think was happening?  JPMorgan also had duties to clients because it structured
and sold them products linked to Madoff feeder funds. But
whenever it attempted due diligence and ran into Madoff’s stone
wall, it never even slowed down, according to the lawsuit.  Picard’s Job  The bank denies it knew about, much less aided Madoff’s
fraud, and says the lawsuit has no merit.  Picard’s job is to go after money for the people who were
bilked by Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme  and to do it aggressively. If
he’s stretching the law, it’s the  court ’s job to rein him in.  But if what these lawsuits say is true, then the Mets
owners built their businesses knowing they were using stolen
money or ignoring that likelihood. And if Picard is right,
JPMorgan abandoned its obligations under the law making it
possible for Madoff to prey on hundreds, perhaps thousands more
people.  Letting them off the hook by giving up only that which they
gained and no more would hardly be justice.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  