-- Magic Johnson Takes Stake and Chairman Post at Vibe Holdings
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2011-02-09T18:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/magic-johnson-said-to-take-stake-chairman-post-at-vibe-holdings.html
Retired basketball star  Magic Johnson 
agreed to invest in  Vibe Holdings LLC  and become chairman of the
New York-based magazine and television company, which focuses on
the urban market.  Johnson, 51, is making the investment with Yucaipa Cos., an
investment firm headed by  Ron Burkle , according to a statement
today. They’re becoming  Vibe  investors alongside Leo Hindery,
the former cable and telecom executive, whose InterMedia
Partners LP already owns a stake in the company.  “We will redefine Vibe Holdings as the center of influence
for the coveted urban audience,” Johnson said in the statement.
A spokeswoman for Johnson, Marvet Britto, declined to say how
much Johnson and Burkle had invested in Vibe Holdings.  Vibe, which targets multicultural consumers with
entertainment, culture and lifestyle content, includes Vibe
magazine, Uptown magazine, more than 25 websites and the Soul
Train TV show, with its library of 35 years of musical
performances, according to the company’s website. Last month,
Vibe began publishing Uptown Professional, a business title.  Robert Miller, who co-founded Vibe magazine in 1993 along
with musician  Quincy Jones , will become chairman of the Vibe and
Uptown magazine group. Miller is a former publisher of  Time
Warner Inc .’s Sports Illustrated and Time magazines. Len Burnett
and Brett Wright will remain co-chief executive officers at Vibe
and Uptown magazines, and Kenard Gibbs will remain as chief
executive of Soul Train, the statement said.  “With the help of our new partners we believe we can build
a leading platform for our core audiences and for advertisers,”
Peter Kern, a managing partner at San-Francisco-based
InterMedia, said in the statement.  Restaurants, Fitness  Johnson said last year that an affiliate of his company
held “advanced discussions” for him to purchase Johnson
Publishing Co., owner of Ebony and Jet magazines, but was unable
to reach an agreement.  At the time, Johnson said that he remained interested in
African-American media. Since then, Magic Johnson Enterprises
liquidated its interest in about 105 Starbucks coffee shops,
giving  Starbucks Corp . all the equity in those stores, according
to Lisa Magnino, a spokeswoman for the company.  Johnson also sold his stake in the  Los Angeles Lakers , the
National Basketball Association franchise where he once starred,
the team said in October. Johnson has partnerships with several
other companies, including 24 Hour Fitness Worldwide Inc. and
T.G.I. Friday’s Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  