-- Agrium Profit Beats Estimates on Fertilizer Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2011-02-09T21:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/agrium-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-as-fertilizer-sales-prices-advance.html
  Agrium Inc .,  North America ’s third-
largest fertilizer producer, reported fourth-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as prices and demand for crop nutrients
increased.  Net income surged to $158 million, or $1 a share, from $30
million, or 19 cents, a year earlier, the Calgary-based company
said today in a statement. Earnings excluding stock-based
compensation expenses, hedging gains and other one-time items
were $1.38 a share, Agrium said. That topped the $1.15 average
estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Demand for fertilizers increased as corn, soybean and wheat
prices advanced last year. The company’s sales rose 63 percent
to $2.35 billion from $1.44 billion, beating the $1.86 billion
average estimate of 14 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  The results are “reflective of the current supply/demand
fundamentals in fertilizer markets,” John Redstone, a Montreal-
based analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. who rates Agrium a
“buy,” said in a note to clients.  Agrium rose C$2.75, or 3 percent, to C$95.65 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares have gained 48
percent in the past 12 months.  “Grain prices are high, providing farmers with all the
needed incentives to maximize fertilizer application and
yield,”  Edlain Rodriguez , a New York-based analyst at Gleacher
& Co., said yesterday in a note to clients.  Potash Prices  Potash, a form of potassium, climbed to $606 a ton at the
end of 2010, 13 percent more than at the end of the previous
quarter, according to a Bloomberg index of U.S. Midwest retail
prices.  The company, in addition to mining potash, produces
nitrogen- and phosphate-based fertilizers, and is the largest
agricultural retailer to U.S. farmers.  “North American nutrient inventories are tight and are
expected to remain so as we move into the spring season,”
Agrium Chief Executive Officer Mike Wilson said today in the
statement.  The company reiterated that its joint-venture nitrogen-
fertilizer plant in  Egypt  hasn’t been affected by political
turmoil in the North African country.  The MOPCO facility, in which it has a 26 percent stake,
“has continued to operate and export at normal levels during
the recent period of unrest, although this is not true for all
Egyptian nitrogen facilities,” Agrium said in the statement.
Progress also continues on tripling output at the plant, the
company said.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and  Mosaic Co . are the
largest fertilizer makers in North America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 