-- AIG Has $4.1 Billion Cost on Inadequate Reserves at Property-Casualty Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-09T15:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/aig-sees-4-1-billion-in-costs-in-fourth-quarter-2010.html
  American International Group Inc .
said higher-than-forecast claims costs cut fourth-quarter profit
by $4.1 billion, and $2 billion previously designated to repay
its bailout will be used to bolster the property-casualty unit.  The insurer reached an agreement with the U.S. Treasury
Department permitting the company to keep $2 billion of proceeds
from the sale of Star Life Insurance Co. and Edison Life
Insurance Co., New York-based AIG said today in a statement.
Funds will be used by the Chartis property-casualty unit for 
losses tied to coverage including workers’ compensation and 
asbestos liability.  AIG is adding to reserves, a sign that it underestimated
the cost of claims, while rivals including Travelers Cos. have
been taking profits after determining they had set aside more
funds than necessary. AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , seeking private capital to replace government funds,
needs to reassure investors the company has adequate resources
for policyholders after competitors said the company
undercharged to retain business after its 2008 bailout.  The reserve strengthening is “another indication that
previous management teams at AIG were aggressive” in their
assumptions about how profitable coverage would be, said
Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in New York.
“The current management wants to go on the road expressing
reserve conservatism.”  AIG had to strengthen reserves by about $2.3 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2009. Workers’ claims sometimes surface years
after a policy is sold as employees report back and neck
injuries. Asbestos claims may be submitted by commercial clients
as lawsuits emerge.  ‘Adverse Development’  AIG dropped $1.04, or 2.5 percent, to $41.33 at 9:52 a.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer has
dropped about 14 percent this year.  “The strengthening to Chartis loss reserves reflects
adverse development on prior accident years,” AIG said in the
statement.  AIG has previously had to retain funds from asset sales to
prop up its insurance units rather than immediately repay the
government. AIG retained about $2.4 billion for Chartis in 2009
under pressure from regulators and ratings firms that monitor
the insurer’s ability to pay policyholder claims, Mark Herr, a
company spokesman, said at the time. The $2.4 billion came from
selling a U.S. auto insurer and a stake in a reinsurer.  Bailed Out  The insurer was bailed out in 2008 in a rescue that swelled
to $182.3 billion after losses on bets tied to subprime
mortgages. Regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the company’s insurance operations were stable.  Chubb Corp. CEO John Finnegan has said insurer bailouts
punished the best-run companies and impeded the functioning of
markets.  “The opportunities for financially strong companies to
absorb the business of weakened competitors were initially
compelling,” Finnegan said in the Warren, New Jersey-based
insurer’s annual letter to shareholders in March. “This is as it
should be in a free market unimpeded by federal intervention.
But the willingness of the federal government to prop up
weakened competitors by artificially injecting capital is
troubling.”  AIG is appealing to private investors to replace government
capital that accounts for 92 percent of its stock. The firm,
which has sold assets including non-U.S. life insurance units
and a consumer lender, plans to keep a plane-leasing subsidiary,
the Chartis property-casualty insurer, a mortgage guarantor, and
the SunAmerica Financial Group life business, Benmosche, 66, has
said.  Star, Edison  AIG completed a deal this month to sell Star and Edison to
Prudential Financial Inc. for about $4.8 billion, including $600
million in assumed debt.  While AIG will retain $2 billion, other cash proceeds will
be given to the Treasury, according to the agreement with the
department. The transfer will be the first repayment of the
Treasury since the department exchanged its $49 billion
preferred stake for common shares last month.    Mark Paustenbach , a spokesman for the Treasury Department,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  