-- AIG To Hold First Call Since 2009 as CEO No Longer ‘Hamstrung’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-02-09T17:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/aig-to-hold-first-call-since-2009-as-ceo-no-longer-hamstrung-by-bailout.html
  American International Group Inc .
will hold its first earnings call with analysts since May 2009,
as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  seeks to raise money
from private investors to repay a government bailout.  The insurer will hold a call on Feb. 25, after reporting
fourth-quarter results a day earlier, New York-based AIG said in
a statement today. Benmosche, 66, has released recorded messages
and letters discussing earnings since he became CEO in 2009,
avoiding direct questions from analysts and investors.  “Before, he was hamstrung,” said Ernest Patrikis, AIG’s
ex-general counsel, who left the insurer in 2006 and is now a
partner at White & Case LLP. “You don’t want to do a conference
call with analysts and say ‘I can’t speak to that, I can’t
address that question.’ It’s worse than no call.”  AIG may face questions about underwriting at its Chartis
property-casualty unit after saying today that the insurer would
take a $4.1 billion fourth-quarter charge as claims costs
exceeded the company’s forecasts. The company will also have an
opportunity to discuss its $296 billion fixed-income portfolio,
including about $49 billion in municipal bonds, $152 billion of
corporate debt and about $31 billion in residential mortgage-
backed securities as of Sept. 30.  “The investment community remains interested in AIG,”
Benmosche said in a Nov. 5 letter to employees. “The reason we
have not conducted quarterly conference calls with analysts to
date was because, for quite some time, we simply did not know
how many shares AIG would have outstanding. But with the recent
announcement of our roadmap for repaying all of our obligations,
we now know that share number.”  ‘A Lot of Questions’  The U.S. Treasury Department has about 1.66 billion shares,
or 92 percent of the total, after converting its $49 billion
preferred stake last month. AIG needs private investors to buy
Treasury’s stock as Benmosche seeks independence from the
government.  Benmosche’s predecessors including  Edward Liddy , Robert Willumstad, Martin Sullivan and Maurice “Hank” Greenberg held
investor calls, as do leaders of competitors including Travelers
Cos. and MetLife Inc. Mark Herr, a spokesman for AIG, declined
to say which executives would participate on Feb. 25.  “There were a lot of questions that they wouldn’t or
couldn’t answer” until the company laid out its plan to repay
the bailout, Patrikis said. “They had someone looking over
their shoulder. Life wasn’t normal at AIG.”  Paula Reynolds, then the insurer’s restructuring chief,
said at the company’s last earnings call, in May 2009, that
“there are a number of options of how you attack your
liabilities” when asked whether the company would ask
bondholders to take a “haircut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  