-- Thailand's Abhisit to Call Election by June, Won't Complete His Full Term
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-02-09T06:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/thailand-s-abhisit-to-call-election-by-june-won-t-complete-his-full-term.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
said an election would be held by the end of June as he moves to
ease political turmoil marked by demonstrations that have 
resulted in about 100 deaths since the last vote in 2007.  “The Prime Minister has made it clear he will not stay
until the end of his term, and the election will be held within
the first half of this year,” according to an e-mailed
 statement  today from his office. Abhisit made the remarks at the
CLSA Asean Investors’ Forum in Bangkok, the statement said.  Abhisit, 46, aims to lead his Democrat party to its first
election win since 1992, a result that would counter critics
aligned with former leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , who say he lacks
a popular mandate. Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary
vote after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for
election fraud.  “The election in the first half of this year will be
positive for equity and financial markets,” said Saharat Chudsuwan, head of  investment management  at Tisco Asset
Management Co. Ltd., which oversees about 140 billion baht ($4.6
billion) of assets. “The formation of new government will
reduce political tension, which has been intensifying.”  Nationalist Protest  The election notice comes as Abhisit faces street protests
from nationalists who want his government to take a harder line
against  Cambodia  amid border clashes that have killed seven
people since Feb. 4.    Thailand ’s benchmark SET Index fell 0.7 percent to 976.59
as of the 12:30 p.m. break. The gauge has dropped 5.4 percent
this year,  Asia ’s fourth worst performer after  Indonesia ,  India 
and the  Philippines .  Thailand, a manufacturing base for automakers including  General Motors Co . and Toyota Motor Corp., saw foreign direct
investment fall 33 percent to 236.03 billion baht last year as
protesters occupied a Bangkok financial area. Investment inflows
into neighboring  Malaysia  more than tripled to $7 billion.  Thai lawmakers are set to vote two days from now on
constitutional changes that would fulfill one of Abhisit’s
conditions for holding a vote. The main opposition Puea Thai
party comprised of Thaksin’s allies plans to call a no-
confidence motion later this month or in early March, said
Anudit Nakorntab, a party member from Bangkok.  ‘Always Ready’  “We are always ready to contest an election whenever the
government will hold it,” Anudit said. “But, we want the
government to wait for the no-confidence motion as this will
benefit the public.”  A censure motion would restrain Abhisit from calling an
election until after he wins a confidence vote, according to the
 constitution . An election must take place between 45 and 60 days
after he dissolves the  House of Representatives , it says.  He has twice called on the military to disperse protesters
aligned with Thaksin known as the Red Shirts who have pushed for
an election, most recently last May in demonstrations that
claimed about 90 lives and led to arson attacks in the capital.  “Looking at the polls, the government is slightly ahead,”
Abhisit told Bloomberg Television on Jan. 31. “What’s good for
the country is that we have free, fair elections soon, and the
Democrat party and the government is ready to fight those
elections.”  Disbanded Parties  Since the military ousted Thaksin in a 2006 coup, courts
have disbanded two parties linked to him and banned more than
200 of his political allies from standing for office. Thaksin-
affiliated parties, which won the most seats in the past four
elections, have been unable to stay in power for more than 18
months after their past three victories.  The Democrat party has increased its lawmakers in
Parliament to 172 from 165 through by-elections since the 2007
election, while the pro-Thaksin Puea Thai has seen its seat
tally reduced to 187 from 233 because of defections and
disqualifications. Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a
jail sentence in 2008, and Puea Thai lacks a clear leader.  “If Puea Thai would like to form the government, it will
have to win the election with an absolute majority because the
Democrat coalition will probably remain together,” said Vorajet Pakeerat, a law lecturer at Bangkok’s Thammasat University.
“This will be very difficult.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  