-- European Airlines Drop After Air France Cuts Outlook
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2011-02-10T18:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/air-france-reports-unexpected-quarterly-loss-lowers-full-year-forecast.html
Air France-KLM Group,  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  and International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,  Europe ’s three biggest carriers, all dropped after Air  France 
reported an unexpected quarterly loss and cut its forecast.  The fiscal third-quarter net loss was 46 million euros ($63
million), missing a forecast for 60 million euros in profit,
based on the average of seven analyst estimates. Air France now
targets a “positive operating result” for the fiscal year,
after earlier predicting profit of more than 300 million euros.  Earnings declined after French air traffic control strikes
and weather disruptions caused the cancellation of flights. Air
France, Europe’s largest airline, also said overcapacity was
crimping yields, a measure of profitability, and that fuel costs
rose by 28 percent to 1.35 billion euros.  “The one-off items are an added negative distraction, but
fuel and capacity are the big issues,” said  Chris Logan , an
analyst at Echelon Research and Advisory in London. “IAG and
Lufthansa are also exposed, not just on fuel costs but also
pricing if capacity returns faster than expected.”  Air France declined 1.05 euros, or 7.7 percent, to 12.57
euros in Paris, the biggest drop since Feb. 11, 2010. Lufthansa
fell 2.5 percent, while IAG, owner of British Airways and Iberia
Lineas Aereas de Espana, dropped 3.3 percent.  Capacity Gains  Capacity, or available seats, is up about 10 percent across
the North Atlantic in February as rival European carriers,
particularly British Airways, have added seats,  Air France-KLM 
Chief Executive Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said today. Air France has
boosted capacity on the routes by 1 percent to 2 percent.  Airlines worldwide slashed services in the wake of the
global recession as demand for  air travel  plummeted. As
economies recovered demand for flights exceeded supply, allowing
airlines to boost yields.  Air France canceled 6,900 flights after the French strikes
in October and heavy December snowfalls in northern Europe and
the U.S. The disruptions led to the loss of 100 million euros in
revenue, the airline said yesterday.  “The impact of the weather is much higher than was
expected,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris who recommends buying the stock. “The overcapacity
situation is clearly worrying and clearly negative.”  Air France also said “security issues” in countries the
airline serves, including Tunisia and  Egypt , where there have
been uprisings against the ruling governments, would likely hurt
revenue in the current quarter.  Lowering Costs  Employee costs fell by 1.3 percent to 1.84 billion euros in
the quarter, partially helping offset a surge in fuel costs. Air
France hedged 14 percent of fuel costs, mitigating the rise. The
airline has hedged about 50 percent of fuel for next year, it
said today.  “Air France has done a reasonable job on head count and
employee costs, but the fuel bill is now so big relative to the
other costs that airlines just can’t take non-fuel costs down
enough to keep overall costs unchanged,” said Echelon’s Logan.  IAG will post its first earnings report as a joint company
on February 25, it said today. The company will announce full-
year earnings for Iberia and nine-month results for BA.
Lufthansa reports its 2010 full-year earnings March 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  