-- Malaysia to Gain From Commodities, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2011-02-09T05:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/malaysia-to-gain-from-commodities-credit-suisse-says-update1-.html
Malaysia’s economic growth may beat
estimates this year as surging palm oil and rubber prices create
a “commodity bonanza” that will benefit banks, builders and
property stocks, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  Investors should buy shares of  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) ,
Malaysia’s second-biggest bank by assets, and  Genting Bhd. (GENT) ,
which controls Asia’s biggest casino operator, analyst Stephen Hagger wrote in a report today. Building companies  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM) 
and  IJM Corp. (IJM) , property developer UEM Land Holdings Bhd. and
 Public Bank Bhd. (PBK)  will also benefit, the report said.  “When planters are having a good time, it can have a huge
positive on the economy,” Hagger wrote. “The commodity bonanza
will likely be recycled into the economy via bonuses, casinos,
property and auto purchases.” His team was ranked second for
Malaysian research in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll.  Malaysia, the world’s second-largest palm oil grower, is
benefiting from an increase in the prices of farm commodities as
demand threatens to outstrip supply that has been dented by
heavier-than-usual rains. Palm oil futures gained as much as 1
percent today to the highest level since March 2008, while
rubber futures in  Tokyo  gained 1.9 percent to a record.  Malaysia’s economy, Southeast Asia’s second largest,
probably expanded about 7 percent in 2010, Malaysian central
bank governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said Jan. 16. The government
forecasts growth of as much as 6 percent this year.  Growth, Profit Upgrades  Gross domestic product, which Credit Suisse has forecast to
grow 5.2 percent this year, “could surprise on the upside,”
Hagger wrote in his report. “Expect GDP and earnings upgrades
in 2011.”  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  climbed 19 percent last
year, extending 2009’s 45 percent rally. The gauge has gained 1
percent this year, compared with declines in regional peers.
Benchmark indexes in Thailand and  Indonesia  have lost 5.4
percent and 8.1 percent respectively, while the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index has slumped 8.5 percent.  Other factors that will bolster economic growth include
rising participation by individual investors in the stock
market, which will “quickly get recycled into the system,” and
government efforts to bolster the economy, Hagger wrote.  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government unveiled an
economic transformation program in September aimed at attracting
investment, including $444 billion of programs this decade
ranging from mass rail to nuclear power, led by private and
government-linked companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  