-- Hana May Post Record Revenue in 2011, CEO Han Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2011-02-09T05:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/hana-apple-supplier-in-thailand-may-post-record-revenue-as-demand-surges.html
  Hana Microelectronics Pcl , Thailand’s
biggest semiconductor packager, may post record revenue this
year on increased demand for smartphones and laptop computers,
Chief Executive Officer Richard Han said.  “Most of my customers feel quite encouraged about the
demand they have seen,” Han said in an interview in Bangkok
yesterday. Hana, which produces parts for mobile devices
including Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Research in Motion Ltd.’s
BlackBerry, plans to invest as much as $40 million this year
after spending almost $70 million last year to expand capacity.  Han said he expects demand for phones and portable
computers to remain strong even as global economic growth slows.
Cupertino, California-based Apple said sales in the quarter
ended December jumped 71 percent to a record as customers packed
stores to buy iPhone 4s and iPads, and projected second-quarter
profit and sales that may exceed analyst estimates.  “It’s actually a fashion change,” Han said. “People are
spending less on household and durable goods, and more on small-
ticket items. The electronics industry actually benefits to a
certain extent. Everyone gets one of these products because
they’re inexpensive and the new models are attractive.”  Hana’s sales this year may exceed 2010 revenue that the
company expects reached a record, Han said. The Bangkok-based
company is scheduled to announce earnings March 2.  Rising Baht  The company gained 1 percent to 25.25 baht as of 12 p.m. in
Bangkok trading. The stock rose 20 percent in 2010,
underperforming a 41 percent gain by the main SET index.  Sales may grow at a slower pace in 2011 because revenue
last year surged from a low base in 2009, Han said. In the first
nine months of last year, the company’s sales rose 37 percent to
12.97 billion baht ($422 million), according to a November
filing to the Thai exchange.  “We expect the company’s sales to grow well this year,
boosted by its capacity expansion and strong demand for
electronics and car components,” said Naree Apisawaittakan, an
analyst at Phillip Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “But we are
worried that the company’s profit margin may be squeezed even
more than last year because of the continued baht appreciation
and rising wages.”  Thailand’s currency strengthened 11 percent last year,
outpacing gains in  South Korea ’s won and the Indian rupee and
crimping Hana’s competitiveness in overseas markets. The baht
may appreciate 4.7 percent to 29.3 per dollar by year-end, the
strongest level since 1997, according to the median forecast of
18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The currency traded at
30.40 as of 10.45 a.m. in Bangkok.  Cost-Cutting  Hana’s group operating profit fluctuates by 135 million
baht each quarter for every 10 percent change in the average
exchange rate of the baht and the yuan versus the dollar,
according to data on the company’s  website .  Hana’s net income may rise 2.4 percent to 2.94 billion baht
this year, compared with estimated 40 percent growth last year,
Phillip Securities forecasts. Naree rates the stock “buy” with
a price estimate of 34.50 baht a share.  Hana is focusing “less on demand, but more on costs” this
year because of the baht’s strength and wage inflation in China
and  Thailand , Han said. Hana, which has plants in both countries
with about 11,000 employees combined, has invested to boost
productivity and cut costs by increasing automation.  The company has also raised its foreign-exchange hedging
since last year to as much as $70 million, or about half its
monthly sales. The baht is expected to trade between “high 29
to low 31” against the dollar this year, Han said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  