-- AngloGold Debates Splitting Off S. Africa Assets Amid Nationalization Call
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-09T16:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/anglogold-may-split-south-africa-international-assets-on-investor-concern.html
  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd ., the third-
largest producer of the metal, is debating whether to split off
its South African gold mines to limit the drag on valuations of
assets abroad amid demands in the country for nationalization.  “The question people are asking is ‘Would we get a higher
rating for our international gold assets?’,” Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  said yesterday in a Cape Town interview.
“The answer is, quite possibly. We’re not about to announce a
split. We continue to look at that among a range of options.”    South Africa , where the ruling African National Congress is
debating whether to nationalize the country’s mines, contributes
about two-fifths of AngloGold’s production.  Anglo American Plc ’s  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd . unit is also fighting the government over an
award of a right to part of its Sishen mine to another company.  Valuations for the country’s mining companies, which dig
the world’s deepest seams, may also be affected by their labor-
intensive output, and surging power and wage costs. Utility
Eskom Holdings Ltd. is raising power prices more than 25 percent
a year and wages have jumped by multiples of the inflation rate.  “There are all sorts of issues around South Africa --
political issues, the fact that there’s not enough power, cost
escalation,”  Leon Esterhuizen , an RBC Capital Markets analyst,
said by phone in  London  today. “You don’t have to be a genius
to work out that it’s certainly a drag on the share price.”  Anglo American  AngloGold, which also mines in Guinea, Tanzania, Ghana,  Australia , Argentina, the U.S. and Brazil, rose 52 cents, or 0.2
percent, to 328.02 rand by the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg.  Anglo American could separate South African assets, which
make up about 40 percent of its total, from operations abroad as
national business conditions worsen, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said last year. Anglo, founded in Johannesburg in 1917 and
now based in London, created AngloGold before selling its stake.  “If you’re going to break it up, you’ll have two mid-tier
companies rather than one big company,” Stephen Roelofse, a  fund manager  at Metropolitan, said by phone from Cape Town
today. “The rating on bigger companies is usually better.”  Investors quizzed AngloGold on whether it would split up
the company after  Barrick Gold Corp ., the world’s biggest gold
company, split its African assets from mines elsewhere to create
African Barrick Gold Ltd. last year, Cutifani told Bloomberg
News today. Toronto-based Barrick spun off its African assets,
including four Tanzanian operations, and listed them in London.  The stock of North American gold producers Barrick and
Newmont Mining Corp. outperformed in the past year, gaining more
than 30 percent, compared with AngloGold’s 17 percent advance.  Gold for immediate delivery rose to a record $1,431.25 an
ounce on Dec. 7 and traded at $1,360.13 by 4:28 p.m. in London.
The metal has gained 28 percent over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  