-- Anil Ambani Group Blames `Illegal Trading' for Share Plunge, Seeks Probe
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2011-02-09T11:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/anil-ambani-group-blames-illegal-trading-for-share-plunge-seeks-probe.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s group asked  India ’s stock exchange and regulator to investigate “illegal
trading” after shares in its telecoms, power and infrastructure
companies plunged the most in more than a year.    Reliance Infrastructure Ltd ., the builder of a mass rapid
transit system in Mumbai, declined 19 percent, the biggest drop
in more than two years, and  Reliance Communications Ltd .,
India’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, dropped 14.3
percent, the steepest fall in 13 months.  Reliance Power Ltd .
sank 9.6 percent.  “A series of completely baseless and motivated rumors have
been spread today by our unscrupulous corporate rivals,”
Reliance ADAG group said in an e-mailed statement. “This has
been accompanied by vicious and illegal bear hammering of our
listed stocks, to create panic and destabilize the markets.”  The sell-off wiped $2.6 billion off the group’s market
value and dragged down the benchmark Sensitive Index, already
the worst performer in the world after  Egypt .  Anil Ambani , 51,
last month agreed to stay away from trading in shares in the
secondary market this year after an investigation by the markets
regulator into breaches of overseas borrowing rules.  “The governance and corporate governance deficit are a big
concern for investors,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a New
Delhi-based chief strategist at SMC Global Securities Ltd.
“Investor sentiment has been hit as some high-profile corporate
groups are under the scanner. In a weak sentiment market even a
rumor can be a bad news.”  N. Hariharan, spokesman for the market regulator, didn’t
answer three calls made to his mobile phone. Divya Malik Lahiri,
a spokeswoman for the National Stock Exchange, couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted on her cellphone.  Telecoms Arrest  India’s federal investigators last night arrested the top
executive of a rival mobile-phone company as part of a widening
probe into wireless licenses and NDTV Profit television reported
an accounting body had sought information from Reliance Power
and  Reliance Infrastructure .  Reliance Infrastructure fell 127.4 rupees to 531.7 rupees
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. Reliance Power sank 9.6
percent to 112.2 rupees.  Reliance Capital Ltd . slid 14 percent
to 412.15 rupees and Reliance Communications Ltd. dropped 14
percent 94.65 rupees, a record low. Five Anil Ambani group
companies lost 14 percent of their value to 760 billion rupees
($16.7 billion).  “There is a sense of fear among investors that there could
be some serious corporate governance issues,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt.  Boost Charge  India’s telecommunications regulator today recommended the
government increase the charges for second-generation mobile-
phone airwaves sixfold amid a widening probe into the sale of
spectrum in 2008.  The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India said the
government should charge 109.7 billion rupees ($2.4 billion) for
any company to use an initial 6.2 megahertz of spectrum
capacity, it said on its website today. Ten years ago, the entry
fee for nationwide mobile airwaves cost 16.62 billion rupees.  Etisalat DB Telecom  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  arrested Shahid Balwa,
vice chairman of  Etisalat DB Telecom  India Pvt. yesterday, the
agency’s spokeswoman, Binita Thakur, said in a phone interview
today. His arrest comes a week after authorities detained former
telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  for questioning over
the awarding of mobile-phone licenses.  Balwa, who is also the managing director at DB Realty Ltd.,
 was “wrongly implicated” in the investigation, according to a
company statement.  Ambani last month reached a settlement with regulators,
agreeing to stay away from trading in equities until December.
The accord is without admission or denial of guilt, Reliance
Infrastructure said on Jan. 14.  The directors of Reliance Infrastructure and Reliance
Natural Resources, which is owned by Reliance Power, paid 500
million rupees to settle an investigation that they violated
overseas borrowing rules, the Securities & Exchange Board of
India said in a statement dated Jan. 14.  Investor concerns over corruption, rising inflation and
seven interest rate increases in a year have spurred foreign
investors to sell $1.3 billion of shares in 2011 and triggered a
14 percent fall in the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index.
The Sensex climbed 17 percent in 2010, the most among the
world’s 10 largest stock markets, as optimism over economic
growth and corporate earnings propelled record foreign inflows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  