-- Hard Freeze in Texas May Be Winter's Last Gasp in South, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-02-09T19:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/hard-freeze-in-texas-may-be-winter-s-last-gasp-in-south-forecasters-say.html
A hard freeze that has sent
temperatures plunging as much as 40 degrees below normal in  Texas  may be the last big blast of winter for the southern U.S.,
forecasters said.  Temperatures in the Dallas-Fort Worth area are 15 to 18
degrees Fahrenheit today (minus 9 to minus 7.7 Celsius), said
Matt Mosier, a National Weather Service meteorologist  in Fort
Worth . The normal high for Dallas is 58 degrees.  Winds make the temperature feel closer to zero and below,
he said.  “This event looks to be colder, at least for today, than
last week,” Mosier said.  Temperatures across northern Texas last week fell below
freezing for 103 hours. As much as 6 inches of snow fell on the
Dallas area, while Houston was coated in ice and winter weather
warnings were posted as far south as the Mexican border.  The cold blast sent residents to their thermostats and
froze pipes at  power plants , prompting the  Electric Reliability
Council of Texas , which operates the state’s grid, to order
rotating outages to help power generators cope with demand.  Wind chill warnings and advisories, along with hard-freeze
warnings and winter-storm watches, cover most of Texas today
from the Oklahoma line to  Mexico , according to the weather
service.  Flights Grounded  American Airlines and its American Eagle commuter unit
canceled 387 flights, or about half their daily operations, at
Dallas-Fort Worth International airport today because of ice and
snow, Ed Martelle, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Southwest Airlines Co . grounded 40 flights from Dallas Love
Field, according to Whitney Eichinger, a company spokeswoman.  After today, temperatures will start to rise in Dallas and  Fort Worth , Mosier said. By the weekend, highs in the 60s are
possible, he said.  The thaw in Texas is expected to spread across much of the
rest of the U.S. through next week, forecasters said.  Natural gas futures were steady.  “The market is ignoring the current cold because it
believes we will see warmer temperatures,” said Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “There’s a
sense that the market is going to continue to be well-
supplied.”  The forecast warmth is “a well-deserved and long-overdue
breather,” said Michael Schlacter, chief meteorologist at
Weather 2000 Inc., in New York. The southern U.S. may be
starting on a slow march toward more normal temperatures for
this time of year, he said.  Break From Cold  Usually, even in very cold winters, there will have been
two or three periods where temperatures get above freezing for a
week or more in the northern part of the country, Schlacter
said.  “What is remarkable is that we haven’t had any thaws,”
Schlacter said.  Temperatures by weekend may reach the low 40s in  New York ,
according to the weather service. Schlacter said that won’t mean
winter’s back is broken, especially in the north.  “The undoing of winter in the Northeast will be a gradual
affair,” said Jim N.R. Dale, founder of commercial forecaster
British Weather Services in Hazlemere, High Wycombe,  England .
“The second half of February is likely to be much less fraught
than the first half.”  New York and Philadelphia probably won’t see the heavy
snows they received though February last year, said  Joe Bastardi , a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State College,
Pennsylvania.    New York City  and Philadelphia have had the core of their
winter from December 26 to January 26,” Bastardi said.  With assistance from Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  and Moming
Zhou and Christine Buurma in New York. Editors: Charlotte
Porter, Joseph Link  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  