-- Marvell CEO Says Tablets Are Threat to ‘Monster’ PCs
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2011-02-09T21:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/marvell-ceo-says-tablets-threaten-monster-personal-computers.html
  Marvell Technology Group Ltd ., maker
of the processor that runs BlackBerry smartphones, said the
success of tablet computers and phones that surf the Web is a
bigger threat to traditional personal computers than laptops.  Computer makers will respond to  Apple Inc .’s iPad and other
tablets with more powerful laptops to emphasize the difference
in capabilities, Marvell Chief Executive Officer Sehat Sutardja
said in an interview. That in turn will narrow the gap between
laptops and machines that sit under the desk, he said.  “We’re already seeing a steady decrease in the market for
monster PCs as the performance of laptops has significantly
increased,” he said. “This is good for the industry because
desktops are typically left under the desk for five to seven
years, whereas consumers replace their laptop every two to three
years.”  Marvell is facing concerns that new technologies and
slowing PC sales will hurt the market for chips that control
hard-disk drives, which it dominates. The  Santa Clara ,
California-based company is also trying to convert its foothold
in the mobile-phone market with Research In Motion Ltd.’s
BlackBerry into orders from other phone and tablet makers.  “People want to see some design wins,” said Chris Caso,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group in  New York .
“Over the next three years, hard drives are going to lose share
to solid-state drives.”  New Drives  Marvell’s chips control about 60 percent of computer hard-
disk drives sold, according to Caso. As new drives based on
chips rather than spinning magnetic platters take hold in the PC
and tablet markets, Marvell may struggle to replicate its
success in controllers for these so-called SSDs, he said.  Marvell has been working on controller chips for the new
drives for years and is already supplying  Intel Corp . and Micron
Technology Inc. with the new products that are more profitable,
said Sutardja. The cost of the new storage drives is also
slowing their adoption.  “I just don’t see them going to even 20 or 30 percent of
the world anytime soon,” he said.  Marvell will begin to show progress in getting its chips
into more smartphones and tablets starting late this year,
Sutardja said. Most models on the market today rely on multiple
chips to provide the main radio, processing and other
communication functions.  Over time, handset makers will begin to use new chips that
combine the abilities of multiple semiconductors into one piece
of silicon. That saves space for more compact designs, cuts
costs and allows phones to go longer between battery charges.  Combination Chips  Marvell,  Qualcomm Inc . and  Broadcom Corp . are among only a
few companies that have all the technologies -- including Wi-Fi,
application-processing and cellular-baseband chips -- that need
to be built into such multifunction products, according to Caso.  “Space is at a premium. Power consumption is at a
premium,” Sutardja said. “Integration always wins.”  Marvell’s processors, like those of Qualcomm, Broadcom and
Texas Instruments Inc., are based on technology from  ARM
Holdings Plc .  Marvell fell 37 cents to $19.87 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 7.1 percent
this year. The company is registered in Hamilton,  Bermuda .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  