-- Australia Will Rely on Pace for Cricket World Cup Defense, Ponting Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-02-09T02:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/australia-will-rely-on-pace-for-cricket-world-cup-defense-ponting-says.html
  Australia ’s chances of winning a
fourth straight Cricket World Cup title will hinge on its fast
bowlers, according to captain Ricky Ponting.  Top-ranked Australia flies out today for the six-week
tournament in  India , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, where conditions
traditionally suit slower bowlers. Rather than rely on spinners,
the Australians plan to use Shaun Tait and Brett Lee to make
inroads into opposing batting lineups.  “The one thing we’ve learnt the hard way on the
subcontinent, particularly with India and Sri Lanka, is that
they play spin so well and so often it is counter-productive
using too much spin against their batsmen,” Ponting wrote in
his  column  in today’s Australian newspaper. “We’ll be
unleashing Lee and Tait at 150 kilometers-an-hour (93mph) to
unsettle their batsmen.”  Tait, 27, was the joint second-highest wicket-taker at the
2007 World Cup in the Caribbean with 23, while Lee had 22
dismissals at the 2003 tournament in southern  Africa  before
missing the next edition because of an ankle injury.  “We plan to use Shaun the same way in this tournament as
we did four years ago, giving him a couple of overs up front to
see if he can grab early wickets then use him in short bursts
during the innings when the ball starts to reverse,” Ponting
added.  The 34-year-old Lee, who quit elite five-day Tests a year
ago to focus on the game’s shorter formats, took a series-high
11 wickets as Australia routed  England  6-1 in their one-day
contest that finished three days ago.  ‘Fantastic Shape’  Lee “has got himself in fantastic shape after some tough
battles regaining his fitness,” added Ponting.    Mitchell Johnson  and  Doug Bollinger  are the other
specialist fast bowlers in Australia’s 15-man squad, with
allrounders Shane Watson and John Hastings providing further
pace options.  Australia’s last loss at cricket’s four-yearly championship
came against  Pakistan  at the 1999 tournament in England. It’s
won 28 and tied one of its  29 games  since.  Ponting’s squad plays tune-up games against India on Feb.
13 and  South Africa  two days later before starting its title
defense Feb. 21 against Zimbabwe in Ahmedabad.  The 14 teams are split into two groups of seven for the
opening round-robin stage, with the top four from each advancing
to the quarterfinals. The final is scheduled for April 2 in
Mumbai.  “Pace is the area where I believe we will make the biggest
impact and will be decisive in our hopes of attempting to win a
fourth successive  World Cup ,” Ponting wrote. “We believe we’ve
got the all-round pace attack to really do some damage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  