-- Belgium's Praet Said to Be Likely Winner of ECB's Executive Board Position
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2011-02-09T15:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/belgium-s-praet-said-to-be-likely-winner-of-ecb-s-executive-board-position.html
  Belgium ’s Peter Praet is favored to
win the next opening on the European Central Bank’s Executive
Board, filling one post as debate swirls over the ECB’s top job,
said seven European officials familiar with the debate.  Praet, 62, a Belgian central banker specializing in
financial regulation, is likely to be recommended to the board
seat by European finance chiefs on Feb. 14, said the officials
who declined to be named because the process isn’t public.  Negotiations over the slot, set to be vacated in May by
Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of Austria, collided with intensified
speculation over who will succeed ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  when his term ends in October. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  reshuffled the campaign for the top job, saying he may not
seek reappointment as German central bank chief when his term
runs out next year, according to an official at the bank.  The ECB’s six Executive Board members oversee the central
bank’s operations and form the nucleus of the interest-rate-
setting Governing Council. Tumpel-Gugerell is the only woman
among the 23 council members.  Praet, a former  International Monetary Fund  and investment
bank economist, was Belgium’s candidate for ECB positions in
2004 and 2010, losing both times.  In a victory for western over eastern Europe, euro-area
governments are leaning toward appointing Praet over Elena Kohutikova, a former deputy governor of  Slovakia ’s central bank,
the European officials said.  The bid by Kohutikova, 57, was damaged by Slovakia’s
refusal to back the European Union’s 110 billion-euro ($150
billion) aid package for Greece as the debt crisis unfolded last
year, the officials said.  Praet’s Background  Tumpel-Gugerell, 58, is responsible for payment systems on
the ECB board. Praet’s role as Belgium’s representative on the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision gives him experience in
that area.  Praet would need to get through a European Parliament
confirmation hearing before euro-area governments formally
appoint him to take office June 1.  Guy Bertels, a Belgian central bank spokesman, had no
immediate comment on the personnel campaign. Kohutikova won’t
comment, said Alena Walterova, the spokeswoman for  Vseobecna
Uverova Banka AS , a Bratislava, Slovakia-based unit of Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , where Kohutikova is a board member.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  