-- Bernanke Says Unemployment Will ‘Remain Elevated’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2011-02-09T22:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/bernanke-says-unemployment-in-u-s-to-remain-elevated-even-after-decline.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the  unemployment rate  is likely to remain high
“for some time” even after the biggest two-month drop in the
jobless rate since 1958.  Bernanke told the House Budget Committee today that while
the declines in the jobless rate in December and January “do
provide some grounds for optimism,” he cautioned that “with
output growth likely to be moderate for a while and with
employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their payrolls,
it will be several years before the unemployment rate has
returned to a more normal level.”  Bernanke and the  Federal Open Market Committee  are waiting
for further proof of a durable pickup in the job market as they
press forward with their plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasury
securities  to boost the pace of recovery. In its Jan. 26
statement, the panel said the recovery “has been insufficient
to bring about a significant improvement in labor market
conditions.”  The extent to which the recovery is established and
inflation is pointing higher or lower will help determine
whether the Fed expands or pulls back on the stimulus, Bernanke
said in response to questions.  Deflation Risk  “If we’re still in a situation where the recovery does not
seem established and deflation risk remains a concern, then we
would have to think about additional measures,” Bernanke said.
If the economy grows “very quickly” and inflation keeps
rising, then the Fed would have to reverse the purchases, he
said.  If the recovery is sustainable and inflation is under
control, then further action wouldn’t be needed, Bernanke said.
Policy makers “take very seriously” their commitment to review
the program at each meeting. The FOMC next meets March 15.  Bernanke’s remarks, his first since a Labor Department
report on Feb. 4 showed the jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 9
percent in January, were similar to comments he made last week
at the  National Press Club  and testimony last month to the
Senate Budget Committee.  “Although the growth rate of economic activity appears
likely to pick up this year, the unemployment rate probably will
remain elevated for some time,” Bernanke said in today’s
testimony.  Joblessness rose above 9 percent in May 2009, beginning the
longest period of unemployment at that level or higher since
monthly records began in 1948.  Payroll Growth  Last week’s Labor Department report also showed employers
added 36,000 workers, short of the 146,000 median gain projected
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, as winter storms
deterred hiring.  Since late last month Bernanke and his colleagues have
expanded the focus of monetary policy beyond the jobless rate.  The Fed chairman said on Feb. 3 that he needs to see “a
sustained period of stronger  job creation ” before he deems the
recovery firmly established, a statement he repeated to the
House.  On Nov. 3, the central bank announced that it would embark
on a second round of asset purchases to help boost the recovery
and achieve the Fed’s mandates. The program, slated to last
through June, follows $1.7 trillion of purchases of mortgage and
government debt through last March.  Challenge on Stimulus  Republicans on the panel challenged Bernanke on the effects
of the stimulus. The panel’s chairman, Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , reiterated his criticism of the Fed’s Treasury
purchases, saying they risk asset-price bubbles and faster
inflation. The increase in long-term bond yields this week
“certainly adds to these concerns and fuels some of this
speculation,” he said.  The yield on the two-year Treasury note fell to 0.81
percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York  from 0.85 percent yesterday.
The 10-year Treasury’s yield fell to 3.65 percent from 3.74
percent. It has risen from 2.57 percent on Nov. 3, an increase
that Bernanke today attributed to signs of an improving economy.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican,
pressed Bernanke to reconcile his positions that Fed monetary
policy didn’t fuel a housing bubble last decade with the stance
that the Fed can help  home prices  now with its asset purchases.  Not Responding  Home prices are not “responding at all” to the Fed’s
policy, and the bubble was “far greater than could be
explained” by the central bank’s interest-rate actions,
Bernanke said in response.  Ryan has said he supports legislation proposed by fellow
Republicans, Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and Indiana
Representative Mike Pence, that would remove the Fed’s
employment mandate and have it focus solely on keeping prices
stable.  Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the committee’s
senior Democrat, commended Bernanke’s actions. He said it’s
“astounding” that some Republicans are proposing to narrow the
Fed’s legislative mandate.  Bernanke said “inflation is expected to persist below the
levels that Fed policy makers have judged to be consistent”
with their dual mandate from congress for stable prices and
maximum employment.  The Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation, the personal
consumption expenditures index excluding food and energy, rose
0.7 percent in December from a year earlier, the lowest level in
more than 50 years.  The low rate of  core inflation  has coincided with a surge
in the price of commodities, such as gasoline, which at $3.12 a
gallon has risen 18 percent from its price a year ago, according
to an index from the American Automobile Association.  Wages, Inflation  As in his appearance before the National Press Club,
Bernanke said the low rate of core inflation provided a better
guide to where overall inflation was headed. He noted that
wages, which increased 1.7 percent on an average hourly basis
last year, have acted as a constraint on inflation.  Employers added fewer than 100,000 workers to payrolls a
month on average last year, the proportion of the working-age
population in the  labor force  has fallen to the lowest level
since 1984, and 6.2 million people have been looking for a job
for more than half a year.  The  U.S. economy  will create 2 million jobs in 2011, twice
as many as last year, said  Scott Brown , the most accurate
forecaster of the jobless rate over the past two years according
to Bloomberg News calculations.  Unemployment will end the year at 8.6 percent, projected
Brown, chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc., less
than the 8.8 percent median forecast of 61 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8. It dropped to 9 percent in
January from 9.4 percent the prior month.  Economists in the survey don’t expect the Fed to raise its
key interest rate from almost zero until the first quarter of
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;  Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  