-- Best Buy May Switch to Wal-Mart-Style Everyday Prices
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   C l i f f o r d   E d w a r d s
-- 2011-02-09T21:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/best-buy-may-switch-to-wal-mart-style-everyday-store-pricing.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer electronics retailer, may curtail three decades of
tactical discounting and move instead to its own version of the
everyday prices pioneered by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .  With Americans increasingly using smartphones to comparison
shop, consumers are unwilling to wait for sales if they find
better deals elsewhere, said Mike Vitelli, executive vice
president and co-head of the North America division.  “We have to move rapidly in recognizing the transparency
of pricing,” Vitelli, 55, said in a Feb. 7 interview at Best
Buy’s headquarters in Richfield,  Minnesota . Internal discussions
about making the switch are at an early stage, he said.  In December, Best Buy cut its profit outlook for the year
ending this month to between $3.20 and $3.40 a share, down from
$3.55 to $3.70, citing falling domestic demand for televisions,  notebook computers  and gaming software. It lost TV sales after
Wal-Mart and  Target Corp . discounted prices on their least
expensive models on the Black Friday weekend in late November
while Best Buy delayed price cuts until December, Vitelli said.  The retailer has tried new tactics to keep customers from
defecting to rivals. In December, the company dropped fees it
charges to take back merchandise. On Feb. 6, it officially
kicked off a product buyback program with a  Super Bowl 
commercial starring Justin Bieber and Ozzy Osbourne.  Typically everyday pricing is a pledge that a retailer will
offer the best price it can get from suppliers and still make
money on each item. Best Buy may not be able to generate enough
consumer interest to make up for lower average selling prices,
said  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst in  Los
Angeles .  Wal-Mart Pricing  “Wal-Mart makes up for everyday low pricing in volume,”
said Pachter, who rates Best Buy as “neutral.” “Best Buy
doesn’t have the traffic, so it doesn’t make sense for them.
They’re losing better-informed customers who are more savvy
about alternative places to buy the same product.”  Best Buy fell 50 cents to $33.85 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 5.9
percent in the previous 12 months.  Best Buy hasn’t decided how the new pricing model would
work, Vitelli said. The company has begun talking with Sony
Corp., Samsung Electronics Co. and other manufacturers about
offering greater flexibility on pricing their products, he said.  Samsung declined to comment and a Sony spokesman said a
retail executive wasn’t immediately available to answer
questions.  Sales Projections  Best Buy’s sales growth has slowed amid heightened
competition from rivals such as Wal-Mart and online retailers
like  Amazon.com Inc ., vying for recession-weary customers with
promotions and new items. Best Buy’s revenue may rise 1.2
percent to $50.3 billion this year, the slowest pace in at least
a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  During a Best Buy staff meeting, Vitelli was willing to say
out loud: “Why do we carry inventory when we train consumers
only to buy it’” on sale, said Rick Rommel, a senior vice
president who helps run a unit that tests new concepts.  “If the pricing isn’t everyday, the consumers just wait,”
Rommel said in an interview. “Our inventory sits and waits for
that next promotional moment.”  Switching to consistent pricing would “be very powerful,”
said Barry Judge, Best Buy’s chief marketing officer. “It makes
our pricing much more transparent than it is today.”  Best Buy’s weekly newspaper circular would be “a whole lot
easier to lay out” with prices easier for consumers to
understand, Judge said.  “The prices are the prices,” he said.  The retailer is also reducing the number of items it sells
to focus on products that sell well, Vitelli said. By the end of
the year the company will carry fewer than 100 TV models in the
average store, down from about 140 a year ago. Slower-selling
products will continue to be sold online, Vitelli said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  