-- Why $2 Trillion Can't Buy Love or Heal Egos: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2011-02-09T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/big-business-hoards-cash-craves-fruitcake-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
President  Barack Obama  took
bipartisanship beyond civility to gosh-darn friendliness when he
ambled across  Lafayette Square  to speak to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  He rarely walks anywhere -- strolling presidents drive the
Secret Service crazy -- but he decided strolling into enemy
territory would send just the right message.  Once there, he began with a muted apology for not acting
more like Mister Rogers: “Maybe we would have gotten off on a
better foot if I had brought over a fruitcake when we first
moved in.”  He may not have sent sweets to the chamber, but he did
ladle out some pretty sweet deals to its members.  The recovery and stimulus measures he supported included
massive helpings of taxpayer money to banks, brokerages and big
corporations, few strings attached.  While his political base clamored for the stricter control
Republicans demonize as nationalization, Obama went the other
way, trusting the banks to lend the money to businesses to help
retain and rehire workers. They didn’t, instead hoarding the
cash for themselves -- and letting top executives keep their
bonuses. Sounds like a pretty beautiful day in the neighborhood
to me. Who needs cake?  Corporate America is racking up record profits, the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  is back above 12,000, rising  consumer
confidence  has shoppers flocking to stores. So what exactly is
the chamber’s beef with Obama?  Hurt Feelings  It’s true that business continues to be a vocal critic of
Obama’s reshaping of health care and of the Dodd-Frank financial
reforms. Yet there has to be something more to explain how a
traditionally staid member of the Washington establishment has
become such a vociferous critic of the president.  There’s a whiff of hurt feelings and bruised egos in the
complaints you hear from the chamber about being left off invite
lists and about Obama speaking directly to its members. Now
there’s a concept for you: I guess presidents should talk to
business leaders only through their lobbyists.  Then there’s the “fat cat” insult Obama uttered in an
interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes” in December 2009 just before
the heads of a dozen or so banks were asked, nicely, in a confab
at the White House, to help speed the economic recovery.  When Obama took a stab at explaining the public’s
unhappiness over news that huge bonuses were going to the folks
who caused the meltdown, he veered into a little trash talk.  “I did not run for office to be helping out a bunch of,
you know, fat-cat bankers on  Wall Street ,” Obama said.  ‘You Guys’  And moments later: “They’re still puzzled, why is it that
people are mad at the banks? Well, let’s see. You know, you guys
are drawing down $10 million, $20 million bonuses after America
went through the worst economic year that it’s gone through in
decades, and you guys caused the problem.”  Don’t fat-cat bankers have mothers who made the timeless
point that words could never hurt them?  Some other questions: If Obama had spent the year spooning
with corporate America, as it apparently had hoped, would the
500 largest nonfinancial companies have spent money on new
plants and equipment rather than accumulate $1.93 trillion -- a
record -- in cash and other liquid assets as of the end of the
third quarter? Would the flotilla of lobbyists arrayed to fight
Dodd-Frank have stood down?  Monday’s visit wasn’t Obama’s first to the chamber but his
third, despite the chamber spending an estimated $32 million in
the midterm election cycle on issue advertising dedicated
overwhelmingly to defeat Democrats.  No Objection  For some reason, the White House chose not to fight the
“pivot” story line -- the idea that Obama suddenly is wooing
business to create the millions of jobs it would have, had it
been courted properly.  It can hardly be said with a straight face that the
original Obama economic team of  Timothy Geithner  and  Lawrence Summers , with  Ben Bernanke  at the Fed, was hostile to business.  If corporate America wants to believe that Obama chose his
new chief of staff,  William Daley , for his relatively few years
in the private sector as opposed to his many stellar ones in
government and politics, fine. The same goes for appointing
General Electric Co. Chief Executive  Jeffrey Immelt  to head a
newly rebranded Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. Hey, it’s
cheaper than going to marriage therapy.  Meanwhile, beleaguered homeowners who don’t own valuable
real estate just across from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue can only
hope Obama “pivots” to being as anti-homeowner as he’s been
anti-business.  Backing Down  A  report  by the nonprofit investigative website ProPublica
found that Obama backed off his campaign pledge to empower
bankruptcy judges to lower the mortgage payments of homeowners
facing foreclosure. Seems that Geithner and Summers, those
raging populists, were worried that an undeserving homeowner or
two might get help.  The industry-friendly voluntary program that instead was
implemented will help fewer than 800,000 homeowners get lasting
mortgage modifications, far less than the administration’s
target of 3 million to 4 million, the report said. And the
Treasury Department allowed banks to break the program’s few
rules with  no ramifications .  We live in a world where corporations have recovered but
people have not. Coddling the Fortune 100 doesn’t guarantee any
new paychecks. Sweet talk is as devoid of nutrition as
fruitcake.    Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How  George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  