-- Billionaire Ambani’s Wealth Eroded on ‘Panic’ Selling
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2011-02-10T12:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/billionaire-anil-ambani-s-wealth-eroded-as-panic-starts-rout.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani blamed
“vicious and illegal” trading for a one-day stock rout that
wiped out $2.6 billion in the market value of his six publicly
traded companies.  The plunge, led by a 19 percent drop in  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd ., dragged India’s benchmark Sensitive Index
to a seven-month low yesterday. The group said “unscrupulous
corporate rivals” spread rumors that led to “panicked” sales,
according to an e-mailed statement.  It’s a familiar refrain for investors. Three weeks ago,
Ambani criticized media reports based on unidentified sources
and rumors in a press conference where he said he had agreed not
to trade in shares for a year after an investigation by the
stock market regulator. Since then, the combined value of his
listed companies has plunged by 27 percent to $17.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Every time there’s a development there will be a media
reporting and media scrutiny, which we welcome,” Ambani, 51,
told reporters in Mumbai on Jan 16. “But most of it is based on
rumors and sources and nothing is based on facts.”  Four phone calls made to Ambani’s office in Mumbai
yesterday were unanswered and an e-mail elicited no response.    India ’s stock market is the world’s worst performer after  Egypt  this year as a combination of corruption scandals, rising
inflation and Asia’s most aggressive round of interest-rate
increases have dimmed investor appetite for  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy. Ambani’s telecom and infrastructure companies have
fallen the most among benchmark stocks this year.  Stock Sell-Off  Reliance Infrastructure, the builder of a mass rapid
transit system in Mumbai, today gained 10 percent, the most
since May 2009, in Mumbai trading after the biggest drop in more
than two years yesterday. Reliance Communications advanced 2.1
percent following the steepest fall in 13 months yesterday,
while  Reliance Power Ltd . was little changed after sinking 9.6
percent yesterday.  Reliance Infrastructure said yesterday after trading hours
that it will on Feb. 14 consider a proposal to buy back shares.  Reliance Infrastructure  was the best performer among the 30
stocks of the Sensitive Index today.  ‘Rumors’  Yesterday’s sell-off was in part sparked by an NDTV
Television report that an Indian auditing body was seeking
information about Ambani’s companies. The Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India President Amarjit Chopra later said the
group had written to auditors of Reliance ADA Group.  Reliance Infrastructure said in an e-mailed statement its
auditors had received no inquiries from the accounting group.  The yield on Reliance Communications’s zero-coupon
convertible bonds maturing in March 1, 2012 rose 46 basis points
to 10.28 percent today, the highest since May 2010, according to
Elara Capital Plc prices. It jumped 220 basis points to 9.81
percent yesterday. It fell 50 cents to $115.0 today. The company
will repay bondholders $127.69 on maturity.  “A series of completely baseless and motivated rumors have
been spread today by our unscrupulous corporate rivals,”
Reliance ADAG group said yesterday. “This has been accompanied
by vicious and illegal bear hammering of our listed stocks, to
create panic and destabilize the markets.”  Probe, Arrest  Reliance ADAG said it had asked the stock market and
capital markets regulator to investigate yesterday’s trading.
National Stock Exchange spokeswoman Divya Malik Lahiri said the
bourse hadn’t received a complaint from the group. N. Hariharan,
spokesman for the Securities and Exchange Board of India Ltd.,
didn’t answer three calls made to his mobile phone.  The first corporate arrest late on Feb. 7 in a
multibillion-dollar probe into mobile-phone licenses also
contributed to the decline in Indian stocks yesterday.  DB Realty
Ltd ., a Mumbai-based developer, said neither the company nor its
detained managing director did anything “inappropriate or
illegal” when it won a permit to operate a wireless network.
The stock declined 5 percent yesterday, after earlier falling 20
percent.  Ambani last month reached a settlement with regulators,
agreeing not to trade in equities until December.  The directors of Reliance Infrastructure and Reliance
Natural Resources, which is owned by Reliance Power, paid 500
million rupees ($11 million) to settle an investigation that
they violated overseas borrowing rules.  The accord is without
admission or denial of guilt, Reliance Infrastructure said on
Jan. 14.  Not the Best  “The companies’ balance sheets are not the best and are
very difficult to understand and corporate governance is not
very strong at the company,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund manager  for Raiffeisen Capital Management that oversees
about $1.3 billion of assets. Maier does not own Anil Ambani
company shares. Ambani “promised a lot but has been unable to
deliver on those promises.”  Anil’s wealth has diminished along with the drop in the
group’s market value, according to estimates by Forbes magazine.
In 2010, his net worth was less than half of his older brother’s,
Mukesh, who ForbesAsia valued at $27 billion, with Anil at $13.3
billion. The decline started in 2008, when Anil’s net worth fell
by $32 billion, the magazine  estimated  in its annual listing of
the world’s wealthiest.  Profit Decline  Reliance Communications, Anil’s flagship company, saw
profit plunge 40 percent to $99 million for the quarter ended
Sept. 30 and will report third-quarter earnings on Feb. 14. The
stock has lost 34 percent this year, the second-worst performer
on the 30-stock benchmark Sensex after Reliance Infrastructure,
which has lost 31 percent. Nineteen of the 44 analysts tracked
by Bloomberg recommend selling the mobile-phone operator, 14
recommend holding, and 11 recommend buying.  The brothers split their family business after their father
Dhirubhai Ambani died in 2002 without leaving a will. They
started the truce process following a May 7 Supreme Court
verdict asking Mukesh-controlled  Reliance Industries Ltd . and
Reliance Natural Resources, an Anil  Dhirubhai Ambani  Group
company, to renegotiate a contract over natural gas supplies.
Mukesh and Anil agreed to end a 2006 no-competition agreement on
May 23 that allowed them to enter each other’s businesses.  “When the brothers originally split up, the idea was that
one was handling a very mature business, while the younger one
has the growing businesses -- power, telecommunications -- which
were all the flavors of the day, and would grow dramatically and
draw a lot of foreign investors,” said A. S. Thiyaga Rajan,
senior managing director at Aquarius Advisors Pte in  Singapore ,
which has about $350 million under management, with no holdings
in Anil Ambani group companies. “That has not happened.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  