-- BOE Needs Woman to Make `Tough' Rate Decisions, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-02-09T11:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/boe-needs-woman-to-make-tough-rate-decisions-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  should appoint a woman to replace  Andrew Sentance 
on the Bank of  England ’s all-male Monetary Policy Committee or
risk sending the wrong message, lawmakers said.  “Not having a woman sends out the message that tough
decisions should be made by men,” Lorely Burt, a Liberal
Democrat lawmaker who heads the U.K. Parliament’s Women in
Enterprise Committee, said in a phone interview. “I don’t think
that’s the right message.”  The London-based Bank of England, the only major central
bank without a female policy maker, hasn’t included a woman on
its rate-setting panel since  Kate Barker  left more than eight
months ago. That has prompted speculation that the Treasury may
use the new vacancy to redress the gender balance when it starts
interviewing candidates next week to replace Sentance.  “It’s a bit of an odd outcome that the MPC is all male,”
Trevor Phillips, who chairs the U.K.’s Equality and Human Rights
Commission, said in an interview. “If I were the chancellor, I
would be asking, does this seem like a reasonable result? The
answer is probably no.”  The successful candidate will join a committee that has
split three ways on the direction of policy as inflation
accelerates and the economic recovery stutters. The Treasury
says applicants must be “independently minded and be able to
exert their influence,” according to its  advertisement . The
committee begins a two-day policy meeting today and will
announce its decision at noon tomorrow.  Gender Balance  Apart from the  Bank of England , the world’s major central
banks have serving female policy makers. Janet Yellen is among
three women on the  Federal Reserve ’s board of governors,
Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell is an executive board member of the  European Central Bank , while the Bank of Japan’s policy board
includes  Miyako Suda .  Still, this “vitally important role” means candidates
must be selected carefully, said Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative
Party lawmaker and a member of Parliament’s Treasury Committee,
which scrutinizes the expenditure and administration of the Bank
of England and the Treasury.  “I would love to see a better gender balance,” she said.
However, “the best person for the job must be the key
objective. I do hope that women with the right background will
apply and will be successful.”  Barker’s replacement,  Martin Weale , was appointed in July
from 38 candidates. Only four were women.  “Maybe the problem is that women think they don’t stand a
chance,” Phillips said. “This is something the Bank of England
and the Treasury should look at.”  Potential Candidates  Leading female economists who haven’t yet served on the MPC
include Vicky Pryce, managing director of FTI Consulting Inc.
and a former government economic adviser, Bridget Rosewell,
chief economic adviser at the Greater London Authority and
chairman of Volterra Consulting, Diane Coyle, head of
Enlightenment Economics, and Bronwyn Curtis, head of global
research at HSBC Holdings Plc and chairman of the Society of
Business Economists.  “I wouldn’t say it’s required, but it seems to me pretty
odd, given all the good women economists in this country, if
they can’t find one,” Deanne Julius, who served as an external
member of the MPC from 1997 to 2001, said in an interview.  Part-Time Job  The salary will be 131,771 pounds ($212,098) plus
healthcare benefits, and the position will be part-time,
averaging three days a week, according to the ad. The Treasury
declined to comment on the recruitment process.    John Mann , an opposition lawmaker for Labour and also a
member of the Treasury Committee, said a woman must be appointed
to the committee, “and not one with banking experience.”  The bank will keep the key interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent this week, according to all 62 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. It will also keep its bond program at 200
billion pounds, a separate survey shows.  Barker, who joined the MPC in 2001, was formerly an
economist at the  Confederation of British Industry , the U.K.’s
biggest business lobby, and published reports for the Labour
government on the housing market. Other women to have served on
the MPC include Rachel Lomax, Deputy Governor from 2003 to 2008,
and Marian Bell, who served between 2002 and 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  