-- Brazil to Cut $30 Billion From 2011 Budget as Inflation Rate Accelerates
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2011-02-09T20:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/brazil-is-said-to-cut-30-billion-from-2011-budget-in-anti-inflation-drive.html
Brazil will cut 50 billion reais ($30
billion) from this year’s budget as President  Dilma Rousseff 
seeks to help the central bank contain inflation and lower the
highest real interest rates in the Group of 20 nations.  The budget cuts, to be detailed next week, will remove all
stimuli implemented in 2009 and 2010 to spur the economy during
the global financial crisis, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
in Brasilia. Social programs and infrastructure investments will
be maintained, while government hiring will be frozen, funding
to the state development bank reduced and all ministries forced
to trim spending.  “There was already the expectation that this would be the
size of the cut, but what we lack is how it will be achieved,”
said Alexandre Santanna, an economist at Rio de Janeiro-based
BNY Mellon Arx, which manages 12 billion reais. “It’s a good
level, but with the fiscal policies of the former government and
not knowing where the cuts will come from, we have to wait.”  Rousseff has promised to curb spending that increased
faster than economic growth under her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva. In a speech opening Congress Feb. 2, she told
lawmakers she is committed to “maintaining a macro-economic
policy compatible with fiscal balance, a firm control of
inflation and rigorous use of public money.”  Yields on interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013 were unchanged at 2:25 p.m. New York time after
falling the most since August yesterday to 12.68 percent in
anticipation of the government’s announcement. The real
strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.6598 per  U.S. dollar .  Inflation quickened to 26-month high of 5.99 percent in
January as record low unemployment and credit growth fueled the
fastest economic expansion in more than two decades. The central
bank forecasts Latin America’s biggest economy grew 7.3 percent
in 2010.  ‘Shot in the Arm’  Finding ways to do more with less resources will be the
government’s new “mantra,” Planning Minister Miriam Belchior
told reporters. To rein in spending the government will ban the
purchase or rental of new properties and also prohibit the
buying of new cars, she said.  Mantega said the budget cuts will deliver an immediate
“shot in the arm” of the economy that should allow the central
bank to reduce interest rates at an “opportune” moment. The
cuts won’t harm the economy, which will grow 5 percent this
year, he said  Traders are wagering policy makers will increase the
benchmark rate to 11.75 percent from 11.25 percent next month as
they seeks to rein in inflation running at a two-year high.
Interest rate futures show central bank President Alexandre Tombini may lift the Selic rate to 13 percent by year end,
according to Bloomberg estimates.  Missed Target    Brazil  missed its fiscal targets last year as Lula kept in
place tax cuts enacted after Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s
bankruptcy in September 2008 and boosted spending in the run up
to Rousseff’s election.  Brazil’s budget deficit before interest payments, the so-
called primary surplus, ended 2010 at 2.8 percent of gross
domestic product, short of the government’s 3.1 percent target.
The  International Monetary Fund , in a report last month, said
Brazil saw a “particularly pronounced”  deterioration in its
public finances and is expected to miss its 2011 surplus target
by a “wide margin.”  The central bank, in the minutes to their Jan. 18-19
meeting, said they are counting on a primary surplus equal to 3
percent of GDP this year to help slow inflation.  Mantega repeated today that the government would meet its
primary target of 117.9 billion reais this year without relying
on one-time revenue windfalls or accounting changes as it did in
2010. The target is equal to 2.9 percent of nominal GDP, which
he estimated would reach 4.1 trillion reais.  Limited Maneuvering Room  Morgan Stanley, in a Feb. 7 report, said Brazil has
“limited maneuvering room” to cut its budget without
overhauling the country’s pension system and reducing 553
billion reais in non-discretionary earmarks that make up nearly
three-quarters of this year’s 773 billion reias budget.  A spending cut equal to 1 percent of GDP would slow
inflation by 0.32 percentage points, according to the median
estimate in a central bank  survey  published Nov. 8.  As part of the government’s austerity drive, Rousseff has
refused to budge on the government’s proposal to lift the  minimum wage  6.8 percent this year to 545 reais. Unions, who saw
wages rise 62 percent in real terms under Lula, are pushing for
a boost to at least 580 reais.  Inflation will remain “around” the 4.5 percent target in
the next two years if policy makers increase the benchmark
interest rate 150 basis points to 12.25 percent in 2011 and the
real remains stable, Carlos Hamilton, central bank director for
economic policy, said Dec. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  