-- Brown Says He'll Cancel Schwarzenegger Sale of California-Owned Buildings
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2011-02-09T20:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/brown-says-he-ll-cancel-state-owned-building-sale-pushed-by-schwarzenegger.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
announced he would cancel a plan to sell state-owned buildings,
offering an alternative to close the state’s budget gap that
would save $6 billion over 35 years.  The proposal to sell the buildings by previous Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  “didn’t make much sense,” Brown, a 72-
year-old Democrat, said today at a press conference in  Sacramento , the state’s capital.  “Selling state buildings is the ultimate in kicking the
can down the road,” the governor said.  Brown proposed replacing the $1.2 billion in projected
revenue for the current fiscal year from the sale and leaseback
of the 11 state properties with borrowing $830 million from
special-fund reserves.  Other revenue and savings, including an additional $90
million from the Medi-Cal managed-care tax and $100 million less
in prison infrastructure project costs, would bridge the
remaining gap, according to a  statement  from Brown’s office.  The plan would cost about $18 million in interest on the
loans from reserve funds, according to the statement. The loans
would be repaid by the 2014 fiscal year, it said.  Court Blocked Sale  Last year, Schwarzenegger’s administration tried to sell 11
state office properties and lease them back to help close the
deficit. A state appeals court blocked the $2.3 billion sale in
December pending a review of a lower-court dismissal of a
challenge to the plan.  That sale and leaseback would cost  California  $6 billion
more than retaining ownership, according to Brown’s office.
Controller John Chiang agreed.  “While the sale of these buildings would have provided
immediate cash for the state, it would have cost Californians
more over the long haul,” Chiang said today in a statement.
“Selling low and renting high would not have served taxpayers’
interests.”  Brown last month released an $84.6 billion budget plan
calling for $12.5 billion of spending reductions and a special
election in June to let voters choose whether to extend $9.3
billion of expiring temporary tax and fee increases. He also
proposed eliminating redevelopment authorities to gain control
over $5 billion in property taxes allocated to the municipal
agencies. Local leaders oppose the proposal.  Brown, who previously was governor from 1975 to 1983, has
vowed to fix the financial troubles that have left California
with the biggest deficit of all U.S. states, and the lowest  credit rating .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 