-- Bruce Lee Film Studio Said to Set Dim Sum Record: China Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-10T05:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/bruce-lee-film-studio-said-to-set-record-dim-sum-bond-yield-china-credit.html
Orange Sky Golden Harvest
Entertainment (Holdings) Ltd., the film studio that made Bruce Lee famous, is offering a record yield to sell yuan bonds in  Hong Kong  after its stocks fell 48 percent in the past year.  The film distributor and cinema operator, which aims to
have 600 movie screens across China by 2012, is marketing 300
million yuan ($46 million) of three-year bonds to yield 6.25
percent to 6.75 percent, according to three people familiar with
the matter, who asked not to be identified before a public
announcement. The company would be the third borrower without a
rating and the second debut bond issuer to sell so-called dim
sum bonds in 2011.  “It’s unusual for a market in its early days to be so
accommodating to new names,” Jeremy Amias, co-founder of fixed-
income brokerage and advisory firm Amias Berman & Co., said in a
telephone interview from Hong Kong. “There’s a confusion
between credit and currency appreciation and these types of
companies require hard-core credit assessment.”  Yuan bonds in Hong Kong pay yields that are on average 261
basis points, or 2.61 percentage points, less than yields on
similar debt in Shanghai, as investors outside  China  seek to
profit from appreciation in the nation’s currency. Borrowers
sold 7.7 billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong last month,
following a record 35.7 billion yuan of sales in 2010 that was
almost a 10-fold increase from 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Local Demand  Golden Harvest, whose shares have fallen 48 percent to 56
Hong Kong cents over the past 12 months, plans to sell bonds
that would yield less than the 7.27 percent average rate on debt
sold by non-investment grade companies in Asia, based on
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Asia Credit Index. Dim sum notes pay an
average yield of 1.44 percent, compared with 4.05 percent for
yuan debt in Shanghai, according to data from the Hong Kong-
based Treasury Markets Association and Bank of America Corp.’s
China Quasi-Government Index.  “I’m sure local accounts would be more familiar with the
name and comfortable with the credit risk,” said Shyam Saraf, a
Singapore-based credit analyst at BCP Securities  Asia  Ltd.
“Investors in the U.S. and  Europe  who don’t know the credit at
all would be really wary of investing.”  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong rose fivefold last year to a
record 314.9 billion yuan as the city’s residents, who are
restricted from investing directly in mainland China, bet on a
currency that reached a 17-year high last month. The yuan may
appreciate 4.5 percent by the end of this year, according to the
median forecast of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Dim sum
bonds have returned 0.94 percent this year, according to the
Bank of China Hong Kong offshore yuan bond index.  Yuan Gains  The yuan is forecast to gain the most this year among the
currencies of the so-called BRIC emerging economies.  India ’s
rupee is expected to gain 3.9 percent, while  Brazil ’s real and  Russia ’s ruble are forecast to fall 2.4 percent and 3.7 percent,
according to median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys.  China’s currency has appreciated 3.7 percent since a two-
year peg was relaxed in June. It strengthened 0.1 percent to
6.5863 per dollar today as of 12:21 p.m. in  Shanghai , according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Financial markets on
the mainland opened yesterday after a weeklong break for the
Lunar New Year holiday.  Orange Sky Golden Harvest, which changed its name from
Golden Harvest in 2009 after businessman Wu Kebo became the
largest shareholder, operates 33 cinema multiplexes with a total
of 250 screens across China, Hong Kong,  Taiwan  and  Singapore ,
according to information on its  website .  ‘The Big Boss’  Founded by Raymond Chow, Leonard Ho Koon-cheung and Leung
Fung in 1970, the studio made films such as “Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles” in 1990 and 2001’s “The Accidental Spy,”
starring  Jackie Chan , according to the company’s website. This
year marks the 40th anniversary of the first film martial arts
star Bruce Lee made with Golden Harvest, “The Big Boss,”
according to the official  Bruce Lee  website. The company’s
shares have fallen 71 percent from HK$1.925 since its Hong Kong
listing in November 1994.    Lions Gate Entertainment Corp ., a  Santa Monica , California-
based movie producer and distributor whose debt is rated B1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, sold $236 million of 10.25 percent
November 2016 notes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. South
Korean cinema operator CJ CGV Co.’s 30 billion won ($27 million)
of February 2012 notes, which are domestically rated, pay a
coupon of 6.38 percent, the data show.  The group “has entered a stage of rapid business
development and we are actively seeking ways in diversifying our
financing channels,” said Emily Tsang, a spokeswoman at Golden
Harvest, in an e-mailed response to questions. “A renminbi bond
issue is one of them,” she said, referring to the yuan by its
alternative name.  Sovereign Risk  Five-year credit-default swap on China’s bonds have risen
7.5 basis points this year through Feb. 9 as China increased the
benchmark one-year lending rate for the third time in four
months on Feb. 8 to help curb inflation. The contracts rose one
basis point to 75.5 yesterday, CMA prices in New York show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
debt against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality . An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  The yield on China’s 2.68 percent government bond due in
November 2013 rose six basis points to 3.388 percent yesterday
from 3.331 percent on Feb. 1, Chinabond prices show. China’s
interest-rate swaps jumped the most in two years yesterday after
the central bank boosted borrowing costs. One-year interest-rate
swaps, or the fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-
day repurchase rate, fell four basis points to 3.88 percent
today as of 12:24 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Synthetic Bonds  Yuan-denominated debt that is sold outside of China and
settled in U.S. dollars, so-called synthetic yuan bonds, still
pay higher yields than conventional notes in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd ., China’s biggest developer by sales, sold 5.55
billion yuan of three-year securities priced to yield 7.5
percent last month, Bloomberg data show.  Luxury department store operator PCD Stores Group Ltd.,
also unrated, last month sold 750 million yuan of February 2014
notes priced to yield 5.25 percent, which set the previous
highest yield for the dim sum bond market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Unrated Yuen Foong Yu Paper Manufacturing
Co., Taiwan’s biggest maker of paper and pulp, issued 300
million yuan of three-year bonds priced to yield 3.1 percent,
the data show.  “Borrowers are being very opportunistic in trying to tap a
market where there is a limited supply of investible assets,”
said Arthur Lau, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income fund manager at
JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees $1.3 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;  Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  