-- Burning Investors Pays Political Dividend in Sinn Fein Campaign
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2011-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/burning-investors-pays-political-dividend-as-gerry-adams-heads-for-dublin.html
Gerry Adams, president of Irish
nationalist party  Sinn Fein , is selling a clear message ahead of
Ireland’s election this month: burn the bank bondholders and
send the International Monetary Fund home.  His stance appears to be winning voters, at least according
to opinion polls ahead of the Feb. 25 vote. Sinn Fein, the
political wing of the  Irish Republican Army  before the group
laid down its arms, may double support to about 14 percent. That
leaves it vying for third place with  Fianna Fail , the party in
government and the lightening rod for Irish ire over the
country’s financial demise.  “Given the anger out there, it’s resonating,” said
 Diarmaid Ferriter , a historian and author of “The
Transformation of Ireland: 1900-2000.” “The party is no longer
as demonized as it once was, because of the  peace process  and
the end of the IRA’s campaign.”  Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($115 billion) bailout from the
IMF and European Union is at the center of the political fight
after the governing coalition collapsed last month and Prime
Minister Brian Cowen was forced to call an election.  While the parties leading the polls,  Fine Gael  and Labour,
say they will seek to renegotiate the interest rate on the
package of loans and reduce protection for bank bondholders,
bearded Belfast native Adams wants to walk away from the accord.  “This government shouldn’t have gone near the IMF or the
EU,” Adams, 62, who was imprisoned in the 1970s for republican
activities, said in a Feb. 3 interview. “But they did and they
did a bad deal when they did it. We can’t afford it.”  Dundalk Doldrums  Adams, one of five Sinn Fein  lawmakers  from  Northern
Ireland  elected to the British parliament, was speaking in
Dundalk across the border in Ireland where he’s seeking to win a
seat in the Dublin parliament for the first time.  While Sinn Fein representatives decline to take up their
seats in the U.K. parliament in protest of having to swear
allegiance to the monarchy, Adams resigned last month as the
member representing Belfast West. He won 71 percent of the vote
in that constituency in the British election on May 6.  Sinn Fein  holds a seat in Louth-East Meath, which includes
the town of Dundalk, in the Dail, the Irish parliament. The
incumbent lawmaker, Arthur Morgan, is stepping down.  “They are going to be able to fight our corner, while the
other parties will just sell out,” said Paul Mackin, 39, an
unemployed voter from Dundalk. “Times are tough right now. I’ve
been looking for work, but I can’t get it.”  Election Rhetoric  Adams and his party are proposing to take 7 billion euros
from the country’s  Pension Reserve  fund to create jobs after the
Irish  unemployment rate  almost tripled in three years and stood
at 13.4 percent last month. The party also wants to increase
taxes on the wealthy, while Adams said he wants to “burn” some
bank bondholders by paying them less.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp., taken over by the government two
years ago, said it expects to post a pretax loss of about 17.6
billion euros for 2010, the largest in the nation’s history.  Sinn Fein’s rhetoric may help steer the campaign.  During a debate with party spokesman Pearse Doherty on Feb.
7, Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the government is
pressing for a “substantial discount” on 20 billion euros of
unsecured senior bank bonds, less than two weeks after he said
in parliament that the idea of reneging on senior bank bonds is
akin to “torching” a house. Under terms of the bailout,
Ireland agreed to pay back holders of senior bank bonds.  Causing Concern  Fine Gael and  the Labour Party  are pushing for EU approval
to impose discounts on senior bank bondholders. The two lead
Fianna Fail by a combined 40 percentage points, according to a
Sunday Business Post poll published on Feb. 6.  Sinn Fein’s plan for spurning the bailout would have
“devastating” consequences for the country, Micheal Martin,
leader of Fianna Fail, told reporters on Feb. 2. A former
foreign minister, Martin replaced Cowen as leader last month.  “Gerry needs to be asked where we are going to get 50
billion euros to pay teachers, nurses and police,” Martin said.  Any electoral gains by Sinn Fein may raise concern about
the future of the bailout, said Bob Janjuah, the co-head of
cross-asset allocation strategy at Nomura International Plc.  “One of the things we are most concerned about is the
prospects that Sinn Fein could form a large bloc in the new
parliament,” Janjuah said on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track” with Erik Schatzker on Jan. 24. “The Sinn Fein push in
Ireland is to say ‘no’ to Brussels, is to ask the banks to
default and put the national interest first, which may be
misguided but it’s a fear for the market.”  ‘Bounced’  The extra yield investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities of similar maturity almost
quadrupled to 568 basis points in the past year. The spread over
German debt is more than nine times the average of the past
decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The government sought the bailout as investors shunned the
country’s bonds on concern the cost of rescuing the financial
system was surging.  “They said they were bounced into it,” said Adams. “You
can’t be bounced by these big boys, you have to be able to stand
up for yourself.”  Adams took over as president of Sinn Fein in 1983, the year
he first won election to Westminster. He led the negotiations
with former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  as the IRA
decommissioned its weapons in 2005 and pledged to pursue its
goal of a united Ireland peacefully.  IRA Legacy  Sinn Fein  supported  the IRA during a three-decade long
conflict in Northern Ireland that caused 3,500 deaths. It
largely ended in 1998 with a U.K. and Irish government-brokered
peace deal. Adams was interned without trial first in 1972 and
never convicted. Some voters can’t accept him.  “Adams standing here, that makes me angry,” said Kevin
O’Callaghan, 60, who runs a butcher’s shop in Dundalk. “I don’t
like the violence that he was associated with.”  Sinn Fein may win between 15 and 20 seats in the 166-seat
parliament, polls show. Some 84 percent of people want the new
government to renegotiate terms with bondholders of the
country’s banks, according to a survey of 1,022 adults,
conducted in Ireland on Jan. 26 and Jan. 27 by Dublin-based
market research firm Millward Brown Lansdowne.  “Fianna Fail sold us out, we shouldn’t be responsible for
the bankers and the bondholders,” said Peter Callan, 46, a taxi
driver in Dundalk, which has a population of about 35,000
people. “If I put a bet on and I lose, I can’t go back and get
my money back. Why should it be different for bondholders? Sinn
Fein is the best to stand up for the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net 
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  