-- Buy RIM Options Before PlayBook Launch, Goldman Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2011-02-09T21:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/buy-rim-options-before-playbook-launch-earnings-goldman-says.html
Investors should buy  Research in
Motion Ltd . options before the company introduces its PlayBook
tablet because possible volatility around the launch is not
being adequately priced in, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Equity derivatives strategists John Marshall and  Maria Grant  recommended buying RIM’s April $60 puts and April $65
calls, a strategy known as a strangle. Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM fell less than 0.1 percent to $63.57 today in New York.  “Options do not appear to be factoring in the potential
for an increase in volatility around the upcoming tablet
launch,” the strategists wrote in a note today. “Success at
the enterprise level will be closely monitored, and we’d expect
a strong or weak sell through to be stock moving.”  RIM, whose BlackBerry smartphones are losing market share
to  Apple Inc .’s iPhone, is developing the PlayBook to bring in a
new source of revenue and bolster growth. The tablet is
scheduled to come out this quarter. Research firm IDC predicted
tablet-computer sales will almost triple to 44.6 million units
this year. Apple sold 14.8 million iPads since the tablet was
introduced in April.  Marshall and Grant said RIM’s earnings report on March 24
should be an “important catalyst” for the shares. The
BlackBerry maker moved an average of 9 percent on earnings over
the past eight quarters, the note said. RIM will post a fourth-
quarter profit of $1.75 a share excluding some items, according
to the average of 49 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The trade will profit if RIM closes above $70.51 or below
$54.49 at expiration on April 15, the note said.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 