-- Buyout Hangover Fades as Biggest U.S. LBOs Get Boost From IPOs, Financing
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/buyout-hangover-fades-as-biggest-u-s-lbos-get-boost-from-ipos.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. is showing that
big isn’t always bad in the world of leveraged buyouts.  The $27.5 billion takeover of the Houston-based energy-
pipeline company was the second-largest U.S. LBO on record when
it was announced in May 2006. Such mega-deals looked like losers
after credit markets froze in mid-2007, leaving the companies
saddled with debt as a global recession set in.  Now, Kinder Morgan is scheduled to go public this week,
handing its owners, including co-founder  Richard Kinder ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc . and  Carlyle Group , a potential threefold return
on their initial investment. The stock sale may pave the way for
initial public offerings by private equity-owned companies such
as Hilton Worldwide Inc. and Freescale Semiconductor Inc., which
were once deemed too troubled to sell, and help firms such as
KKR & Co. build investor interest in new funds.  “The industry is doing a lot better than most people
thought a year ago because of the quality of the companies,
significant improvement in their operations and the flexibility
of their capital structures,” Mark Nunnelly, a managing
director at Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, said in an interview.  While buyout firms are marking up the value of some of
their portfolio companies as the stock market rallies, they
aren’t ready to engage in the freewheeling spending that marked
the peak of the LBO market.  Carlyle dropped out of the bidding for Beckman Coulter Inc.,
even though the company eventually fetched the lowest valuation
ever in a medical-instruments industry takeover of at least $1
billion, according to people familiar with the sale who asked
not to be named because the information wasn’t public. A  Blackstone Group LP  offer was too low, said the people.  Mega-Deal Scorecard  Of the 10 biggest U.S. LBOs since 2005, Blackstone sold
large pieces of office-building owner Equity Office Properties
Trust before the buyout market collapsed, and phone company
Alltel Corp. was sold by Goldman Sachs and TPG Capital to
Verizon Wireless.  Hospital chain HCA Holdings Inc. paid owners including KKR
and Bain a dividend at the end of last year, while its plan for
an IPO, announced in May, slipped into 2011. Caesars
Entertainment Corp., a casino operator, delayed going public in
November, citing market conditions.  Blackstone’s Hilton and Archstone, an apartment landlord
owned in part by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., are potential
candidates for share sales, perhaps as soon as this year.  The remaining four companies in the top 10, including
Energy Future Holdings Corp., First Data Corp. and Clear Channel
Communications Inc., are in enough financial stress that an exit
by their owners is unlikely any time soon.  KKR Fundraising  KKR, the New York-based firm run by  Henry Kravis  and George
Roberts, kicked off fundraising for its 11th North America-
focused buyout fund in January, winning a $525 million
commitment from  Oregon ’s public employees’  pension plan . That’s
less than half of what the state committed to KKR’s last fund.
Other firms are weighing new funds, including New York-based
Cerberus Capital Management LP.  “It’s important for LPs to see these exits because they’re
still very gun-shy about providing additional capital,” said
David De Weese, a general partner with Paul Capital in  New York ,
which oversees about $7.6 billion of investments.  Officials at KKR and Cerberus declined to comment.  The success of the fundraising pitches hinges in part on
buyout managers’ ability to prove they can reap profits from the
$20 billion-plus deals that characterized the LBO boom of 2005
to 2007. They may get a boost by a pair of recent successes.  Nielsen, BankUnited  Nielsen Holdings NV, the New York-based television-ratings
company backed by firms including Blackstone, KKR, Carlyle and
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, has gained 13 percent since its Jan.
25 debut. BankUnited Inc., owned by Blackstone, Carlyle, WL Ross
& Co. and Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC, is up 10 percent
since the Miami Lakes, Florida-based lender went public Jan. 27.  In addition to an improving IPO market, private-equity
firms are benefiting from a mergers and acquisition market that
rose 27 percent by volume last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, and from a freer flow of financing for new deals
and debt restructurings. Buyout managers have announced
investments valued at $22.3 billion this year, almost three
times the amount during the same period in 2010.    Kinder Morgan  is nearing completion of a share sale that
values the company at about $19.4 billion, based on the midpoint
of the offering’s price range. Carlyle’s stake is worth about
$2.2 billion based on that figure, giving the Washington-based
firm a profit of almost three times based on its initial
investment of $882 million.  Pipeline Payoff  The company has expanded its network of pipelines,
including through acquisitions. Kinder Morgan’s $1.18 billion
acquisition spree last year culminated with an $875 million
agreement to buy a 50 percent stake in Petrohawk Energy Corp.’s
gas-gathering network in the Haynesville Shale, which straddles
the Louisiana  Texas  border.  Larry Pierce, a spokesman for Kinder Morgan, declined to
comment.  Also pursuing an IPO is HCA, the largest U.S. non-
government hospital chain, which was bought for $32.2 billion
including debt in 2006, surpassing KKR’s much-chronicled 1989
purchase of RJR Nabisco Inc. as the biggest LBO at the time,
according to Bloomberg data. The company may begin marketing the
offering to investors as early as the end of this month.  Double Cost  Since filing to go public, the Nashville, Tennessee-based
company has paid its owners three dividends totaling about $4.3
billion. That compares with the roughly $5 billion the private-
equity firms put in to the deal, according to research firm
CreditSights Inc., which said demand for the shares is likely to
be strong.  “Given the rally in the stock market since the company
filed its S-1 in May of last year, the issuing environment for
the company’s shares has likely improved significantly,” Sam Goodyear, an analyst for the firm in New York, wrote in Feb. 4
note.  KKR valued HCA at more than twice what it paid for the
company as of September of last year, according to public
filings. Bain, which isn’t publicly traded, doesn’t disclose
where it marks its investments. Profit in the fourth quarter
rose 8 percent to $1.45 billion as revenue increased about 2
percent to $7.73 billion. HCA has $29 billion in debt, according
to Bloomberg data.  Ed Fishbough, a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment.  Profits From Sales  Investors in private-equity funds like to see managers
generate profits by selling the companies they own, not just
through dividends.  “Meaningful liquidity is selling the equity in a
company,” said Andrew Reilly, board member of the Rhode Island
State Investment Commission, which oversees $6 billion for
teachers and state and municipal employees. “It’s not milking
the cow that counts. It’s selling it that matters.”  Some of the companies weighing stock offerings were once
left for dead. Freescale, the chipmaker taken private by a group
of buyout firms in 2006, has picked Deutsche Bank AG and
Citigroup Inc. to manage its IPO, people familiar with the
matter said Feb. 1.  Freescale, whose chips are used in Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle
and Sony Corp.’s Reader electronic devices, would aim to raise
more than $1 billion to pay down $1.2 billion in debt coming due
in 2014, Chief Executive Rich Beyer said in an interview in
December. The Austin, Texas-based company has about $7.9 billion
in total debt, Bloomberg data show.  Hilton Comeback  The potential offering marks a dramatic turnaround for the
chipmaker. Beyer has cut jobs and closed plants in an effort to
regain profitability. The company’s net loss narrowed to $156
million in the third quarter while sales increased 29 percent to
$1.15 billion.  Among other LBO-backed chipmakers that went during the past
two years, Singapore-based Avago Technologies Ltd. has more than
doubled its stock price and NXP Semiconductor BV of Eindhoven,
the Netherlands, has almost doubled in value.  Hilton, bought by New York-based Blackstone for $26.2
billion including debt as the credit markets crumbled in 2007,
has seen its own rebound tied to a healthier economy and a
financial restructuring. Hilton cut its total debt by about $4
billion through a restructuring last year.  Blackstone is now carrying its investment above cost for
the first time since the purchase and has listened to pitches by
bankers who want to take the McLean, Virginia-based hotelier
public, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  A spokesman for Hilton, Aaron Radelet, declined to comment.  Caesars’ Woes  Improving conditions for buyout firms haven’t bailed out
Caesars, which pulled its IPO. The gaming company was taken
private by New York-based Apollo Global Management LLC and TPG
of Fort Worth, Texas, for $27.2 billion including debt in
January 2008, as the recession deepened and leisure travel
declined.  Still, the company, formerly named Harrah’s Entertainment
Inc., stands to benefit from a recent pick-up in convention
business and tourism in  Las Vegas , where it’s based. Its owners
have cut debt by more than $4 billion to $23.6 billion in the
past two years by offering creditors new bonds at a discount for
their old notes, buying back other debt for less than face value
and extending maturities on $5.5 billion in loans.  The company hasn’t said when it might revive the IPO.
Jacqueline Peterson, a Caesars spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Long Way Off  Several of the other biggest deals are far from any
resolution, including Energy Future Holdings, the record-setting
$43.2 billion leveraged buyout led by KKR and TPG in 2007. The
firms each value their stakes in the biggest power producer in
Texas, formerly known as TXU Corp., at around 20 cents on the
dollar. The private-equity owners agreed to hold the company for
at least five years to assuage fears about them flipping the
company.  Energy Future Holdings has extended maturities of its debt,
which totals more than $40 billion, according to Bloomberg data.
The company’s revenue and profit have been hampered by gas
prices that are about 50 percent lower than when the deal was
announced in 2007.  Lisa Singleton, spokeswoman for Energy Future Holdings,
declined to comment.    First Data , acquired by KKR in 2007, is valued by KKR at 40
percent below cost as of September, according to private-equity
firm’s public filings. The Atlanta-based company’s net loss in
the fourth quarter narrowed to $179.2 million from $368.6
million a year earlier. Revenue rose 6 percent to $2.73 billion.  Debt Deals  First Data, which has about $18 billion in bonds and loans
coming due through 2016, has used friendly debt markets to push
out deadlines for its borrowings. The company in December moved
maturities for about $6 billion in debt previously maturing in
2015 to 2021 and 2022, according to an investor presentation
posted on First Data’s website.  “While an IPO is a potential strategy for a company with
our capital structure, we have nothing to announce at this
time,” Chip Swearngan, a spokesman for the company, said in an
e-mail.  Clear Channel, taken private in 2008 for $25.4 billion
including debt, has cut jobs and restructured its balance sheet
to weather an advertising slump. In November 2010, Robert W. Pittman, former chief operating officer at the former AOL Time
Warner, and chief executive officer of Viacom’s MTV Network,
made a personal investment in Clear Channel and was named the
chairman of the company’s media and entertainment holdings.  No Nielsen  “Because of the company’s performance and the overall
industry, there is almost no chance of an IPO any time soon,”
said Jake Newman, a Creditsights analyst. “There is just too
much debt; it’s not a Nielsen.”  The company plans to amend its credit agreement to delay
maturities on borrowings and get permission to sell $750 million
of bonds due 2021 to repay $500 million of loans, San Antonio-
based Clear Channel said Feb. 7. A Clear Channel spokeswoman,
Lisa Dollinger, declined to comment.  The inability in some cases to fundamentally improve
businesses so they’re viable as public companies has some
investors questioning the private-equity model.  “The whole idea of investing in private equity is that the
buyout owners work their magic, untangle costs and redeploy more
efficient companies to the public markets at a multiple,” said
Harold Bradley, chief investment officer of the $1.7 billion
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . “But
most of these exits are about getting the problems off the
firms’ books, back into public hands after collecting huge
fees.”  Office Flip  An IPO may also not provide immediate profit for private-
equity firms and their investors, since proceeds are often used
to pay down debt. Buyout firms use secondary offerings to cash
out some of their stock.  Sales to larger companies are a faster path to profits.
Alltel, based in  Little Rock , Arkansas, is the only one of the
10 biggest U.S. deals that the owners have sold outright. TPG
and New York-based Goldman Sachs, who bought the company in 2007
for $24.7 billion, sold it the following year to Basking Ridge,
New Jersey-based  Verizon Wireless  for $28.1 billion.  Blackstone bought Chicago-based Equity Office in 2007 and
immediately upon closing the deal sold a portion of the
properties. Blackstone kept buildings in markets such as New
York,  Boston  and  Los Angeles  and may seek to sell them amid the
real estate recovery, according to a person familiar with the
strategy, who asked not to be identified because the company is
closely held.  Optimism Grows  As the private-equity market heats up, firms say the size
of deals may increase, though not to the levels seen during the
boom.  Blackstone President Tony James told reporters last week
that a $10 billion leveraged buyout was possible.  “I wouldn’t rule out a $20 billion deal if the appetite of
the credit markets continues to expand, but most managers are
treading carefully,” said  Daniel Lennon , a partner at Latham &
Watkins LLP in  Washington . “The industry has got the wind at
its back for now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  