-- Cable & Wireless Communications Drop 4.3% on Caribbean Woes, Bahamas Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-02-09T09:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/cable-wireless-communications-drop-4-3-on-caribbean-woes-bahamas-deal.html
  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
had the biggest drop in six weeks in  London  trading as its
Caribbean business struggles to grow and analysts said cutting
costs at a purchased company in the Bahamas may prove difficult.  “The one region that remains very difficult is the
Caribbean,” Chief Executive Officer Tony Rice said in an e-
mailed statement today. The region continues to be “challenging
with tourist spend and hence consumer and business disposable
income significantly below historic levels.”  Cable & Wireless Communications, which split from its
parent company in March 2010, provides mobile and fixed-line
services in  Panama  and the Caribbean. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization in the fiscal second half
ending March 31 will be about the same level as the $115 million
reported for the first half, the company said today.  “CWC’s underlying cash generation is insufficient to
justify either the share price or fund the CWC dividend,” said  Mark James , an analyst at Liberum Capital, in a note today. “We
expect consensus estimates to continue to decline and remain
sellers with a 27 pence target price.”  The stock declined as much as 4.3 percent to 47.15 pence,
the biggest intraday drop since Dec. 30, and was down 3.2
percent as of 8:55 a.m.  Bahamas Acquisition  The company said it recorded a “stronger performance from
Panama” in the current fiscal second half and that the units in
Macau and  Monaco  continue to “trade well.”  Cable & Wireless Communications today said it signed an
agreement to buy 51 percent of Bahamas Telecommunications
Company for $210 million. The company is the leading mobile-
phone, fixed-line and broadband operator in the Bahamas, a
member of the Caribbean Community trading bloc.  “We fret about the costs of restructuring, and how
difficult it may prove to lose staff,”  Liberum Capital ’s James
said. “There has been well-documented backlash from unions to
date.”  The company in December said it signed a non-binding
memorandum of understanding with the government of the Bahamas
for the acquisition of Bahamas Telecommunications.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  