-- Cameron's Government Retreats on Bank Bonus-Cut Demands
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2011-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/cameron-s-government-said-to-retreat-on-bank-bonus-cut-demands.html
Britain’s coalition government will
pull back from demands that banks specify how they will cut
bonuses, according to three people with knowledge of the policy.  With banks including  Barclays Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  set
to announce bonus payments this month, the softening is an
acknowledgement by the government that it can’t force banks in
which it doesn’t have a stake to cap pay. The government will
now only ask banks’ remuneration panels to take into account a
need for restraint, and explain how they are responding to
popular anger over pay without illustrating where or by how much
pay will be cut, one person said.  The change of tone came as Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne yesterday increased a tax on U.K. bank balance
sheets to raise an extra 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion) this
year. Britain’s major lenders were angered by the way Osborne
made the announcement without informing them, according to a
person involved in the discussions, even though they’ve been in
talks since December on bonuses and lending targets, known as
Project Merlin. The people declined to be identified because the
discussions are private.  “Both the government and the banks understand there is a
lot of pressure from the electorate. It is merely a political
smokescreen and Project Merlin won’t amount to very much,” said
Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow at the  London School of Economics . “In
the end the bankers will get their bonuses, Osborne will get a
bit more tax and everyone will be happy.”  A final deal on bonuses will be public within the next
week, Treasury minister Mark Hoban told the House of Commons
yesterday.  Ire at Timing  One person familiar with the banks’ position said their ire
at yesterday’s announcement by Osborne was more at the timing,
outside the normal framework of a budget statement to  Parliament 
and when the Merlin talks were close to a deal, than at the sums
involved. The banks’ negotiating teams called each other in the
morning to check others hadn’t been informed, the person said.  Aside from the commitment on bonuses, Merlin is likely to
include demands that banks disclose the pay of their most senior
bankers including the chief executive and chief financial
officer, one person with knowledge of the plans said. Banks are
unlikely to have to reveal the pay of traders and will be asked
to disclose the pay of the heads of the departments that take
the biggest risks, the person said.  Lending Target  While negotiations to get banks to sign up to lending
agreements to companies haven’t been concluded, four people with
knowledge of the talks said consensus is beginning to emerge
around a target of 190 billion pounds, compared with the 200
billion pounds the government was aiming for. The gross lending
targets are aimed at spurring lending to small companies. The
money won’t be directed toward supporting home mortgage lending,
one person said.  About 1 billion pounds in equity funding will also be set
aside to support lending in Britain’s regions, the person added.  The Project Merlin talks were intended to rehabilitate
Britain’s banks after the previous Labour government provided
support for the financial system that saddled taxpayers with 1
trillion pounds of liabilities, including a bailout of  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  Prime Minister  David Cameron , like Osborne a Conservative,
began the year proposing a “settlement” with bankers, under
which politicians would stop attacking them in return for
cooperation on bonuses and lending. That was after Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , a Liberal Democrat, said last year the
government wouldn’t “stand idly by” if banks paid out large
bonuses in 2011.  ‘Smaller Bonuses’  Osborne told Parliament last month that banks would not
only have to cut compensation but demonstrate that they would
“pay smaller bonuses than they would otherwise have done.”
That statement came after other officials suggested the
chancellor was backing down on steps to control pay.  A sign that the talks weren’t going well for the government
came Jan. 27, when Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable  told a journalists’ lunch that, as he had sat in a meeting
with “our friends,” a joke about dead bankers had jumped into
his mind.  “There are two dead bodies on a motorway, one cat and one
banker,” Cable said. “The difference is that the cat is
surrounded by skid marks.”  High bonuses are difficult for the government to sell to
the public in what Cameron warned Jan. 9 will be a “difficult”
year, with tax rises, public-sector pay freezes and job cuts to
help curb the record budget deficit.  London’s 300,000 financial-services workers will receive
bonuses totaling as much as 7 billion pounds for this year,
about 5 percent less than in 2009, according to the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd. That’s down from 11.6 billion
pounds in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net 
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 