-- Pentagon Will Back Defense Mergers Outside Top Five Companies, Carter Says
-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k ,   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/carter-sees-defense-company-mergers-spinoffs-within-limits.html
     Feb. 9 (Bloomberg) --- The Pentagon expects U.S. defense
contractors to acquire others or divest units and will welcome
such moves provided the top five or six suppliers don’t
consolidate, the Defense Department’s top weapons buyer said.  “Far from being discouraging” to mergers and
acquisitions, “we are actually quite welcome to that because we
expect industry to make adjustments,” in response to a slowdown
in U.S. defense spending,  Ashton Carter , undersecretary of
defense for acquisition, technology and logistics told Bloomberg
Television.  Still, the Pentagon will not approve transactions that will
result in a consolidation of the major defense contractors such
as  Lockheed Martin Corp ., Boeing Co.,  Raytheon Co .,  Northrop
Grumman Corp ., or  General Dynamics Corp ., Carter said in an
interview yesterday ahead of a speech in  New York  today.  The growth of the base U.S. defense budget through 2016 is
forecast to average no more than the rate of inflation. Overall
defense spending, including war costs, has risen 72 percent
between 2000 and 2008. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has
targeted $78 billion in cuts through 2016 for federal  deficit
reduction  and another $100 billion in efficiencies savings, two-
thirds of which will be shifted to weapons accounts, Carter
said.  ‘Economic Efficiency’  As a result, there will be consolidation, spinoffs and
different levels of the industry will behave in different ways,
he said. “There are small businesses, there are parts suppliers
which may grow in this time and that’s good,” Carter said.
Those transactions “could be in the interest of economic
efficiency” and the Pentagon would welcome them, he said.  The current structure of the U.S. defense industry was
shaped in 1993 when then-Defense Secretary Les Aspin told
company executives the Pentagon could not sustain several
suppliers in each sector and encouraged them to merge in order
to better utilize capacity.  The Defense Department today is “down to about five or six
very large prime contractors who bid on many, many of our jobs
and, in the interest of competition, we are not interested in
seeing further consolidation and reduction in that number,” he
said. “But with that exception just about everything else is on
the table.”  Chief executive officers of the top two U.S. defense
companies have said they don’t foresee consolidations similar to
the 1990s.  ‘Not Desperate’  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, is under
no pressure to make up for a projected slowdown in U.S. military
spending through acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said in a November interview.  “We are ambitious and we will continue to look” for
acquisitions “but we are not desperate,” Stevens said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in Washington.    Boeing Co ., the No. 2 defense contractor, doesn’t see large
acquisitions, Dennis Muilenburg, chief executive officer of
Boeing’s defense unit, said in a December interview.  Chicago-based Boeing’s 2010 defense sales of $31.9 billion
are second to Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, which
reported revenue of $45.8 billion for the last year.  The Pentagon asks for “transparency” in all cases of
mergers as well as spinoffs of units, to ensure that “the spun-
out entity is going to continue to serve the department in the
long-term way,” Carter said.  Northrop Shipbuilding  Northrop Grumman, which is looking to spin off its
shipbuilding business, is talking with the U.S. Navy to ensure
the standalone unit has sufficient financial backing, two people
familiar with the talks said in December. Los Angeles-based
Northrop is the Navy’s largest shipbuilder.  The Pentagon will expect suppliers as they are making
moves, such as spinoffs, “to give us all the financial
information we need to make our determination,” Carter said. He
declined to comment specifically on Northrop’s proposal.  In addition to Carter’s speech, the Pentagon has launched a
review of defense suppliers that “will go sector-by-sector, and
tier-by-tier, to assemble a long-term picture” of what policies
will help the department fulfill its requirements, Deputy
Defense Secretary William Lynn  told  an industry group Jan. 30.  “This detailed review will inform our budget decisions,
our acquisition decisions, and our industrial policy,” Lynn
said. “It will also help us determine what stake the department
has in mergers, acquisitions, and industry consolidation.”  ‘Pretty good pace’  Aerospace and defense industry mergers and acquisitions are
“growing at a pretty good pace,” said Stuart McCutchan, editor
of  Defense Mergers and Acquisition , an on-line publication based
in South Riding, Virginia. He said he expects 2011 “to be a big
year.”  Defense companies of all sizes completed 255 transactions
totaling about $24 billion last year, the most since 2007 when
the industry completed 362 deals valued at $43.4 billion,
according to data compiled by McCutchan.  The high point was deals worth $65.9 billion in 1999 as the
industry was responding to the Clinton administration’s
direction that major consolidation was necessary as post-Cold
War defense budgets dropped.  “My guess is that Mr. Carter is trying to get in front of
any prospective surge in consolidation activity,” McCutchan
said. “What the Pentagon fears most is financial instability
caused by imprudent activity” that leaves less corporate money
for expenditures on research and development and equipment, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Peter Cook  in  Washington  at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  