-- Pentagon Will Back Defense Mergers Outside Top Five Companies, Carter Says
-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k ,   A n t h o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-02-09T22:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/carter-says-pentagon-welcomes-mergers-spinoffs-within-limits.html
The U.S. Defense Department welcomes
mergers among U.S. defense companies provided they don’t involve
the top five or six suppliers acquiring each other, the
Pentagon’s top weapons buyer said.  “We expect industry to make adjustments” to a slowdown in
U.S. defense spending,  Ashton Carter , undersecretary of defense
for acquisition, technology and logistics, told Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Still, the Pentagon will not approve transactions that lead
to consolidation of the major defense contractors such as  Lockheed Martin Corp ., Boeing Co.,  Raytheon Co .,  Northrop
Grumman Corp ., or  General Dynamics Corp ., Carter said in an
interview prior to a speech today in New York.  The growth of the base U.S. defense budget through 2016 is
forecast to average no more than the rate of inflation as
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  works to trim costs. Overall
defense spending, including war expenses, has risen 72 percent
between 2000 and 2008.  Gates has targeted $78 billion in cuts through 2016 for
federal deficit reduction and another $100 billion in
efficiencies savings, two-thirds of which will be shifted to
weapons accounts, Carter said.  ‘Economic Efficiency’  As a result, there will be consolidation and spinoffs,
Carter said.  “There are small businesses, there are parts suppliers
which may grow in this time and that’s good,” Carter said.
Those transactions “could be in the interest of economic
efficiency” and the Pentagon would welcome them, he said.  Small- and medium-sized companies are “centrally important
in a healthy industrial base,” he said in the speech, at the
InterContinental  New York  Barclay hotel  “Perhaps two-thirds to three-fourths of every dollar we
award at the prime level is spent for subcontracting goods and
services at the so-called lower tier of the industry,” Carter
said. “Their health and performance are critical to us.”  The current structure of the U.S. defense industry was
shaped in 1993 when then-Defense Secretary Les Aspin told
company executives the Pentagon could not sustain several
suppliers in each sector and encouraged them to merge in order
to better utilize capacity.  The Defense Department today is “down to about five or six
very large prime contractors who bid on many, many of our jobs
and, in the interest of competition, we are not interested in
seeing further consolidation and reduction in that number,”
Carter said in the interview. “But with that exception just
about everything else is on the table.”  ‘Not Desperate’  Chief executive officers of the top two U.S. defense
companies have said they don’t foresee consolidations similar to
the 1990s.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, is under
no pressure to make up for a projected slowdown in U.S. military
spending through acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said in a November interview.  “We are ambitious and we will continue to look” for
acquisitions “but we are not desperate,” Stevens said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in Washington.    Boeing Co ., the No. 2 defense contractor, doesn’t see large
acquisitions, Dennis Muilenburg, chief executive officer of
Boeing’s defense unit, said in a December interview.  Chicago-based Boeing’s 2010 defense sales of $31.9 billion
are second to Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, which
reported revenue of $45.8 billion.  Northrop Shipbuilding  The Pentagon asks for “transparency” in all mergers and
spinoffs to ensure that “the spun-out entity is going to
continue to serve the department in the long-term way,” Carter
said.  Northrop Grumman, which is looking to spin off its
shipbuilding business, is talking with the U.S. Navy to ensure
the standalone unit has sufficient financial backing, two people
familiar with the talks said in December. Los Angeles-based
Northrop is the Navy’s largest shipbuilder.  In addition to Carter’s speech, the Pentagon has launched a
review of defense suppliers that “will go sector-by-sector, and
tier-by-tier, to assemble a long-term picture” of what policies
will help the department fulfill its requirements, Deputy
Defense Secretary William Lynn  told  an industry group Jan. 30.  ‘Pretty Good Pace’  “This detailed review will inform our budget decisions,
our acquisition decisions, and our industrial policy,” Lynn
said. “It will also help us determine what stake the department
has in mergers, acquisitions, and industry consolidation.”  Aerospace and defense industry acquisitions are “growing
at a pretty good pace,” said Stuart McCutchan, editor of
 Defense Mergers and Acquisitions , an online publication based in
South Riding, Virginia. He said he expects 2011 “to be a big
year.”  Defense companies of all sizes completed 255 transactions
totaling about $24 billion last year, the most since 2007, when
the industry completed 362 deals valued at $43.4 billion,
according to data compiled by McCutchan.  The high point was deals valued at $65.9 billion in 1999 as
the industry responded to the Clinton administration’s direction
that major consolidation was necessary as post-Cold War defense
budgets dropped.  “My guess is that Mr. Carter is trying to get in front of
any prospective surge in consolidation activity,” McCutchan
said. “What the Pentagon fears most is financial instability
caused by imprudent activity” that leaves less corporate money
for expenditures on research and development and equipment, he
said.  ‘What We Welcome’  Carter, in a telephone interview today after the speech,
said “this is a policy discussion of what it is we welcome and
don’t welcome. We would like to be part of a dialogue that
shapes the kind of change industry undergoes, not as part of a
regulatory process.”  “That’s the reason to raise it now, before there are a
whole lot of these transactions and we are reacting to them one
by one,” he said.  “We will deal with them case-by-case as they come along,
but what’s important is that, as people contemplate such
transactions, they have some understanding of what the
department outlook is,” Carter said.  Carter today reiterated that companies must be transparent
in their dealings so the Pentagon will “understand the full
implications of a proposed transaction will require us to look
into the whole financial details of it.”  “We are working well with Northrop Grumman in that
regard,” he said of the shipyard discussions.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Peter Cook  in  Washington  at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  