-- China Wheat Drought May Last to Spring, Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-10T07:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/china-s-drought-to-endure-threatening-wheat-as-price-jumps-to-2008-high.html
  China , the largest wheat consumer,
may have a prolonged drought in its main growing region,
according to Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu. Futures in
Zhengzhou climbed to a record.  About 115.95 million mu (7.73 million hectares) of wheat,
or 42 percent of the total planted in the eight major producing
provinces, has been hit by the dry spell that may last into
spring, Han said in a  statement  yesterday.  Rain on the North China Plain has been “substantially”
below-normal since October, the  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization  said Feb. 8. Drought could force China,
largely self-sufficient in wheat, to buy more from overseas,
said Jason Britt, an analyst at Central States Commodities Inc.  “That sends a little bit of a shiver through the market,”
Britt said by telephone from  Kansas City ,  Missouri . China may
import 1 million metric tons of wheat this year, compared with
9.8 million tons by  Egypt , the top buyer, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  Snow fell in drought-hit provinces including Hebei, Shanxi,
Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu and Anhui since yesterday which will
help relieve dryness, the  National Meteorological Center  said on
its website. Rain and snow are forecast today, it said.  Henan, the top grower, had on average 5.5 millimeters of
snow and some areas got as much as 23 millimeters, the weather
agency in the province said. Neighboring Shandong received as
much as 3.5 millimeters, and more is forecast on Feb. 13, the
local bureau said.  Record Prices  Wheat futures in China surged to as much as 3,064 yuan
($465) a metric ton today, a record for the most-active contract,
before falling to 3,036 yuan. The price in  Chicago , a global
benchmark, fell 0.6 percent to $8.8075 a bushel after jumping to
$8.9325 a bushel yesterday, the highest level since August 2008.  Most crops in the wheat region are irrigated and only about
5 percent of annual precipitation normally occurs from December
to February, said Mike Tannura, a meteorologist at T-Storm
Weather in Chicago.  “Even though it’s been dry relative to average, 95 percent
of precipitation occurs from March through November,” Tannura
said. “It’s a concern, no question about it, but one big rain
in March and all of a sudden they’re back above average.”  China pledged to spend an extra 6.7 billion yuan ($1
billion) to boost emergency water supply and irrigation
resources, according to a government statement. This is in
addition to 10 yuan per mu in direct subsidies to encourage
farmers to water wheat, and another 10 yuan to fertilize
weakened seedlings, it said.  Food Costs  Rising food costs have stoked inflation in emerging
economies. The past month’s protests in North Africa and the
Middle East were partly linked to food costs.  China’s consumer prices advanced 3.3 percent last year,
breaching a government target of 3 percent. The January rate may
have accelerated to 5.4 percent, according to the median
estimate of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, from 4.6
percent in December. Inflation in  Indonesia ,  Southeast Asia ’s
biggest economy, hit a 21-month high of 7.02 percent.  The provinces hardest hit are Shandong, Jiangsu, Henan,
Hebei and Shanxi, representing 67 percent of the country’s wheat
production in 2009, the FAO said. China has 14 million hectares
(34.6 million acres) planted with winter wheat in those areas,
of which about 5.16 million hectares may have been hurt, it said,
citing government estimates.  China is the largest wheat consumer, representing about 17
percent of global use in the year to June 30, the London-based
International Grains Council predicts. The country’s wheat
output may have dropped to 114.5 million tons at the last
harvest from 115.1 million tons a year earlier, the USDA
estimates. Macquarie Group Ltd. expects production to drop a
further 4 million tons this year.  --William Bi, Feiwen Rong. With assistance by Whitney McFerron
in  Washington . Editors: Steve Stroth, James Poole  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7578 or
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  