-- China’s Swaps Jump the Most Since 2008 on Interest-Rate Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-09T04:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/china-swaps-jump-most-since-november-on-interest-rate-rise.html
  China ’s interest-rate swaps jumped
the most in two years after the central bank boosted borrowing
costs for the third time in four months to help cool inflation.  The one-year swap contract, which is tied to the seven-day
repurchase rate, climbed 22 basis points from its Feb. 1 close
to 3.87 percent as of 12:11 p.m. in  Shanghai . That’s the biggest
increase since December 2008. The repo rate, a gauge of
liquidity in the financial system, rose 77 basis points to 4.07
percent, according to a daily fixing published by the National
Interbank Funding Center. Local markets were shut in the week
ended yesterday for the Chinese New Year holiday.  “More hikes are on the cards, with at least another two
more in prospect over the first half,” said  Mitul Kotecha , head
of global foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . The recent rate increase “shouldn’t have come as a
surprise, given the growing emphasis by the People’s Bank of
China to dampen inflation pressures.”  The central bank lifted its one-year deposit rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3 percent, effective today, and
increased the one-year lending rate to 6.06 percent from 5.81
percent. A report next week is expected to show inflation
accelerated to a 30-month high of 5.3 percent in January, based
on the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on China’s 3.77 percent note due in December 2020
advanced to 4.18 percent from 4.1 percent on Feb. 1, according
to prices quoted by China Foreign Exchange System. The benchmark
rate jumped eight basis points in the week after China last
raised borrowing costs on Dec. 25. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Inflation Risk  Central bank adviser  Li Daokui  said the latest interest
rate increase mainly targeted inflation expectations, the
Chengdu Evening News reported today, citing comments made in an
interview. Policy makers may raise  interest rates  four more
times this year to help stem gains in consumer prices,  Andy Xie ,
an independent economist who previously worked for Morgan
Stanley, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Inflation pressure is “quite big” and policy makers will
address this using tools such as interest rates, banks’ reserve
ratios and open-market operations, the People’s Bank of China
said in a quarterly monetary policy report published Jan. 30 on
its website.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7574 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  