-- Chinese Developers' Vanke, Shares Decline After Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-09T02:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/chinese-developers-vanke-shares-decline-after-interest-rate-increase.html
Shares of Chinese developers fell by
the most in two weeks after the government increased borrowing
costs for the third time in four months.  Poly Real Estate Group Co., the country’s second-biggest
developer, dropped 2 percent to 12.64 yuan as of 10:21 a.m. in
Shanghai, while  China  Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest, fell 1.1
percent to 8.09 yuan in Shenzhen. A gauge of property stocks
declined 1 percent, the most among the five industry groups in
the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday raised the one-year
lending rate by a quarter point to 6.06 percent and the one-year
deposit rate an equivalent amount to 3 percent. The rate
increase comes after China last month raised second-home down
payments, told local governments to set price targets on new
properties and introduced taxes for residential properties in
Shanghai and Chongqing.  “The rate hike increased the mortgage borrowing costs and
that might affect sales volumes of developers,” said Gao Jian,
an analyst at Northeast Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It might
take longer for the hike to have an impact on home prices.”  Home prices in 70 Chinese cities climbed 6.4 percent in
December from 2009, increasing for a 19th month. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to curb property speculation and add more
affordable housing in his Lunar New Year speech on Feb. 1. The
country needs to “resolutely control the  property market ” and
“maintain stable housing prices,” Wen said.  Real Economy  The rate increase may “trouble” asset prices more than
the “real economy” because liquidity has been flowing into
property and equity markets over the past 18 months, said Credit
Suisse Group AG in a report today.  China’s January  home prices  posted their biggest month-on-
month gain in six months, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
biggest property website owner said on Feb. 1. Residential
prices in all 100 cities tracked by SouFun climbed 1 percent
last month from December, with average values increasing to
8,645 yuan ($1,312) a square meter.  “The latest rate hike is a part of the government’s
continued tightening in a liquidity boom, rather than
pinpointing the property market,” said Citigroup Inc. analysts
led by Oscar Choi in a report sent today. The effective mortgage
rate for homebuyers rises further, but it’s not yet “powerful
enough to alter the public’s home purchase decisions given the
existing inflationary environment and shortage of investments,”
it said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  