-- Stocks Fall on Inflation Concern; Treasuries, Wheat, Corn Gain
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-02-09T21:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/china-interest-rate-swaps-yuan-gain-as-metals-fall-on-rates-kiwi-weakens.html
Stocks fell, sending emerging markets
down for a fifth day, amid concern accelerating inflation will
push up borrowing costs. Corn, wheat and soybeans rose to the
highest prices since 2008, while the dollar slid and Treasuries
rebounded.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 1.5 percent at 4 p.m.
in  New York  to extend its longest slump since November. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.3 percent in a retreat
from its highest close in 2 1/2 years, while European shares
extended losses as Ireland said it will postpone planned capital
injections into banks. Wheat jumped as much as 2.2 percent, and
corn added 4 percent. The Dollar Index lost 0.5 percent and 10-
year Treasury yields fell from the highest level since May.  Inflation expectations are increasing around the world
after  China ’s central bank raised  interest rates  by 0.25
percentage point yesterday and U.K. food prices rose at the
fastest pace in 19 months in January. Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke gave no indication he plans to scale back a $600
billion plan to boost the economy after two regional Fed bank
presidents said rising prices are a threat.  “Global inflation seems to be the major theme,” said
Barry Knapp, head of equity strategy for Barclays Plc in New
York. “The risk is increasing in a lot of the emerging
markets,” he said. “In the U.S., even as some forward yield
curves have started to price in a tighter policy going forward,
the risk of inflation is overblown. Fixed income volatility has
increased.”  Yield Curve  The difference between yields on 2-year and 10-year
Treasury notes slipped to 285 basis points after earlier
climbing to 291 basis points, the highest in a year. The so-
called yield curve is considered a gauge of investors’
expectations for future inflation and economic growth. The 10-
year note yield lost 9 basis points to 3.66 percent today,
extending declines as an auction of $24 billion of the
securities drew the highest level of bidders since at least 2003
in a class of investors that includes central banks.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has declined 3.6 percent
this year, compared with a 4.9 percent rally in the MSCI gauge
for developed countries, as central banks from China to India
and Brazil raised borrowing costs. The Shanghai Composite Index
retreated 0.9 percent today as trading resumed following a week-
long holiday for the Lunar New Year. Benchmark stock gauges in  India ,  South Korea ,  Thailand ,  Indonesia  and  Hungary  slid more
than 1 percent.  The  S&P 500  retreated from the highest level since June
2008 and its most expensive price-to-earnings valuation in seven
months at almost 16 times reported operating earnings, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Season    Walt Disney Co . rallied 5.3 percent after sales topped
estimates and lead the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  higher for
an eighth straight day, its longest rally since March. The 30-
stock Dow climbed 6.74 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,239.89, its
highest close since June 16, 2008.  Chevron Corp. lost 1.5 percent to help send energy
companies to the biggest drop among 10 groups in the S&P 500.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. home lender, lost 2.8
percent after Chief Financial Officer Howard I. Atkins retired.  About 74 percent of the 319 companies in the S&P 500 that
have reported quarterly results since Jan. 10 have topped
analysts’ per-share profit predictions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.    NYSE Euronext  rallied 14 percent after the operator of the
New York Stock Exchange said it was in advanced talks to merge
with  Deutsche Boerse AG . Shares of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., CBOE
Holdings Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. rallied at least
4.2 percent.  European Markets  Three shares fell for every two that rose in  Europe ’s Stoxx
600, which slipped 0.4 percent. Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc sank
5.1 percent as the maker of Neurofen painkillers said 2011 sales
will probably rise at a slower pace than last year. London Stock
Exchange Group Plc jumped 3.1 percent after agreeing to buy
Toronto Stock Exchange owner TMX Group Inc. in an all-share
transaction valued at about C$3.2 billion ($3.2 billion). TMX
rallied 6.4 percent in Toronto.  Irish bank stocks fell after the government said it will
postpone capital injections into Allied Irish Banks Plc, Bank of
Ireland Plc and EBS Building Society until after the country’s
election on Feb. 25. The Irish Overall Index slumped 1.8 percent
as financial shares slumped 5 percent collectively.  U.K. food inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 19
months in January, as prices rose an annual 4.6 percent, up from
4 percent the previous month and the most since June 2009, the
British Retail Consortium said today. The  Confederation of
British Industry  raised its forecast for consumer-price growth.  Wheat, Corn Rally  Wheat for March delivery climbed to as high as $8.9325 a
bushel, and corn increased to as much as $7 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Crude oil slipped 0.2 percent to $86.77
a barrel. Copper dropped 1.4 percent.  The  U.S. dollar  weakened against nine of 16 major
currencies, losing 0.8 percent to $1.3731 per euro. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the currency against six major peers, slipped
for a third straight day.  New Zealand’s currency depreciated 0.4 percent versus the
dollar and 1.1 percent against the euro after Finance Minister
Bill English said the economy might have contracted in the
fourth quarter, entering its second recession in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justigan Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net . 