-- Cisco Systems Second-Quarter Margin Misses Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2011-02-10T01:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/cisco-systems-second-quarter-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates.html
  Cisco Systems Inc ., the largest
provider of networking equipment, posted a gross margin that
missed analysts’ estimates as the company spent more to develop
products and competitors undercut them on prices.  Gross margin, or the percentage of profit left after
subtracting production costs, fell to 62.4 percent in the period
ended Jan. 29, the  San Jose , California-based company said
today. That missed the 63.3 percent average of projections
compiled by Bloomberg.  Research and development costs climbed 19 percent in the
quarter, while sales and marketing expenses rose 15 percent.
That outpaced a 6 percent sales increase. Cisco may be cutting
its prices and extending better terms to its customers, giving
them longer to pay, said Mark Sue, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in New York.  “The product gross margins declined quite meaningfully,”
Sue said. “We know demand is improving, but will Cisco
capitalize on that? And will it have to resort to price cuts to
get its fair share?”  Cisco fell as much as 10.3 percent to $19.77 in late
trading, after rising 5 cents to $22.04 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Routers and Switches  Profit excluding some items this quarter will be 35 cents
to 38 cents a share, short of the 40-cent average prediction.
Sales will rise 4 percent to 6 percent from a year earlier, the
company said today on a conference call. That would mean revenue
of $10.8 billion to $11 billion. Analysts on average estimated
sales of $10.9 billion, with some projecting as much as $11.3
billion.  Investors look to Cisco as a bellwether for the technology
industry because it dominates the market for routers and
switches, products that direct the flow of  Internet traffic .
Companies buy its switches for corporate networks, while phone
and Web-service providers typically purchase Cisco’s more-
expensive routers.  Earnings excluding some costs were 37 cents a share, Cisco
said. That compared with 35 cents, the average of projections
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose to $10.4 billion, also topping
the average $10.2 billion estimate.  ‘Bumpy’ Transitions  The public sector in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan is facing
budget constraints that will affect spending for the next
several quarters, Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  said on
a conference call with analysts.  “Any time you make market transitions, they’re bumpy,”
Chambers said in an interview. “This one is turning out to be
more challenging than I would like. But if you look out a year
from now I’m very comfortable with where we’re positioned.”  Cisco’s expansion into more than 30 new businesses such as
servers, consumer video and smart-grid utilities is aimed at
helping the company reach a long-term goal of 12 percent to 17
percent revenue growth. Its broadened ambitions have left
cracks, with  Juniper Networks Inc .,  Hewlett-Packard Co . and
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. making inroads in the switch
market, according to  Mark McKechnie , an analyst at Gleacher &
Co. in San Francisco.  “They’ve become the Procter & Gamble of networking,” said
Joanna Makris, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.,
referring to the world’s largest consumer-products company,
which has more than 70 brands. “The stocks that have
outperformed them have been the more focused, nimble
companies.” Makris has a “neutral” rating on the stock and
doesn’t own it.  Dell, Huawei    Dell Inc . and Huawei Technologies Co. have also been able
to undercut Cisco on prices for certain switches and routers,
said Nikos Theodosopoulos, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC in  New York .  Net income fell to $1.52 billion, or 27 cents a share, from
$1.85 billion, or 32 cents, a year earlier, the company said.  The company, which has about $40 billion in cash, plans to
issue its first dividend in the first half of the year. Last
week, it agreed to buy Inlet Technologies for $95 million in
cash, and said last month it would purchase networking company
Pari Networks for an undisclosed price.  Juniper, the second-largest U.S. maker of networking gear,
said last month that profitability will improve this year as
customer demand helps sales rise at a faster rate than research
and development costs. The company’s shares have climbed more
than 60 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  