-- Citgo, Exxon Refinery Work Strengthens Gulf Coast Spot Gasoline
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2011-02-09T20:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/citgo-exxon-refinery-work-strengthens-gulf-coast-spot-gasoline.html
Spot gasoline in the  Gulf Coast 
strengthened as Citgo Petroleum Corp. and  Exxon Mobil Corp .
started work on gasoline-making units.  Exxon’s refinery in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, is performing
maintenance on a fluid catalytic cracker and associated units
that will last several weeks, Kevin Allexon, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Allexon, based in Fairfax,
Virginia, said the refinery began the turnaround on Feb. 5.  The discount for conventional 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 0.25 cent to 4.63 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in New York
at 2:33 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt
delivery of the fuel gained 3.26 cents to $2.4781 a gallon.  Catalytic crackers are the main gasoline-making units at a
refinery. The  Baton Rouge  plant, second-largest in the U.S.
after Exxon’s refinery in Baytown, Texas, has a fluid catalytic
cracking capacity of 243,000 barrels a day, according to the
U.S. Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.  Citgo shut down fluid catalytic cracking unit 1 at the
Corpus Christi East refinery in Texas Feb. 7 to conduct repairs
on an expansion joint, according to a filing with state
regulators.  Conventional 87-octane gasoline in the Midwest, or Group 3,
narrowed 0.37 cent to 1.88 cents a gallon versus futures. Prompt
delivery of the fuel gained 3.54 cents to $2.5071 a gallon.    Marathon Oil Corp . will shut the No. 5 crude unit at its
Catlettsburg refinery in  Kentucky  from tomorrow through March 2
for planned maintenance, according to a filing with state
regulators.  A naphtha pretreater and high-pressure continuous catalytic
reformer will also be shut during the work, according to the
filing with the Kentucky Division of Air Quality.  Gasoline for March delivery added 3.18 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $2.526 a gallon on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.  -- Editors: Richard Stubbe, Charlotte Porter  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 