-- Citigroup Hedge Fund Profited From Barai's Insider Trades, Prosecutors Say
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2011-02-09T18:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/citigroup-hedge-fund-profited-from-barai-s-insider-trades-prosecutors-say.html
A  Citigroup Inc . hedge fund made more
than $450,000 in 2006 and 2007 trading in securities of  Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc . after obtaining
inside information about the company, U.S. prosecutors said.  The fund, described as “Hedge Fund A,” in a criminal
complaint filed in federal court in  Manhattan , was identified in
a parallel lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission as Citigroup’s Tribeca Global Management LLC. This
fund managed about $2 billion before the bank began to close it
in September 2007.  The court filings, stemming from a nationwide federal probe
of  hedge funds , technology companies and so-called expert
networking firms, accuse onetime Tribeca portfolio manager Samir Barai along with a former manager at SAC Capital Advisors LP of
illegal  insider trading . Barai, 38, surrendered to authorities
yesterday. Neither Citigroup nor Tribeca was accused of wrongdoing.  “Barai obtained material, nonpublic information provided
to him in breach of fiduciary and other duties or trust and
confidence,” according to the criminal complaint. Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara announced the charges against Barai,
who worked at Tribeca in 2006 and 2007 before starting his own
hedge fund.  The SEC is seeking to force Barai, his Barai Capital
Management LP firm and nine other individuals to repay “ill-
gotten gains and the illicit trading profits” made from an
alleged insider trading scheme surrounding several technology
companies. His attorney, Evan Barr of Steptoe & Johnson LLP in  New York City , declined to comment.  Citigroup Cooperating  “We are fully cooperating with the authorities on this
matter,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  When he was at Tribeca, Barai received information from an
“insider” at South Portland, Maine-based chip maker Fairchild,
according to the SEC. This individual, described as the
“Fairchild Source” by prosecutors, was allegedly a product
manager who had given Barai nonpublic details about the firm
including quarterly revenue information.  Tribeca “earned net profits of over approximately $450,000
as a result of its trading activity in Fairchild,” prosecutors
said in the criminal complaint, calling it “Hedge Fund A.”  The U.S. said the conspiracy extended into 2010, after
Barai had left Citigroup. Barai founded his hedge fund in March 
2008 and the firm had about $100 million in assets, according to 
the SEC. He obtained material information from “insiders” at firms
such as Fairchild and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc . and then traded
on the information for Barai Capital, the SEC said.  Inside Information  After Barai set up Barai Capital, the insider gave him
information about Fairchild’s sales, profit margins and
inventory, and told him how much revenue the company collected
from customers including Dell Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.
and Nokia Oyj, the SEC alleges.  The Fairchild Source was paid about $48,000 between October
2006 and October 2009 by “the hedge funds at which Samir
Barai” worked, according to the criminal complaint.  Patti Olson, a Fairchild spokeswoman, said the firm is
cooperating with the investigation.  Donald Longueuil, a former junior portfolio manager at SAC,
was also charged with securities fraud, conspiracy to commit  securities fraud  and  wire fraud  as well as obstruction of
justice. Longueuil’s attorney, Craig Carpenito of New York City-
based  Alston & Bird LLP , declined to comment.  SAC Statement  SAC was founded by  Steve Cohen  in 1992 and is based in
Stamford,  Connecticut . It has not been charged. A spokesman for
the firm, Jonathan Gasthalter, referred to a statement issued
yesterday, which said SAC was “outraged” by Longueuil’s
alleged actions and was cooperating with the investigation.  Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank , set up the Tribeca
fund in 2004 with an initial goal of attracting $20 billion. It
hired Tanya Styblo Beder to run the fund. She left in September
2006. Dean Barr, who took over after her departure, resigned in
April 2007. The bank announced in September 2007 that it would
shut Tribeca. Ex-Chief Investment Officer Oliver Dobbs, who
oversaw the fund when Barr departed, left in February 2008.  Dobbs declined to comment. Styblo Beder and Barr didn’t
return phone calls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 