-- Coca-Cola Net More Than Triples on Acquisition Gain
-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 2011-02-09T21:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/coca-cola-fourth-quarter-earnings-more-than-triple-on-one-time-cash-gain.html
  Coca-Cola Co ., the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, said fourth-quarter profit more than tripled
after a one-time non-cash gain related to the acquisition of its
North American bottling operations.  Net income advanced to $5.77 billion, or $2.46 a share, the
Atlanta-based company said today in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was 72 cents, matching the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Coca-Cola, led by Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent , now
controls 90 percent of its North America beverage distribution
following a deal last year with its largest bottler. The company
boosted volume sales in the U.S. and Canada by 8 percent for the
quarter, the third consecutive quarterly increase.  Coca-Cola advanced 28 cents to $63.15 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 4
percent this year, compared with a 1.4 percent slide for rival
PepsiCo Inc.  Global sales by drink volume grew 6 percent, helped by a 5
percent gain in Latin America and a 2 percent increase in  Europe . Volume in the Eurasia & Africa unit jumped 14 percent.  Coca-Cola will put “a lot of effort” into dairy drinks in
conjunction with its growing juice business, Chief Executive
Officer Muhtar Kent also said today in an interview. PepsiCo
Inc. recently purchased a controlling stake in Russia-based
Wimm-Bill-Dann to expand more into dairy-based beverages. Coca-
Cola’s Minute Maid unit already sells a dairy and juice drink in  China  called Pulpy Super Milky.  Coca-Cola recorded a $5 billion one-time, non-cash gain for
the 33 percent stake in  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc . it traded in
the purchase of the bottler’s North American operations.  Sales rose 40 percent to $10.5 billion, helped by the new
distribution. Analysts on average estimated $10.2 billion,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Net income in the fourth quarter of 2009 was $1.54 billion,
or 66 cents a share.  Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo, the second-biggest soft-
drink company, is scheduled to report earnings tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Duane Stanford} in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  