-- Congo Seeks South Africa Bank Funds for Diamond Mines
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2011-02-09T14:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/congo-needs-200-million-for-gem-mines-in-talks-with-south-african-banks.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo’s
state-owned diamond miner, MIBA, is in talks with South African
banks to obtain funds to revive its operations, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said.  “We need to find $150 million to $200 million to wake up
this giant,” Kabwelulu said today at the Mining Indaba
conference in  Cape Town . Officials from MIBA are in  South Africa 
to seek funding, he said.  Since the company closed its doors in November 2008,
almost all of Congo’s diamond production has been artisanal,
according to the Mines Ministry. Last November, Jeffrey Ovian,
former Congo country director of First Quantum Minerals Ltd.,
became MIBA’s director. The company, based in the Eastern Kasai
province in central Congo, is 20 percent owned by Mwana Africa
Plc in  London .  Congo, which is head of the Kimberley Process diamond
certification scheme for 2011, gave MIBA $10 million in August.  The country’s role in the  Kimberley Process  will keep
Congolese diamond mining under the spotlight this year, Alyson Warhurst, chief executive officer of the risk analysis and
mapping firm  Maplecroft , said today.  “The timing is good to demonstrate that good governance is
in place for diamond operations,” Warhurst said by phone from
Bath,  England . “It’s only through investment and a particular
framework whereby responsible businesses could invest in DRC
that diamonds could contribute to its development.”  Rio Tinto Plc is seeking partners for diamond and copper
projects in Congo, Kevin Fox, project manager at the company,
said in a speech at Indaba today. On Jan. 28, BRC Diamondcore
Ltd. announced it had resumed diamond operations in Congo and
entered into a new joint venture arrangement with Rio Tinto
Mining and Exploration Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Kavanagh in Kinshasa on 
 Mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 