-- Copper Falls Most in Two Weeks Following China’s Rate Increase
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2011-02-09T19:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/copper-drops-for-a-third-day-as-china-rate-increase-spurs-demand-concern.html
Copper fell the most in two weeks on
concern that higher  interest rates  will crimp growth and slow
commodity demand in  China , the world’s biggest metals consumer.  Yesterday, China increased borrowing costs for the third
time in four months, before a report next week that economists
say may show inflation accelerated to the fastest in 30 months.
Prices also dropped as copper stockpiles tracked by the London
Metal Exchange swelled the most in two weeks.  “A faster and sharper increase of interest rates than
previously assumed could ultimately have an adverse effect on
commodities and metals demand,” Commerzbank AG said in a report
today.  Copper futures for March delivery dropped 5 cents, or 1.1
percent, to close at $4.524 a pound at 1:33 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the biggest decline since Jan. 25. On Feb. 7, the
price reached an all-time high of $4.6375.  China joined  India , Indonesia, Thailand and  South Korea  in
boosting rates this year as Asian policy makers seek to avert
economic overheating in the region leading the global rebound.
Copper prices have more than tripled since the end of 2008 as
miners struggled to keep up with rising demand, especially from
emerging economies.  “Market sentiment will be impacted by the rate hike, and
until we get clearer signs of physical activity picking up in
China, copper may be a bit subdued,” Zhu Haitao, an analyst at
Zhongcai Futures Co., said from Beijing.  On the LME, copper for three-month delivery fell $135, or
1.3 percent, to $9,925 a metric ton ($4.50 a pound). The metal
climbed to a record $10,160 on Feb. 7.  Stockpiles monitored by the LME rose 1.1 percent to 396,400
tons, the biggest gain since Jan 26. Inventories are up 5
percent this year.  Lead, zinc, nickel, tin and aluminum also declined in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  