-- E.ON Seeks Trading Profit Return by Stronger Links to Analysts
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2011-02-09T09:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/e-on-seeks-trading-profit-return-by-stronger-links-to-analysts.html
E.ON Energy Trading SE, a unit of  Germany ’s biggest utility, seeks to make money this year from
buying and selling commodities for its own account by improving
links between traders and analysts, a senior executive said.  “I think a closer collaboration between trading desks and
the analysis parts and a more structured follow-up around how we
do the trades will do the trick,” the trading unit’s Chief
Financial Officer Christopher Delbrueck said yesterday in an
interview in Essen, Germany.  E.ON posted a loss of 68 million euros ($93 million) from
proprietary trading for the first nine months of 2010, on an
adjusted earnings before interest and tax basis. That compares
with a profit of 63 million euros a year earlier. Markets
“remained challenging” in the fourth quarter, Delbrueck said,
declining to comment further.  Low spreads between countries and different energy
commodities remain, making it difficult to “capture certain
values,” he said at the E-world energy fair in Essen, Germany.  E.ON’s electricity trading gained 25 percent to 1,137
terawatt-hours from January through September last year, while
carbon-emission volumes increased to 525 million metric tons
from 383 million tons, the company said Nov. 10 in an earnings
report. Gas volumes advanced 38 percent to 1,479 terawatt-hours.
The company plans to publish full-year results on March 9.  E.ON Energy Trading ’s adjusted EBIT climbed to 1.3 billion
from 803 million euros in the nine months. The company improved
on how to maximize profit from running its  power plants , said
Delbrueck, who became CFO of the unit last year after holding
the same position at the company’s Swedish arm since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  