-- Sebelius Says Arizona Medicaid Waiver May Not Be in Her Power to Provide
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/health-law-needed-to-cut-u-s-spending-washington-governor-gregoire-says.html
Arizona Governor Jan Brewer’s
proposal to cut 280,000 people from the state’s Medicaid rolls
is being reviewed by U.S. officials who don’t know whether they
have the power to approve the action, Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said.  The secretary, answering questions after a meeting
yesterday with  Washington  Governor Christine Gregoire, said
there is “legal uncertainty” about the action because the
program expansion that Brewer seeks to reverse occurred through
a ballot initiative, not a legislative vote. Sebelius said that
may limit her authority to grant the request.  Arizona’s governor last month proposed eliminating coverage
for childless adults by tightening eligibility requirements. She
requested a waiver from the U.S. rule that states must maintain
Medicaid coverage for the same people who received it before the
health-care overhaul became law in March.  “There is some concern about granting a blanket waiver
which administratively may not be within our purview,” said
Sebelius, 62, a former Kansas governor. “Our Medicaid staff has
been in close contact with Governor Brewer about the parameters
of what she wants to do.”  Sebelius was invited to Seattle by Gregoire, 63, a
Democrat, to hear about some of the experimental health-care
programs being set up by the state. The governor, who supports
President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, may seek federal
funding to implement or expand some of the state’s efforts.  Sebelius Promise    Arizona ’s Medicaid expansion was approved in a ballot
initiative in 2000, said Matthew Benson, Brewer’s spokesman. He
said Brewer, 66, has asked for a face-to-face meeting with
Sebelius, which hasn’t been scheduled yet.  Jessica Santillo , a
spokeswoman for Sebelius, declined to elaborate on the
secretary’s comments.  “We don’t believe this has anything to do with the
waiver,” Benson said. “This is more a question of political
will than legal authority.”  The law that authorized the expansion says it should be
paid for with money from the state’s legal settlement with
tobacco manufacturers and “other available funds,” Benson
said. “Well with a billion-dollar-plus deficit, I think we can
argue there are no available funds,” he said.  The waiver sought would cover a two-year period, just
enough time to get the state to 2014, when it will start getting
more federal matching funds for new enrollees under the health
overhaul, Benson said.  Budget Deficits  Sebelius has been pushed by governors to permit changes to
Medicaid programs to let cash-strapped states chip away at
deficits. Medicaid is the joint U.S.-state health program for
the poor. The  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a
nonprofit research group in Washington, D.C., has said 44 states
and the  District of Columbia  will face gaps of as much as $125
billion in the next fiscal year.  On Feb. 3, Sebelius  wrote  to governors to pledge her
department’s support in helping them find ways to reduce state
Medicaid burdens. She described areas where cuts may be made
including optional benefits such as prescription drug coverage
and long-term care.  Since then, California Governor  Jerry Brown  has approached
Sebelius to get permission to cut $1.7 billion of the state’s
Medicaid program, called Medi-Cal, partly by limiting those
covered to 10 physician visits a year, one of the benefits
mandated by federal regulation.  The Medi-Cal cuts come on top of proposed reductions in
home-health and mental-care programs, which also require federal
approval. Anthony Cava, a spokesman for  California ’s Health Care
Services Department, said the agency isn’t seeking waivers from
federal law, just approval for state plan amendments.  Brown Medicaid Cuts  “We do need some waivers,” Brown told reporters
yesterday. “I asked Secretary Sebelius. I think the president
is going to be very solicitous of the needs of the state of
California going forward.”  In Washington, Gregoire already obtained a waiver in
January for a program that covers childless adults that will
qualify the state for federal matching money. The governor also
plans to submit proposals for U.S. grants to implement
experimental methods to coordinate Medicaid and Medicare
benefits to cut costs of serving older people who qualify for
both, said  Doug Porter , who heads the state’s Medicaid program.  Washington covers 1.13 million people under Medicaid, more
than half of whom are children. The U.S. needs to support state
efforts to reduce the use of brand-name  prescription drugs  and
emergency-room services by imposing co-pays of as much as $50 in
cases where recipients insist on receiving brand-name drugs or
when there is no emergency, Porter said.  Cesarean Births  Washington is also looking into ways to reduce the number
of Medicaid-covered Cesarean deliveries, which involve surgery,
are more expensive and are less safe than natural child births,
Porter said.  Gregoire told the meeting at Seattle’s  Virginia Mason
Medical Center  that governors need the health overhaul in order
to cut the cost of providing care and to change the way medical
services are delivered.  “It’s very limiting, what governors and legislatures can
do on health-care reform on their own,” Gregoire said at the
meeting.  The federal health overhaul, backed by Obama, aims to curb
spending while increasing insurance coverage for Americans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in  Seattle  at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 