-- Telecom Malagasy to Triple Money-Transfer Users, CEO Says
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2011-02-09T14:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/telecom-malagasy-to-triple-money-transfer-users-ceo-says.html
Telecom Malagasy expects to
triple the number of users of its money-transfer service by
the end of this year, Chief Executive Officer Patrick
Pisal-Hamida said.  Telma has attracted 200,000 M-Vola users since
starting the system in May 2010 and plans to reach 600,000
by the end of December, Pisal-Hamida said in an interview
in the capital Antananarivo yesterday.  The company, which has 60 percent of the money-
transfer market, competes with France Telecom Ltd.’s Orange
and  Bharti Airtel Ltd .’s local unit in the Indian Ocean
island nation, where mobile-phone users have increased to
4.2 million from 1 million in 2007. Madagascar has a
population of about 20 million.  “If there hadn’t been a crisis Madagascar would be at
6 million, and this is what we expect to happen in the two
years following its resolution,” he said.  Madagascar’s economy contracted 3.7 percent in 2009
and 2 percent in 2010, according to the  International
Monetary Fund , the only one in Africa to shrink last year.
The European Union and the U.S. halted non-humanitarian aid
to Madagascar after President  Andry Rajoelina , a former DJ
and mayor of Antananarivo, seized power from his
predecessor  Marc Ravalomanana  with the help of the military
in March last year and later reneged on power-sharing
agreements.  Business is expected to stagnate this year and
turnover may rise or fall by 5 percent depending on the
crisis, Pisal-Hamida said.  Increasing Coverage  “Our challenge today is to cover everyone but there is
only one third that use it,” he said. Half the country,
representing 66 percent of the population, is covered by
networks, but only 22 percent of people are connected.
“The average in the rest of Africa is 44 percent so we are
at half,” he said.  The nation’s three operators are in discussions about
working together to install as many as 300 more sites
needed to cover the remaining half of Madagascar, where 34
per cent of the population lives.  “The best way is to share infrastructure,” Pisal-
Hamida said. “No one can cover the rest of the country
alone. The set up and maintenance costs for such a huge
country with difficult accessibility are too high.”  Weaker purchasing power has led to new users to cut
spending on calls to $2 a month compared with $15 in 2007,
resulting in an 8 percent decrease in revenue in 2010,
Pisal-Hamida said.  Telma, which has a 75 percent share of the Internet
market, reduced fees “by around half to two thirds” after
the East African Submarine System, a fiber-optic cable that
provides greater access to high-speed Internet and mobile-
phone data services in 20 African nations, started
operating in July last year.  Mobile-network operators in Madagascar pay a 45
percent tax on calls to the government.  “This is the second-highest in  Africa  apart from  Zambia ,” Pisal-Hamida said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 