-- Telstra Profit Tumbles 36%, Missing Estimates on Spending Gain, Writedowns
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2011-02-09T23:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/telstra-profit-tumbles-36-missing-estimates-on-spending-gain-writedowns.html
Telstra Corp.,  Australia ’s largest
telephone company, reported a steeper drop in first-half profit
than analysts estimated after it boosted spending on  customer
service  at home and wrote down an investment in  China .  Net income fell 36 percent to A$1.19 billion ($1.2
billion), or 9.6 cents a share, in the six months ended Dec. 31
from A$1.85 billion, or 14.9 cents, a year earlier, Melbourne-
based Telstra said in a statement today. That compares with the
A$1.38 billion median estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  New  call centers  to improve service, higher marketing
spending and price cuts are eroding profitability as Chief
Executive Officer  David Thodey  seeks to stem market-share losses
to  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd .’s Optus. While Telstra
added 919,000 new mobile phone and Internet customers in the
half, its profit margin fell 5.8 percentage points.  “They are paying a big price to get these customers on
board,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage about $5 billion at
Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “The real hope is that
once they have them, they can later sign them up for higher
bundles and restore margins.”  Today’s results included an A$133 million writedown of
Octave Group, which supplies mobile-phone content in China, and
a A$59 million gain from the sale of Telstra’s stake in Chinese
property website SouFun Holdings Ltd.  Ebitda Forecast  Telstra shares traded at A$2.89 at 10:24 a.m. in Sydney,
unchanged from yesterday. The stock slumped 19 percent in 2010,
compared with a 2.6 percent decline in Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 index.  First-half revenue fell 0.5 percent to A$12.3 billion. The
company will pay an interim dividend of 14 cents a share,
unchanged from the previous year.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell 14 percent to A$4.58 billion. The company
affirmed its forecast for a “high single-digit” percentage
decline in annual Ebitda from the A$11 billion posted in 2010
and “flattish” sales.  First-half sales from fixed-line services, known as PSTN,
fell 8.4 percent to A$2.7 billion as customers discarded
traditional services for mobile ones and businesses moved to
Internet-protocol phones.  Telstra reached a preliminary agreement with the government
in June to hand over its fixed-line network to the government-
backed National Broadband Network in exchange for A$11 billion
in compensation.  NBN Pact  The company has finalized “key commercial terms” with NBN
Co., the government-owned company building the fiber network,
and is trying to complete documentation with a proposal to be
put to investors by July, Thodey said today.  “A number of steps remain to finalize the NBN transaction,
however we believe these will happen as a matter of course given
the importance of the NBN to both the government and
shareholders,” Christopher Vagg, an analyst at Citigroup Inc,
said in a note to clients today.  Once the transfer is made, Telstra will no longer make
money from selling access to its network to rivals such as Optus
and will have to join them in leasing infrastructure from the
NBN, which plans to connect 93 percent of Australia’s population
to fiber by 2018.  Revenue from mobile services rose 6.5 percent to A$3.4
billion as customers used handsets more and access to wireless
broadband increased, Telstra said.  Total mobile revenue, which includes sales of phones,
gained 10 percent to A$4 billion.  Fixed retail Internet revenue gained 0.4 percent to A$794
million and sales from advertising and directories dropped 10
percent to A$876 million.  CSL New World, the company’s  Hong Kong  mobile-phone
division, posted a 24 percent gain in sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  