-- Emerging Market Stocks Drop for Fifth Day on Inflation Concern, China Rate
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2011-02-09T16:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-fifth-day-on-inflation-rate-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for a
fifth day, heading for its worst losing streak since November,
on speculation policy makers will take further steps to curb
inflation after  China  raised borrowing costs yesterday.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 1.3 percent to
1,112.73 at 11 a.m. in  New York . The  Jakarta Composite index  and
South  Korea ’s Kospi index each lost 1.2 percent. Hungary’s BUX
index slipped 1.4 percent and  Brazil ’s Bovespa declined 1.9
percent. China’s Shanghai Composite index retreated 0.9 percent
as exchanges resumed trading following a week-long holiday.  China raised its lending and deposit rates yesterday for
the third time since mid-October.  Bank Indonesia  increased
borrowing costs last week for the first time in more than two
years after January inflation accelerated to a 21-month high,
while the Bank of Korea may boost its seven-day repurchase rate
when it meets on Feb. 11, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Banco Santander SA and  RBC Capital Markets  raised
their 2011 Brazil inflation forecasts to more than 6 percent.  “Concerns are evident that inflation issues may jack up
interest rates and emerging markets may not be able to enjoy
such abundant liquidity,” said Lim Chang Gue, who helps oversee
about $21 billion at Samsung Asset Management in Seoul.
“There’s some portfolio rebalancing to developed markets where
corporate earnings are improving.”  Hungarian shares fell for a second day on concern weaker-
than-forecast industrial output in Hungary and  Germany , its
biggest trade partner, may limit the scope for economic growth.
Hungary’s factory production advanced in December at the slowest
since March.  Forint Weakens  The Hungarian forint weakened as much as 0.8 percent
against the euro. The Turkish lira slid 0.5 percent and the  Indian rupee  fell 0.3 percent. The Czech koruna slid 0.8 percent
versus the common European currency after a report showed the
country’s inflation unexpectedly slowed in January, reducing
expectations the central bank will increase borrowing costs in
the near term.  Russia’s Micex Index slumped 0.3 percent to 1,724.87.  The Bovespa stock index fell 1.8 percent, erasing a two-day
gain. Brookfield Incorporacoes SA led declines for real-estate
companies. Iron-ore producers Vale SA and MMX Mineracao &
Metalicos SA fell as copper declined for a third day.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose 1 basis point
to 200.  The difference between the return investors demand to hold
emerging-market bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 5 basis
points to 2.46 percentage points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase EMBI+ index.  Indian Stocks  India’s Sensitive Index, or Sensex, slid 1 percent, taking
its two-day losses to 2.5 percent.  India ’s economic expansion
may slow as  interest rates  climb, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
report today.  China Vanke Co., the nation’s largest developer, slumped 2
percent after the Swiss bank said China’s interest rate increase
may “trouble” asset prices. Jiangxi Copper Co. tumbled 4.1
percent in Shanghai trading after metal prices retreated on
concern the economy will slow.  “Curbing inflation is the government’s top priority this
year,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million in assets. “The rate
hikes will drag on economic growth. There may be two or three
more interest-rate hikes this year that may total 0.75 to 1
percentage point.”  In Seoul, SK Innovation Co., South Korea’s largest oil
refiner, fell 2.8 percent after the nation’s finance minister
Yoon Jeung Hyun asked for a review of the pricing policies of
oil.  S-Oil Corp ., the third-biggest, retreated 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  