-- Men in Uniform Matter Most as Chaos Threatens: Martin Indyk
-- B y   M a r t i n   I n d y k
-- 2011-02-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/men-in-uniform-matter-most-as-chaos-threatens-martin-indyk.html
The demonstrators in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square and the Pharaoh in Abdeen Palace have now reached a
standoff. How will it end? The answer lies with the Egyptian
army.  President  Hosni Mubarak  has conceded that he will not run
for reelection, that his son will not succeed him, and that the
constitution should be amended to allow free elections. He has
sacked his cabinet and replaced the executive committee of his
ruling  National Democratic Party  with more liberal leaders. And
his vice president,  Omar Suleiman , has begun talks with the
opposition including the previously banned Muslim Brotherhood.  These concessions are astonishing achievements for a two-
week old revolt against the most authoritarian regime in the
Arab world. Yet it should be clear by now that the protestors
will not go home until Mubarak relinquishes all powers and
leaves his palace, and Suleiman lifts emergency rule and accepts
a real process of political reform that leads to free and fair
elections.  With banks, schools, and offices reopening, and traffic
resuming its normal chaotic routine, one might think that the
crisis is on its way to resolution. And yet, the protestors
remain in Tahrir Square and Mubarak remains in his palace, both
of them ringed by soldiers and tanks.  The situation highlights the critical role of the Egyptian
army in the resolution of the crisis. Amazingly, their guns have
stayed silent but their other actions have done much to shape
the course of this revolution.  Army Actions  Early on the generals announced that they would not fire on
the demonstrators, thereby ensuring that the ranks of protestors
would swell to the hundreds of thousands. The officers also
declared that the demands of the protestors were “legitimate,”
signaling to Mubarak that he could not rely on them to resist
his ouster. Soon after, the former air force officer announced
that he would not seek reelection.  The military also is controlling the ports and airports,
preventing former senior officials and businessmen from fleeing
the country, and jihadists from returning. In the midst of the
tumult in Cairo, the army sent additional troops to Sinai, with
Israeli approval, the better to control the border with Gaza.  The demonstrators remain fearful that, at a certain point,
the generals will turn Tahrir Square into Tianenmen Square. But
the military’s performance to date shows no sign of that
intention, as long as the protestors do not attempt to march on
the palace.  Process Underway  Vice President Suleiman declared again last weekend that
force would not be used against the demonstrators. It appears
that the army intends to hold the ring until a political process
can achieve an agreed way forward.  At least a negotiation has begun and an agenda agreed to:
constitutional amendments to allow for free and fair
parliamentary and presidential elections, lifting the state of
emergency, releasing political prisoners, and ending
restrictions on freedom of expression.  All opposition parties will be represented, including the
Muslim Brotherhood and a body now being hastily convened that
will represent the youthful organizers of the protest movement.
Also, a committee of “wise men” has been constituted to act as
trustees and mediators.  But the demonstrators doubt the intentions of the palace
when they see Mubarak presiding over cabinet meetings and
Suleiman declaring that “there will be no ending of the
regime.” And the more the government appears to stall on
fundamental changes, the more restive the people grow and the
more their ranks swell.  Military Risks  Already demonstrators have spread their protest to the
parliament building and workers are beginning to strike,
including at the  Suez Canal . Suleiman is warning them that the
regime will not tolerate civil disobedience.  Unless the palace and the people can come to terms quickly
on an orderly process of transition, the army’s hand may be
forced and it will have to chose sides. Will the military risk
its own disintegration by ordering conscripted troops to open
fire on the people? Or will the generals tell the Pharaoh that
it is time for him to go?  Every indication so far suggests that the generals
understand they have a historic responsibility to put their
country’s -- and their own -- survival above that of Mubarak’s.
And Mubarak is, at the end as in the beginning, a military man.  But revolutions are by nature unpredictable. The only
certainty is that the army holds the key.  (Martin Indyk is vice president and director of foreign
policy at  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Martin Indyk at  foreignpolicy@brookings.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  