-- England Rallies to Defeat Denmark 2-1, Messi's Penalty Seals Argentina Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-02-10T00:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/england-beats-denmark-2-1-in-soccer-exhibition-france-defeats-brazil-1-0.html
  England  rallied to beat Denmark 2-1
in a soccer exhibition, while France defeated Brazil 1-0 and
Lionel Messi’s last-minute penalty gave Argentina a 2-1 win over
Portugal.  Half-time substitute  Ashley Young  got his first goal for
England in the 68th minute to earn the visitor the win in
Copenhagen last night. Aston Villa teammate Darren Bent made it
1-1 three minutes after  Daniel Agger ’s seventh-minute opener for
the home team.  England, which drew with Montenegro and lost to France in
its last two matches of 2010, gave 19-year-old midfielder  Jack
Wilshere  his first start in its last game before resuming 2012
European Championship qualifying against Wales on March 26.  “These games are always with the qualifiers in mind,”
England captain Frank Lampard told reporters. “We kept the ball
well even if we didn’t always push them that much. We have
confidence in the players that came in.”  After Agger scored with a header, Bent got on the end of a
low cross from Theo Walcott to tie it. Young won it in the
second half when he took Glen Johnson’s pass and placed a shot
into the bottom corner past Danish goalkeeper Thomas Sorensen.  Karim Benzema scored in the 54th minute as France beat 10-
man  Brazil  at the Stade de France in Paris to extend its
unbeaten run against the record five-time world champion to six
matches stretching back to 1992.  Brazil went a man down when midfielder Hernanes was shown a
straight red card for a shoulder-high challenge on Benzema.  ‘Reference Point’  “Brazil are a reference point in football, even if they
were down to 10 players,” France coach Laurent Blanc told the
website of European soccer’s governing body UEFA. “I’m pleased
with everyone in the team and the squad as a whole.”  In Geneva, FIFA Ballon d’Or winner Messi converted an 89th-
minute penalty for Argentina to seal the victory over  Portugal 
after Cristiano Ronaldo had canceled out Angel Di Maria’s
opener.  It was Argentina’s first match of 2011 as it prepares to
host the  Copa America , South America’s continental championship,
in July.  In other exhibition games last night, world champion Spain
needed an 86th-minute goal from David Silva to beat Colombia 1-0
in Madrid, while substitute striker Giuseppe Rossi’s 81st-minute
goal secured a 1-1 draw for Italy against Germany in Dortmund.  The Netherlands, runner-up to Spain at last year’s  World
Cup  in  South Africa , extended its winning run to six games by
beating Austria 3-1 in Eindhoven. Wesley Sneijder, Klass-Jan
Huntelaar and  Dirk Kuyt  scored for the Dutch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  