-- Kravis, Michael Stipe Admire Picasso Guitars: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-09T16:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/henry-kravis-michael-stipe-admire-moma-picasso-guitars-scene-last-night.html
Just past six o’clock last night,
Marie-Josee and  Henry Kravis  walked through a gallery at the
Museum of  Modern Art  filled with more than 65 images of guitars
by Picasso.  It was noted that the gallery was silent. “These are so
beautiful, you don’t need music,” said Kravis, co-chairman and
chief executive of KKR Management LLC. Marie-Josee Kravis is
president of MoMA.  The preview reception for the exhibition “Picasso: Guitars
1912-1914,” which opens Feb. 13, brought out few guitar
players.  “I never played any instrument,” said art dealer Daniella
Luxembourg.  MoMA’s chief curator emeritus, John Elderfield, said he
studied piano as a child. “Growing up in northern  England , it
was so cold I had to practice with gloves on,” he said.  “I like listening,” said the director of the museum,
Glenn Lowry. Some of his favorites: “Everything from  Pink Floyd 
and the Stones to Radiohead and Fleet Foxes.”  At the bar set up in the second-floor atrium, R.E.M.’s
Michael Stipe, beer in hand, noted that he is the band’s singer
and songwriter and has never played an instrument.  In a couple of hours of mingling, a few guitar players were
identified: Nick Winokur, the 12-year-old son of the show’s
curator, Anne Umland; Brett Littman, the executive director of
the Drawing Center, who said he can play the first few chords of
“Lola”; Michael L. McCarty, the proprietor of Michael’s
restaurant, who plays a dobro; and a onetime assistant to Jean- Michel Basquiat, artist Rick Prol, who plays classical guitar
and rock ‘n roll.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 