-- Merck's Fosamax Didn't Cause Jaw Disease in Woman, New Jersey Jury Is Told
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-02-09T22:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/merck-s-fosamax-isn-t-cause-of-jaw-disease-drugmaker-s-lawyer-tells-jury.html
Merck & Co.’s osteoporosis drug
Fosamax didn’t cause so-called jaw death in a Pennsylvania
woman, because the drug doesn’t cause the disease and the woman
never had it, a lawyer for the company told a jury.  The company’s attorney,  Christy D. Jones , made her closing
arguments today in  Atlantic City , New Jersey, at the close of
the first state-court trial over the drug. Alison Rosenberg, 67,
sued claiming she developed osteonecrosis of the jaw as a result
of taking Fosamax.  “There’s no evidence of eight weeks of exposed, necrotic,
dead bone,” said Jones, of the law firm Butler, Snow, O’Mara,
Stevens & Cannada PLLC in Ridgeland,  Mississippi . “Ms.
Rosenberg didn’t meet the definition.”  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey, as of
Sept. 30 faced about 1,180 Fosamax cases, including suits with
multiple patients, the company said in a November regulatory
filing. About 300 cases in New Jersey have been centralized with
Superior Court Judge Carol E. Higbee in Atlantic City.  Merck won two of the three cases that went to jury verdicts
in  Manhattan  federal court. A jury awarded $8 million to one
plaintiff. U.S. District Judge  John Keenan  later reduced the
award to $1.5 million. About 850 Fosamax cases are before
Keenan.  Deliberations Begin Tomorrow  The Rosenberg jurors are scheduled to begin their
deliberations tomorrow. If they find for the plaintiff and award
damages, they would then hear evidence for and against punitive
damages. The Atlantic City trial started Jan. 24.  “We’re here because Fosamax killed part of Mrs.
Rosenberg’s jaw,” Paul Sizemore, one of her lawyers, told the
jury in his summation today. “That’s why we’re here, because
Merck knew it could happen and it didn’t warn Dr. Somers.”  One of the issues in the case is whether Merck adequately
warned Rosenberg’s doctor, Deborah Somers, about potential
problems with Fosamax.  In October 2005, Merck responded to a letter from Somers
requesting more information about Fosamax. Merck’s letter
included the same information as in its new Fosamax label
released in July 2005 that said the drug could cause jaw-bone
damage, Jones said.  ‘Adequate Warning’  “Merck indeed provided an adequate warning to Dr.
Somers,” Jones told jurors today.  Sizemore, of  Los Angeles , countered that the letter said
there were no reports of ONJ, as the disease is known.  “I didn’t believe there was an association” between
Fosamax and ONJ after reading the letter, Somers testified at
the trial. Sizemore showed the jurors the testimony.  Rosenberg had medical conditions that cause jaw problems
and took other medications that suppress immune systems, Merck
said last month in a statement.  Jones said Fosamax hasn’t been shown to cause ONJ. A “true
cause-and-effect relationship between oral biphosphonates like
Fosamax and ONJ has not been established,” she said.  The condition has to last more than eight weeks in order to
be called ONJ, according to the website of the American College
of Rheumatology.  Rosenberg used Fosamax for four years before developing the
condition in which bone tissue in the jaw is killed, according
to a  statement  on the website of the law firm representing her.
Her husband, Herbert Rosenberg, 69, is also suing for loss of
consortium.  Generic Competition  Merck had Fosamax sales of $691.5 million for the first
nine months of 2010, down from $814.9 million in the same period
the previous year, according to the regulatory filing. The drug
first faced generic competition in 2008.  Two more so-called bellwether trials, which may point the
way to out-of-court settlements and will show each side the
other’s litigation strategy, are scheduled for this year in
federal court in Manhattan. On Feb. 4, Keenan ordered the
parties to pick an additional two cases for trial.  Merck fell 18 cents to $33.09 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  The case is Rosenberg v. Merck & Co., ATL-L-3644-08,
Superior Court of  New Jersey  (Atlantic City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Atlantic City, New Jersey, Superior Court
At   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 