-- Etisalat DB's Balwa Arrested as Indian Investigators Widen Telecoms Probe
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2011-02-09T10:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/etisalat-db-s-balwa-arrested-as-indian-investigators-widen-telecoms-probe.html
Indian federal investigators arrested
Shahid Balwa, vice chairman of  Etisalat DB Telecom  India Pvt.,
widening a probe into the sale of mobile-phone licenses that’s
already triggered the detention of a former minister.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  arrested Balwa
yesterday, the agency’s spokeswoman, Binita Thakur, said in a
phone interview today. His arrest comes a week after authorities
detained former telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja  for
questioning. Balwa is also the managing director of  DB Realty
Ltd ., a Mumbai-based property developer.  A Mumbai court today remanded Balwa to two days in custody
after the agency argued that Raja conspired to favor companies
including the then Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as Etisalat DB,
and Unitech Ltd. by violating guidelines in the license sale.
The bureau, which won approval to quiz the former minister until
tomorrow, told a New Delhi court on Feb. 3 that Raja caused a
loss of 220 billion rupees ($4.8 billion) to the exchequer.  Investor concerns over corruption, rising inflation and
seven interest rate increases in a year have spurred foreign
investors to sell $1.1 billion of shares in 2011 and triggered a
14 percent fall in the Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index,
the second-worst performance after  Egypt . The Sensex climbed 17
percent in 2010, the most among the world’s 10 largest stock
markets, as optimism over economic growth and corporate earnings
propelled record foreign inflows.  ‘Government Serious’  Shares in DB Realty fell as much as 20 percent in Mumbai,
and were trading down 9 percent at 124.35 rupees as of 3:11 p.m.
Unitech had also slipped 9 percent to 37.4 rupees.  “It seems the CBI is trying to find out the money trail in
the spectrum sale,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the
Centre for Media Studies in New Delhi. “It also indicates the
government’s seriousness to uncover telecoms corruption.”  DB Realty said in a statement today that Balwa had been
“wrongly implicated” in the spectrum license probe. Neither
the company nor Balwa did anything “inappropriate or illegal”
and will strongly contest the proceedings, the statement said.    India ’s chief auditor said in November second-generation
airwaves were sold for an “unbelievably low” $2.7 billion when
they may have been worth at least 10 times more. Raja’s personal
secretary and an ex-bureaucrat in the telecommunications
ministry were also taken into custody by federal investigators
last week.  Opposition Protests  The opposition, led by the  Bharatiya Janata Party  has
stalled parliament, calling for a joint probe into the auction,
which Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has so far refused. The
stalemate disrupted the entire session that ended in December,
making it the least productive in at least 25 years. The
legislature is scheduled to meet from Feb. 21 to pass the
government’s budget.  Companies including Unitech, Tata Teleservices Ltd. Shyam
Telelink Ltd., now known as Sistema Shyam Teleservices Ltd., and
Swan sold stakes in their wireless ventures at significant
premiums to the price they paid for spectrum, the Comptroller
and Auditor General of India said.  Telenor ASA invested 61.2 billion rupees to buy a 67.25
percent stake in its venture with Unitech, the auditor said.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. said in a statement today
that it acquired its stake in Etisalat DB in December 2008,
after Swan had applied for and obtained its license. The company
said it will cooperate with Indian authorities if approached.  Responding to the CBI’s Feb. 3 statements in a Delhi court,
Balwa said in an e-mail that “arguments across the bar have no
relevance and hence do not warrant a comment. What matters is
what is contained in the application and the order of the
court.”  Sharad Goswami, a spokesman for Unitech Wireless Ltd., the
venture with Telenor, didn’t immediately comment when contacted
on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 Aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  