-- EU Climate Chief Says More National Carbon Registries Will Open This Week
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2011-02-09T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/eu-climate-chief-says-more-national-carbon-registries-will-open-this-week.html
The European Union will allow more
national carbon registries to reopen this week and is looking at
ways to stop “crimes against the system” after hackers roiled
the market, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, permitted five
out of 30 registries in the world’s largest emissions market to
resume on Feb. 4 after demonstrating their systems are secure.
The remaining national databases for tracking carbon permits
have been halted since Jan. 19, and spot trading is limited
after hackers illegally transferred about 29 million euros ($40
million) of permits from  Austria , the Czech Republic and  Greece .  “We have seen the first registries open again, more will
follow later this week, and we’ll slowly come back to normal,”
Hedegaard said in an interview yesterday in Brussels. “Security
comes before speed. Everybody has acknowledged that.”  The International Emissions Trading Association called on
the commission last month to allow the biggest registries to
reopen in the first week of February and said all of them must
be fully operational by mid-April. Protracted closures may
jeopardize liquidity in  Europe ’s six-year-old carbon program,
according to the Geneva-based lobby group, at a time when global
climate talks are stalled and industries in Japan and the U.S.
oppose the introduction of cap-and-trade plans.  Security Requirements  Hedegaard said the  commission , which asked registries to
submit independent reports proving they meet minimum security
requirements before they reopen, is in close cooperation with
the EU member states regarding the restart of registries and is
examining new mechanisms to better protect the  spot market .  “If somebody is trading in the spot market, and things are
changing hands very rapidly there, could there be a delay
mechanism, for instance?” Hedegaard said. “We’re looking to
see if you can make some provisions that will make it even more
difficult to speculate against or commit crimes against the
system. What we’re talking about here are criminals.”  European spot trading accounts for 10 percent to 15 percent
of the region’s carbon market, according to commission
estimates. It was halted for 15 days before the BlueNext SA
exchange resumed last week. Volume on the Paris-based bourse was
17,000 tons today, compared with an average of 134,000 tons in
the 20 days before the suspension started. The price of permits
was unchanged at 14.30 euros as of 4:52 p.m.  Investor Confidence  Suspended registries can’t record transactions, except for
the surrender and allocation of permits. That prevents account
holders from selling or buying permits for spot delivery.  Thefts of allowances and frauds last year are hurting
investor confidence and may limit spot trading for more than
three months, according to Hans-Bernd Menzel, chief executive
officer of the European Energy Exchange AG. Spot emissions
trading stopped on the Leipzig, Germany-based EEX following the
Europe-wide suspension of national registries and hasn’t
resumed, he said yesterday.  Prompt trading on the ICE Futures Europe, the biggest
energy exchange in Europe, is still frozen even as registries in
Germany, the Netherlands, the U.K.,  France  and Slovakia have
reopened. Officials are trying to weed out allegedly stolen
permits, said David Peniket, president and chief operating
officer at ICE.  The London-based exchange will give at least 36 hours
notice before it resumes the next-day contract. The Green
Exchange in  London  also is waiting to resume spot trading of
emission rights.  ‘Very Urgent’  “I know and I understand why people who are trading here
think that everything has to be very, very urgent, and we’re
working very hard to secure this,” Hedegaard said. “But I also
think that people who are in this market know why things that
may look simple are not very simple here, and we have to do it
in a proper manner.”  The commission has said it agreed the minimum security
requirements with every registry in the European cap-and-trade
programs and will not reveal them. The system will have a
central carbon database in place next year.  “We are urging the commission to come to a solution that
all registries have the same security system in place,” Tony
Campbell-Colquhoun, an emissions trader at Shell International
Trading and Shipping Co. Ltd., said today at a conference in
Essen,  Germany .  Europe’s market in carbon futures wasn’t halted by the
crisis, and allowances for December dropped 0.5 percent to 14.64
euros as of 4:40 p.m. in London on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange. They are up 2.8 percent from the start of the year.  Role Model  The EU designed its emissions system in 2005 to be its main
tool for reducing the  greenhouse gases  and a model for a global
carbon market. It includes the EU’s 27 member states as well as
Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. The region’s market was
valued at 80 billion euros last year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  The program puts a price on carbon by setting limits on the
amount of emissions polluters can produce. Those producing more
than their allocation of allowances must buy permits to offset
their emissions, allowing those that emit less to sell their
balance in the market, or pay a fine of 100 euros for every ton
of excess emissions.  “I think the ETS can still serve as a role model; I am
absolutely convinced of that,” Hedegaard said. “We want to
protect the system, we want the security measures to be there.”  Organized Crime  Last month’s attacks on the EU carbon market followed
“carousel fraud” involving value-added tax collection and
password “phishing” last year. Some member states and firms
neglected security rules,  Jos Delbeke , director general for
climate at the commission, said on Jan. 28. Organized crime may
be responsible for the theft, and national authorities are
working with Europol to catch the criminals, he added.  “We’re looking into all the details,” Hedegaard said.
“We’re on a daily basis in contact with member states, there
are video conferences every other day, everything’s being
coordinated very, very closely between Brussels and 27
capitals.”  While the three countries attacked by hackers last month
managed to locate some of the missing permits, legal questions
about how to prevent recirculation of the stolen allowances and
how to recover them, as well as unresolved reports of theft from
last year, are keeping investors away from spot trading.    Italy  said it has yet to recover all the 267,991 emission
allowances that were transferred without authorization on Nov.
24 within the country and to accounts in Liechtenstein and the
U.K. after hackers copied a password.  Still Missing  In a separate case, about 1 million emission permits are
still missing from the account of the Romanian unit of Holcim
Ltd., a Swiss cement maker. Romanian prosecutors asked the U.K.,
Italy,  Belgium ,  Israel  and Liechtenstein to help investigate the
theft, the Bucharest-based organized crime and terrorism unit of
the state prosecutor’s office said on Jan. 31.  The recovery of any allowances transferred illegally has not
been harmonized in the 27-nation EU and is a matter for national
law and local enforcement authorities. Hedegaard said the
commission is “very much aware this is one of the problems”
for participants in the EU carbon market.  “I asked my services to consider all these improvements
that you could make and come up with suggestions on what the
implications would be for 27 member states having different
legal systems,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  