-- Dollar Advances Toward Two-Week High Versus Yen on Signs of U.S. Recovery
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2011-02-10T05:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/euro-trades-near-two-week-high-on-speculation-ecb-will-warn-of-inflation.html
The dollar rose toward a two-week
high against the yen before U.S. reports forecast to show
jobless claims fell and  consumer confidence  improved, boosting
demand for assets in the world’s largest economy.  The greenback strengthened against all of its 16 major
counterparts after Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said an increase in Treasury yields indicates
growing confidence the U.S. recovery will gain strength.  South
Korea ’s won fell for a second day on speculation overseas
investors are pulling money out of the nation’s stock and debt
markets due to concern inflation will quicken.  “The  U.S. economy  is undoubtedly recovering albeit
slowly,” said Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., Japan’s second-largest publicly
traded lender. “I expect the yen to weaken against the
dollar.”  The dollar gained to 82.53 yen as of 2:13 p.m. in Tokyo
from 82.36 in  New York  yesterday, when it climbed to 82.67, the
strongest since Jan. 28. The U.S. currency climbed to $1.3698
per euro from $1.3733. The yen traded at 113.04 per euro from
113.09, after falling to 113.24, the weakest since Jan. 28.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
jobless benefits declined to 410,000 last week from 415,000 the
previous week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before
today’s report. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s
preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to 75 in February
from 74.2 in January, a separate Bloomberg survey showed before
tomorrow’s data.  ‘Firm Manner’  “Economies in the U.S. and most of the world appear to be
recovering in a firm manner,” said  Masanobu Ishikawa , general
manager of foreign exchange at Tokyo Forex & Ueda Harlow Ltd.,
Japan’s largest currency broker. “The dollar is being bought
and the yen is being sold.”  Quickening growth means the Fed probably won’t need to buy
more bonds after finishing its $600 billion program of
purchasing  Treasury securities  in June, Lockhart said yesterday
in Atlanta.  “If I take my base-case forecast, which continues the
moderate rate of growth through 2011 and for 2012, I am not sure
it would be necessary” for the Fed to make more purchases, he
said. “On my base case, it would not be necessary.”  Won Falls  The won fell against all of its major counterparts after
exchange data showed foreign funds cut their holdings of the
nation’s stocks for a third day. The Kospi stock index declined
for a third day.  “The equity market is not good and foreigners are
continuing to sell stocks,” said Andy Kim, a Seoul-based
currency trader at Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Ltd., a
unit of Standard Chartered Plc. “Foreigners are also selling
bonds. Inflation concern could be one of the factors.”  The won declined 0.5 percent to 1,114.88 per dollar,
extending its weekly loss to 1.1 percent.    Australia ’s dollar fell for a second day after a government
report showed full-time employment dropped in January, spurring
concern the economy is growing too slowly to prompt the central
bank to raise  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie weakened as swap traders reduced
expectations for how much borrowing costs will rise over the
next year.  “A drop in full-time employment will probably temper the
markets in terms of the Aussie dollar rising higher,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in Singapore at Westpac
Banking Corp. The overall job data “suggest the labor market is
in a pretty good shape, at least on the surface.”  Australia’s dollar fell to $1.0071 from $1.0124 yesterday,
when it dropped 0.2 percent. The currency weakened 0.2 percent
to 83.20 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 