-- Teva Risks More Disappointments as Top Drug Faces Competition
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2011-02-09T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/teva-risks-more-earnings-disappointments-as-top-drug-faces-competition.html
  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
investors may have to brace for more profit disappointments as
threats loom over its top drug.  The world’s biggest maker of generics reported fourth-
quarter profit of $1.25 a share yesterday, below the average
analyst estimate of $1.28, and said earnings this year will be
$5.20 a share at the most, also short of the $5.29 that analysts
expected. The stock had its steepest drop since July 23.  The one piece of good news from the report, surging revenue
from Teva’s multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone, masks a sobering
reality: that medicine’s future is in jeopardy. It’s losing
patent protection and may become prey to generic copies. And as
a 14-year-old injected treatment, it’s set to lose ground to a
new pill.  “The salient point is, look, they’re more dependent on
Copaxone,” said Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York . That raises “a big question about what’s going
to happen after 2012,” he said. Gal cut his rating on Teva to
“market perform” in July.  To bolster Copaxone’s revenue, Teva raised the drug’s price
by about 39 percent since January 2010, which helped it report a
35 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit.  The trouble is much of the gain may now be behind as more
doctors begin to recommend Novartis AG’s rival medicine Gilenya
to multiple sclerosis patients, analysts said.  ‘Years Away’  With its star product under pressure, Teva, which pioneered
the use of the legal system to copy proprietary drugs like
Prozac and sell them for a fraction of the price, may find
itself in the same tight corner in which it put the likes of  Eli
Lilly & Co . and  Pfizer Inc . a decade ago.  “Copaxone will go down,” said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner
at Sphera Global Healthcare Fund in Tel Aviv. “It’s not going
to be easy.”  Teva, based in the former kibbutz city of  Petah Tikva ,
believes Copaxone is here to stay. The crux of the company’s
defense is that patients may be wary of change, and the medicine
will be hard to copy because of Teva’s experience with legal
challenges and the drug’s complicated structure, which allows it
to shuffle its four amino acids as randomly as a dealer with a
deck of cards.  “Any so-called generic Copaxone is, at the very earliest,
years away,” Chief Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai said on a
conference call yesterday. “We are taking the right strategic
and operational measures and making the right investments to
keep us on track.”  Generic Threat  Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said in an interview
late yesterday he doesn’t believe  Israel ’s biggest company needs
another Copaxone to meet its goal of doubling sales by 2015.  Desheh argues that Copaxone’s contribution to sales showed
little change last year. Teva is ready for an acquisition the
size of its 3.63 billion-euro ($4.9 billion) Ratiopharm GmbH
takeover and counts on growth in women’s health, a new MS
medicine and a Parkinson’s drug to fuel sales, he said.  The strategy isn’t convincing enough to prop up the stock.
Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 5.4 percent yesterday
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock has shed 20
percent since reaching a peak of $64.54 on March 23. It’s among
the worst performers in the Bloomberg EMEA pharmaceutical index
over the past 12 months.  Teva’s ADRs, each representing one ordinary share, declined
48 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $51.54 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Packed Pipeline  Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG  and partner  Momenta
Pharmaceuticals Inc . have been working on a generic of Copaxone
for about five years. A 30-month moratorium on the launch for
their version of the drug expires in February, Momenta’s Chief
Financial Officer Rick Shea said in an interview.  Momenta is “very confident” its copy of Copaxone will
stand up to FDA review, Shea said in a telephone interview. “We
believe in our science.” Mylan Laboratories Inc. is also trying
for its own copy.  Even if a generic proves hard to make, Novartis says its
Gilenya pill is gaining ground and drugmakers including Sanofi-
Aventis SA,  Roche Holding AG  and  Biogen Idec Inc . are working on
experimental treatments for MS that can dent Copaxone’s sales.  “The pipeline for multiple sclerosis is packed with
products from here to eternity,” saidNatali Gotlieb, an
analyst at Israel Brokerage & Investments in  Tel Aviv . She
believes Copaxone’s sales will start falling in 2013, compared
with Teva’s own estimate of 2014. “It doesn’t matter where it
comes from. It will happen.”  Failed Experiment  A look back at Copaxone’s history shows how intertwined it
is with Teva’s identity. Not only is Copaxone the company’s
biggest product, bringing in about $3 billion in annual sales.
It’s the result of a gamble by former chairman Eli Hurvitz and
helped what was once an obscure drug importer to vault into the
pharmaceutical industry’s top 20.  Copaxone was born out of a failed 1967 experiment in the
lab of Michael Sela, an immunologist at the  Weizmann Institute
of Science  in Tel Aviv.  Sela and his colleague Ruth Arnon were trying to use man-
made compounds to induce a disease similar to multiple sclerosis
in lab animals. As the disease failed to appear, they came to
suspect the product might actually be blocking it, and began
testing it against MS, which slowly robs patients of the ability
to walk, speak and eat, Arnon said in an interview.  Polite, Uninterested  Arnon recalled traveling to the U.S. to try to convince  Johnson & Johnson  and Upjohn, later bought by Pfizer, to back
the experimental compound. Both were polite, but uninterested in
cooperating with research from someone else’s labs, she said.  Finally, in 1985, Sela invited himself over to dinner at
the home of Teva’s Eli Hurvitz, a longtime friend. It took
Hurvitz about five minutes to make up his mind, according to
Sela. Teva focused mostly on copies after that, using Copaxone’s
revenue to help build a generic-drug empire with annual sales of
$16.1 billion.  “It was a courageous, almost crazy idea” Sela said in an
interview. “I think afterwards Teva got scared that miracles
happen once.”  Hurvitz stepped down in March as chairman of the company,
which started out by distributing imported medicines on camels
and donkeys. He was replaced as chief executive in March 2007 byYanai, a former tank commander who led Israel’s troops in Gaza.  “The atmosphere was different” when the Weizmann
scientists approached Teva, Arnon said. “They started with a
positive attitude.”  Economy Class  Teva cultivates its difference. While other drugmakers plow
money into glossy headquarters and corporate jets, the company
leases a warren of low-ceilinged buildings a half-mile from the
original offices of Assia, one of the three local drugmakers
that merged to form Teva in 1976. Board member Dan Suesskind
flies economy class and took calls during an interview on an old
Nokia phone held together with tape. He says he kept the same
desk for 29 of his 31 years as chief financial officer.  “It was a perfect desk,” Suesskind said, lamenting that
it fell apart while being moved.  Sitting in Desheh’s office last June, where the secretary
now serves coffee from an espresso machine instead of the muddy
Turkish brew that fuelledSuesskind in Teva’s earlier days, the
two men said investors questioned from the beginning whether the
company could deliver on its goals.  “When we were $100 million, people asked, ‘How will you get
to $200 million?’” Suesskind said. “We have a history of
meeting our targets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  