-- Teva Is Ready for Ratiopharm-Sized Deal, Desheh Says
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2011-02-09T16:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/teva-getting-ready-for-ratiopharm-sized-acquisition-finance-chief-says.html
  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
is ready for an acquisition the size of last year’s 3.63
billion-euro ($4.9 billion) Ratiopharm GmbH takeover as it aims
to boost sales to $31 billion by 2015.  The Israeli company is weighing opportunities for
acquisitions larger and smaller than Ratiopharm, in branded and
generic drugs, Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh said in a
telephone interview. Teva snatched Ratiopharm away from  Pfizer
Inc . last March, one in a string of deals that have helped it
join the ranks of the world’s fastest-growing drugmakers.  “Are we ready for another acquisition the order of
magnitude of Ratiopharm? The answer is yes,” Desheh said
yesterday. “We are looking at a number of targets.”  Teva, based in  Petah Tikva ,  Israel , is hunting for
acquisitions as its best-seller Copaxone may face the double
threat of new therapies and generic competition. The company
estimates that a combination of its own  cash flow  and its
ability to borrow means it will have almost $30 billion to spend
over the next five years.  Teva said in January 2010 it would use less than one-third
acquisitions and about two-thirds organic growth to more than
double revenue by 2015.  The drugmaker believes it can meet its 2015 target without
buying competitors, Desheh said. With cash available to do
deals, though, Teva may seek a bigger percentage of growth from
acquisitions than executives predicted when it set its long-term
targets 13 months ago, he said.  “If I want to be realistic, we’ll probably do more,” he
said. “We have more cash. It’s a possibility.”  Teva had about $1.2 billion in cash on hand at the end of
December. Desheh declined to comment on where the companies Teva
is targeting are located.  German drugmaker Stada Arzneimittel AG fell 8 cents, or 0.3
percent, to close at 28.75 euros in Frankfurt trading. The stock
had traded as low as 28.50 euros prior to Desheh’s comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Frankfurt at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  