-- Hewlett-Packard Tries to Outdo Apple With New `Everybody On' Ad Campaign
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2011-02-09T21:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/hewlett-packard-tries-to-outdo-apple-with-new-everybody-on-ad-campaign.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co ., the world’s
largest personal-computer supplier, kicked off a multihundred-
million-dollar advertising campaign to show it can market its
products with as much panache as  Apple Inc .  The global ad campaign, built around the tag line
“everybody on,” shows that HP computers and software can keep
people connected to information -- and each other -- no matter
where they are, said Page Murray, a marketing vice president in
HP’s personal systems group.  HP is trying to set its range of computing products apart
from Apple’s Macs, iPhones and iPads. The new marketing campaign
reflects that mobile devices are supplanting PCs as the center
of users’ technology universe, Murray said in an interview. Five
years ago, HP’s  ads  declaring “the computer is  personal  again”
were meant to position the company’s computers as more
customizable, with bolder designs than the beige-and-black, boxy
machines that had come to typify desktop PCs.  “The tag line, ‘the computer is personal again,’ seems a
little dated,” Murray said. The new ads, which began on the
Internet today and move to TV this weekend, coincide with
today’s introduction of HP tablet computers and smartphones
running the WebOS software. It acquired that technology with the
purchase of Palm Inc. last year.  The ads, which will also appear in print, were created by
 Goodby, Silverstein & Partners , based in San Francisco. They
show computer users engaging in far-flung activities: students
video-chat from a dorm room in Tokyo; a group of friends use an
HP tablet from a cafe in Marrakesh,  Morocco ; a businesswoman in  Cape Town ,  South Africa , sends her boss and her son photos from
a building site.  Unifying Brand  The “everybody on” campaign will exceed the cost of the
“personal again” ads, which began running in 2006 and had a
price tag in the hundreds of millions of dollars, according to  Palo Alto , California-based HP.  It may now be tougher for HP to create a unified brand
image for its diverse collection of technology products, said  Tim Bajarin , president of consulting firm Creative Strategies
Inc., who was briefed on the campaign. Its lineup spans PCs,
tablets, smartphones, printers, servers and networking gear.  The “everybody on” theme also is vaguer than HP’s
previous approach, he said.  “Even though the term ‘the computer is personal’ went
across desktops and laptops, it was pointing to a place where
everyone was going to have their own PC,” Bajarin said. “Now,
it’s no longer just ‘the PC is personal,’ but ‘everything is
going digital, and HP has got products to meet whatever your
digital needs are.’ It makes sense when it’s explained that way,
but is hard to explain in a tag line and 60 seconds.”  Microsoft, Seinfeld  HP isn’t the first company to try to set itself apart from
Apple’s devices.  Microsoft Corp . two years ago  ran TV spots 
featuring shoppers opting for Windows machines over Mac
computers. They followed a less successful ad for Windows
featured  Bill Gates  and Jerry Seinfeld trading asides about
churros and shoes.  Other technology companies are also ramping up advertising.
Salesforce.com, the largest seller of online customer-
relationship management software, ran its first TV ads during
Sunday’s Super Bowl. The company declined to say how much it
spent.  The first HP TV ads with the “everybody on” theme will
air on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live” this week and during the
Grammy Awards on CBS Feb. 13. The spots feature songs from  Lou Reed  and his band the Velvet Underground, and singer  Alicia Keys . The music also includes spoken lines such as “everybody
tap,” “everybody app” and “everybody CMYK,” a reference to
the cyan, magenta, yellow and black inks used by graphics
designers and professional printers.  The lingo “will probably be appreciated by about 4 percent
of people in America,” HP’s Murray said.  Hewlett-Packard rose 80 cents to $48.94 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares fell 18
percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Clifford Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  