-- HP Unveils Palm-Based Tablet Computer, Smartphones
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-02-10T03:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/hewlett-packard-unveils-palm-based-tablet-phones-to-bolster-mobile-sales.html
  Hewlett-Packard Co . unveiled a tablet
computer called the TouchPad in a bid to gain a foothold in the
market for handheld computers, and said the product’s software,
acquired in last year’s purchase of Palm Inc., will run on
personal computers this year.  HP, the world’s largest maker of PCs, showed off the
TouchPad and smartphones dubbed Veer and Pre 3 at an event in
San Francisco today. The company will deliver PCs and printers
running WebOS, originally designed for touch-screen devices, to
attract more software developers to the platform and expand HP’s
market, Palm chief Jon Rubinstein said in an interview.  “That’s going to have a huge influence on the installed
base,” Rubinstein said. “Our long-term goal is to deliver a
connected experience to all of our customers. You get a unified
experience across all your devices.”  Rubinstein, who helped develop the iPod and iMac when he
worked under  Steve Jobs  at  Apple Inc ., is now pushing to help HP
products vie with Apple’s iPhone and iPad as well as devices
that run software from  Google Inc . and  Microsoft Corp . With the
first new mobile devices under Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker , HP is trying to ease its dependence on PCs by
focusing on smartphones and tablets, two of the computer
industry’s fastest-growing markets.  HP, based in  Palo Alto , California, rose 80 cents to $48.94
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares lost 18 percent last year.  New Applications  Rubinstein came to HP when it acquired Palm, where he was
chief executive officer, for $1.2 billion in July. HP’s plan for
Palm relies on courting software developers to create new
consumer and business applications for its devices, and taking
advantage of HP’s broad retail distribution, analysts said.  “Developers will tell you that after Apple, it’s HP that
understands how to create hardware,” said  Richard Doherty ,
director of consulting firm Envisioneering Group.  HP’s expertise in mobile computing, touch-screen technology
and selling to large companies that want to equip workers with
tablets could help it gain market share from Google, Microsoft
and  Research In Motion Ltd ., Doherty said. “They have
tremendous developer reach with HP.”  Palm’s Revival  HP needs to get Palm’s revival right if it wants a piece of
the fast-growing mobile-computing market. Vendors shipped 100.9
million smartphones worldwide in the fourth quarter, up 87
percent from a year earlier, according to market researcher IDC.
PC shipments grew just 2.7 percent to 92.1 million in the same
period.  HP lags behind rivals in handheld computing. WebOS was used
by less than 4 percent of U.S. smartphone subscribers age 13 and
older in the three months ended in December, according to market
researcher ComScore Inc.  By contrast, RIM’s BlackBerry software had a 31.6 percent
share, Google’s Android operating system was used by 28.7
percent of subscribers, and Apple controlled 25 percent of the
market, ComScore said. Microsoft held 8.4 percent.  The tablet-computer market may also be tough for HP to
crack, analysts said. Apple said last week it has sold more than
15 million iPads since April. Researcher IHS ISuppli predicts
Apple will sell 43.7 million tablets this year, about twice as
many as all other manufacturers combined. And Google is rolling
out a new version of Android tailored for tablets.  TouchPad Tablet  “The bar now is set very high,” Wells Fargo Securities
analyst Jason Maynard said in a Feb. 7 note to clients. Maynard,
based in  Santa Monica ,  California , has a “market perform”
rating on HP.  The TouchPad tablet, the first powered by HP’s WebOS
operating system, will have a 9.7-inch-diagonal touch-screen,
Wi-Fi and a front-facing webcam for video calling, HP said. It
will be available with 16 or 32 gigabytes of storage, weigh 1.6
pounds, and ship this summer. Versions of the tablet that can
connect to the Internet over 3G or 4G networks will be available
later, HP said.  HP didn’t disclose pricing, though Rubinstein said the
TouchPad would be competitive with the iPad. Apple charges $499
to $829 for iPads, depending on their storage and network
connectivity.  Sharing Information  Rubinstein also declined to give details about how WebOS,
which runs on processors from  Qualcomm Inc ., would work on HP
PCs, which use processors from  Intel Corp . and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. Features in the tablet and phones HP demonstrated
today indicate how users of future WebOS-powered devices might
share information, he said.  For example, TouchPad users will be able to tap their
tablets to a WebOS phone to automatically open Web pages on the
phone’s browser that are being viewed on the tablet.  “We showed touch-to-share today, and that’s the
beginning,” Rubinstein said.  HP’s announcement that it will bring WebOS to PCs is meant
to excite software developers about creating apps for the
operating system, said  Richard Shim , an analyst at market
researcher DisplaySearch. The system could run as a software
layer on top of Windows, or could boot up separately, he said.  “The reason they’re doing this to build a big installed
base. That’s their No. 1 challenge as an operating system
company,” Shim said. “The question is how well WebOS can run
on a PC.”  Developer Community  Palm, maker of the namesake handheld computers that led the
market in the late 1990s, had difficulty replicating its early
success and has bounced among owners. The device maker was once
owned by U.S. Robotics Corp. and 3Com Corp., went public in 2000,
and split into two companies at one point. Palm announced WebOS
and the Pre smartphone at the  Consumer Electronics Show  two
years ago, yet made little headway against its nimbler rivals,
leading to its acquisition last year by HP.  “Palm had one of the richest developer communities in
mobile for about 10 years,” said Tim Bajarin, president of
research firm Creative Strategies Inc.  It lost that distinction by releasing unpopular devices and
dividing its efforts between its own software and Windows, he
said. “The developers go where the units are.”  In support of the new products, HP also kicked off a global
advertising campaign that will cost hundreds of millions of
dollars, built around the tag line “everybody on.” The ads are
meant to show that HP computers and software can keep people
connected to information and each other no matter where they are,
said Page Murray, a marketing vice president in HP’s personal
systems group  HP’s announcement that some of its PCs will run WebOS could
create business opportunities for developers of open-source
software, Jim Zemlin, president of the Linux Foundation trade
group, said in an interview. WebOS uses technology from the
open-source Linux operating system.  “I’m psyched,” Zemlin said. “The world’s largest PC
maker is announcing it will put a non-Windows operating system
on its laptops -- it’s the end of an era.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  