-- Facebook Moves Closer to China Advertisers With Open of Hong Kong Office
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2011-02-09T05:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/facebook-moves-closer-to-china-advertisers-with-open-of-hong-kong-office.html
Facebook Inc.’s opening of an office
in  Hong Kong  is placing the social-networking service provider
within reach of online advertisers in the world’s biggest
Internet market.  Chinese companies seeking to sell their products overseas
may “potentially” buy advertising from Facebook, Jayne Leung,
who heads the Palo Alto, California-based company’s sales
operations in Hong Kong, said in an interview yesterday.
Facebook currently has no customers from China in its direct
sales division, she said.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  in December visited
China, where Facebook has been inaccessible since 2009, and held
meetings with executives at local Internet companies including
Baidu Inc. and Sina Corp. Facebook yesterday announced the
opening of a sales office in Hong Kong, a special administrative
region of  China , to boost business in the city and  Taiwan .  “The track record for foreign Internet companies
succeeding in China is very, very poor,” said Eric Wen, who
rates competitors Tencent Holdings Ltd. and Baidu “buy” at
Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Hong Kong. Facebook could gain
access to local users by investing in Chinese Internet
companies, or focus on non-core areas such as video, Wen said.  Leung, a former executive at  Google Inc ., said Facebook’s
latest office in the Asian region will focus on Hong Kong, which
has separate Internet regulations from China, and Taiwan. She
said she couldn’t confirm if Chinese companies are already
buying advertising by placing orders on Facebook’s website,
rather than through the direct sales division.  China’s system of Internet monitoring blocks overseas
websites such as Facebook, Twitter Inc. and Google’s YouTube,
and requires domestic websites to self-censor content that’s
pornographic or related to gambling, in addition to political
topics such as Tibet independence and the Tiananmen Square
student protests in 1989.    Indonesia ,  India , Brazil  Zuckerberg’s December visit to China was for personal
reasons, Blake Chandlee, a vice-president at Facebook, said
yesterday in Hong Kong, where he addressed a meeting that’s part
of Social Media Week, a local industry event. Chandlee declined
to comment on Facebook’s plans for China.  The world’s most populous nation had 457 million Internet
users at the end of last year, according to the  China Internet
Network Information Center , a government-affiliated group that
compiles industry statistics. That’s more than the combined
populations of the U.S. and Japan.  Indonesia is expected to remain Facebook’s biggest market
outside of the U.S. in terms of users, Chandlee said. Facebook,
which has more than 500 million users, is increasing its sales
and users in emerging markets including  Brazil , India and
Russia, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  