-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Could Be Phased Out Under Treasury's Housing Plan
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t ,   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2011-02-09T21:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-could-be-phased-out-under-treasury-s-housing-plan.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will present Congress with three options for reducing
the government’s role in the nation’s housing finance system and
shrinking the footprint of mortgage companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , according to two people familiar with the plan.  Geithner will release the proposal as soon as Friday, said
an administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity
yesterday because the proposal isn’t public. One option would
eliminate the two firms and their government-backed guarantee of
mortgages while another would hew closer to the present system,
according to the two people familiar with the plan.  President  Barack Obama  met with Geithner and other top
aides at the White House yesterday to put final touches on the
proposal, according to the administration official.  Under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul enacted
in July, the administration was required to submit to lawmakers
a plan for ending taxpayer support for  Fannie Mae  and Freddie
Mac. The government took control of the companies in September
2008 and they since have drawn more than $150 billion from the
Treasury to cover losses linked to sub-prime mortgages.  The administration’s white paper will offer options for
change without proposing legislation. Rather, it’s designed to
present a path for luring private capital back into the housing
finance market and reducing government’s role in insuring
mortgage-backed bonds.  Insurance Premiums  Ideas for coaxing private capital into the system may
include increasing the insurance premiums charged by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac and forcing them to shed loans in their nearly
$1.5 trillion portfolios, according to the official and the two
other people, who didn’t want to be identified because they said
the proposal still could change.  The administration also may suggest reducing the size of
loans that the government-sponsored enterprises can insure, the
people said. Such conforming loans now are capped at $729,750
and will fall to $625,500 on Oct. 1 if Congress doesn’t act.  One of the three options is likely to be a complete
government withdrawal from the mortgage-guarantee business now
dominated by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, according to the people
who have been briefed on the plan.  A second option would phase out the government’s guarantee
of mortgage-backed securities until it is left as an insurer of
last resort, stepping in only in the event of a catastrophic
market failure.  Bernanke’s ‘Backstop’  The third option would be a less-dramatic reduction of
government support that is closest to the current system.  The administration’s plan will run between 20 and 30 pages,
according to one person familiar with it.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
government should put taxpayers at risk only after other
protections have been breached.  “If the government is involved in providing credit
guarantees, it should do so only as a deep backstop,” Bernanke
told the House Budget Committee today. “The first losses should
be borne by the originators of the mortgages or by the
securitizers.”  Any government insurance premium, he said, must be priced
to cover potential losses, he said.  Industry and consumer groups are divided over raising the
insurance premiums, commonly called guarantee fees or G fees,
charged by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Banker Support  The American Bankers Association today said that raising
the premium would allow private companies to compete with the
government enterprises.  “By dialing up the G fees in an orderly and well-detailed
manner, eventually the private market will find itself in a
position where it is better able to compete with the GSEs for
business,” association Chief Executive Officer Frank Keating
said in a letter to Geithner and Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Shaun Donovan.  Housing advocates have said they are wary of any plan to
raise borrowing costs without preserving government funding for
affordable housing.  Congress established Washington-based Fannie Mae in 1938
and Freddie Mac of McLean,  Virginia , in 1970 to increase the
capital available for home lending by packaging mortgages into
bonds for sale to investors. The companies insured bond buyers
against losses, with an implied promise that the U.S. government
would make investors whole if the system failed.  $11 Trillion System  As private lending to home-buyers declined after the credit
crisis, the government-sponsored enterprises became even more
dominant in housing finance. Because they own or guarantee more
than half of all U.S. mortgages and have grown crucial to
keeping capital flowing to lenders and borrowers, a broad
restructuring of the $11 trillion mortgage system is expected to
take years.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank  said in an interview with
Bloomberg television today that Congress could agree on an
overhaul of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac “by the end of this
year.”  Policy makers already are taking steps to reduce the
government’s exposure to the mortgage market. The enterprises
are under orders from Congress to shed loans held on their
portfolios by about 10 percent a year, until they total no more
than $250 billion. At the end of 2010, Fannie Mae held nearly
$790 billion and Freddie Mac nearly $700 billion.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a member of the House
Financial Services Committee who will take a lead role on
housing reform, said he wants that sell-off to be accelerated.  House Hearing  “While a lot of recent attention has been given to the
impending Treasury proposal and what the future of U.S. housing
will look like, I believe there are other areas of this debate
we can focus on right now,” Garrett said. “There is no lack of
ways to protect taxpayers and begin to end this bailout.”  Garrett, who is chairman of a subcommittee overseeing
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, today led the first of a series of
hearings planned by House Republicans.  While Republicans explored ways to lure private capital to
the mortgage market, Democrats on the panel emphasized the need
to protect government support for affordable housing and 30-year
fixed-rate mortgages.  “Rather than simply laying out a menu of options, it is
vitally important that all of us, including the administration,
make clear the values guiding our positions on the GSEs,” said
Representative Maxine Waters of  California , the panel’s top
Democrat.  Interest Groups  As the administration assembled its report to Congress, it
drew on ideas from hundreds of groups, including real estate
trade associations, financial companies, small banks, housing
advocates and policy shops.  Most have offered ways to reduce government involvement in
the system, while warning policy makers to move with caution to
avoid roiling the market.  Republicans and groups including the  American Enterprise
Institute  have proposed phasing out the GSEs completely,
starting with reducing the size of loans they can buy.  Investors already have demonstrated that they don’t need a
government guarantee because they are selling those non-
conforming, or jumbo, loans, said Representative Jeb Hensarling,
a Texas Republican and vice chairman of the House Financial
Services Committee.  “We have a competitive market in jumbo, we have a
competitive market in sub-prime,” Hensarling told reporters.
“I haven’t concluded that you have to have a Fannie Mae or
Freddie Mac to securitize these mortgages.”  Limited Government Role  Many proposals for maintaining a limited government role in
housing finance follow the contours of plans being circulated by
the Housing Policy Council, a coalition of financial companies;
the  Mortgage Bankers Association ; and a Washington-based policy
group, the Center for American Progress. All want to encourage
private insurers to take on the role played by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac. Under those proposals, the government would stand
as the insurer of last resort.  Real estate groups have said that relying on big financial
institutions to insure mortgages could cause too much
concentration in the industry and might not provide enough
capital to create stability in the market.  “What the crisis taught us is that without government
backing, mortgages might not be available,”  Lawrence Yun , the
chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said
in an interview. “The idea that privatization will limit
taxpayer loss doesn’t match up with reality. You can bet we’ll
bail out those banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  