-- Fannie, Freddie Agreement May Come By End of Year, Frank Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2011-02-09T22:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/fannie-freddie-restructuring-accord-may-come-by-end-of-year-frank-says.html
Congress may agree on how to overhaul
government-owned mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
by year’s end, U.S. Representative  Barney Frank  said.  “By the end of this year, we should have an agreement,”
Frank, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services
Committee, said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will present
Congress with three options for reducing the government’s role
in the nation’s housing finance system and shrinking the
footprint of mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
according to two people familiar with the plan.  U.S. lawmakers are in the opening stages of restructuring
Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac, which were taken into conservatorship by the government in
2008. House Republicans, who hold the majority in the chamber,
held the first of many  hearings  on the subject today.  Frank, of  Massachusetts , said Republicans are “posturing”
in waiting for the Obama administration to release its options
for the overhaul, which happen as soon as Feb. 11. Frank said he
had not seen the plan and challenged Republicans for waiting to
introduce their own proposal.  “They are now acknowledging that it’s very hard and that
they are divided,” Frank said of the Republicans. “They cannot
muster the support for a bill.”  The Obama administration’s mortgage finance white paper
will offer options for change without proposing legislation.
Rather, it’s designed to present a path for luring private
capital back into the housing finance market and reducing
government’s role in insuring mortgage-backed bonds.  Frank, who said he has not made any decisions yet on his
position, said he saw the need for “some kind of guarantee”
and that he was “open to hearing what people in the market have
to say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  