-- Fetal Surgery for Spina Bifida Tops Treatment After Birth, Research Finds
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-02-09T22:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/fetal-surgery-for-spina-bifida-tops-treatment-after-birth-research-finds.html
Operations to repair a common  birth
defect  of the spine are more beneficial when they are performed
before children are born, improving infants’ health and chances
of walking unaided, a U.S.-funded study shows.  The condition,  spina bifida , each year affects about 1,500
newborn babies. Standard  treatment  until now has been to operate
after birth to close the defective opening in the spine and
drain excess fluid from the brain. By then, permanent damage has
been caused by the leakage of spinal fluid, friction on the
spinal cord and its exposure to amniotic fluid, doctors say.  The study results, released today by the  New England
Journal of Medicine , give parents another option. Children who
underwent the surgery in utero rather than after birth were more
likely to walk, had better motor function and were less likely
to need a shunt to drain fluid from the brain 2.5 years after
treatment. The biggest drawback of fetal surgery was premature
birth, which occurred in 79 percent of cases.  “The benefits are incontrovertible, the results are
striking and some of the kids are just amazing,” said N. Scott
Adzick, the lead researcher, who is surgeon-in-chief at
 Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia  and director of its center
for fetal diagnosis and treatment. “Prenatal repair was better
in almost every regard than repair after birth.”  The surgery isn’t a cure, Adzick said in a telephone
interview. Some children got little or no improvement from the
fetal surgery, while overall those getting early treatment fared
better, he said.  Trial Halted on Benefits  The study involved 183 surgeries conducted at the
Philadelphia hospital, at the University of  California ,  San
Francisco , and at  Vanderbilt University  in Nashville,  Tennessee .
The trial was halted by independent monitors in December because
of the benefits.  The prenatal surgery was done after 19 weeks to 26 weeks of
pregnancy, called gestation, because studies have shown that
later operations offer no benefit. Cesarean sections were
performed at 37 weeks on women who didn’t undergo early surgery,
and their infants were treated within 24 hours of birth.  After one year, 40 percent of children in the prenatal
surgery group needed a shunt to drain spinal fluid, compared
with 82 percent of those getting later treatment. After 2.5
years, those who underwent the fetal surgery had better mental
and motor function development, the study found.  “The outcomes are game-changing for the field of fetal
surgery,” said  Diana Farmer , the study’s senior author and
surgeon-in-chief at UCSF’s Children’s Hospital. “It appears
that fetal surgery can provide a better option for these
patients than waiting to treat them after birth.”  Other Findings  None of the mothers in the study died. One-third of those
who underwent fetal surgery had thin scars at the surgery site,
making later pregnancies more dangerous. They were also more
likely to have spontaneous membrane rupture or  too little 
amniotic fluid. Their infants were born after an average of 34
weeks of gestation compared with 37 weeks for babies treated
after birth.  The study was funded by the  National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development , based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  It’s not clear whether the benefits of prenatal surgery
will extend to all children with spina bifida, wrote Joe Leigh
Simpson from the departments of genetics and obstetrics at  Florida International University  in Miami and Michael Green,
from  Massachusetts General Hospital  in  Boston . Success rates may
be lower for treatment programs with less experience, the said.  ‘Major Step’  “It is human nature to overestimate the likely benefit for
one’s own fetus and to underestimate the associated risks,”
they wrote in an editorial accompanying the study. The study
“is a major step in the right direction, but the still
suboptimal rates of poor neonatal outcome and the high maternal
risk necessitate the use of less invasive approaches.”  People with spina bifida have medical challenges caused by
the condition, including paralysis, bladder and bowel problems,
excess fluid on the brain and mental deficits.  While the study has followed most children for only a few
years, the results for those who underwent  prenatal surgery 
previously showed the promise of the technique, doctors said.  Shannon Southway, now 37, underwent fetal surgery almost a
decade ago to treat her unborn son with spina bifida. Her 9-
year-old son Colin, a fourth-grader at an elementary school in
suburban  Detroit , can run, jump and play unaided.  “Colin’s results are phenomenal, his mobility and quality
of life,” Southway said. “He’s a testament to what the surgery
can accomplish. He does have a birth defect and some medical
issues that we tend to, but they are nowhere near what our
prognosis led us to believe his life would be like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  