-- Ex-Liverpool Owners Seek Go-Ahead to Pursue `Epic Swindle' Claim
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-09T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/former-liverpool-owners-seek-court-go-ahead-to-pursue-epic-swindle-claim.html
Former Liverpool owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  want more than $1 billion in damages for the
forced sale of the 18-time English soccer champion. They'll 
ask a judge in London this week whether they can pursue their 
case.  Lawyers for Hicks, 65, and Gillett, 72, will return to the
court that ordered, over their objections, the 300 million-pound
($483 million) sale to the owners of baseball’s  Boston Red Sox .
The pair is seeking a change to the Oct. 15 ruling to pave the
way for the damages suit. At the time, Hicks, who valued the
team at as much as 800 million pounds, described the sale as an
“epic swindle” and claimed $1.6 billion in damages.  The Americans’ departure followed three years of acrimony
and controversy at the club. Their battle to seek recompense may
last even longer. The hearing starts this morning.  “The case is not being concluded at this hearing and could
take some time to resolve,” Hicks’s Texas-based attorney Tom Melsheimer said in a telephone interview, without identifying
which parties would be sued. “We look forward to presenting our
side in court.”  The sale of Liverpool was contentious, featuring lawsuits
in both the U.S. and U.K., a debt default and red-shirted
Liverpool supporters cheering the pair’s exit on the steps of
London’s neo-Gothic Royal Courts of Justice.  Hicks and Gillett say the terms of the October judgment
were too harsh and blocked their ability to seek damages for
losses incurred from the sale. The duo lost their entire equity
stake -- worth about $222 million -- once the team’s English
board members overruled their objections and sold the team to
John W. Henry’s Fenway Sports Group. The deal meant  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc  and  Wells Fargo & Co . were repaid the 200
million pounds they loaned Hicks and Gillett.  Counterclaim  Justice  Christopher Floyd , who decided the earlier case,
will also hear a claim from RBS and Liverpool’s former chairman,  Martin Broughton , who was hired to find a buyer when the team
was put up for sale in April. They’re countersuing to block any
future damage claims by Hicks and Gillett.  “The courts described the claims made by Hicks and Gillett
last year as ‘not realistic and abusive,’” RBS spokesman
Michael Strachan said in an e-mailed statement. “Any further
claims against RBS will be vigorously opposed.”  Ian Cotton, a spokesman for Liverpool, and its current
owners, described the hearings as “another step towards
wrapping up the last legal loose ends following the sale.”
Craig Breheny, a spokesman for Broughton, declined to comment.  Market Value  “I think every step Hicks and Gillett have taken up to the
last hearings has been nonsense,”  Danny Davis , a partner and
sports specialist with Mishcon de Reya, a London-based law firm
not involved in the case, said in an interview. Even so, he
expects the Americans to be allowed to seek damages.  “I find it difficult to come to terms with an idea that a
court is going to tell them that they cannot sue someone,”
Davis said.  In last year’s court hearings, Hicks and Gillett said the
sale wasn’t done transparently, with Broughton and two other
English board members of the team concealing negotiations with
Henry’s group from them. They also claimed that the team was
sold below its market value, and cited a Forbes magazine
estimate that said the club was worth 533 million pounds.  Hicks and Gillett increased sales 46 percent to 195.5
million pounds in three years through July 31 and raised
operating profit -- which doesn’t include interest on debt or
player acquisition costs -- more than threefold to 32 million
pounds. They spent about 25 million pounds a year to pay
interest on debt linked to their 219-million-pound leveraged
buyout of the team in 2007.  Texas Suit  U.S. investors Goldman Sachs Inc., Rhone Capital LLC and
Mill Financial, as well as Singapore businessman Peter Lim and
Middle Eastern groups, all discussed buying the club.  If the former owners are successful, they’ll assess who to
make claims against and whether to sue in U.S. or U.K. courts.
Justice Floyd’s judgment forced Hicks and Gillett to scrap a
Texas suit, saying the issue had no connection with a court
there and that legal action had already started in U.K. They
faced being in contempt of court, a charge that carries a prison
sentence, if they proceeded.  During their ownership Hicks and Gillett had disputes
between themselves, as well as with then-coach  Rafael Benitez ,
and faced continuous fan protests over rising debts and the
failure to build a new stadium.  Personal Loan  Last season, the club failed to qualify for the Champions
League for the first time since 2003. The competition, which the
Reds won for a U.K.-record fifth time in 2005, is worth as much
as 40 million pounds to the winner. Liverpool has also struggled
in the first half of this season, although four straight
victories, including a win at champion Chelsea at the weekend,
have lifted it to sixth place.  The loss of form and the rise of teams such as  Manchester
City  and Tottenham may have affected the valuation of the team,
which is one of the best-supported in the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  