-- Ex-SAC Capital Manager Freeman Said Tips Came From U.S., Taiwan
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-02-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/freeman-told-judge-inside-tips-came-from-taiwan.html
Noah Freeman, the former SAC Capital
Advisors LP portfolio manager convicted in an insider-trading
probe, told a judge that his illegal inside tips came from
sources in California, New York,  Texas  and  Taiwan , according to
a court transcript.  Freeman, 35, pleaded guilty on Feb. 7 to a count of
conspiracy to commit securities and wire fraud and a charge of  securities fraud . He is cooperating with prosecutors. A
transcript of his guilty plea, which was initially under seal,
was made public yesterday.  In his plea, Freeman said he worked from 2005 to 2010 at
two  hedge funds , which he didn’t identify, and on several
occasions paid insiders for “detailed financial information
including revenues and, on some occasions, gross margins and
earnings per share.”  “Some of the people with whom I -- from whom I received
information were based in other states including  California , New
York and Texas, and others were abroad including in Taiwan,”
Freeman said, according to the transcript.  Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Freeman is among four hedge fund employees whom prosecutors
said had engaged in a four-year insider-trading scheme. Donald Longueuil, another former SAC Capital portfolio manager, and
Samir Barai, the founder of Barai Capital Management, were
arrested Feb. 8. Jason Pflaum, who worked for Barai, pleaded
guilty in December and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in a
case made public on Feb. 8.  Primary Global  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at Primary Global Research LLC, a  Mountain View , California-based networking firm that links
investors with industry experts who work for public companies.
Prosecutors said Primary Global consultants leaked inside tips
to hedge-fund traders.  The U.S. investigation has come across several alleged
leaks emanating from Taiwan, where the world’s two biggest
chipmakers are based.  Manosha Karunatilaka, a U.S. employee of Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the largest chipmaker, was
arrested in December for disclosing production data while
consulting for Primary Global. Another Primary Global consultant
who has been arrested, Winifred Jiau, had worked for Taiwan
Semiconductor, her lawyer, Fred Hafetz, said.  ‘Day in Court’  Hafetz has said his client “looks forward to her day in
court.” Karunatilaka’s lawyer, Richard Bailey, has declined to
comment on the charges.  Separately, Karl Motey, an independent consultant in
California who pleaded guilty and is cooperating, has said he
got tips from a source at Taiwan-based  United Microelectronics
Corp ., the second-largest chipmaker, according to court records.  Don Chu, an employee of Primary Global, was arrested on
Nov. 24, charged with two counts of conspiracy for passing
inside information. His biography on the Primary Global website
identifies him as “Asia Expert and Data Sources.” Chu’s
lawyer,  James DeVita , has declined to comment on the charges.  Freeman was a managing director at Sonar Capital Management
LLC in Boston from March 2005 to May 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A month after leaving Sonar, he moved to
SAC Capital, where he worked until January 2010.  Inside Tips  In his Feb. 7 plea, Freeman said that the insiders who gave
him tips “were often supplied” by expert networking firms. At
the time, he worked in  Boston , he said.  “I shared the information I received with others and I
received similar information from them,” he said. “I often
purchased or sold securities or recommended that hedge funds at
which I worked make such purchases or sales based at least in
part on the inside information.”  Freeman told a judge that he shared the information with
others, some of whom worked at hedge funds, using telephone
calls, faxes and “delivery services.”  In a statement on Feb. 8, Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC
said it was “outraged” by the alleged actions of Freeman and
Longueuil, which it called “egregious violations of our ethical
standards.”  Sonar said in a Feb. 8 statement: “Any violation of law by
Mr. Freeman was unauthorized and unknown to Sonar.”  The case is U.S. v. Barai, 11-mag-00332, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York    Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 