-- Geithner Says U.S. Economy, Employment Improving
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2011-02-09T15:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/geithner-says-u-s-economy-is-getting-stronger-as-companies-start-to-hire.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that the  U.S. economy  is “getting
stronger” and companies are starting to hire again.  “Things are gradually improving,” Geithner said at a town
hall event in  Washington . He said businesses are becoming more
confident and starting to invest and add jobs.  Geithner predicted that “the  unemployment rate ’s going to
come down gradually over the next several years,” given current
growth rates and private-sector forecasts. He said last month’s
drop in joblessness to 9 percent from 9.4 percent in December
“probably overstated” labor-market strength, while separate
figures on hiring “probably understated” current conditions.  The decrease in unemployment from 9.8 percent in November
is the biggest two-month drop since 1958, according to Labor
Department data released last week. Employers added 36,000
workers last month, short of the 146,000 median gain projected
by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To create conditions for more hiring, the Obama
administration wants to spend more on infrastructure and other
investment incentives. In a blog post on the Treasury’s  web site 
today, Geithner invoked the economic potential of manufacturing,
shipping and technology companies.  Infrastructure Projects  For example, efforts to upgrade the U.S. air traffic
control system will help companies in a broad swath of the
economy, he said. Honeywell Inc.,  Boeing Co . and  General
Electric Co . are all involved in the  Federal Aviation
Administration ’s NextGen upgrade plan, and other firms like  FedEx Corp . and  United Parcel Service Inc . will benefit from
transportation improvements.  Geithner said the U.S. will press ahead with efforts to
improve the U.S. tax code. He said the administration would not
consider proposals for a “tax holiday” for profits held by
U.S. companies overseas unless a broader overhaul was under way.  “We are not going to look at a repatriation holiday
outside the context of comprehensive reform,” Geithner said. He
repeated his call for a “fiscally responsible” plan that
lowers rates while also broadening the tax base and offering
incentives for investment.  “We’re not going to ask Americans to pay higher taxes so
we can lower taxes on businesses,” Geithner said.  Cutting the Deficit  Geithner said the Obama administration soon will release
“very detailed” programs for curbing future deficits and
encouraging economic growth. Republicans in Congress are calling
for big spending cuts to rein in record budget deficits that
have topped $1 trillion for two years in a row.  Geithner today said the U.S. fiscal outlook is
“fundamentally manageable” and that  interest rates  on Treasury
debt are “exceptionally low,” reflecting investor confidence
that the U.S. will bring its deficits down gradually without
hurting growth. He also predicted that Congress would raise the
$14.29 trillion debt limit, which the Treasury predicts could be
breached by the end of May, in time to avoid market disruptions.  “The U.S. will meet its obligations and Congress will act
as it always has to make sure we meet those obligations,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  