-- German Exports Advanced Second Month in December on Reviving Global Orders
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2011-02-09T09:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/german-exports-advanced-second-month-in-december-on-reviving-global-orders.html
German exports increased for a second
month in December as the global recovery boosted demand for
goods and services from  Europe ’s largest economy.  Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, rose
0.5 percent from November, when they increased 0.5 percent, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
had forecast a gain of 1 percent, according to the median of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports dropped 2.3
percent from November, when they jumped 4.1 percent.    Germany ’s economy expanded a record 3.6 percent last year
as companies boosted output and hiring to meet orders. With
euro-region governments stepping up budget cuts, companies have
relied on faster-growing markets to boost orders. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest luxury carmaker, on Feb. 4
forecast “significant” sales growth on Asian demand.  “Exports will remain the main driver of the German
economy,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at  Commerzbank AG 
in Frankfurt. “While we might see a slight slowdown,  Asia  and
the U.S. should continue to provide some positive momentum.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3635 at 10:36 a.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.3625 yesterday.
The single currency has appreciated 3 percent against the dollar
over the past two months.  From a year earlier, German exports rose 21 percent in
December, today’s report showed. Shipments to countries within
the euro region advanced 20 percent in the year while sales to
countries outside the European Union increased 21 percent. In
2010, exports gained 18.5 percent from a year earlier.  Solid Recovery  The trade balance narrowed to 11.9 billion euros ($16.3
billion) from 13.1 billion euros in November. The surplus in the
current account, a measure of all trade including services was
17.6 billion euros in December, up from 12.9 billion euros.  Adding to signs the recovery is gathering strength, German
business confidence rose to a record last month and investors
also became more optimistic. Unemployment declined to an 18-year
low in January, pushing the jobless rate to 7.4 percent.  “The recovery stands solidly on two pillars: trade and
domestic demand,” German Economy Minister Rainer Bruederle said
in an e-mailed statement today. “That’s a good pre-requisite
for a balanced economic development this year.”  BMW Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said last
week he sees “double-digit growth” in markets including  China ,  Brazil  and Russia, with the U.S. “coming back.”  Infineon
Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, on Feb. 1
raised its full-year revenue forecast on surging orders.  ‘Full Capacity’  “If sales continue to grow like this, it’ll be difficult
to say how long it could take to reduce waiting times,” Audi AG
sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer  said in an interview yesterday.
“We’re working at full capacity at our plants.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 25 forecast the
global economy will grow 4.4 percent this year, with U.S. gross
domestic product increasing 3 percent and German GDP rising 2.2
percent. The euro-region economy, Germany’s largest export
market, may expand 1.5 percent, the Washington-based fund said.  Still, Europe’s debt crisis may curb export growth, said  Joerg Lueschow , an economist at WestLB in Dusseldorf.  “Exports to the euro region may soften a bit,” he said.
“But the overall outlook remains fairly positive as emerging
markets cushion any negative impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  