-- Ghana Inflation Rate Rose to 9.1% in January on Jump in Gasoline Prices
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2011-02-09T10:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/ghana-inflation-rate-rose-to-9-1-in-january-on-jump-in-gasoline-prices.html
Ghana ’s inflation rate rose in
January for the first time in 19 months after the government
increased gasoline prices by 30 percent at the beginning of the
month.  Inflation accelerated to 9.1 percent from 8.6 percent in
December, Philomena Nyarko, a statistician with the  Ghana 
Statistical Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra.  “We expect inflation to rise,” Sampson Akligoh, an
analyst at Accra-based Databank Group, said in an e-mailed
comment yesterday. “Increases in domestic petroleum and
transport prices and depreciation of the cedi will be key
drivers.”  Ghana’s National Petroleum Authority increased gasoline
prices on Jan. 4, prompting the Ghana Private Road Transport
Union to raise fares by 18 percent on the same day, said Alhaji
Tetteh, the union’s national chairman. The increase follows a
rally in global  oil prices  and was the first since October 2009,
when gasoline was raised by 5 percent.  Stephen Bailey-Smith, London-based emerging markets
strategist at Standard Bank Plc, forecast January inflation of
9.7 percent in an e-mailed note on Jan. 11.  The inflation rate had fallen from a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June 2009, enabling the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points last year. The last
reduction in July took the rate to 13.5 percent from 15 percent.  The stability in the foreign exchange market that
facilitated the slowdown in inflation ended in January, with the
cedi losing 5.5 percent against the dollar in the month, pushing
up import costs.  The  Bank of Ghana  will probably hold  interest rates 
unchanged at its first meeting this year next week, Akligoh
said.  “We should expect the rate to be raised only if January
inflation surprisingly increases more than 150 basis points,”
he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 