-- Ghana's Inflation Rate Rises for First Time in 19 Months on Gasoline Costs
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2011-02-09T12:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/ghana-s-inflation-rate-rises-for-first-time-in-19-months-on-gasoline-costs.html
Ghana ’s inflation rate rose in
January for the first time in 19 months after the government
increased gasoline prices by 30 percent.  Inflation accelerated to 9.1 percent from 8.6 percent in
December, Philomena Nyarko, a statistician with the  Ghana 
Statistical Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra.
In the month, prices climbed 2.1 percent.  Ghana’s National Petroleum Authority increased gasoline
prices on Jan. 4, prompting the Ghana Private Road Transport
Union to raise fares by 18 percent on the same day, said Alhaji
Tetteh, the union’s national chairman. The increase follows a
rally in global  oil prices  and was the first since October 2009,
when gasoline was raised by 5 percent.  “December marked the bottom of the inflation cycle,” Lisa Lewin, head of sub-Saharan Africa analysis at Business Monitor
International in  London , said in an e-mailed comment.
“Inflation will continue to rise in the coming months as the
recent fuel price hike and currency weakness feed through.”  Non-food inflation, which includes transportation costs,
accelerated to 11.8 percent in January from 11.2 percent, Nyarko
said. Food prices rose 4.8 percent, up from 4.5 percent in
December.  The inflation rate had fallen from a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June 2009, enabling the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points last year. The last
reduction in July took the rate to 13.5 percent from 15 percent.  The stability in the foreign exchange market that
facilitated the slowdown in inflation ended in January, with the
cedi losing 5.5 percent against the dollar in the month, pushing
up import costs.    Interest rates  will probably remain on hold at the Feb. 18
meeting of the monetary policy committee, Lewin said.    Bank of Ghana  will be wary of pushing up debt servicing
costs at a time when the economic recovery is gaining
traction,” she said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 