-- Global Investment Banks May Slash 3,000 Jobs in Japan by 2014
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2011-02-09T03:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/global-investment-banks-may-slash-3-000-jobs-in-japan-by-2014.html
Global investment banks in Japan may
cut more than 3,000 positions in two or three years as risk-
aversion and weak economic growth reduce earnings prospects in
the country,  Executive Search Partners Co.  said.  Overseas banks will shrink Japan payrolls to less than
20,000 from 23,724 as business wanes in stock underwriting,
securities trading, real-estate finance and private equity,
according to research conducted by the Tokyo-based consultant.  Foreign financial firms have eliminated about 5,000 jobs in
Japan over the past two years and are deepening headcount
reductions as they question the country’s growth prospects and
deploy staff in China and elsewhere in  Asia .  China  probably
overtook Japan as the world’s second-largest economy last year.  “Another round of restructuring is going on just right
now,” Katsunobu Komizo, chief executive officer at Executive
Search Partners, said in an interview today. “Banks will no
longer take much risk on sales and trading for fixed income,
derivatives and currencies, spurring them to cut positions.”  Komizo declined to identify specific firms that are cutting
jobs. Executive Search Partners has data and profiles for 46,626
people in the Japanese financial industry. For the survey, the
consulting firm also interviewed executives from global banks
about the prospects for future hiring in Japan.  Japanese investment banks have started trimming local
payrolls.  Nomura Holdings Inc ., the nation’s biggest brokerage,
and closest rival  Daiwa Securities Group Inc . cut their domestic
staff by a combined 463 in the three months ended Dec. 31.  Nomura Trims Payrolls  Nomura reduced Japan staff by 267 for the quarter, the most
in two years, while it increased personnel by 53 in Asia,  Europe 
and the U.S., according to presentation materials released last
week. Nomura has no plan to hire experienced investment bankers
in Japan now, the Tokyo-based company said in the recruitment
section of its  website .    Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc ., Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank, may cut as many as 300 jobs at its
brokerage unit through an early retirement program being offered
from Feb. 7 through Feb. 25.  Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley  Securities Co., an investment
banking and brokerage unit of the financial group, is offering
the program to Japanese employees between 45 and 57 years old
and is targeting 1,000 employees, Susumu Taroura, a Tokyo-based
spokesman, said today.  Japan’s gross domestic product is hovering around 1993
levels in nominal terms, constrained by falling prices and an
aging population. The number of overseas banks operating in the
country has dropped for four straight years to 59 from 69 in
2006, according to the Japan Financial Services Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  