-- Global Smartphone Sales Rose 72 Percent in 2010, Gartner Says
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2011-02-09T08:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/global-smartphone-sales-rose-72-in-2010-as-androids-gained-gartner-says.html
Smartphone sales gained 72 percent
last year, helping propel the worldwide mobile-phone market to
1.6 billion units, researcher  Gartner Inc . said.    Research in Motion Ltd . and  Apple Inc . became the fourth-
and fifth-biggest mobile-phone companies, displacing Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB and the business now known as
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., Stamford, Connecticut-based
Gartner said today in an e-mailed report.  Handsets with  Google Inc .’s Android software overtook
Nokia’s sales of Symbian smartphones in the fourth quarter,
Gartner said. Symbian remained the best-selling smartphone
system overall as other manufacturers also have it on their
devices, the researcher said. Nokia, which remained the biggest
mobile-phone vendor, saw its market share drop to 28.9 percent
from 36.4 percent in 2009. Gartner reports sales to end users.  “The decline is not solely attributable to Nokia’s
continuing deficiency in high-end devices but is in part the
result of the growth of legitimate white-box sales,”  Carolina Milanesi , a Gartner analyst in Egham, U.K, said in the report.  So-called white box manufacturers, based mainly in China,
produce small runs of mobile phones from standard components
without the benefit of a major brand. White-box phones have
expanded from the black market and informal channels to regular
phone retailers, where they now sell in significant numbers and
are tracked by researchers. Sales by such vendors reached 360
million units last year, Gartner said.  About half of all phones sold in western Europe and  North
America  in the fourth quarter were smartphones, Gartner said.
Android sales increased more than ninefold during the year.  Apple’s IPhone  Apple’s iPhone is now available from multiple operators in
many markets, totaling 185 phone companies worldwide, Gartner
said. Competition has reduced the price of data plans, though
the selling price of the device is stable, according to the
analysts.  “Apple is not targeting the mass market, which is a
fundamental difference in approach from Android,” Gartner
analysts said in the report.  South Korean mobile-phone makers, Samsung Electronics Co.
and  LG Electronics Inc ., ranked second and third, respectively,
on Gartner’s list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 