-- Good Guys Just Might Finish First for a Change: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2011-02-09T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/good-guys-might-just-finish-first-for-once-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
There has been a lot of commentary in
the last couple of weeks about how the Egyptian uprising may go
the way of  Iran ’s Islamic Revolution in 1979, or Ukraine’s
Orange Revolution and Lebanon’s Cedar Revolution in 2005, or the
Hamas elections in 2006, all of which began in euphoria and
democratic promise before turning sour.  To hear Fox News host  Glenn Beck  tell it, the real
comparison should be to the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917. He
informed political commentator  Bill O’Reilly  that “Marxist
communists” are behind the Egyptian demonstrations. For more
rational critics than Beck, the idea is to temper the excitement
and let the realists explain the facts of global political life
to the naive enthusiasts who think something positive -- even
great -- can come from the events unfolding in Cairo.  But this time the good guys are more likely to finish
first. It’s the hardheaded gray beards who may have it wrong and
the starry-eyed kids who may have it right, not just on the
moral argument but in terms of the likeliest political outcome.
No guarantees, of course, but the odds are favorable.  It’s understandable why some might fear another Iranian
Revolution. That one, too, began with young people rebelling
against a head of state, the Shah of Iran, who was at the time
the closest American ally in the region. His regime, like  Hosni Mubarak ’s in Egypt, had decent relations with Israel, while his
secret police, the Savak, had repressed Iranian dissidents much
as the Egyptian police have long brutalized Egyptians.  Spiritual Leader  The difference is that the Iranian Revolution was always
religious at its core. While it looked for a time in 1979 as if
moderates might prevail, the Ayatollah Khomeini, living in exile
in Paris, was from the start the spiritual leader of the
protesters in the streets. Because Iran is a Shiite Muslim
nation, which means its religious life is dominated by a
hierarchy of mullahs, it was easier for extremist clerics to
grab control of the revolution.  By contrast,  Egypt  is overwhelmingly Sunni, which in most
forms has no official clerical authority. The demonstrations
this month are strikingly secular, organized largely by an
Egyptian Google executive named Wael Ghonim who was greeted as a
hero this week when released from jail.  The colorfully named revolutions of 2005 are also poor
models for predicting the outcome in Egypt. The Orange
Revolution in Ukraine is failing today because of the return of  Viktor Yanukovych , who took power in a legal election. After
defeating liberal opponents last year, President Yanukovych is
trying to restrict the press and rewrite the constitution.  Long Road  Autocratic rule may happen in Egypt down the road;
elections aren’t a panacea, just one step on a long road to
democracy. But any autocrat tempted to follow Mubarak’s example
would lose $1.5 billion in foreign aid from the U.S. government.
That money, once delivered willingly to Egypt in exchange for
maintaining peace with  Israel  and helping fight terrorism, now
has huge strings attached. While the U.S. can’t fully control
events, the next president of Egypt -- whoever it turns out to
be -- will know that taking steps to democratize is necessary to
maintain support from the people in the streets and from allies.  The Cedar Revolution took place after the assassination of
former Lebanese Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri  when protesters
wanted Syrian troops out of their country. The realists point to
the return of Syrian-backed Hezbollah in today’s Lebanon to
suggest a similar sour ending in Egypt. But  Syria  is one quarter
the size of Egypt and not in any position to meddle in its
affairs.  ‘People Power’  Besides, for all the growing pains, both Ukraine and
Lebanon are much better off than before “people power” emerged
in their countries. The same can’t be said for Gaza, where Hamas
is in control. The Bush administration policy of pressing for
Palestinian elections backfired in 2006 when Hamas won. And yet
the positive effects of at least some measure of democracy on
the  West Bank  have been undervalued. Mahmoud Abbas, the
president of the  Palestinian Authority , is a much better
potential partner for peace because he was elected.  The reason for the U.S. government’s slowness in adapting
to the new realities of Egyptian politics is obvious: Certain
policy makers and commentators are anxious about the arrival of
a world they don’t know. It’s easier to resort to familiar
historical analogies or stale paradigms (Mubarak versus the
Muslim Brotherhood) than to confront uncertainty and begin to
get acquainted with a whole new crowd of young reformers.  The story is moving on without the realists. They will be
left behind by a dynamic inside Egypt that is more evolutionary
than revolutionary. The right comparison for Egypt isn’t Iran,
Ukraine or Lebanon, much less Gaza. It may be  Turkey : a large,
moderate Muslim nation that’s rapidly joining the global
economy. Or what’s happening in Egypt may defy analogy entirely.  With U.S. help, Egypt can get to a much better place. But
first we have to recognize that those lawyers, dentists,
teachers and young job-seekers on our television screens aren’t
fronting for Islamists or naive teenagers destined for the
inside of a dungeon. They just want a little more freedom in
their lives, and now have an exhilarating chance to get it.  (Jonathan Alter is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  