-- U.K. Government, Banks Seal Bonus, Disclosure Accord
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-02-09T15:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/government-banks-seal-agreement-on-bonus-pay-disclosure-lending-levels.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an agreement by Britain’s biggest banks that
they’d pay lower bonuses, drawing criticism from his own party
and the opposition that it would have no real effect.    Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,  Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  will pay lower bonuses to
U.K. staff than last year, Osborne said, though he gave no
details. They will disclose the remuneration details of their
five most senior employees below board level, without naming the
individuals. The announcement came a day after the chancellor
raised tax on the industry by 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  “Britain needs to move from retribution to recovery,”
Osborne told the House of Commons in London. “The banks will
lend more money, especially to small businesses, pay more
taxes and pay smaller bonuses, be more transparent about bonuses
they do pay and make a greater contribution to our regional
economy.”  The deal follows two months of talks during which ministers
have wrangled with bank chiefs over demands for lower bonuses as
the government raises taxes and reduces spending to narrow a
record  budget deficit . Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said Jan. 11 the time for “apologies and remorse” from
banks following the financial crisis was over. Britain’s bankers
learn the size of their bonuses this month and next.  Business Loans  The four main banks “agreed that total bonuses for their
U.K.-based staff will be lower than last year -- and lower than
they would have been without today’s settlement,” the
chancellor said.  Following the negotiations, known as Project Merlin,
Lloyds, HSBC, RBS, Barclays and Banco Santander U.K. also
agreed to make loans of about 190 billion pounds to companies to
help bolster the economic recovery, Osborne said.  “The banks are the clear winners here,” said Ralph Silva,
a strategist at London-based Silva Research Network, which
provides research to financial companies. “The banks had
already said they were going to increase lending to businesses
and that was to be expected given that the economy is
recovering. Coupled with that the salary disclosures are pretty
pointless as we aren’t going to know what the star traders
earn.”    Andrew Tyrie , the Conservative head of Parliament’s
cross-party Treasury Committee, said little progress had been
made on bonuses in the accord.  ‘Risks and Mistakes’  “Without further transparency on bonuses we will never
know whether banks are fueling risks and mistakes for which one
day we may have to pay as a result of the way they misallocate
risk,” Tyrie told lawmakers.    Ed Balls , who speaks for the opposition Labour party on
financial affairs, said the agreement is “vague, toothless and
not a substitute for proper competition.”  It is “a short-term and shabby political deal,” Balls
told the House of Commons. “We have gone from Project Merlin to
the Wizard of Oz -- the curtain pulled back and nothing there.”  Bank shares rose as the FTSE-100 index fell 0.2 percent at
3:45 p.m. in  London . HSBC added 1.3 percent to 727.4 pence and
Barclays gained 1.2 percent to 317.95 pence.  For staff at RBS and Lloyds, cash bonuses will be limited
to a maximum of 2,000 pounds this year. All executive directors
have agreed to receive this year’s bonuses entirely in the form
of shares that cannot be converted to cash until 2013, the
chancellor said.  Bonus Announcements  RBS cut the amount it set aside to cover bonuses at its
investment banking unit by 27 percent to less than 950 million
pounds, a spokesman said today. Lloyds will award its outgoing
Chief Executive Officer  Eric Daniels  a 1.45 million-pound bonus
for 2010, all of it payable in shares and deferred to 2013, the
London-based bank said in a statement.  Former Barclays Chief Executive Officer  John Varley , who
led the talks with the government for the banks, said the deal
to reduce bonuses doesn’t mean total compensation paid to
employees will shrink.  “The commitment we have made relates to our bonus pool,”
Varley said on a conference call with reporters, when asked
whether total compensation would decline. Pay has to be
“appropriate in terms of driving performance,” he added.  “This must be the end of the story with regards to
bonuses,” Stuart Fraser, policy chairman at the City of London
Corporation, said in an e-mailed statement. “They did not cause
the crisis and are an entirely legitimate form of remuneration
for companies which have to operate in a fiercely competitive
global marketplace.”  Pay Disclosure  The agreement is the latest occasion that RBS and Lloyds
have accepted the need to show restraint on bonuses, with both
banks first making the pledge in 2009. The state has majority
stakes in the two lenders after the previous Labour government
provided about 1 trillion pounds in bailouts and guarantees to
support the financial system.  The pay of at least seven executives will be disclosed at
each bank, compared with five individuals in the U.S. and  Hong
Kong  and only board executives in Germany and Japan, the
chancellor told lawmakers.  Each bank will have to write to the Financial Services
Authority to confirm it has applied today’s agreement on
bonuses, Osborne said. Even so, no figures on bonuses will be
published and ministers won’t be given the information because
of its commercial sensitivity.  The  Bank of England  will collect and publish data on small-
business lending, the chancellor said.  ‘Further Measures’  Osborne threatened to “return to the issue and take
further measures” if compensation is still deemed to be
excessive.  Standard Chartered Plc, the London-based bank that makes
more than 90 percent of its profit outside the U.K., said in
November that it wouldn’t join the bonus pact.  London’s 300,000 financial-services workers will receive
bonuses totaling as much as 7 billion pounds for this year,
about 5 percent less than in 2009, according to the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd. That’s down from 11.6 billion
pounds in 2007.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , like Osborne a Conservative,
began the year proposing a “settlement” with bankers, under
which politicians would stop attacking them in return for
cooperation on bonuses and lending. That was after Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg , a Liberal Democrat, said last year the
government wouldn’t “stand idly by” if banks paid out large
bonuses in 2011.  Osborne said the decision to increase taxes on bank balance
sheets was in line with his commitment to get “the maximum
sustainable tax revenues” from the financial sector. He ruled
out repeating the one-time levy on bonuses introduced by Labour
at the end of 2009, saying it would lead to “massive  tax
avoidance .”  “The top bankers will sleep easy tonight knowing their
bumper bonuses will continue to be paid with no threat to their
extravagant lifestyles,”  Len McCluskey , general secretary of
Unite, the U.K.’s biggest union, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 