-- Gurney’s Wasps Lose Sting But Carry On in ‘Black Tie’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2011-02-09T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/gurney-s-wasps-lose-their-sting-but-carry-on-in-black-tie-jeremy-gerard.html
A.R. Gurney’s tender, funny comedy
“ Black Tie ” takes place at a wedding in one of those
Adirondack Mountain hotels that are long on knotty-pine walls
and brown-plaid upholstery and short on amenities such as
glasses.  It’s the night of the rehearsal dinner and in their room,
the white, gentile parents of the groom are dressing.  As Curtis dons evening wear he inherited from his father,
the old man himself -- dapper, cheerful, dead -- appears in the
mirror, conjured by Curtis’s yearning for paternal advice.  Dad was a revered host and toastmaster, but in earlier,
simpler times. His grandson is now marrying a black woman. There
are Jewish guests requiring pasta and a gay stand-up comic who’s
invited a reporter from the Sunday Styles section of the  New
York  Times to cover the raunchy routine he’s giving as a wedding
present. The civilized world Curtis and his father cherish no
longer exists.  Gurney built a career dramatizing with bittersweet acuity
the demise of Waspus Americanus. But “Black Tie” is less a
lament than a white flag. In the end both Curtis and, somewhat
more unlikely, his father, face the vulgar future with a smile
not so much of resignation but of false optimism, which is more,
well, civilized.  Mark Lamos has given the play a pitch-perfect showcase,
moving the one-act at such a lively clip it’s hard to get hung
up on its quaintness.  Gregg Edelman is goofily touching as the befuddled, mostly
clueless Curtis. Carolyn McCormick is utterly winning as his
forbearing and much more liberal wife, Mimi. Ari Brand is
convincingly terrified as the groom, Teddy, and Elvy Yost is
feisty as his sister, Elsie.  Best of all is Daniel Davis as Father, doling out advice in
the form of quotations from Chaucer and Byron, grinning broadly,
exuding self-confidence, and generally making a darned lot of
sense.  Through March 20 at Primary Stages, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.primarystages.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 