-- ICE Credit-Clearing Profit Margin Beats Equity, Debt
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2011-02-09T21:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/ice-credit-clearing-s-35-percent-profit-margin-beats-equity-debt-trading.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. is
earning higher pretax profit margins by guaranteeing credit-
default swaps with its clearinghouse than banks make by selling
fixed-income securities and equities to institutional investors.  The owner of the world’s largest credit swap clearinghouse,
also known as ICE, earned a 35 percent margin last year for its
business before splitting about half of the profits with  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  Morgan Stanley 
and the other dealers that support the clearing service,
according to financial results released today.  “It’s better than institutional equities’ 13.5 percent
margin and better than fixed income’s 24 percent pretax
margin,” said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s Brad Hintz in New
York, ranked by Institutional Investor as the top analyst
covering brokerage firms. “The margin for clearing is higher
than the margin of the client businesses that drives clearing at
ICE, so perhaps this is justification for the clients to
pressure ICE on pricing.”  Intercontinental, based in Atlanta, said today that fourth-
quarter profit rose 18 percent, led by a drop in expenses and
more trading in  Brent crude  and U.K. heating oil futures.  The company said it paid its dealer partners $9.47 million
in net income in 2010, which means it earned about $21 million
last year from clearing credit-default swaps. Revenue from
credit clearing was $60 million for the year, ICE said.  The company’s  ICE Trust  clearinghouse began backing credit
swap trades in March 2009, with its European clearinghouse ICE
Clear  Europe , following later that year. Together they have
processed $15 trillion worth of the contracts, the company said
today.  ‘Constantly Vigilant’  “I feel really good about how we did in the first 21
months,” Scott Hill, Intercontinental’s chief financial
officer, said today in a telephone interview. The company said
it expects revenue from credit-swap clearing to rise 15 percent
to 20 percent this year.  “We’re constantly vigilant because it’s a very competitive
space,” he said. “There are always people out there who are
going to want to come in and compete.”    CME Group Inc ., the world’s largest futures exchange, and
 LCH.Clearnet Ltd. , owner of the largest interest-rate swap
clearinghouse, are also seeking to back credit swaps as U.S. and
European regulators mandate the trades be made less risky after
the derivatives played a role in the financial crisis. The Dodd-
Frank Act requires most swaps to be cleared after being traded
on regulated exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  Profit Sharing  ICE’s profit-sharing deal with dealers requires it to give
45.5 percent of the net income to the banks, according to its
annual filing. The arrangement arose out of ICE’s 2009 purchase
of the Clearing Corp., a dealer-owned clearinghouse that
pioneered margin requirements and risk methodology as well as
the structure for guaranteeing credit swaps.  “I’m surprised that the profit margin is so high,” said
Robert Webb, a finance professor at the  University of Virginia .
“Other things equal, a profit margin like that should attract
more entrants to the CDS clearing business and lower the profit
margin over time.”  Because profits are shared with dealer partners they have
an incentive to continue to direct their business to ICE, Webb
said.  Clearinghouses , capitalized by their members, are intended
to lessen the effects of a bank default by guaranteeing
counterparty payment. Each day they collect margins on open
trades to keep accounts current and allow regulators to monitor
prices and positions.  Shares Rise  Intercontinental owns futures exchanges in the U.S., Europe
and  Canada  that offer trading in energy, agricultural and
financial contracts. It also offers clearing for energy over-
the-counter derivatives trades.  The company rose $4.91, or 4.2 percent, to $123.13 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 25
percent in the past year.  The margin for credit swap clearing doesn’t compare to the
56 percent operating margin Intercontinental reported today for
its business as a whole in the fourth quarter, Bernstein’s Hintz
said.  The margin for credit swap clearing is low compared with
the 56 percent operating margin Intercontinental reported today
for its business as a whole in the fourth quarter, Bernstein’s
Hintz said.  “This is the ‘Microsoft problem,’” Hintz said. “Almost
anything that a monopoly (Microsoft) or an oligopoly (ICE and
CME) invests in that is outside the natural monopoly of the
company will generate lower returns than the core monopoly
businesses.”  Michael Shore, spokesman for CME Group, and Lee Underwood,
spokesman for Intercontinental, declined to comment on Hintz’s
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 