-- Microsoft's Bing Engineering Chief Nadella Named to Lead Server Division
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2011-02-09T21:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/microsoft-s-bing-engineering-chief-nadella-named-to-lead-server-division.html
  Microsoft Corp . said Satya Nadella,
an engineering manager in its Internet business, is becoming
president of the server division, part of an effort to put more
people with a technology background in top jobs.  Nadella, 43, will oversee strategy, engineering, marketing
and product development for the company’s server, tools and
cloud-computing efforts, Microsoft said today in a  statement . He
replaces Bob Muglia, whose departure was announced last month.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  is making executive
changes to inject more engineering experience into the senior
levels of product divisions. He’s contending with criticism from
the board and investors that Microsoft is falling behind in
smartphones and tablet computers. Ballmer also is trying to
capitalize on a shift to cloud software, which is stored online.  Nadella, a 19-year Microsoft veteran, served as a senior
vice president overseeing engineering and technical strategy for
the Bing search engine, MSN websites and Internet advertising.
Those products run on one of the biggest cloud-based systems in
the world, giving Nadella experience in that field.  In another change, Amitabh Srivastava, a server unit senior
vice president who oversaw the company’s Windows Server and
Windows Azure cloud-computing products, is leaving the company.
He will be replaced by Bill Laing for now, Nadella said in a
 message  on Microsoft’s website.  Shuffling Executives  Four other senior executives have announced departures
since May. Ballmer pushed out Muglia last month, saying the
business he ran needed new management to handle future growth
opportunities. The server unit generated $14.9 billion in sales
in the past fiscal year, which ended in June.  The management shakeup reflects Ballmer’s attempt to re-
exert his influence and appoint leaders that can better keep
pace with the competition, people familiar with his thinking
said this week.  Microsoft’s board declined to give Ballmer his maximum
bonus last year, saying the company had missed some
opportunities in mobile technology, according to a September
regulatory filing. He received 100 percent of his target bonus,
instead of the upper limit of 200 percent.  Microsoft dropped 31 cents to $27.97 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares are little
changed over the past year.  Ballmer has already shown a desire to appoint engineers or
product experts to run divisions. Stephen Elop, who left for  Nokia Oyj  in September, was replaced by engineering chief Kurt DelBene, rather than marketing executive Chris Capossela. Elop
had run Microsoft’s business unit, its biggest source of sales.  When Chief Software Architect Ray Ozzie announced plans to
step down in October, Ballmer declined to replace him in that
central role, saying the company had “strong technical leaders
in each business group.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  