-- IMF Economists `in Awe' of Rich Nations Missed Coming Crisis, Audit Finds
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2011-02-09T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/imf-economists-in-awe-of-rich-nations-missed-coming-crisis-audit-finds.html
The  International Monetary Fund  was
overly influenced by developed countries including the U.S. and
the U.K. when assessing their economies, and ended up missing
signs of fragility that led to the 2008 global financial crisis,
an internal audit found.  A report gauging the IMF’s performance from 2004 through
2007 said its economists were sometimes “in awe of” the
authorities’ reputation and expertise in larger nations.  “IMF staff felt uncomfortable challenging the views of
authorities in advanced economies on monetary and regulatory
issues, given the authorities’ greater access to banking data
and knowledge of their financial markets, and the large numbers
of highly qualified economists working in their central banks,”
according to the IMF audit released today.  The Washington-based IMF, which was created after World War
II to help ensure the stability of the global monetary system,
paid too little heed to deteriorating banks’ balance sheets and
financial regulatory issues, according to the audit. The report
lists various ways the fund can avoid similar mistakes in the
future, including through changes in governance to make room for
candid and dissenting views.  IMF staff “often seemed to champion the U.S. financial
sector and the authorities’ policies,” the audit said.  “This is a political institution. At the end those are
important shareholders and it’s difficult to challenge them,”
Moises Schwartz, the director of the audit unit, said in an
interview yesterday.  Crisis-Prone Countries  Advanced economies were not part of a so-called
“vulnerability exercise” to spot crisis-prone countries, the
IMF report said.  The report “confirms what we, developing countries, had
been thinking about the practice of fund’s surveillance”
including a “double standard,” said Paulo Nogueira Batista,  Brazil ’s executive director at the IMF who also represents eight
other countries. “The crisis was a major wakeup call that has
led to the beginning of several changes in the institution,”
though “the problem has not been overcome.”  The report identified other issues that prevented the IMF
from detecting mounting risks, including the lack of incentives
to work across units or to express contrarian opinions.  While identifying some risks, the institution’s main
message was optimistic until October 2007, after financial
turbulence had started, when it adopted a “more cautionary
tone,” according to the audit. Less than a year later, the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered the
deepest international recession since World War II.  ‘Systemic Risk’  IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said in a
written response to the report that the IMF has acknowledged the
failure “to warn about a systemic crisis in a sufficiently
early, pointed, and effective way,” and has already started
responding to it.  “The focus of the reform agenda being implemented is
precisely on strengthening surveillance and financing for
systemic stability,” he wrote in a Jan. 26 statement prepared
for a meeting of the fund’s  board of directors .  The audit pointed to a “group-think” attitude among IMF
economists that prevented them from challenging shared ideas,
for instance, that crises were unlikely to happen in developed
economies.  There also wasn’t enough effort to link macroeconomic and
financial analysis, even though it was a problem already raised
after the Asian crisis, the audit said. That was due in part to
IMF’s “long-standing problem” of operating “in silos” and
not using other departments’ work and expertise, it said.  Incentives Not Aligned  Governance was an issue as well as “incentives were not
well aligned to foster the candid exchange of ideas that is
needed for good surveillance,” the auditors said. “Many staff
reported concerns about the consequences of expressing views
contrary to those of supervisors, management, and country
authorities.”  While staff and management who responded to auditors said
there was “no overt pressure” from the U.S. to change the IMF
conclusions, “explicit pressure to tone down critical
messages” did happen “in some other large advanced
economies,” auditors said.  “In contrast, teams seemed more comfortable in presenting
hard-hitting analysis to smaller advanced and emerging markets,
confirming some authorities’ belief that there was a lack of
evenhandedness in surveillance,” according to the report.  Encourage Candor  The report recommended a series of measures to encourage
candor, such as involving outside analysts in board and
management discussions. It suggested strengthening incentives to
“speak truth to power.”  Strauss-Kahn said that new work the IMF has undertaken,
such as an analysis of imbalances for the  Group of 20  and
reports of spillover risks, “will go a long way to enhance the
candor and traction of surveillance.” He said that the fund
“should consider carefully the idea of allowing direct inputs
by eminent outside experts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  