-- India Plots `Rapid' Military Overhaul as Fighter Jet Buy Rules at Air Show
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r   a n d   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a
-- 2011-02-09T06:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/india-plots-rapid-military-overhaul-as-fighter-jet-buy-rules-at-air-show.html
  India  will raise its defense spending
in a “rapid modernization” of its military to meet security
challenges, the defense minister said as he opened an  air show 
featuring fighter jets vying for an $11 billion order.  Expenditure is “bound to increase over the next two
decades,” A.K. Antony said in Bangalore as he inaugurated the
five-day event. India spends about 2.5 percent of its gross
domestic product on defense, he said. “We are open to joint
ventures, public private partnerships and licensed production
under transfer of technology.”  Defense equipment makers are competing for orders as India
may spend about $120 billion in the five years to 2017 to
overhaul its armed forces, the Confederation of Indian Industry
and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. said in a  report  last
year. India has tripled its  defense budget  over the last decade
as it looks beyond a traditional military rivalry with  Pakistan 
to counter  China ’s rising power.  The air show in Bangalore is being held as the South Asian
nation, the world’s fastest growing major economy after China,
prepares to decide on the world’s biggest fighter-jet purchase
in 15 years.  The contract for the 126 combat aircraft will be a “trend
setter,” said Mrinal Suman, an adviser on arms procurement at
the industry confederation. “India has never concluded a
contract of this magnitude in an open competition earlier,”
said Suman, a retired army major-general. “In addition to the
initial quantity, there will certainly be repeat orders as well,
thereby increasing the size of the contract considerably. Aero
2011 will provide a platform for showcasing and hard selling.”  Boeing, Lockheed  Paris-based  Dassault Aviation SA , Chicago-based  Boeing Co .,
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp .,  Sweden ’s  Saab AB ,
Russia’s United Aircraft Corp. and the European Aeronautic,
Defense & Space Co., based in  France , the U.K. and neighboring
countries submitted bids in April 2008 to supply the fighter
jets.  Field trials were completed last year and the contract may
be completed in the fiscal year starting April 1, Sitanshu Kar,
spokesman for the defense ministry, said yesterday by phone.  On a visit to India in November, U.S. President  Barack Obama  announced a relaxation in export controls removing India’s
defense and space organizations from the “entities list,”
which restricted them from doing business with the U.S.  That move reflects India’s role as a “strategic partner,”
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke told reporters in Bangalore
yesterday. The countries’ relationship will “enable companies
with me this week to explore new avenues of commerce in India,”
Locke said.  Russian Missiles  Competition will be stiff. A similar visit by Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  included the signing of deals to
provide missiles for the Indian army and jointly develop
advanced stealth fighter jets. India is  Russia ’s top arms
customer.  Boeing, Saab,  Lockheed Martin  and others are displaying
plane models, consoles and combat aircraft simulators at the
show in Bangalore in addition to participating in the twice-
daily flying demonstrations, according to the companies.  Lockheed Martin will strap Bollywood actor Shahid Kapur
into an F-16IN Super Viper for a flight during the show, the
company said. Saab is running a “Top Gun”  contest  for aviation
enthusiasts with the winner getting to take to the skies in a
Gripen this weekend, said Eddy de la Motte, Saab’s campaign
director in India for the Gripen.  Overseas Dependence  “It spreads the word about Gripen, the brand name Saab and
creates a positive view of the company,” said Saab’s de la
Motte. “India is extremely important for a lot of big programs,
not just the multi-role combat aircraft.”  Companies at the show will be seeking to forge partnerships
as India last month restated its aim to reduce dependence on
foreign arms makers. Weapons development projects expected to
exceed 10 years will largely be developed within the country,
the Ministry of Defense said in an eight-page policy paper.  “We are encouraging our public and private sector
industries to become active partners in this initiative” to
increase self-reliance, Defense Minister Antony said today. “We
have been fine-tuning our defense procurement procedures. We
hope this will provide even better opportunities to foreign
original equipment manufacturers.”  $32 Billion Budget  India, which wields the world’s 10th-largest military
budget at $32 billion this year, requires most overseas arms
providers to invest part of their profits from the country in
local defense companies. Last month, the government eased this
policy and let the foreign companies aim those investments,
called  offsets , in aviation or security-related companies.  “In the jet order there is a substantial chunk of
offset,” said Gyanendra Sharma, managing director of  Northrop
Grumman Corp .’s India unit. “In order to be able to qualify for
that requirement there is no other way but to talk to the local
companies and establish a relationship.”  Saab is scouting for partners to form joint ventures in
India and is close to completing a “couple of deals,” said de
la Motte. He declined to provide details.  “With the offset kitty likely to touch $22 billion during
the next seven years, a large number of Indian companies are
aspiring to grab a part of the pie,” said Suman.  The nation’s air force is expected to spend about $48
billion through 2017 on purchases of combat jets, helicopters,
transport and trainer aircraft, according to the report by the
industry confederation and Deloitte. The navy may buy fighter
jets and helicopters worth $7.5 billion through 2022, it said.  India in 2001 allowed bidding on arms contracts by domestic
private companies that have foreign ownership no greater than 26
percent. Antony last year rejected a trade ministry proposal to
let such foreign direct investment rise to 74 percent as a way
to improve Indian defense manufacturing and accelerate
technology transfer to the country. 