-- Insider Trading, IRS Amnesty, Antitrust: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2011-02-09T13:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/insider-trading-charges-irs-amnesty-antitrust-compliance.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP junior
portfolio managers Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil were
charged with insider trading while working at the $12 billion
hedge fund, the latest round of charges in a nationwide
crackdown by federal prosecutors.  Longueuil, who worked at SAC Capital unit CR Intrinsic from
July 2008 to July 2010, was arrested yesterday; Freeman, who
worked at SAC Capital from June 2008 to January 2010, pleaded
guilty Feb. 7 as part of a cooperation agreement with
prosecutors.  Two others charged by Manhattan federal prosecutors were
Samir Barai, the founder of Barai Capital Management, who
surrendered to authorities yesterday, and Jason Pflaum, who
worked for Barai and pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a
cooperation deal.  The arrests in what prosecutors called a four-year scheme
signal an expansion of a 16-month attack on insider trading on
Wall Street that U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has said is
“rampant.” The criminal complaint refers to six hedge funds,
which it doesn’t name, that employed the defendants or executed
trades.  “We are outraged by the alleged actions of two former
employees, which required active circumvention of our compliance
policies and are egregious violations of our ethical
standards,” Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC said yesterday in a
statement. SAC also said in its statement that the two were
dismissed in 2010 for “poor performance.”  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at Primary Global LLC, a Mountain View,
California-based firm that links investors with employees of
public companies who work as consultants. Barai got inside tips
from Primary Global consultants Anthony Longoria and Winifred
Jiau, both of whom were previously charged, yesterday’s
complaint says.  Janice Fedarcyk, who heads the New York office of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, said the investigation will
continue for “some time” and that more arrests will be coming.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday filed
a related civil suit, accusing the four of earning more than $30
million in insider trades of companies including  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc ., Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Seagate Technology
Plc, Western Digital Corp. and Fairchild Semiconductor
International Inc.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  IRS Announces Amnesty to Declare Offshore Accounts  U.S. taxpayers with hidden offshore accounts will have a
second chance to disclose them to the government without being
criminally prosecuted, the  Internal Revenue Service  said.  The new voluntary disclosure program will require those who
come forward to pay as much as 25 percent of the highest annual
amount in the account from 2003 through 2010, plus back taxes,
interest and other tax penalties for those years. The program
expires Aug. 31.  “It gives people a chance to come in before we find
them,” IRS commissioner Douglas Shulman said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters. He said the IRS is continuing to
investigate “a number of” overseas banks, and that some of the
inquiries are at “quite advanced” stages.  The program is part of the U.S. government’s efforts to
crack down on offshore accounts. A similar program that ended in
October 2009 attracted about 15,000 taxpayers who avoided
prosecution by paying taxes on six years of undeclared income,
plus a 20 percent penalty.  The first 2,000 cases closed have generated almost $400
million in revenue, Shulman said.  Another 3,000 taxpayers declared their accounts after the
initial program ended. They will be eligible for the new
program, which has less-generous terms, said Shulman, who said
Dec. 9 that the IRS was considering a second disclosure period.  Barbara Kaplan, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in New
York, said she doesn’t expect as large a response from taxpayers
this time -- unless the IRS announces investigations involving
specific banks.  “Until the pressure is really on and it’s public, people
who didn’t opt in before are not going to opt in now,” she
said.  For more, click here.  Fed Requests Comments on Proposals for Dodd-Frank Law  The Federal Reserve requested comment on proposed rules
about “systemically important” companies required by the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act overhauling
U.S. financial regulation.  The central bank said in a statement yesterday in
Washington that it is requesting comment on two rules. The first
determines whether a company is “significantly engaged in
financial activities,” and the second defines the terms
“significant nonbank financial company” and “significant bank
holding company.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President Barack
Obama in July, requires the Fed to define terms that the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, chaired by the Secretary
of the Treasury, will use in determining which companies are
“systemically important” and subject to additional regulation.  The law defines a company as “significantly engaged in
financial activities” if 85 percent or more of its revenue or
assets are related to activities deemed to be financial in
nature under the Bank Holding Company Act, the Fed said.  The rule proposes making this determination from a two-year
test based on consolidated financial statements.  The central bank, taking a usual step in rule-making, is
requesting that comment be submitted by March 30.  The authority of designating a firm as “systemically
important” rests with the Financial Stability Oversight
Council. One criteria the council may use in designating this
status is whether a company is engaged in relationships with
other “significant” financial companies.  The proposal defines “significant” as a bank holding
company or non-bank financial firm with more than $50 billion in
total consolidated assets.  The Dodd-Frank legislation already established $50 billion
as the threshold at which bank holding companies require
additional supervision.  Allstate Sells Bank to Discover Financial as Regulations Tighten    Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly traded U.S. home and
auto insurer, is exiting the banking business and will sell
about $1.1 billion in deposits to  Discover Financial Services  as
regulators increase scrutiny of the industry.  Discover will provide savings accounts, certificates of
deposit and money-market products to Allstate customers, the
Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer said yesterday in a
statement.  Allstate, regulated by state insurance commissioners, has
been subject to additional oversight by the Office of Thrift
Supervision because of its banking business. The Fed will be
taking greater authority over the financial industry after the
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act last year.  Allstate Chief Executive Officer Thomas Wilson met in
October with representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago for a discussion on changes in regulation. Wilson has
focused the Allstate Financial unit on life insurance and
retirement and investment products.  “That, combined with the changing regulatory environment,
led us to the determination that operating Allstate Bank is no
longer core to our long-term strategy,” said Matthew Winter,
CEO of Allstate Financial, in the statement.  Pimco Caught Up as Managed-Futures Funds Face Restrictions  Pacific Investment Management Co. and Fidelity Investments
may be caught up in a regulatory push to safeguard investors in
mutual funds that employ commodity strategies used mainly by
hedge funds.  Under a proposal by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, mutual funds using futures to bet on rising and
falling prices, such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s $472 million
Highbridge Dynamic Commodities Strategy Fund and Cliff Asness’s
$1 billion AQR Managed Futures Strategy Fund, would face new
marketing rules. The change may also affect commodity mutual
funds that use swaps or options, including the $25.2 billion
Pimco Commodity RealReturn Fund and the $8.3 billion Fidelity
Series Commodity Strategy Fund.  “The whole catastrophic period between 2007 and 2009 has
completely changed the environment,” Burton Greenwald, an
independent mutual-fund consultant based in Philadelphia, said
in an interview. “Some of these alternative strategies are just
far more complex than a conventional equity or fixed-income
fund, and it’s inevitable that they’ll get more regulatory
scrutiny in this environment.”  Fund companies have seen money in commodity and managed-
futures mutual funds double since the 2008 global financial
crisis. Regulators are moving to limit distribution and improve
disclosure after managed-futures funds, originally a hedge-fund
strategy, started targeting individual investors three years ago
amid increasing demand for assets that are less correlated to
stocks and bonds.  Fund companies are crying foul. The effort to re-regulate
commodity funds comes from private pools and trading advisers
trying to protect their business models and fees, Philip Liu,
general counsel for Denver-based Equinox Fund Management LLC,
wrote in an Oct. 18 letter to the CFTC, as the agency was
considering an earlier version of the proposal. Equinox is the
registered investment adviser to the MutualHedge Frontier
Legends Fund.  “The idea that this is a wild-eyed risky investment just
doesn’t hold water,” Jon Sundt, chief executive officer of
Altegris Investment Inc. in La Jolla, California, said in an
interview. The company’s Altegris Managed Futures Strategy Fund
opened in August and has $328 million under management.  Fidelity Investments, the largest U.S. mutual-fund company,
and several competitors also oppose the plan, saying it would
raise costs to consumers and may extend to target-date
retirement funds that invest in commodities as part of a broad
mix. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission already
regulates such products under the Investment Company Act of
1940, making the CFTC rules “superfluous,” Fidelity said.  For more, click here.  Ceres Says EPA’s Rules Will Add 1.5 Million Jobs  Two  Environmental Protection Agency  rules opposed by
business groups will create almost 1.46 million jobs by 2015,
according to an alliance of environmentalists and investment
funds.  The regulations will prompt almost $200 billion in capital
spending from 2011 to 2015 and spawn jobs as power companies cut
air pollution and build cleaner plants, according to the study
by Ceres, whose members seek to fight global climate change.  Ceres says its members have almost $10 trillion under
management. Members include the California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension fund, the
Illinois State Board of Retirement and the New York City
Comptroller’s Office, according to the group’s website.  President Barack Obama’s EPA is under fire from business
groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as well as
Republican lawmakers who say its rules threaten to stall U.S.
economic recovery and job growth. Boston-based Ceres said clean-
air laws bolster employment and prosperity.  The report focuses on the EPA’s proposed “transport” rule
targeting pollution crossing state lines and the agency’s
proposed limits on emissions from industrial boilers.  With Republicans in control of the House and gaining seats
in the Senate after November’s election, the EPA is under
increasing scrutiny from those who say the agency hinders
business.  When Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican,
asked companies to identify which regulations his House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee should investigate, 57
of 111 rules cited were issued by the EPA.  The National Mining Association, a critic of the EPA,
questioned the Ceres study.  “I’m not sure how they derive this fanciful notion that
net jobs would be created in this economy that’s limping along
at more than 9 percent unemployment and shows no signs of adding
jobs significantly this year,” said Luke Popovich, spokesman
for the Washington-based trade group that represents coal
producers such as Peabody Energy Corp. and  Alpha Natural
Resources Inc .  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, praised the Ceres
study. “This report affirms what I have been saying for years -
-working to achieve healthy air will result in a healthy
economy,” Carper, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Clean
Air and Nuclear Safety, said in an e-mailed statement.  Compliance Action  U.S. Lawmakers Probe Exchange Security After Nasdaq Breach  U.S. House Republicans are seeking information on computer-
network security from regulators and executives from 10
exchanges and clearinghouses amid claims of possible computer
hacking into a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . website.  “The world must have confidence in the technological
security of our financial markets,” Representatives Spencer
Bachus of Alabama and Scott Garrett of New Jersey said in the
letter dated Feb. 8.  Bachus, the chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee , and Garrett, who leads the panel’s capital markets
subcommittee, asked recipients to describe -- without divulging
specific information about their own networks -- what they’re
doing “to ensure the ongoing integrity and security of exchange
trading systems and clearinghouses.” The lawmakers asked that
responses be delivered by Feb. 28.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. exchange operator by
market value, said in a Feb. 5 statement that it discovered
suspicious files in its web-based Directors Desk application and
“immediately conducted an investigation, which included outside
forensic firms and U.S. law enforcement.”  None of Nasdaq OMX’s trading platforms were “compromised”
by the files, the New York-based company said.  Bachus and Garrett sent copies of the letter to Nasdaq OMX
Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld, as well as Terrence
Duffy, the executive chairman of  CME Group Inc ., and William
Brodsky, the CEO of the Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. The
letter also was addressed to CEO Duncan Niederauer of NYSE
Euronext, the largest U.S. exchange operator, and six other
executives.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
were also asked to provide information.  UBS Units to Buy Back $1.5 Billion in Auction-Rate Securities  Two  UBS AG  units resolved allegations that they failed
fully to disclose the risks of auction rate securities sold in
New Jersey by agreeing to a $1.5 billion buyback, state Attorney
General Paula T. Dow said.  “Disclosure of material facts to the investing public is
not only the law, but is necessary for consumers to make fully
informed decisions about investing their hard-earned money,”
Dow said in a statement announcing the agreement.  In addition to the repurchases by UBS Securities LLC and
UBS Financial Services Inc., Zurich-based UBS will pay New
Jersey $3.7 million in civil penalties, representing the state’s
pro rata share of an agreement negotiated by a multistate task
force of regulators, Dow said.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. Underwriters and broker-
dealers have been sued since the February 2008 collapse of the
$330 billion market for auction-rate securities.  UBS, according to Dow, marketed the investments as safe and
liquid when they were actually long-term investments subject to
the since-failed auction process.  “UBS is pleased this matter has been resolved,” the
investment bank said in an e-mailed statement. “This is part of
UBS’s ongoing effort to restore liquidity to its ARS clients who
were adversely affected by the failure of the ARS market.”  The New Jersey buybacks are part of the Swiss bank’s 2008
agreement with the North American Securities Administrators
Association under which it pledged to purchase $18.6 billion
worth of auction-rate securities from institutional investors
and private clients, UBS said in a press statement then.  Daimler Said to Face Questions in French EADS Probe    Daimler AG , which owns a 15 percent stake in European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., will be questioned as soon as
today by Paris judges leading an almost five-year-old probe into
insider trading at EADS, according to a person familiar with the
case.  Judges Serge Tournaire and Xavier Blanc are looking into
Daimler’s decision to sell a 7.5 percent stake in EADS in April
2006, two months before EADS announced production delays on the
A380, the world’s biggest passenger plane. The judges will meet
with Daimler officials today, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the discussions are private.    Lagardere SCA , like Daimler a founding stakeholder in EADS,
sold a 7.5 percent stake at the same time as Daimler in 2006 and
was charged Jan. 27 in the investigation. The criminal inquiry
continued after the French financial regulator, the Autorite des
Marches Financiers, cleared current and former EADS officials,
Daimler and Lagardere in 2009 in the probe, saying there was no
privileged information.  “Daimler will cooperate,” said Florian Martens, a
spokesman for Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler. “We’re
confident that the matter will be resolved in the same way as
the AMF investigation.”  Lagardere Chief Executive Officer Arnaud Lagardere has said
the allegations are baseless and that the Paris-based publisher
won’t make any provisions for a possible criminal sanction.  Courts  Airgas Improperly Using Takeover Defense, Suitor Says  Airgas Inc., the gas company fighting a $5.9 billion
hostile buyout bid, is improperly using an anti-takeover defense
to bar investors from accepting any offer, lawyers for  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc . told a judge.  A majority of Airgas shareholders want to accept Air
Products’ $70-a-share offer and are being wrongfully blocked by
the company’s poison-pill takeover defense, Kenneth Nachbar, one
of Air Products’ lawyers, said in closing arguments in the case.
Air Products is seeking to have Airgas’s poison pill thrown out.  By using the defense to frustrate investors, Airgas
executives are “protecting shareholders from themselves,”
Nachbar told Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler
III in Georgetown, Delaware.  Chandler said he was “reluctant” to rule yesterday from
the bench and instead will issue a written opinion in the next
few days.  Marc Wolinsky, a New York-based lawyer for Airgas,
countered that the company directors are keeping the pill in
place so the gas company can continue to generate good earnings
from its businesses.  Air Products, which has been pursuing Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas for more than a year, raised its bid on Dec. 9 from
$65.50 a share to $70 and called it the company’s “best and
final offer.” Airgas rejected the offer that same month.
Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products raised its bid after
the Delaware Supreme Court ruled that Airgas shareholders
couldn’t force the company to hold an annual meeting in January.  Air Products officials had hoped to use that meeting to
replace three more Airgas directors with their own nominees, win
control of the board and have the poison-pill defense
deactivated.  Airgas is the largest packaged-gas provider in the U.S. Air
Products is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gas producer,
behind Danbury, Connecticut-based  Praxair Inc .  Air Products lawyers contend Airgas executives have
improperly erected multiple anti-takeover defenses to give
themselves the tools to rebuff all buyout offers without
shareholders’ support.  Chandler must decide whether Airgas officials are acting
reasonably by refusing to deactivate the poison pill, which is
designed to make hostile takeovers of the gas distributor
prohibitively expensive.  The case is Air Products and Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
CA5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Robert Bosch Settles Antitrust Suit Against SGL Carbon  Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s biggest automotive supplier,
settled a U.K. lawsuit accusing  SGL Carbon SE  of overcharging
for graphite products during an 11-year price-fixing cartel.  Terms of the accord are private and neither company was
ordered to pay the other’s costs in the case, Justice Gerald
Barling wrote Feb. 7 in a  notice  on the website of the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London.  Stuttgart, Germany-based Robert Bosch’s settlement doesn’t
involve other customers or cartel participants in the four-year-
old lawsuit by  Valeo SA , France’s second-largest car-parts
maker, and St. Louis-based  Emerson Electric Co . Other defendants
in the case include Morgan Crucible Co. and Schunk GmbH.  The companies sued after the European Union in 2003 fined
Wiesbaden, Germany-based SGL and other cartel members a total of
101 million euros ($137 million) for fixing prices on graphite
products from 1988 to 1999. While Morgan Crucible received
immunity from the fines because it was the first to cooperate,
its former Chief Executive Officer Ian Norris was sentenced to
18 months in prison in a U.S. case over his role in the cartel.  “SGL Group had no relevant sales with the two remaining
claimants, Emerson and Valeo,” SGL spokeswoman Corinna Gemein
said in an e-mail.  Robert Bosch spokesman Achim Schneider confirmed the
settlement and declined to comment further when reached by
phone.  Authorities began investigating price-fixing in the
industry in 1997, prompting SGL to pay $145 million to the U.S.
to head off criminal indictments. France’s Carbone Lorraine SA
and Austria’s Hoffmann & Co. were also involved in the cartel.  In a related case, the cartel members were sued in London
in December by Deutsche Bahn AG and other rail companies in
Britain, Germany and Italy, seeking to recover overpayments for
carbon and graphite products.  Citigroup, Ally Class-Action Foreclosure Suit Dropped  Kentucky homeowners dropped a possible class-action lawsuit
which accused units of  Citigroup Inc . and Ally Financial Inc. of
conspiring with Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc. to
falsely foreclose on loans.  Heather Boone McKeever, the Lexington, Kentucky, lawyer who
sued on behalf of the homeowners, said yesterday by e-mail that
she dropped the case Feb. 3 because as a solo practitioner she
wouldn’t be able to clear the “necessary hurdles” for
maintaining a federal class action and she couldn’t interest a
larger law firm. She said she continues to advise the plaintiffs
in their individual state-court cases.  “My plan is to try to keep the cases in state court by
filing class-action counterclaims against the individual
creditors and MERS in each family’s action,” she said.  The lawsuit, filed as a civil-racketeering case on behalf
of all Kentucky homeowners facing foreclosure, also named as a
defendant Reston, Virginia-based MERS, the company that handles
mortgage transfers among member banks.  MERS and banks have been accused in at least two other
federal suits of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act. A Florida case was thrown out Jan. 31 by a
judge in Miami. Another was filed in Brooklyn, New York.  The Kentucky homeowners filed their complaint Sept. 28 in
Louisville. They claimed that through MERS the banks are
foreclosing on homes even when they don’t hold titles to the
properties. The suit was dismissed without prejudice, meaning
that the homeowners can refile it.  The case is Foster v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 10-cv-611, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Kentucky (Louisville).  Antitrust Trial Involving  News Corp . Unit Begins  In opening remarks, a lawyer said that a News Corp. unit
disparaged a smaller rival and broke antitrust law while
attempting to dominate the U.S. in-store advertising market.  The rival,  Insignia Systems Inc ., sued News America
Marketing In-Store Inc. in federal court in Minneapolis in 2004,
alleging violations of U.S. antitrust law and the Lanham Act,
which prohibits unfair disparagement of competitors.  “This trial will show how News set out to be not just the
largest company, it wants to be the only company that can put
the sign in the aisle,” Julian Solotorovsky, Minneapolis-based
Insignia’s lawyer, said yesterday at the start of the trial.
“News is using illegal conduct to obtain a monopoly.”  News Corp. previously settled unfair-competition suits
brought by two other rivals in the in-store advertising and
promotions market. The New York-based company agreed last year
to pay $500 million to Valassis Communications Inc. It paid
$29.5 million in 2009 to settle a claim of anticompetitive
behavior brought by Floorgraphics Inc.  News Corp. has denied any unfair or illegal behavior.  “News America Marketing continues to view Insignia’s
allegations as meritless,” Laura Richards, vice president of
the company, said in an e-mailed statement. The company “looks
forward to showing at trial that it was Insignia’s own faulty
business model that caused its business to fail,” she said.  “Competition is alive and well in the in-store advertising
market,” Richard L. Stone, News America’s attorney, said in his
opening statement yesterday. “Insignia is asking you to make
News America pay for all of its problems.”  “News America has been losing tens of millions of dollars
to its competitors,” Stone told the jury. “Doesn’t sound like
a monopoly, does it?”  News Corp. competes in stores with Insignia to run
promotions for food companies including  Sara Lee Corp ., putting
signs on shelves, ads in shopping carts and coupons at checkout
counters. The companies create and sell in-store advertising and
promotional materials to consumer-goods companies for placement
in stores and buy placement rights from retailers.  News America’s promotional materials include in-store
machines that dispense coupons and shelf signs with product
prices. Insignia’s primary product is a shelf sign, called Pop
Signs, designed to attract customers at point of purchase,
according to court filings.  Insignia claims that News America entered into exclusive
contracts with retailers, paid the stores to boycott Insignia
and used predatory pricing and bundling of advertising and
promotion products, in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  The case is Insignia Systems Inc. v. News America Marketing
In-Store Inc., 04-cv-04213, U.S. District Court for the District
of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more, click here.  WaMu Judge Allows Probe of Insider-Trading Claims    Washington Mutual Inc . shareholders won a judge’s
permission to question hedge funds about allegations they used
confidential information to trade in the bankrupt company’s
securities.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath approved the
investigation yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.
Authorizing depositions and document subpoenas may be the only
way to determine whether the hedge funds violated bankruptcy
rules on insider trading, she said.  “The allegation that troubles the court is that you used
that information to trade in the debtors’ securities,” Walrath
told a lawyer for one of the four hedge funds. “I don’t know of
anybody who feels that is proper.”  After Seattle-based WaMu filed for bankruptcy in 2008,
hedge funds bought debt securities, some for pennies on the
dollar, issued by the bank holding company and its former
banking unit, Washington Mutual Bank. The hedge funds then
battled each other, shareholders, creditors, regulators and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., about how to divide the company’s assets.  WaMu ended most of the battles last year by agreeing to
split billions of dollars in cash and tax refunds among its
creditors, including the hedge funds, JPMorgan and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. The settlement is the central feature of
the company’s plan to end its bankruptcy by paying more than $7
billion to creditors.  A committee of shareholders will investigate allegations of
insider trading made against Appaloosa Management LP, Owl Creek
Asset Management LP, Centerbridge Partners LP and Aurelius
Capital Management LP. The hedge funds denied the allegations
yesterday and in previously filed court papers. At their
request, Walrath agreed to limit the inquiry.  “We feel highly confident there will be no issue, but it
will be extremely expensive to litigate,” Thomas Moers Mayer,
an attorney for Aurelius, told Walrath during the hearing. The
hedge funds don’t need to turn over any business plans they may
have for WaMu once the bankruptcy case ends and an insurance
unit is reorganized, Walrath said.  WaMu filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to New
York-based JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. Washington Mutual Bank was
the biggest bank to fail in U.S. history, with more than 2,200
branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  