-- IPhone Application Costing $1.99 Aims to Help Catholics Confess Their Sins
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2011-02-09T16:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/iphone-app-priced-at-1-99-helps-catholics-confess-their-sins.html
Catholics who are more comfortable
with technology than with church sacraments can now use a $1.99
iPhone application to help get them through the process of
confession.  The application, available on  Apple Inc.’s iTunes store ,
walks users through an examination of their conscience,
including a review of past actions and identification of sins.  Confession: A Roman Catholic App., is designed as a
refresher course for lapsed Catholics who’ve forgotten how the
sacrament of penance works, according to developer  LittleiApps
LLC .  The app has received an imprimatur, or official church
authorization to publish, from Bishop Kevin C. Rhodes of  Indiana . Absolution can still only be granted in person by an
ordained priest. Vatican spokesman  Federico Lombardi  said today
in a statement that confession can’t take place over an iPhone.    Pope Benedict XVI , spiritual leader to more than 1 billion
Catholics, is seeking to use modern technology to reach
followers while maintaining traditions developed during the
church’s 2,000-year history. His predecessor,  John Paul II ,
endorsed the Internet as a tool to “promote justice and
solidarity.”  The 83-year-old pontiff made his debut on Google Inc.’s
YouTube video-sharing site in 2009. He made his first foray onto
Catholic Internet chat forums in 2008.  Vatican officials such as Cardinal Crescenzio Sepe have
used sites like Facebook Inc. to “spread the word of God,”
though Italian bishops have warned followers about the dangers
of social networking with strangers on the Internet.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  