-- Japan’s Machinery Orders Rise for First Month in Four
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2011-02-10T01:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/japan-s-december-machinery-orders-rise-1-7-first-increase-in-four-months.html
Japanese machinery orders rose for
the first time in four months in December, a sign that companies
will increase spending to meet demand from abroad.  Factory orders increased 1.7 percent from November, when
they dropped 3 percent, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.
Orders, an indicator of capital spending in three to six months,
were projected to climb 5 percent, according to the median
forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Demand from  China  and the U.S., Japan’s biggest export
markets, is improving corporate earnings and prompting companies
including Mitsubishi Electric Corp. and Hino Motors Ltd. to
invest in plants and equipment. Companies surveyed by the
government forecast orders will increase 2.7 percent this
quarter after contracting at the end of 2010, the report showed.  “Japan’s capital investment is in an expansionary trend,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo. “The economy is emerging from a slump, but it’s difficult
to anticipate companies speeding up the pace of investment.”  Maruyama said growing profits may encourage companies to
invest more overseas given that demand abroad for Japanese
products is growing.  The yen traded at 82.42 per dollar at 9:40 a.m. in Tokyo,
compared with 82.44 before the report was published. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average fell 0.4 percent.  Production Advance  Economic data for December suggest that Japan’s export-led
recovery has withstood an appreciation in the yen, which has
gained more than 8 percent in the past year. Industrial
production increased the most in 11 months and export growth
accelerated in December.  Japanese companies’ earnings are recovering as sales to
Asian emerging markets and the U.S. increase.  Mitsubishi Electric, a Japanese maker of factory equipment
and home appliances, plans  capital spending  of more than 200
billion yen ($2.4 billion) in the year starting April compared
with 185 billion yen the current fiscal year, company President
Kenichiro Yamanishi said last month.  Hino Motors will build a new truck plant in Japan’s Ibaraki
prefecture, President Yoshio Shirai said in January. The plant
will make medium and large-size trucks for the Japanese and
overseas markets, the company said.  “The recovery in overseas demand is gradually spilling
over to domestic demand by improving corporate earnings,”  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo,
said before the report. “Business spending will likely recover
gradually.”  Prices Rise  A separate report today showed producer prices rose 1.6
percent in January, the fourth consecutive increase and beating
the median estimate of 28 economists for a 1.4 percent gain.  More interest-rate increases by China could slow demand for
Japanese exports, said Hiroshi Shiraishi, an economist at BNP
Paribas SA in Tokyo. China raised rates on Feb. 8 for the third
time since mid-October to counter accelerating inflation.  “In the near-term, the growth momentum of  China’s economy 
could be weakened a bit by China’s rate increases and possible
further increases in the future,” Shiraishi said. “‘There’s a
possibility that exports from Japan to China may slow a bit.”  A government report due next week will likely show that
Japan’s economy contracted at an annualized 1.9 percent in the
final quarter of 2010 as consumers cut back spending, according
to the median forecast of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. A government subsidy program to buy fuel-efficient cars
ended in September.  Domestic capital spending “demand is far from strong and
we think a full recovery will take time,” said Chiwoong Lee,
senior economist at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo. “We forecast a weak
trend for the whole of fiscal 2011.”  From a year earlier, machinery orders fell 1.6 percent in
December, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  