-- Kan's Failure to Break Japanese Budget Impasse Means Early Election Risk
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2011-02-10T08:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/japan-s-failure-to-break-japanese-budget-impasse-means-early-election-risk.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
inability to break a stalemate over budget legislation threatens
to make him the fifth straight premier to last no more than a
year and end efforts to rein in the world’s largest public debt.  Kan has been unable to persuade opposition lawmakers to
agree on financing bills for his record 92.4 trillion yen ($1.1
trillion) budget that begins in April, 44.3 trillion yen of
which must be funded by  government bonds . Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  last week said Japan’s economy faces “the risk
of economic slowdown” if parliament fails to move.  Failure to pass the budget may force Kan, who took office
in June, to dissolve the lower house of parliament, triggering
an election at a time when support for the  Democratic Party of
Japan  is slumping because of finance scandals and regional
diplomatic disputes. Without the bills the government’s revenue
shortfall could cause bond yields to rise, hurting an economy
already threatened by rising welfare costs and deflation.  “There’s a high possibility that Kan will dissolve the
lower house in June in exchange for passage of the budget-
related bills,” said Ryuichi Doi, a DPJ lower house lawmaker
and member of Kan’s political faction. “He may ask the public
whether it will support his reform plans. We are entering a
period where we must think about a post-Kan DPJ.”  No ‘Coherent Strategy’    Standard & Poor’s  last month cut the country’s debt rating
to AA-, the fourth-highest level. The agency cited the DPJ’s
lack of “coherent strategy” in dealing with a debt approaching
200 percent of gross domestic product and the possibility that
the funding bills won’t be authorized.  Japanese bonds today rose, snapping a five-day decline,
with yields on the 10-year note falling one basis point to 1.315
as of the 11:05 a.m. break in Tokyo. 10-year yields yesterday
touched 1.35 percent, the highest in almost 10 months. Yuji Shimanaka, chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said the political situation could send
the yield to 1.65 percent in June.  “The risk is rising” that the bills don’t get approved,
said DPJ Upper House legislator Kenzo Fujisue. “What I’m most
afraid of is a plunge in government bond prices.”  Kan is pushing for an increase in the country’s 5 percent  consumption tax  and seeking to join the U.S.-led  Trans-Pacific
Partnership  trade talks with nine Asia-Pacific countries by June.
He has also is set to lower the corporate tax by 5 percent and
has proposed increasing monthly child allowances.  No Compromise  The  Liberal Democratic Party  and other opposition groups
have attacked his policies and shown no inclination to
compromise. The funding bills require approval of either the
opposition-controlled  Upper House  or a two-thirds majority in
the Lower House, which the DPJ doesn’t have. The budget itself
can be passed by a simple majority in the lower chamber.  LDP lawmaker Takeshi Noda said his party is “clearly
opposed to” the budget bills. Keiichi Ishii, a lawmaker in the
smaller New Komeito Party said his party is opposed as well.  “If Mr. Kan is serious about the consumption tax, he
should seek a public mandate as soon as possible,” Noda said in
a Feb. 7 interview. “Dissolving the lower house in March and
holding an election in April would be best.”  Kan this week reiterated that he is “giving absolutely no
thought at this time” to dissolving the Diet.  Historic Victory  The Democrats won an historic victory in August 2009 by
ousting the LDP from more than half a century of almost unbroken
power.  Yukio Hatoyama , the DPJ’s first premier, stepped down
after eight months, dogged by financial improprieties and a
dispute over a U.S. military base in Okinawa. Kan’s popularity
has dropped by more than half since taking over.  Kan’s approval rating fell to 27 percent this month,
according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published on Feb. 3, from
66 percent in September after a Cabinet reshuffle. The paper,
Japan’s largest, surveyed 1,030 people on Feb. 1-2 and provided
no margin of error.  The party has also been hurt by a campaign finance scandal
involving former DPJ leader  Ichiro Ozawa . Ozawa, who lost a
leadership battle with Kan in September, was indicted last week.
Ozawa told reporters that he met with Kan today and refused a
request to leave the party until the end of the trial.  “Kan’s whole program could be wiped away in the next few
weeks,” said Aurelia George Mulgan, a Japanese politics
professor at the  University of New South Wales  in Canberra,  Australia . “That’s what’s so frustrating about Japanese
politics. The political gyrations are massive and frequent.”  Regional Elections  Regional elections in April may increase pressure on the
ruling party. DPJ candidates lost races on Feb. 6 for mayor of
Nagoya, Japan’s fourth-largest city, as well as for governor of
the prefecture of Aichi.  Japan will hold elections on April 10 and 24 for 13 of the
country’s 47 prefectural governors, as well as for mayors and
assemblies around the country.  “Kan may face a situation in March where he has to choose
dissolution or resignation,” said Atsuo Ito, a political
analyst and author of a book on the DPJ. “I think he’ll choose
dissolution, perhaps in June.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  