-- JPMorgan Seeks Jury Trial in $6.4 Billion Madoff Case
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-02-09T21:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/jpmorgan-chase-asks-judge-to-move-madoff-case-from-u-s-bankruptcy-court.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., sued by the
trustee for  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm for $6.4 billion for
allegedly aiding the con man’s fraud, asked a judge to remove
the case from bankruptcy court because it raises “novel and
unsettled questions” beyond the court’s scope and expertise.  In a lawsuit unsealed last week, Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  accused JPMorgan of actively assisting Madoff’s crimes to
protect earnings from his bank accounts, in the process
violating federal banking law. The earnings were “wholly
immaterial” and the allegations about law-breaking were “not
the domain of bankruptcy law,” JPMorgan said yesterday.  Picard was appointed to liquidate the Madoff brokerage
firm, JPMorgan said in a filing in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Instead, he is mostly pursuing non-bankruptcy claims
on behalf of Madoff’s customers, the bank said.  “The trustee is trying to pursue an enormous backdoor
class action to recoup damages incurred by individuals and
entities other than the firm to which he is the appointed
successor,” said JPMorgan, the second-biggest  U.S. bank .  Addressing a U.S. District Court in Manhattan, the New
York-based bank said it has a right to a jury trial by law in an
appropriate federal court. Picard “falsely” accused the bank
of complicity in the largest  securities fraud  in U.S. history,
JPMorgan said.  Madoff opened accounts with JPMorgan or banks it bought in
1986, depositing customer investments and transferring money out
of the accounts, the bank said in the filling. Its fees were
$597,000 in the six years before Madoff’s 2008 bankruptcy, it
said, citing Picard. JPMorgan earned less than $3.5 million in
interest by loaning $145 million to Madoff’s firm in 2005 and
2006, the bank said.  Starting in 2006, JPMorgan invested about $338 million in
four Madoff feeder funds, whose assets were managed by Madoff.
The investments were “a hedge” for financial products tied to
Madoff’s reported returns, it said. JPMorgan redeemed
$276 million of its original investments in the funds after
buying Bear Stearns in 2008, losing the rest when the  Ponzi
scheme  was revealed, it said.  Picard wants to recoup the money redeemed, the loan
payments, interest and fees, in addition to $5.4 billion in
damages, allegedly the amount lost by Madoff customers in the
four years through December 2008, JPMorgan said. To get the
damages, he used theories of aiding and abetting fraud and
breach of fiduciary duty, as well as a theory of fraud on
regulators, it said.  The Madoff trustee’s suit against JPMorgan is “very
aggressive,” bankruptcy lawyer  Harvey Miller  told Bloomberg
Television today. “He is pushing the envelope to the limit.”  ‘Aiding and Abetting’  According to a statement by Picard last week, JPMorgan had
a “decades-long role” as Madoff’s primary banker, “aiding and
abetting” the fraud. While the bank was warned Madoff may have
been running a Ponzi scheme and “had a palpable concern that
Madoff was a fraud for years,” it wasn’t until October 2008
that it reported Madoff to government officials, the trustee’s
lawyers said in the statement.  The banks’ executives didn’t restrict the Madoff firm’s
bank account “even though it was being used to launder money
from the Ponzi scheme,” they said.  In response, JPMorgan said Picard’s interpretation of
banking law “would impose broad investigative duties on banks
that do not exist.”  While federal banking laws do provide “broad guidelines”
for detecting  money laundering , the guidelines have rarely been
interpreted by the courts, it said.  Picard asserted a “novel claim” that JPMorgan committed a
fraud on regulators including the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Federal Reserve  by not alerting them to
Madoff’s crimes, it said.  ‘Array’ of Statutes  “The bank’s relationships with its regulators are governed
by an array of federal statutes and regulations, none of which
creates an express private right of action against banks for
fraud on the regulator,” it said.  Picard would have to prove in the correct federal court
that he had a right to pursue a claim of fraud on regulators, it
said.  Kevin McCue, a Picard spokesman, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the JPMorgan filing.  JPMorgan is leading a “charge in legal maneuver” to slow
trustees, St. John’s University business professor Anthony Michael Sabino said in an e-mailed statement. He predicted
JPMorgan and others fighting Picard would lose the fight, saying
Picard had a right under bankruptcy law to bring lawsuits to
recover money for Madoff customers.  The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The adversary case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase
& Co., 10-AP-4932,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 