-- NBA Commissioner Says `Correction' Needed in New Labor Deal With Players
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-09T20:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nba-commissioner-says-correction-needed-in-new-labor-deal-with-players.html
National Basketball Association
Commissioner David Stern said progress in the league’s labor
impasse will hinge on whether players recognize that problems in
the current contract need to be corrected.  The NBA’s collective bargaining agreement expires June 30
and the league and its players union disagree on issues such as
percentage of shared revenue, minimum age requirements and
changes in salary cap rules.  Stern, in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations With  Judy Woodruff ” to be broadcast this
weekend, said the current labor deal pays out a percentage of
revenue to the players that’s too high. The NBA has projected
losses of about $350 million this season and Stern has said that
owners want to reduce player salaries by as much as $800 million
annually.  “The key to resolving it is the players realizing that
it’s been a great run,” Stern said. “There has to be a
correction that enables the players to continue to be the
highest-paid players in all of sport, to allow the owners to
make a profit, and to allow our fans to believe that we have a
system where all 30 teams can compete.”  Dan Wasserman, a union spokesman, said negotiated salaries
for players have declined three years in a row, while league
revenue has been at “all-time highs” during the same period.  “Such a system and results work to the benefit of the NBA
and its owners,” Wasserman said in an e-mail. “A lockout is
not a cure or a correction, it simply undermines the league’s
current business momentum.”  ‘Disappointment’  While the two sides are far apart in negotiations, the
commissioner said the focus remains on reaching an agreement,
not imposing a lockout. The NBA’s last work stoppage was a 191-
day lockout in 1998 that resulted in a 50-game season and
damaged the league’s popularity.  “It would be a great disappointment to our fans, to our
players and to our owners,” Stern said. “So it’s not something
that we’re looking at in an inviting way, and we’re not talking
about a lockout right now. What we’re talking about is reaching
a deal.”  NBA owners and the National Basketball Players Association
representatives are scheduled to meet during All-Star weekend
Feb. 18-20 in  Los Angeles .  The average player salary was $5.85 million during the
2009-10 season, according to the NBA, the highest in any
professional North American sports league. The players’ union
has said the current collective bargaining agreement is working,
citing an increase in television revenue as well as ticket and
merchandise sales.  Little Progress  Little progress has been made in the labor talks since
players rejected the league’s offer during the All-Star break a
year ago. Wasserman said the players association never received
a response from the NBA after their July proposal.  Union Executive Director Billy Hunter said he’s tried to
prepare players for the loss of the 2011-12 season.  “Our players are well aware and convinced that it will be
a lockout and may be a protracted lockout,” Hunter said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview on Feb. 4. “We’re trying to negotiate
a reasonable deal that’s favorable to both sides, but we just
can’t seem to move in that direction.”  Hunter helped negotiate the NBA’s last two labor deals,
including in 2005, when an agreement was reached about one week
before the previous contract was set to expire.  With four months until the deadline this year, Stern said
he’s optimistic about reaching a consensus.  “It’s early,” Stern said. “That gives people of goodwill
a lot of time to get their dancing and prancing and posturing
out of the way and hopefully sit down and do their best to make
a deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  