-- New Jersey’s Bond Rating Cut by Standard & Poor’s
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-02-09T23:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/new-jersey-bond-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-growing-pension-health-obligations.html
New Jersey’s bond rating was
downgraded to AA-, the fourth-highest level, from AA by  Standard
& Poor’s , which cited the state’s growing pension and health-
care obligations.  “The clock is ticking away on a pension and benefit bomb
that can damage the health of the finances of our state,”
Governor  Chris Christie , a first-term Republican, said at a
town-hall meeting in Union City today. “If we don’t show we’re
going to reform this system, it will cost New Jersey.”  New Jersey is among 44 U.S. states facing a combined $125
billion of  budget deficits  next fiscal year, the Washington-
based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  said in a report
Feb. 7. Pressure to fund employee retirements will continue to
have a “negative impact” on state credit ratings, Moody’s
Investors Service said Jan. 27.  Christie, 48, has focused on slashing spending after
pledging not to raise taxes on residents who pay the highest
real-estate levies in the nation. He faces a budget gap of as
much as $10.5 billion next year, more than a third of his
current $29.4 billion spending plan, the nonpartisan Office of
Legislative Services projected in July.  The governor is urging the Democratic-controlled
Legislature to approve his proposals aimed at reducing the cost
of state pensions and benefits. His measures would reverse a 9
percent benefit increase approved in 2001, raise the  retirement
age  and freeze annual cost-of-living increases.  Acting Swiftly  “While New Jersey’s bonds remain sound and respected
investments, this downgrade highlights the real danger of
failing to act swiftly on critical pension, health-benefit and
fiscal reforms,” state Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said
in a  statement . “The financial markets can send no clearer
signal that the Legislature needs to follow the governor’s lead
and act on the pension and benefit reforms he proposed last
September -- legislation that is critical to reviving the
economy and restoring the state’s fiscal integrity.”  New Jersey’s pension-funding deficit increased by $8.05
billion, or 18 percent, to $53.9 billion as of June as the state
failed to make contributions. The state also has an unfunded
liability of $66.8 billion for providing medical care to retired
public employees, the treasury department said in December.  Underfunded Systems  U.S. states and local governments face a $3.6 trillion gap
between their pension assets and what they’ve promised retirees,
according to a study by Robert Novy-Marx of the University of
Rochester and  Joshua Rauh  at  Northwestern University .  Christie skipped a $3 billion pension payment in the
current fiscal year. He said this month he intends to restart
payments into the system this year with a partial contribution
of $512 million if lawmakers act on his overhaul plan.  “The Assembly is not about to be lectured by a governor
whose budget policies have led to massive property-tax hikes and
a ballooning pension deficit,” Assembly Majority Leader Joe Cryan, a Union Democrat, said in a statement. “It’s time for
this governor to be held accountable for his actions and stop
blaming everyone else.”  S&P’s lower rating applies to $2.6 billion in general-
obligation debt, the evaluator said in its report. The company
also cut its ranking to A+ from AA- on $27.8 billion in
appropriation-backed debt and to A- from A on $2.5 billion in
moral-obligation debt.  S&P has a stable outlook on  New Jersey ’s bonds, which it
said reflects its view that the state “will continue to manage
its structural budget imbalances proactively.”  Some Progress  New Jersey has to make some “meaningful progress” in
moving toward full funding of its pension system, S&P analyst
Jeff Panger said in a telephone interview.  “The first step is to stabilize,” Panger said. “That
doesn’t mean stabilizing is going to get them an upgrade. But
they need to eliminate some of the pressures they’re feeling
from a budgetary standpoint by addressing the pension.”  Robert Master, political director for the  Communications
Workers of America  New Jersey, which represents 55,000 state and
local government employees in the Garden State, said his union
hasn’t met face to face with Christie since he took office. The
CWA would be open to discussions on controlling costs provided,
the governor begins full payments into the fund, he said.  “The blame rests at his feet and the feet of all the other
governors who over the last 15 years failed to make full pension
contributions,” Master said in a telephone interview. “And now
a ratings agency has rendered a verdict on that.”  Negative Outlook  Moody’s cited the debt load and pension underfunding in
cutting its outlook on New Jersey’s credit to negative last
year. The state’s general-obligation debt is rated Aa2 by
Moody’s, the third-highest rank.  S&P’s downgrade is its first of a state since it cut
California’s rating in January 2010. Only  California  and  Illinois  have lower credit ratings than New Jersey. The
downgrade makes New Jersey tied for third-lowest with  Arizona ,  Kentucky ,  Louisiana  and  Michigan .  Moody’s today said it shifted its outlook for Arizona’s
bonds to negative from stable, an indication that ratings on the
state’s debt may be cut. Moody’s cited “budget deficits,
depletion of reserves” and “increased limits on the state’s
financial flexibility due to federal government mandates related
to Medicaid funding.”  ‘Not Unexpected’  The New Jersey downgrade by S&P “was not unexpected,”
said Ed Reinoso, who manages $300 million as chief executive
officer of Castleton Partners in New York. Across the entire
municipal market, “you should expect to see downgrades on
almost everything this year,” he said.  Negative news reports about New Jersey finances had already
pushed the state’s yields wider than AA rated bonds, said Daniel Solender, who oversees $15 billion as head of municipal bonds at
Jersey City-based Lord Abbett & Co.  A seven-year New Jersey general-obligation bond traded
today at an average yield of 3.24 percent, about 6 basis points
higher than a Bloomberg Fair Market Value index of AA- debt
maturing in 2018. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Most of it is already priced into the market,” Solender
said of the credit downgrade.  Christie said the downgrade indicated a loss of confidence
in state finances and may increase future borrowing costs. The
expense of pension benefits has outstripped the rate of
contributions and New Jersey’s ability to fund them, he said.  “We’re $54 billion in debt, not just because contributions
haven’t been made by the state but because benefits are too
rich,” Christie said. “I’m doing this because I want to save
public pensions, not eliminate them.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Terrence Dopp in  New
York  at   tdopp@bloomberg.net ; Martin Braun in
New York at   mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  