-- News Corp.'s Fox Network Says It May Drop Stations in Dispute Over Fees
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/news-corp-s-fox-says-it-may-drop-affiliate-stations-without-program-fee.html
  News Corp .’s Fox network said it may
drop some affiliates if the local TV stations are unwilling to
pay a program fee sought by the broadcaster.  Without an agreement on a new fee schedule, Fox “will have
to pursue different distribution channels to receive fair value
for our programming and continue to serve our viewers,” Michael
C. Hopkins, president of affiliate sales and marketing, said in
a Feb. 4 letter to station owners.  Fox said it would seek direct talks with station owners
after nine months of discussions with the affiliates’ board
“made no progress.” Fox is demanding a share of so-called
retransmission fees that stations are starting to receive from
cable and satellite-TV systems for access to local signals.  “I don’t think they’re bluffing,” said  Laura Martin , an
analyst with Needham & Co. in  Pasadena ,  California . “They were
tough when they negotiated with Time Warner and other cable
operators.”  Fox network shows   American Idol ,” “Glee,” and NFL and
Major League Baseball games are part of the programming that
local affiliates air, Martin said. “They think their content is
worth more than they are being paid for it.”  News Corp. climbed 32 cents to $16.91 yesterday in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. The shares have risen 16 percent this
year.  “Fox’s negotiations with our affiliates are a private
business matter and as such those discussions are private,” the
network said yesterday in a statement provided by its spokesman,  Scott Grogin .  Broadcast Profit  Fox is seeking to generate as much as $1 billion in annual
operating earnings at its U.S. broadcast business within the
next couple of years, News Corp. Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  said on a Feb. 2 conference call. He said the amounts
being sought are in the hundreds of millions of dollars.  “This is a big number,” Carey said. “It changes the
nature of this business, and in many ways I think the  broadcast
network  should look like a cable network and should have two
meaningful streams of revenue -- subscription and advertising.”  The affiliates’ negotiating committee said in a Jan. 28
letter to members that Fox “summarily rejected” several
proposals to share revenue over the next 10 years. Fox’s offer
is “substantially worse” than what NBC, CBS and ABC, are
proposing, they said.  “We are now deeply concerned Fox may have no intention of
negotiating such an equitable deal,” Brian Brady, president and
chief executive officer of Northwest Broadcasting in Okemos,  Michigan  and chairman of the Fox affiliate board, said in the
letter.  Fox is attempting a “strategy to divide and conquer,”
Brady said. He said the network has already identified
affiliates “to use as an example” and by taking away one
station’s affiliation it can force the others to “fall into
line.”  Brady “unfairly characterizes” Fox’s negotiating stance,
network executive Hopkins said in his letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  