-- News Corp. Pays $125 Million to Settle Insignia Suit, Ending Federal Trial
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-02-09T22:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/news-corp-pays-125-million-to-settle-insignia-suit-ending-federal-trial.html
A  News Corp . unit will pay
$125 million to Insignia Systems Inc. to settle a lawsuit
claiming it disparaged its rival and broke antitrust law while
attempting to dominate the U.S. in-store advertising market.  The accord announced today ends a trial that began in
federal court in Minneapolis yesterday. Insignia was seeking
triple damages on its antitrust claim, alleging that it lost
hundreds of millions of dollars as a result of anti-competitive
behavior by the News America Marketing unit.  The settlement doesn’t include an admission of liability,
News America said today. Under the settlement, Insignia will
enter into a 10-year exclusive agreement with News America to
sell signs and pay $4 million to the News Corp. unit.  “We view this settlement as a prudent business decision
for News America Marketing,” Chris Mixson, News America
president, said in a statement today. The 10-year-exclusive
agreement “has the potential to be very profitable for both
companies,” he said.  Insignia Systems sued its larger rival in  Minneapolis  in
2004, alleging violations of U.S. antitrust law and the Lanham
Act, which prohibits unfair disparagement of competitors.
Lawyers for Insignia and News America gave opening statements in
the first day of trial yesterday.  ‘Avoid Protracted Litigation’  “I am pleased that we were able to reach a mutually
agreeable settlement and avoid protracted litigation,” Insignia
President Scott Drill said in a statement today.  News Corp., owner of the Fox television network and the
Wall Street Journal, previously settled unfair-competition suits
brought by two other rivals in the in-store advertising and
promotions market. The New York-based company agreed last year
to pay $500 million to  Valassis Communications Inc . It paid
$29.5 million in 2009 to settle a claim of anti-competitive
behavior brought by Floorgraphics Inc.  News America competes in stores with Insignia to run
promotions for food companies including  Sara Lee Corp ., putting
signs on shelves, ads on shopping carts and coupons at checkout
counters. The companies create and sell in-store advertising and
promotional materials to consumer-goods companies for placement
in stores and buy placement rights from retailers.  News America’s promotional materials include in-store
machines that dispense coupons and shelf signs with product
prices. Insignia’s primary product is a shelf sign, called Pop
Signs, designed to attract customers at point of purchase,
according to court filings.  Insignia claimed that News America entered into exclusive
contracts with retailers, paid the stores to boycott Insignia
and used predatory pricing and bundling of advertising and
promotion products, in violation of U.S. antitrust law.  Insignia also claimed News America disparaged it to
customers, telling the consumer-goods companies that they would
be throwing their money away by contracting with Insignia.  The case is  Insignia Systems Inc . v. News America Marketing
In-Store Inc., 04-cv-04213, U.S. District Court for the District
of  Minnesota  (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 