-- News Corp. Said to Be Closer to Buying Elisabeth Murdoch’s Shine
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2011-02-09T14:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/news-corp-said-closer-to-buying-elisabeth-murdoch-s-tv-production-company.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp . is nearer
to acquiring his daughter’s television production company, Shine
Group Ltd., two people familiar with the matter said.  A deal for News Corp. to purchase Elisabeth Murdoch’s U.K.-
based Shine, which produces hit shows such as “MasterChef” and
“Merlin,” may come as early as next week, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  A purchase of Shine by News Corp. would bring Elisabeth
back into the fold of her father’s media empire, where she
worked until 2000 at  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc . Shine
said last month it hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to advise on
strategic options and growth opportunities, citing “the current
consolidation within the international production sector.”  Last month, two people familiar with the talks said Shine
may be worth 800 million pounds ($1.28 billion). News Corp.,
Shine and JPMorgan today declined to comment on the matter.  Shine, which Elisabeth founded in 2001, supplies television
content to U.K. TV companies including BSkyB, the British
Broadcasting Corp. and  ITV Plc . A deal for Shine would follow  Time Warner Inc .’s purchase of another U.K. production company,
Shed Media, for 100 million pounds last August. Shed Media is
behind shows such as “Supernanny” and “Footballers’ Wives.”  ‘Everything’s Fine’  Elisabeth, 42, declined a seat on the board of her father’s
company in 2009 because it would conflict with her ownership of
Shine. Joining the board of News Corp., which owns 39.1 percent
of BSkyB, would have meant Elisabeth would no longer qualify as
an independent producer.  When asked about the possibility of having his sister back
inside News Corp. last week, James Murdoch, the head of News
Corp.’s European and Asian operations, responded: “It’s fine.
Everything is fine.”  The  Guardian newspaper  earlier reported that the two sides 
were closer to a deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 