-- NFL's Customer Contempt Sets Super Bowl Record: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2011-02-09T13:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nfl-customer-contempt-sets-super-bowl-record-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
National Football League Commissioner
Roger Goodell and his executive-suite teammates ought to be
ashamed of their performance at the  Super Bowl , where even
Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger  had a better
night.  So much for a commissioner who only days before had labeled
himself a caretaker of the customer.  It was Goodell who stood before a phalanx of cameras and
promised to serve as an advocate for the fans, and not just the
owners who pay his salary. The paying customers, he said, aren’t
to be overlooked or underappreciated.  It all rings so empty after the ticket flap that occurred
at the Super Bowl, which was staged inside a glistening revenue
orb built by Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones , who, along with
the NFL, wanted the biggest in-person audience and got an even
bigger headache.  Jones smiled wide all week. He accepted and doled out pats
on the back for luring the biggest game to north Texas. Biggest
and best, we kept hearing about the Super Bowl, which  Green Bay 
won in front of more than 103,000 people, shy of the record
audience that witnessed the 1980 Super Bowl played in the Rose
Bowl.  The NFL -- and Jones in particular -- do big, all right.
Only this time their money and attention-grab was too big.
Somehow, even with years to ensure proper planning, someone
goofed. Sections of temporary seats weren’t safe, leaving those
with tickets without a place to sit.  Do Tell  The NFL, which knew about the potential problem days
earlier but didn’t tell fans, is looking into what went wrong,
it says.  “Manpower and timing issues caused inconveniences to some
fans,” Jones said in a statement that was more clueless than
conciliatory.  Hundreds of fans who purchased tickets, who came to  Texas 
from all over the map, who didn’t let icy highways and airlines
delays diminish their desire to see their team play for the
championship, were out of luck.  There was a problem with some of the seats that were
installed so that even more people could be crammed inside
Jones’s cash register. Turns out the fire marshal wasn’t so
pleased with the plan’s execution.  Television Monitors  Some 400 ticket holders had to watch on television monitors
inside a field-level club behind the Pittsburgh bench.  When the subject is television blackouts, NFL executives
will argue that nothing equals the experience of being inside
the stadium, of seeing, feeling and touching the game in person.
They’re right, which is why their game-night solution wasn’t a
solution at all.  The NFL said it would issue a refund for three times the
face value of the tickets. The league originally invited
affected fans to next season’s game in Indianapolis and
yesterday added the option of one free ticket, round-trip
airfare and hotel accommodations to any future Super Bowl.  The offer of any game may still make it a long wait for
those wanting to see their favorite team. Just ask New York Jets
fans.  The situation called for being proactive. The NFL offered
nothing but reactive.  Ruined Experience  Not surprisingly, the league made the fiasco a dollars
issue. Only this wasn’t about money. It was about memories. It
was about a kid holding his father’s hand, eyes wide, mouth
agape, at the sight of his favorite players on the field. It was
about Packers fan Jan Lamers, who said her Super Bowl experience
was ruined.  The refund was a nice, though obvious, place to start. A
gesture. It wasn’t anywhere near enough.  The affected fans don’t need tickets to next year’s Super
Bowl. They needed seats for this game, the one that featured
their team.  They needed instant VIP status, by order of the
commissioner.  The NFL should have found a place for these fans to watch
the game. And not on TV, no matter how wide the screen or how
crisp the picture.  The NFL needed to make room in the luxury suites where it
has influence. Move over  Alex Rodriguez  and  Cameron Diaz . Make
room for Joe Fan from Pittsburgh, his kid and their Terrible
Towels.  Cheeseheads  These fans arrived with wedges of cheese on their heads,
yes, but love and devotion in their hearts. Since the Packers
are the league’s only publicly owned franchise, where fans
actually have a stake in the team and a say in how things are
run, it would have made sense for them to sit with Jones. You
know, in the owner’s suite.  Surely some of the fans could have been relocated to a spot
on the sideline. Talk about caring for the customer.  You can bet that plenty of NFL executives, their spouses
and children had seats. Good ones, too. They, by executive
order, should have been forced to surrender their seats for
paying customers.  Half of the questions lobbed at the commissioner during
last week’s state-of-the-league press conference were about
negotiations aimed at reaching a new labor contract with the
players.  A lockout is looming. The billionaires and millionaires are
fighting about how to share more than $8 billion in revenue.  Even so, the league and Jones hatched a plan to squeeze
even more fans into the game in some silly attempt at setting a
Super Bowl attendance record.  Goodell spent much of his pre-game time on the field,
shaking hands and posing for pictures. All while hundreds of his
most loyal customers were told, in essence, that they didn’t
really matter.  The NFL, and Goodell, had an opportunity. They blew it. He
blew it. Like a quarterback under pressure the NFL was forced to
scramble.  The fans got sacked.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  