-- NFL Offers All-Expenses Trip to Any Super Bowl to 400 Fans Who Lost Seats
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-09T18:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nfl-offers-all-expenses-trip-to-any-super-bowl-to-400-fans-who-lost-seats.html
The 400 fans who were prevented from
taking their seats at the  Super Bowl  three days ago can opt to
attend any future championship game at no expense, the  National
Football League  said.  Ticket holders can choose one free ticket, along with
round-trip airfare and hotel accommodations, to any Super Bowl
as compensation for having to watch the game on televisions
inside Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas .  An alternative offer made two days ago, of $2,400 plus a
ticket for next year’s Super Bowl, still stands. The NFL has
progressively increased compensation to those fans who were
inconvenienced at the game on Feb. 6, having initially pledged a
$2,400 refund, or triple the tickets’ face value.  “We are ultimately responsible for the fan experience and
we want it to be the best it can possibly be,” NFL Commissioner
Roger Goodell said yesterday in a statement.  The fans couldn’t occupy their seats in temporary bleachers
because workers didn’t finish installing handrails for the game,
which the  Green Bay Packers  won 31-25 against the Pittsburgh
Steelers. The NFL fell 766 people short of breaking the Super
Bowl attendance record of 103,985, set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California , in 1980.  “We felt in the middle of the week that it was going to be
a problem,” NFL Executive Vice President Eric Grubman said of
the temporary seats at a news conference on Feb. 7. “We did not
feel until game day that we had an issue where there was a
distinct possibility that we wouldn’t be able to accommodate
fans.”  No Resale  The NFL said the make-good tickets to next year’s Super
Bowl can be resold. Those for any Super Bowl Beyond 2012 aren’t
transferrable, since the offer will be personalized in the
ticketholder’s name.  Goodell said the NFL is conducting a complete review of the
Super Bowl seating “breakdowns.”  “It was obviously a failure on our behalf and we have to
take responsibility for that,” Goodell said.  Ronn Torossian, chief executive officer of New York-based
public-relations firm 5WPR, said the seating situation is a
“disaster” for the NFL.  “What should be the highlight of the year for the NFL
really has turned out to be a nightmare,” Torossian, a crisis-
management specialist who has represented celebrities including  Snoop Dogg  and Pamela Anderson, said in a telephone interview.
“They need to be cognizant of it. In the world of PR and the
world of brand, little things often snowball.”  Ticket Lawsuit  The NFL and Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  are also
facing a lawsuit from Cowboys season-ticket holders who say they
were promised prime Super Bowl seats and instead were given
folding chairs with obstructed views. The NFL, the Cowboys and
Jones are accused of breach of contract, fraud, breach of good
faith and violating Texas’s deceptive-trade-practices law.  The plaintiffs seek more than $5 million in actual damages,
which can be tripled under the state’s trade law, in addition to
unspecified punitive damages. NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy and
Cowboys spokesman Brett Daniels declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  The Super Bowl seating issue comes at a time when the NFL
is potentially facing an even bigger challenge -- negotiations
with the NFL Players Association on a labor contract.  In Pittsburgh’s locker room after the Super Bowl, Steelers
offensive lineman Jonathan Scott said many NFL players have
already started preparing for a lockout, one that may jeopardize
the 2011 season.  “The best thing to be done in terms of fan appreciation at
this point is to settle this (labor situation) as quickly as
possible,” Torossian said. “When you’re talking about big
business, the effects on a brand last a while.”  The next Super Bowl is scheduled for Feb. 5, 2012, at Lucas
Oil Stadium in Indianapolis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  