-- NFL, Cowboys, Jones Sued by Season-Ticket Holders Over Super Bowl Seating
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2011-02-09T05:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nfl-cowboys-jones-sued-by-season-ticket-holders-over-super-bowl-seating.html
The National Football League, the  Dallas Cowboys  and team owner  Jerry Jones  were sued by season-
ticket holders who say they were promised prime  Super Bowl  seats
and were instead given folding chairs with obstructed views.  Mike Dolabi, who sued on behalf of himself and other fans,
said they had paid at least $100,000 for seat licenses at
Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , and were promised seats at
Super Bowl XLV with “the best sightlines in the stadium,”
according to the complaint filed in federal court in  Dallas 
yesterday.  On game day, the fans found their seats were “temporary
metal fold-out chairs” installed in an attempt to break a Super
Bowl attendance record, according to the complaint.  “The NFL and Jerry Jones sold something to fans they
weren’t able to deliver, and they knew they weren’t able to
deliver it,”  Michael J. Avenatti , of Eagan Avenatti LLP in  Newport Beach ,  California , who represents the plaintiffs, said
in a phone interview.  The NFL, the Cowboys and Jones are accused of breach of
contract, fraud, breach of good faith and violating Texas’s
deceptive trade practices law. The plaintiffs seek more than $5
million in actual damages, which can be tripled under the
state’s trade law, in addition to unspecified punitive damages.  Brian McCarthy, an NFL spokesman, and Brett Daniels, a
spokesman for the Cowboys, declined to comment in e-mails.  Insufficient Compensation  The defendants knew last week that 400 additional fans
wouldn’t be seated at the Feb. 6 game because their temporary
seats hadn’t passed safety inspections, according to the
complaint.  The NFL has offered those fans $2,400, triple the face
value of their tickets, and a ticket for next year’s Super Bowl,
which, according to the lawsuit, is insufficient to make up for
travel expenses and the higher-than-face-value prices paid for
the tickets.  The NFL made an alternative compensatory offer yesterday,
under which the fans can opt for a ticket to any future Super
Bowl plus return air fare and hotel accommodation.  The  Green Bay Packers  beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 to
secure a fourth Super Bowl title and record-extending 13th NFL
championship. The game was attended by 766 fewer fans than the
record 103,985 spectators who saw the Super Bowl in 1980 at the
Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California.  The case is Steve Simms v. Jerral “Jerry” Wayne Jones.
3:11-cv-00248-M United States District Court Northern District
of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  