-- Nissan Raises Full-Year Profit Forecast on Increasing Sales in U.S., Asia
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-02-09T08:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nissan-raises-full-year-profit-forecast-on-higher-asia-sales-new-models.html
Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-
largest automaker, raised its profit forecast after new models
and increasing sales in North America and  Asia  helped the
company offset the impact of the strong yen.  Nissan expects net income of 315 billion yen ($3.8 billion)
in the year ending March 31, compared with an earlier forecast
of 270 billion yen, the Yokohama-based company said in a
statement today.  The carmaker, led by Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn ,
follows Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. in raising its
profit outlook even as the yen trades near a 15-year high
against the dollar, reducing the value of overseas earnings. The
company is benefiting from new models such as the March, Micra
and Juke compacts and reduced purchasing costs.  “Nissan’s solid growth is coming from introducing new
models globally,” said Issei Takahashi, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Securities Japan Ltd. “They have compact cars for the
Asian market, and their strategy to expand globally will lead to
further growth.”  Nissan expects to sell 4.165 million vehicles in the year
ending March 31, up from an earlier forecast of 4.1 million.  Shares of Nissan rose 2.5 percent to close at 893 yen in
Tokyo trading before the earnings announcement. The shares, 43
percent owned by Renault SA, have gained 16 percent this year.  Quarterly Profit  For the three months through Dec. 31, Nissan’s net income
rose 78 percent to 80.1 billion yen from 45 billion yen a year
earlier. That was higher than the 77.3 billion yen average
estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg in the past 28
days. Revenue rose 5.3 percent to 2.1 trillion yen while vehicle
sales gained 14 percent to 1.01 million.  Nissan revised its full-year exchange-rate assumption to
85.4 yen to the dollar from an earlier forecast of 84.4 yen.  “Our financial results are evidence that Nissan continues
to deliver solid performance,” Ghosn said today in a statement.
“Though we foresee risks in rising commodity prices and
exchange rate volatility in the fourth quarter, we will continue
to deliver good results while remaining focused on our
strategies to pursue profitable growth.”  Nissan, which owns about  15 percent  of Renault, also
benefited from its partner’s improved financial performance, it
said. The Japanese automaker declined to disclose Renault
figures as it is yet to report earnings.  Sales Rise  Nissan’s deliveries in Japan fell 21 percent in the third
quarter after a government subsidy program for fuel-efficient
cars ended in September. Sales gained 20 percent in  China , 24
percent in the U.S. and 11 percent in  Europe .  Ghosn, who also heads Renault, introduced an updated March
compact in Japan to boost sales. Nissan has shifted production
of the model to  Thailand  from Japan, helping reduce the impact
of the strong yen on exports to other countries in the region.  “Nissan’s lineup in  North America  has been competitive
relative to rivals, who are struggling with models at the end of
their cycle,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based analyst at TIW
Inc. “With the Thai-built new March, Nissan has been able to
boost sales and secure profit.”  Nissan also began selling its battery-powered Leaf electric
car in Japan, the U.S. and some European countries in December.
Nissan and Renault plan to have capacity to build 500,000
electric cars a year by 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
萩原ゆき in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  