-- Nokia CEO Describes Company as `Burning Platform,' Engadget Blog Reports
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2011-02-09T11:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nokia-ceo-describes-company-as-burning-platform-engadget-blog-reports.html
  Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, is “standing on a burning platform,” Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop wrote in an internal memo to
employees, according to the Engadget technology blog.  Nokia’s smartphone business lost its leadership to  Apple
Inc ., which “owns the high-end range,” and Google Inc., which
“has become a gravitational force, drawing much of the
industry’s innovation to its core,” the blog cites the memo as
saying.  Elop, 47, who took over as Nokia’s CEO on Sept. 21, is set
to unveil his strategy to investors in  London  on Feb. 11. The
executive, the first non-Finn to head Nokia, is cited by the
blog as saying in the memo that the company “poured gasoline on
our own burning platform” by being unprepared for the changes
in the smartphones market.  Elop said the Espoo, Finland-based company had ”lacked
accountability and leadership to align and direct the company
through these disruptive times,” according to Engadget.  Nokia declined to confirm or deny the veracity of the memo,
with spokeswoman Paeivyt Tallqvist saying the company doesn’t
comment on rumors or speculation, including the Engadget post.  “We wouldn’t comment on it whether or not it was true,”
she said. “He presented his views in the earnings call in
January and the next opportunity to hear from him is on
Friday.”  Icy Water  The blog cited the executive as noting that Nokia has been
losing out to Apple in the high-end market and to unbranded
manufacturers on the low-end.  “At the lower-end price range, Chinese OEMs are cranking
out a device much faster than, as one Nokia employee said only
partially in jest, ‘the time that it takes us to polish a
PowerPoint presentation,’” Engadget cited the CEO as saying.  The memorandum published in the blog came down on the side
of jumping into icy water rather than continuing to stand on the
platform as it burned down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  