-- Northrop Profit Steady Before Shipbuilding Spinoff
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-02-09T21:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/northrop-profit-steady-before-shipbuilding-spinoff-update1-.html
  Northrop Grumman Corp ., the U.S.
defense contractor considering a spinoff of its shipbuilding
unit, said fourth-quarter profit changed little from the
previous year.  Income from continuing operations was $376 million, or
$1.27 a share, from $375 million or $1.19, a year earlier, the
Los Angeles-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
forecast $1.01, the average of 16 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 3.6 percent to $8.61 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Wes Bush is seeking to spin off the
company’s shipbuilding unit after scrapping plans to sell the
business, people familiar with the matter have said. Bush has
said separating the unit would allow the company to focus on its
electronics, aerospace and information-systems businesses that
offer better profit margins.  Northrop said 2011 profit, excluding the shipbuilding unit,
would be $6.40 to $6.60 a share.  Sales at Northrop’s Aerospace, Electronics and Information
Systems units declined in the quarter compared with a year ago
because of fewer operating days in 2010, the company said.
Shipbuilding unit sales rose 4 percent to $1.73 billion and
profit in the unit increased 52 percent to $134 million, the
company said.  ‘Better Profits’  Northrop reported “better profits out of shipbuilding than
I expected and had decent volume,”  Howard Rubel , a New York-
based analyst for Jefferies & Co., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. Rubel said he expected the Defense
Department to approve Northrop’s plan to spin off the unit.  Northrop is well positioned to benefit from the Pentagon’s
focus on data and intelligence gathering using electronic tools,
Rubel said. “It’s on the cutting edge” of the intelligence,
sensors and reconnaissance sector and it’s the “market
leader.”  Northrop this year may exit some low-margin business
providing logistics services to focus on higher margin work,
Bush said on a conference call today. He also said Northrop
would file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
details of the ship unit’s 2010 financial performance, adding
that the company was making “good progress” in discussions
with the U.S. Navy on the unit’s spinoff.  Northrop rose 78 cents, or 1 percent, to $71.87 at 4:00
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
gained 16 percent last year.  ----With assistance from Betty Liu in New York.
Editors: Steven Komarow, Bob Drummond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  