-- North, South Korea Continue Military Talks to Defuse Tension
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2011-02-09T02:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/north-south-korea-meet-for-second-day-of-talks-aimed-at-defusing-tensions.html
South and  North Korea  resumed
military talks to set a date and conditions for higher-level
discussions aimed at defusing tensions after attacks that killed
50 South Koreans last year.  Military officials, led by colonels, met at the border
village of Panmunjom for a second day, a South Korean defense
ministry official who declined to be named, citing military
policy, said by phone. The officials met yesterday for the first
time since  Kim Jong Il ’s regime shelled a South Korean island in
November, killing 4 people.  The defense talks are meant to discuss last year’s clashes,
including the sinking of a South Korean warship, as the two
nations make efforts to mend ties. North Korea must first accept
responsibility for the attacks for relations to improve, the
defense ministry in  Seoul  said in an e-mailed statement.  “South Korea can’t forever boycott engagement with North
Korea because of the two incidents,” said Paik Hak Soon,
director of inter-Korean relations at the Sejong Institute
outside Seoul.   South Korea  is feeling pressure from the U.S.
to improve relations with North Korea as a step toward tackling
the more urgent issue of its nuclear weapons program.”  South Korea today agreed to accept North Korea’s request
for a separate dialogue involving Red Cross officials,
Unification Ministry spokeswoman Lee Jong Joo told reporters in
Seoul. The Red Cross forum has in the past discussed
humanitarian issues including aid and families separated since
the 1950-1953  Korean War .  Trust between the two nations should first be restored
before multilateral discussions on North Korea’s nuclear weapons
program can resume, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  James
Steinberg  said Jan. 26 in Seoul.  The cost of insuring South Korean government debt jumped
after the shelling of Yeonpyeong as both sides ratcheted up
rhetoric and concerns mounted of a military confrontation. The
nation’s five-year credit default swaps rose 17 percent on Nov.
23, the biggest one-day gain in two years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Since then, they have dropped 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  