-- North Korea Walks Out of Talks With South After Denying Ship-Sinking Link
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2011-02-09T10:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/north-korea-ends-defense-talks-with-south-without-agreement-on-resumption.html
North Korean military officials
walked out of the first talks with  South Korea  in four months
after refusing to accept any involvement in the sinking of a
warship in March that killed 46 sailors.  North Korean officials “strongly argued they had nothing
to do with the Cheonan warship incident” before storming out of
the meeting room, the South Korean defense ministry said today
in an e-mailed statement. The two sides failed to set a date on
another round of working-level talks to discuss details of
higher-level discussions, the statement said.  The rupture dims the prospect of an immediate thawing in
relations between the two countries, which exchanged artillery
fire in November after  North Korea  shelled a South Korean
island, killing four people. The talks were meant to discuss
clashes last year that also included the sinking of a South
Korean warship which killed 46 sailors in March.  “It shows how the differences between the two nations
cannot be resolved overnight,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor
of North Korean studies at Seoul-based  Dongguk University .
“It’s still too early to say the chance of mending ties has
been eliminated.”  Military teams headed by colonels from the two countries
met at the border village of Panmunjom today for a second day.
The two civil war foes last met on Sept. 30 when North Korea
refused to acknowledge its role in sinking the Cheonan warship.  North Korea must first accept responsibility for the
attacks for relations to improve, South Korea’s defense ministry
said in the statement, repeating comments made yesterday that
were a reiteration of previously stated policy. North Korea
demanded that the discussions should also touch on other issues
that could help prevent military provocations, the statement
said, without saying what those issues were.  Provocation  North Korea claims it shelled Yeonpyeong island near the
western maritime border because South Korean live-firing
exercises violated its territory. North Korea doesn’t recognize
the Northern Limit Line, as the sea border is called, demarcated
by the  United Nations  after the 1950-1953  Korean War .  The cost of insuring South Korean government debt jumped
after the shelling of Yeonpyeong as both sides ratcheted up
rhetoric and concerns mounted of a military confrontation. The
nation’s five-year credit default swaps rose 17 percent on Nov.
23, the biggest one-day gain in two years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Since then, they have dropped 21 percent. The
CDS rose as much as 1.8 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  