-- Novo Nordisk Targets New Insulin Users in Bid to Unseat Sanofi's Lantus
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2011-02-09T07:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/novo-targets-new-insulin-users-in-bid-to-unseat-sanofi-s-lantus.html
Novo Nordisk A/S, the world’s biggest
insulin maker, aims to topple  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s Lantus as the
best-selling insulin by marketing its new product degludec to
first-time users, Novo’s chief science officer said.  The Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company will focus on winning
patients as soon as they start using insulin, rather than trying
to get them to switch, because diabetics tend to be loyal to a
brand, Chief Science Officer Mads Krogsgaard Thomsen said Feb. 7
by phone from  New York , where he was presenting Novo’s fourth-
quarter earnings results.  Novo Nordisk will seek regulatory approval for degludec, an
insulin designed to prevent blood sugar levels from falling too
far, later this year. It will be the Danish drugmaker’s second
attempt to unseat Lantus, after the 2004 introduction of
Levemir, a similar product. Levemir sales last year reached 6.88
billion kroner ($1.26 billion). Revenue from Lantus, Sanofi’s
best-selling medicine, was 3.51 billion euros ($4.79 billion) in
2010, the Paris-based company said today.  “Right now, we’re capturing only three out of 10
patients,” Thomsen said. "We should reverse that and get the
lion’s share."  Diabetics need to take insulin to regulate their blood-
sugar levels because their bodies don’t produce enough of the
hormone or have become resistant to it.  Hypoglycemia Risk  One possible side effect of insulin use is a condition
called nocturnal hypoglycemia, when insulin causes blood sugar
levels to become too low at night. Patients with the condition
may be too sleepy or confused to eat or drink something to
reverse the condition, Novo has said. Nocturnal hypoglycemia may
cause convulsions, comas and heart problems leading to sudden
death, according to  Diabetes Monitor .  Degludec reduces the risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia “more
than 35 percent” compared with Lantus, Novo  said last week .  “We expect degludec to do better than Novo’s Levemir, but
we are not sure that nocturnal hypoglycemia is a big enough
problem for the majority of type 2 diabetics on Lantus,”  Jack
Scannell , analyst at Bernstein Research, said in a Feb. 2 note
to investors.  Novo Nordisk will emphasize that degludec doesn’t need to
be injected at the same time each day, unlike Lantus, and comes
in a new, easier-to-use device, Thomsen said.  The degludec findings supported the view of the insulin as
being “a ‘me-slightly better’ than Lantus,” Dominic Valder,
analyst at Evolution Securities, said in a Feb. 2 investor note.  Novo Nordisk will also seek to persuade diabetics to to use
insulin earlier in the course of the illness. Patients prefer to
delay insulin shots to counteract the build-up of sugar in their
blood even as  studies find  its early use reduces the risk of
complications such as blindness and kidney disease.  The company “may be able to open up a market for insulin
that is almost not present today,” Thomsen said.  The percentage of Americans with diabetes climbed to 8.3
this year, compared with 7.8 in 2008, as more people developed
the condition, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
said last month. If the trend continues, as many as one in three
U.S. adults may have diabetes in 2050, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 