-- Deutsche Boerse in Advanced Talks to Buy NYSE Euronext
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2011-02-09T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nyse-deutsche-boerse-are-said-to-be-in-advanced-talks-to-merge-exchanges.html
  Deutsche Boerse AG  is in advanced
talks to buy NYSE Euronext in an all-stock transaction that
would create the world’s biggest exchange operator, accelerating
a day of takeovers that began with  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc ’s acquisition of Canada’s  TMX Group Inc .  The combined organization would be home to publicly traded
companies worth about $15 trillion, or 28 percent of global
stock-market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Duncan Niederauer , New York-based NYSE Euronext’s chief
executive officer, would have the same job, according to a
statement today. Frankfurt-based Reto Francioni, CEO of Deutsche
Boerse, will be chairman. Deutsche Boerse will own about 59
percent to 60 percent of the joined entity.  The combination, following a decade-long wave of mergers
among exchange companies, would unite equity and derivatives
platforms from the U.S. and Germany to France, the Netherlands
and Portugal. Since 2000, there has been at least $95.8 billion
in completed acquisitions at exchanges worldwide, including NYSE
Group’s purchase of Euronext NV and Nasdaq Stock Market Inc.’s
takeover of OMX AB, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Hands Full’  “Companies had their hands full with integrating a round
of mergers that were done in 2006 and 2007 and also the effects
of the financial crisis on their business and regulation,” said  Ed Ditmire , an analyst with  Macquarie Group Ltd . in  New York  who
has an “outperform” rating on NYSE Euronext. “Takeovers are
regaining their place as a central feature in the development of
this industry.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext’s boards are planning to
meet in the coming days to vote on merging, a person with
knowledge of the matter said. The proposed deal would value NYSE
at about 10 percent more than its closing share price of $33.41
yesterday, said two people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. An agreement may be announced
early next week, one person said.  Deutsche Boerse discussed acquiring NYSE Euronext at least
twice before. They restarted talks late last year, a person
familiar with the matter said. Germany’s biggest exchange
operator commissioned an internal study in 2008 on combining,
four people with direct knowledge of the situation said in
December of that year. They held a second round of talks in
2009, said people familiar with the matter who declined to be
identified because the negotiations were private.  Nasdaq, Euronext  The Frankfurt-based exchange also bid for London Stock
Exchange Group, one of four companies that tried to purchase it
in the past decade. Other suitors included  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc ., Euronext and Macquarie Group Ltd.  NYSE Euronext shares surged 14 percent, the most since
December 2008, to $38.10 at 4 p.m. in New York. Deutsche Boerse
climbed 1.7 percent to 58.44 euros, the highest price since
January 2010, before it was suspended. Their total market value
of $25.6 billion exceeds Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s,
currently the world’s largest exchange operator by market
capitalization.  The Bloomberg World Exchange Index of 23 companies rallied
2.3 percent. Nasdaq OMX advanced 6.7 percent to $27.58.  CBOE
Holdings Inc . climbed 4.3 percent to $25.51.  Deutsche Bank AG and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are advising
Deutsche Boerse, and Perella Weinberg Partners LP is helping  NYSE Euronext , according to two people familiar with the matter.
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is representing NYSE, and
Linklaters LLP is working with Deutsche Boerse, the people said.  Cerutti, Bellegarde  Dominique Cerutti, the president and deputy CEO of NYSE
Euronext, will serve as president and head of commercial and
internal technology of the combined organization from Paris,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Roland Bellegarde of NYSE Euronext will become head of European cash
equities.  NYSE and Deutsche Boerse said they will produce 300 million
euros ($410 million) in cost savings. Their cash equities
business will use NYSE Euronext’s platform, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  NYSE Euronext was formed when the operator of the New York
Stock Exchange bought Europe’s second-largest exchange in 2007.
NYSE owns exchanges in Amsterdam, Lisbon, Paris and Brussels, as
well as the London-based Liffe,  Europe ’s second-largest
derivatives market. The company also runs three U.S. stock
exchanges: NYSE Arca, NYSE Amex and the New York Stock Exchange,
two options platforms and the NYSE Liffe US futures exchange,
which will trade interest-rate products.  Clearstream, Eurex  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange and
Clearstream, Europe’s second-biggest securities-settlement
company. The company also has Eurex Clearing AG and a holding in
Eurex, the region’s largest futures market. Eurex bought  International Securities Exchange , an options market that
competes with CBOE Holdings in the U.S., in 2007.  The transaction is subject to review in the U.S. and Europe
and may be viewed as creating a “de facto monopoly” in some  futures markets , making antitrust concern “the largest outside
risk,” according to a research note from  Evercore Partners Inc .  “One of the stumbling blocks will be the European Union
and competiveness,” Thomas Caldwell, chief executive officer of
Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, which, with its affiliates,
oversees about C$1 billion ($1 billion), including NYSE and
Deutsche Boerse shares. “Euronext was done because they still
believe in Paris that they took over New York.”  Singapore, Australia  The talks between NYSE and Deutsche Boerse and the
agreement between LSE and TMX follow  Singapore Exchange Ltd .’s
October offer to buy  ASX Ltd ., operator of Australia’s main
bourse, for A$8.4 billion ($8.5 billion).  London Stock Exchange Group said today that it agreed to
buy Toronto-based TMX Group for about $3.2 billion as the
companies cut costs to counter market share losses. The merger
is an attempt to maintain profitability and expand in
derivatives as the companies’ loss of business in trading
worsens, said Diego Perfumo, an analyst at Equity Research Desk
in Greenwich, Connecticut, who advises  hedge funds .  “Competition in equity trading is intensifying, so
exchanges need to be able to trade more cheaply and at faster
speed against alternative trading venues,” Perfumo said. “The
LSE and TMX need to become the low-cost provider with the
fastest execution platform to compete effectively and hence try
to reverse or slow this market-share trend.”  Lower Market Share  In the U.S., where the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
Stock Market controlled 80 percent of volume a decade ago, no
firm accounts for more than 27 percent, Barclays Plc data show.  Deutsche Boerse, with average annual profit growth of 22
percent since 1997, is swapping stock priced at 7.2 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for NYSE Euronext shares that trade at an Ebitda multiple of
8.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE’s income has
risen 23 percent annually since 2000.  More than 26 percent of revenue that Deutsche Boerse takes
in is recorded as net income, according to the quarterly median
since 2003 compiled by Bloomberg. At NYSE, the median net margin
has been 8.3 percent, the data show.  NYSE’s shares declined 60 percent through yesterday since
it announced plans to buy Euronext NV in June 2007, while the
MSCI World Index slumped 16 percent and financial shares in the
measure declined 42 percent. Deutsche Boerse has fallen 59
percent since its peak in December 2007.  “They both have a lot of scale already but you combine the
two, you dramatically increase your scale, you put everything on
one trading system,” said Michael Vinciquerra, an Atlanta-based
analyst at BMO Capital Markets, who rates NYSE Euronext
“outperform” and Deutsche Boerse “market perform.” “It goes
both ways in terms of the benefits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 