-- NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Boerse Shares Are Halted
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n e   L e n z n e r
-- 2011-02-09T16:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/nyse-euronext-deutsche-borse-shares-are-halted-a-day-after-lse-tmx-merger.html
Trading in shares of  NYSE Euronext 
and  Deutsche Boerse AG  was halted after Bernecker Boersenbrief,
an investor newsletter in Germany, said merger talks between the
companies are “apparently” at an advanced stage, without saying
where it got the information.  NYSE shares rose 5.3 percent, the most since April, to
$35.18 as of 10:24 a.m. in New York before the suspension.
Deutsche Boerse climbed 1.7 percent to 58.44 euros, the highest
price since January 2010. Their combined market value of $24.8
billion exceeds Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently
the world’s largest exchange operator by market capitalization.  The Bloomberg World Exchange Index of 23 companies rallied
1.5 percent at 10:58 a.m. in New York.    London Stock Exchange Group Plc , the 210-year-old bourse
operator, said today that it agreed to buy Toronto Stock
Exchange owner  TMX Group Inc . for about C$3.2 billion ($3.2
billion) in stock as the companies cut costs to counter lost
market share.  LSE handled 63.8 percent of U.K. equity trading last
quarter, compared with about 75 percent in 2009, data from the
London-based company show. The Toronto Stock Exchange had 64
percent in December, down from 95 percent two years earlier,
according to  data  compiled by the Investment Industry Regulatory
Organization of  Canada .  The merger is an attempt to maintain profitability and
expand in derivatives as the companies’ loss of business in
trading worsens, said Diego Perfumo, an analyst at Equity
Research Desk in Greenwich, Connecticut, who advises  hedge
funds . In the U.S., where the  New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq
Stock Market controlled 80 percent of volume a decade ago, no
firm accounts for more than 27 percent, Barclays Plc data show.  “Competition in equity trading is intensifying, so
exchanges need to be able to trade more cheaply and at faster
speed against alternative trading venues,” Perfumo said. “The
LSE and TMX need to become the low-cost provider with the
fastest execution platform to compete effectively and hence try
to reverse or slow this market-share trend.”  Operating profit may rise 13 percent through expense
reductions at the merged company, Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
report sent to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiane Lenzner in Frankfurt at 
 clenzner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  