-- Obama Will Act on Pending U.S. Trade Pacts, Kirk Says
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2011-02-09T16:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/obama-to-seek-action-on-colombia-russia-trade-pacts-kirk-says.html
The U.S. will seek to complete
changes to trade agreements with  Colombia  and Panama this year
and submit the deals to Congress, U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk said today.  President  Barack Obama  “has directed me to immediately
intensify engagement with Colombia and Panama with the objective
of resolving the outstanding issues as soon as possible this
year,” Kirk told the House Ways and Means Committee.
“Hopefully it won’t be much longer.”  Obama will submit a free-trade deal with  South Korea , which
the administration reworked at the end of last year, to Congress
in coming weeks, Kirk said. That action sets off a mandatory
schedule for congressional action.  Republican leaders in Congress have praised Obama for
pursuing the South Korea agreement while complaining that the
similar pacts with Colombia and  Panama  have languished.  “Frankly, these kinds of statements I would have expected
two years ago,” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave
Camp , a Michigan Republican, said today in a speech in
Washington before the hearing. “The president’s unwillingness
to engage, especially on Colombia, has ground everything else to
a halt.”  Camp blamed the delay by the administration for the House
of Representatives’ inability to pass a measure yesterday to
extend trade preferences for Andean nations and benefits for
workers who lost their jobs because of overseas competition.  Korea, Panama, Colombia  The free-trade agreements with South Korea, Panama and
Colombia all were signed during the administration of President  George W. Bush  and weren’t approved by Congress. Kirk has said
the pacts needed changes in order to gain the support needed in
Congress and among voters.  In addition to the free-trade agreements, the
administration will work with Congress “this year to grant
Russia Permanent Normal Trade Relations, so that U.S. firms and
workers fully benefit from  Russia ’s accession to the WTO,” Kirk
said in his testimony.  Russia is trying to join the  World Trade Organization  by
midyear, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said Dec. 8. In
order for the U.S. companies to get the tariff cuts Russia will
subscribe to, the U.S. must repeal a Cold War-era law inhibiting
full market opening.  Rising Trade  South Korea is the biggest prize for U.S. companies, as
 trade  with that nation topped $80 billion in the first 11 months
of 2010, compared with $29 billion for Russia, $25 billion for
Colombia and $5.8 billion for Panama, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. The South Korean deal would increase U.S.
exports by $10.9 billion a year, while the accord with Colombia
would  boost  exports by $1.1 billion, according to the  U.S.
International Trade Commission .  Democrats in Congress say Colombia needs to do a better job
guaranteeing labor rights and protecting union organizers from
violence.  “This is a little bit different than  Korea , where we were
addressing market-access issues,” Kirk said today. “Colombia
and Panama have begun to take important steps, but more remains
to be done.”  Kirk said he is sending a team of officials to Colombia
next week to begin their consultations: “We will be consulting
closely with you and major stakeholders -- including labor and
human rights groups -- throughout this process.”  Union Opposition  Unions, which helped fund the election campaigns of Obama
and Democrats in Congress, are united in opposition to the
Colombia pact because of longstanding concern about violence
against labor organizers. While the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S.
labor federation, opposes the Korea deal as well, the  United
Auto Workers  endorsed that agreement after Obama won concessions
intended to open Korea’s market to American autos.  Republicans questioned today whether Kirk’s statement that
he would attempt to reach deals with the two Latin American
nations was anything new. California Republican Wally Herger
compiled a list of similar statements from Kirk or Obama over
the past two years saying they would work to rework the pact.  “We need to move all three of these in the first six
months of this year,” Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican and chairman of the panel’s trade subcommittee, said
today. “This is about ensuring that America doesn’t further
embarrass itself.”  Brady said Republicans in Congress would not allow a vote
on Russia’s WTO bid before voting on Colombia or Panama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  