-- Obama May Seek to Cut Airport Grants by $1.1 Billion in Budget, Group Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2011-02-09T18:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/obama-may-seek-to-cut-airport-grants-by-1-1-billion-in-budget-group-says.html
President  Barack Obama  may propose a
$1.1 billion cut in airport construction grants in his Feb. 14
budget, a 31 percent reduction, as he tries to freeze
discretionary spending outside defense, an airport group said.  Obama may ask Congress to let airports make up for the cut
by raising airline passenger ticket fees to as much as $7 a
flight segment from the current $4.50, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Parts of Obama’s proposal would draw opposition from
airports and airlines and may face long odds in Congress, which
has resisted airport grant cuts and passenger fee increases.  Obama is trying to propose a federal budget that will allow
more spending to update the air-traffic control system, a top
aviation priority for the administration, while adhering to his
call for a five-year freeze on discretionary spending outside of
security and national defense.  A $1.1 billion cut in airport construction grants, now
funded at $3.5 billion, “would obviously have an impact” on
airports in all parts of the country, Kelly Johnson, vice
chairwoman at the  American Association  of Airport Executives,
told the U.S. House aviation subcommittee in testimony today.  The group in its testimony endorsed an increase in the so-
called passenger facility charge, which also helps pay for
construction projects. Congress since 1990 has allowed airports
to charge the fees, initially set at $3 for each segment of a
flight. Congress in 2000 raised the cap to a maximum of $4.50.
Airlines include their fees in their ticket prices.  Airports collected $2.8 billion from the fees last year,
according to the airports group, citing Federal Aviation
Administration data. Increasing the fee cap to $7 would allow
airports to bring in an additional $1.3 billion a year,
according to the group in its testimony.  The people who described Obama’s plan to recommend raising
the fee to $7 requested anonymity because the proposal has not
yet been made public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  