-- Obama, House Republican Leaders Focus on U.S. Economy, Spending at Lunch
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-02-09T19:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/obama-to-discuss-economy-budget-with-house-republican-leaders.html
President  Barack Obama  and U.S. House
Republican leaders met privately over lunch at the White House
today for talks about their agendas for accelerating the economy
and how to cut federal spending.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said afterward that it’s
“pretty clear that the president wants to try to find some
common ground with us” on trimming the budget and on the need
to spur  job creation  in the U.S. The debate ahead will be on the
details of how to accomplish those goals.  “Clearly our No. 1 issue is getting our economy going
again,” the Ohio Republican said. “All of us know that there
are some issues that we can work on together.”  Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  and
Republican Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California  said they didn’t
discuss detail about the budget plan Obama will send to
lawmakers on Feb 14.  Cantor called it “a fairly robust conversation about the
need for all of us to work together to send the signal that
we’re serious about cutting spending.”  The luncheon, the first of its kind this year for Obama and
the House leaders, is the second attempt by Obama to reach out
to the party that took control of the House from Democrats after
the November elections. The president met privately with Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  last week, Gibbs said.  Before he went to the White House, Boehner told reporters
at the Capitol that he was concerned that Obama’s proposed 2012
budget, due next week, “will have too much spending, too much
taxing and too much borrowing,” which would “cause employers
to sit on their hands and protect their pocketbooks because of
the uncertainty that continues to be created by this
administration.”  Budget and Debt  The budget debate will begin in earnest once Obama sends a
fiscal 2012 spending blueprint to lawmakers. Republicans
campaigned on promises to cut federal spending this year.
Congress hasn’t passed a full budget for the fiscal year that
began Oct. 1 and a stopgap resolution to fund the government
expires on March 4.  Another issue is a vote to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling. The Treasury Department expects the limit will be
reached between April 5 and May 31.  The White House wants the ceiling raised, without any
amendments, warning that a failure to do so would create a
financial crisis. Boehner, while agreeing the limit must raised,
said it must be accompanied by spending cuts.  Boehner said one of the areas where both sides can agree is
on trade. Obama has directed U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk
to complete changes to trade agreements with Colombia and  Panama 
this year so the accords can be submitted to Congress. The
administration plans to send lawmakers a free-trade deal with  South Korea  in the coming weeks.  Republican leaders have praised Obama for pursuing the
South Korea agreement while complaining that the similar
agreements with Colombia and Panama have languished.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  