-- Oil Rises From Lowest in Eight Days Before U.S. Supply Report
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-09T13:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/oil-rises-from-eight-day-low-on-speculation-u-s-crude-stockpiles-declined.html
Oil rose in  New York  from the lowest
in eight days on speculation that the U.S. Energy Department
will report a smaller increase in the country’s crude supplies
than originally forecast.  Futures advanced as much as 0.8 percent after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday inventories fell 558,000
barrels to 346 million barrels last week. The Energy Department
will publish its numbers today. Before the release of the API
data, analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the
department will show supplies in the world’s biggest consumer of
the commodity climbed 2 million barrels.  “The general drawdown in crude inventories reported
yesterday was supportive,” said Thorbjoern Bak Jensen, an
analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,  Denmark . “The
API numbers can indicate the direction of the Energy Department
data, but as a guide it’s not bulletproof.”  The March contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
gained as much as 83 cents to $87.77 a barrel in electronic
trading, and was at $87.64 at 1:47 p.m. London time. Yesterday,
it settled at $86.94, the lowest close since Jan. 27. Prices are
19 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent crude  for March
settlement on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  exceeded
$100 for an eighth day, gaining 0.6 percent to $100.56.  London Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the
crude grade traded in New York, widened today to a record $13.38
a barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap
averaged 76 cents last year.  API Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles fell by 1.5 million barrels in the
Gulf Coast region, according to the API data yesterday. Supplies
in the Petroleum Administration for Defense District 2, which
consists of the Midwest states, dropped by 1.3 million.
Inventories at the Cushing, Oklahoma, delivery point for New
York oil futures declined from a record, dropping 927,000 to
37.5 million.  “The API report was encouraging,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a report today. “The only significant build in crude
inventories was on the West Coast which, due to its geographical
disparity, is often overlooked by the markets. All told, this
was the most bullish report the API has released in weeks, but
will the DOE corroborate?”  Crude imports dropped 11 percent last week to 8.6 million
barrels, the API data showed. Oil-supply totals from the API and
DOE have moved in the same direction 75 percent of the time in
the past four years.  Energy Department  Gasoline supplies gained 3.2 million barrels to 239.7
million barrels, the API said. Motor fuel inventories probably
increased 2.6 million barrels from 236.2 million a week earlier,
according to the median of 16 analyst estimates before the
government report today. The projected advance would leave
stockpiles at the highest level since Feb. 26, 1993.  Distillate fuel levels, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped 538,000 barrels to 160.7 million, the
industry group reported. Supplies probably slipped 1 million
barrels, or 0.6 percent, from 164.1 million, the inventory
survey showed.  Investors are better off putting their money in energy
company shares than oil futures because of the cost of
“rolling” their positions from one monthly contract to the
next, according to Petromatrix GmbH. The difference between
months, currently $3.10 for the first two Nymex contracts, is
known as contango.  Crude prices in New York surged 7 percent in the five days
after protests against the government of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  raised concerns that oil flows through the country
might be disrupted.  Tens of thousands of Egyptians filled Cairo’s Tahrir Square
yesterday as Vice President  Omar Suleiman  sought to convince
demonstrators that the government is serious about moving toward
democracy while stabilizing the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  