-- London-TMX Merger May Face Opposition After Potash Bid
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-02-09T20:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/london-exchange-bid-for-tmx-group-faces-opposition-after-failed-potash-bid.html
The bid by the  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc  for the owner of Canada’s main bourse may face
opposition as the Canadian government reviews its foreign
ownership rules after blocking a hostile takeover of Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Canadian law allows the government to reject foreign
takeovers that don’t provide a “net benefit” to the country.
The Ontario and Quebec securities regulators also have to
approve any sale of more than 10 percent of the voting shares of  TMX Group Inc ., owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  “Exchanges and the capital markets are viewed as national
assets,” said Cameron Webster, a managing director at Sandstone
Asset Management Inc. in Calgary, which oversees C$200 million
($201 million). “To the extent that a U.K. owner could be
viewed as having influence on dictating rules of the market,
that could potentially be a political football.”  The LSE agreed today to buy TMX for about C$3.2 billion in
stock. LSE shareholders will own 55 percent of the company,
while TMX investors will hold the rest, the exchanges said today
in a statement. TMX shareholders will receive 2.9963 LSE shares
for each they own, valuing the Toronto-based company at about
C$42.68 a share, 6 percent more than yesterday’s closing price.  A sale to the London exchange would be the largest foreign
takeover of a financial services company in  Canada , where banks
and insurers are protected by ownership limits.  Investment Canada Act  Industry Minister Tony Clement, who would have to approve
the deal under the Investment Canada Act, announced a review of
the foreign investment approval process in November after his
government blocked the proposed $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan by BHP Billiton Ltd. Clement said today the
transaction would be reviewed under existing rules.  The government, which reviews any foreign bid worth more
than C$312 million, said the proposed takeover of Potash Corp.
didn’t provide a net benefit to the country. It was only the
second blocked foreign takeover in 25 years.  Clement said the government must first determine whether
the bid is reviewable under the act. If it is, the sale must
provide a net benefit to the country.  “Obviously this deal is of great interest to the financial
markets,” Clement told reporters in Ottawa.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said the deal raises
many unanswered questions, and he was concerned that  London  may
end up controlling the combined company, CTV.ca reported today.  “This is a significant development that affects our
capital markets, that affects our country, that affects our
place in the world,” Duncan told reporters.  ‘Net Benefit’  TMX Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kloet called the
combination with the London exchange a “net benefit” for
Canada in a conference call today. The companies have made
“undertakings” for regulators and the government that
“address the needs for Investment Canada to determine that
there is a net benefit to Canada,” Kloet said at a Toronto
press conference.  The Ontario  Securities Act  prohibits a person or company
from controlling more than 10 percent of TMX without approval
from the Ontario Securities Commission.  “The OSC is committed to a full, transparent public
consultation process, including a public hearing, as part of our
review of the proposed transaction,” Commission Chairman Howard Wetston said in an e-mailed statement. “The proposed
transaction will be fully considered by the OSC with a thorough
review of the regulatory issues involved.”  Hearings ‘Within Weeks’    Quebec ’s securities regulator plans to hold hearings
“within weeks” as part of its review of the proposed sale,
Sylvain Theberge, a spokesman for the Autorite des Marches
Financiers in  Montreal , said in an interview.  When TMX, then known as TSX Group Inc., bought Montreal
Exchange in 2008, it agreed to give Quebec’s regulator veto
power over any sale, according to TMX’s last annual report.  Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand said the proposed
purchase raises “important issues” for the Canadian province,
and that he will ask the provincial securities regulator to hold
public hearings into the transaction.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters his
department has an “advisory” role in the process, but that it
will ultimately be up to Clement to give federal approval to the
transaction. Flaherty also said he had spoken to his
counterparts in Ontario and Quebec, without giving details.  ‘Hesitant’  “Any potential takeover would have to be approved by two
regulators, and if you layer on the fact that the government was
so hesitant of letting go of Potash in the greater national
interest, similar consideration could apply to TMX,” said
Shubha Khan, a Toronto-based analyst at  National Bank of Canada .  Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s A$7.8 billion ($7.9 billion) bid
for ASX Ltd., announced in October, has faced opposition from
several Australian parliamentarians. Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan, who must approve the takeover, said in December he’s not
convinced it would be in his country’s interest.  An LSE bid for Toronto Exchange, which was  incorporated  in
1878 and went public in 2002, would present a “very similar
scenario,” said Jeff Fenwick, a financial-industry analyst at
Cormark Securities Inc. in Toronto.  The exchanges will likely argue that regulation will ensure
a combined exchange operates in Canada’s interests, Fenwick
said. They will also note that alternative trading platforms
including Chi-X Global Inc., which is owned by a unit of Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc., and New York-based Liquidnet Inc.
already operate in the country.  ‘Merger of Equals’  “In the Australia-Singapore deal there was a transaction
which is clearly an acquisition,” said Kloet, who will become
president of the combined companies. “This is two institutions
combining together in a merger of equals, which results in a
totally different proposition.”  Potash Corp. is not directly comparable to TMX, Sandstone’s
Webster said. The fertilizer producer controls 20 percent of
global potash capacity, according to the  company’s website .  “Potash basically has control of an asset that’s a large
proportion of a global market, whereas TSX is in a more-
competitive marketplace,” he said. “The marketplace is
starting to go away from them. I don’t think you can argue that
it’s a national asset.”  The takeover also requires the support of two-thirds of TMX
shareholders, and approval from the Alberta Securities
Commission and the  British Columbia Securities Commission , TMX
said in a statement today.  “Working together, we think we can create something that
is exceptional in terms of value for our shareholders,” Kloet
said. “I’m confident that we’ll be able to get the shareholders
to support the proposition we’re bringing forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 