-- Londoners `Mine' for Space Under Luxury Homes as Neighbors Fume
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2011-02-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/londoners-mine-for-space-in-luxury-homes-as-neighbors-seek-compensation.html
Caroline Evans is fed up with all the
noise and aggravation from construction near her home off the
King’s Road in Chelsea, southwest  London .  Three basements have been created or expanded and one house
is adding an extension on her narrow street. In this  enclave  for
bankers, executives and millionaires, where the average home
costs almost 900,000 pounds ($1.4 million), builders are doing
everything from digging up gardens to demolishing an entire
building except for its facade.  “I quite understand why people are doing it -- they are
creating a beautiful home -- but immediate neighbors would be
happier if they could share in the increase in the value of the
house,” said Evans, 72, who has lived on the street for 27
years with her lawyer husband.  The scarcity of luxury houses and apartments on the market
in neighborhoods like Belgravia and Knightsbridge has prevented
many from trading up to larger properties. Instead, they’re
adding the kind of amenities often found in new developments,
ranging from wine cellars and home cinemas to swimming pools.  “People are enlarging houses and improving them rather
than moving,” said Yolande Barnes, head of residential research
at  Savills Plc . “You can either pay stamp duty and moving costs
or you can add value to your home by spending the money on
improvements.”  Modern Conveniences  New buyers want to add modern conveniences to the few
luxury properties on the market, many of which are more than 100
years old. Neighbors like Evans are complaining to their local
councils and even demanding compensation for the inconvenience,
comparing some of the developments to mines.  Basement excavations in the  Royal Borough of Kensington &
Chelsea  almost doubled to 147 last year from 81 in 2006. The
figure was up 17 percent from 2009, the municipality said.
Grosvenor Group Ltd., the company owned by the family trust of
the Duke of Westminster, gave permission for 28 basement
excavations last year on its estate, which extends across
Mayfair and Belgravia. That compares with just one in 2005.  The financial crisis stifled lending to developers and
halted most luxury residential projects. Those that did proceed
are now in demand as the weaker pound lures overseas buyers.  One Hyde Park  “The amount of money being made in the rest of the world
is astonishing -- confidence is more than just coming back to
the London market,” said property entrepreneur Nick Candy, who
along with his brother Christian masterminded the  One Hyde Park 
development that opened last month. Six apartments sold there in
November and December for record prices of about 6,000 pounds a
square foot, he said, without giving their size.  The shortage of homes for sale in London’s seven
priciest boroughs last year encouraged more people to renovate
and expand their homes, data obtained from the municipalities by
Bloomberg News indicate. The number of homes sold in these areas
in 2010 was 30 percent below the average of the past decade,
Land Registry data show.  The number of permits granted for dumpsters rose 2.8
percent to 12,398 in the first 10 months of 2010 in the boroughs
of Camden, Hammersmith & Fulham, Islington, Kensington &
Chelsea, Lambeth, Wandsworth and Westminster from a year
earlier. That was the first increase since 2007, according to
the figures obtained by Bloomberg News under Freedom of
Information Act requests.  Dumpsters, known as skips in the U.K., are an early
indicator of construction activity.  More Makeovers  “We have noticed a massive increase in the number of
people calling us in to revamp their houses,” said Alex
Michelin, co-founder of high-end residential developer
 Finchatton Ltd.  Orders from homeowners doubled in the past 12
months, he said.  Conservation rules in many cases prohibit story additions
or extensions to older homes, leading owners or developers to
look under the property to enlarge it and increase the value.  Underpinning a house, digging and removing the debris is
slow, noisy and  dangerous . One worker lost his life in December
when the ground floor of a house in southwest London collapsed,
the  local newspaper reported.  Residents also complain about
increased traffic, reduced parking and vermin.  “It’s like mining -- it’s hell,” said  James Wright ,
chairman of the Belgravia Residents’ Association. He spoke after
a Jan. 25 meeting at Chelsea Town Hall attended by about 140
residents, councilors and planning officials to discuss the
issue. Latecomers were turned away for lack of space.  Upgrading can be profitable for properties in the right
locations, said Richard Barber, a partner at the Knightsbridge-
based adviser  W.A. Ellis LLP .  Added Value  Barber cited a 1,950 square-foot (181 square-meter)
carriage house on the market in Belgravia that has planning
consent to add a 650 square-foot basement. Once completed, the
project would lift the property’s value by 600,000 pounds to 4.5
million pounds, he estimated. After incurring excavation costs
of about 300 pounds a square foot, the owner would make a profit
of 400,000 pounds.  The popularity of subterranean development has helped
inflate prices, said Andrew Giller, head of London for the
Buying Solution, which advises the wealthy on home purchases. In
many cases, underground space is being priced at the same rate
as more habitable space above ground, he said.  Multistory Basements  Some projects don’t stop at a single basement. Jon Hunt,
founder of the Foxtons Ltd. brokerage that he sold in 2007 for
390 million pounds, applied to excavate two more underground
stories to his Kensington mansion to house his vintage car
collection. The property already has three basement levels.  Hunt’s plans were rejected by Kensington & Chelsea in May
2009 for being “completely out of character” with the 19th-
century Italian Renaissance-style mansion.  Planning officials in  England  are only compelled to
consider the merits of a project in its proposed finished form.
Issues such as the impact of construction or the number of
projects taking place at once aren’t taken into account during
the initial application phase, though they may be dealt with
later once complaints arise.  “Nobody really thought about subterranean development”
when the country’s original planning laws were drawn up, Merrick Cockell, the Conservative elected council leader for Kensington
& Chelsea, said during last month’s public meeting. “Many
people now understand the planning constraints that all councils
operate under.”  Locals Decide  Cockell cited a proposed  Localism Bill  as a potential
solution. The bill, now pending in Parliament, would empower
residents and local-interest groups in Britain to set the terms
and conditions for development in their area. Developers say it
may lead to an excessive amount of NIMBY-ism, the acronym for
“not in my backyard.”  “It will be a couple of years before this is implemented
or clarity is provided,” Cockell said.  In the meantime, neighbors want greater security for their
homes than current legal arrangements provide. That’s as the
number of companies doing basement excavations increases, some
with varying degrees of expertise. Companies should guarantee
their work or the owner of the development should post a bond to
cover liabilities, said Gilles Graham, who has lived on a square
off King’s Road for 20 years.  Graham said one proposed project in his square would retain
the facade while the rest of the property is demolished and a
basement excavated.  As the clatter and bang of construction machinery echoes
around London’s streets, even developers themselves say they
have sympathy for the residents.  “I couldn’t think of anything worse than if my neighbor
was doing it,” said Klas Nilsson, chief executive officer of  Northacre Plc , a high-end London developer that helped pioneer
subterranean development in the early 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 