-- London Police to Contact Possible Phone-Hacking Victims in Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2011-02-09T18:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/london-police-to-contact-possible-phone-hacking-victims-in-probe.html
London  police said they will contact
possible victims of phone-hacking by Rupert Murdoch’s News of
the World newspaper based on information provided by  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit.  London’s Metropolitan Police, which reopened a probe into
phone hacking for the third time last month, said they are
reviewing the new evidence and documents seized in the original
case in 2005. The police “have been able to make some links not
previously identified,” they said in a statement today.  The move to reach out to potential victims is the latest
development in a scandal over allegations that investigators
hired by the U.K. tabloid newspaper hacked celebrities’
voicemails for stories. News of the World faces at least a half
dozen lawsuits, including one filed by actress Sienna Miller,
over phone-hacking claims.  “I am conscious there remains significant interest in this
case and we are determined to ensure that we conduct a robust
and thorough investigation,” Deputy Assistant Commissioner  Sue
Akers  said in the statement.  Celebrities including U.K. actor Steve Coogan have won
orders forcing the police to turn over information from their
files related to phone hacking. Police also said they’d review
whether they were correct in previous statements to alleged
victims that there was little or no information on them in their
files.  ‘Contact Everyone’  “In time, we will go beyond this group of individuals and
make contact with everyone who had some of their personal
contact details found in the documents seized in 2005,” Akers
said. “This will ensure all of those who have been affected in
some way are made aware of the information we have found
relating to them.”  News of the World last month said it fired an assistant
editor, Ian Edmondson, after it reviewed allegations in Miller’s
lawsuit and gave the police information from the probe.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International unit in London, couldn’t be immediately reached to
comment.  The paper’s former royal reporter, Clive Goodman, and
private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed in 2007 for
tapping mobile phones. After re-opening the probe in September
after a  New York  Times report that phone hacking was more
widespread at the British newspaper than the prior case showed,
prosecutors in December said they didn’t have enough evidence to
file further criminal charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 