-- London City Job Vacancies Rise 11% as Banks Prepare to Replace Bonus Exits
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2011-02-09T12:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/london-city-job-vacancies-rise-as-banks-prepare-for-bonus-exits.html
Job vacancies at  London ’s financial
services companies jumped 11 percent last month as investment
banks prepared to replace employees that defect after this
year’s bonus round, recruitment firm Astbury Marsden said.  The number of new job vacancies in the City rose to 5,440
last month from 4,920 a year ago, the recruiter said in a
statement today. The number of candidates seeking work through
the recruiter rose 21 percent in January from a year ago as
bankers sought new positions after bonus season, the firm said.  “Most of these jobs being recruited for at the moment are
there to deal with the churn of staff leaving for other
employers, rather than being completely new roles being
created,” said Mark Cameron, chief operating officer of Astbury
Marsden. “Bankers have also lost their fear about moving to a
new employer.”  European and U.S. banks are being pressed to curb bonuses
after taxpayers were forced to bail out the industry during the
financial crisis. The U.K. Financial Services Authority last
year approved new rules agreed by European Union regulators
restricting guaranteed bonuses and up-front cash payments for
banks’ proprietary traders and broker dealers.    UBS AG ,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, yesterday cut its
2010 bonus pool by 10 percent as fourth-quarter investment-
banking profit slumped.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .’s compensation
and benefits expense dropped 5 percent to $15.4 billion in 2010
as the firm’s revenue dropped 13 percent and the number of
employees rose.  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s investment bank cut
average pay for employees 2.4 percent to $369,651 last year, the
bank said last month.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at  at eevans3@bloomberg 