-- London Stock Exchange, Canada’s TMX Gain on Takeover
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2011-02-09T21:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/london-stock-exchange-tmx-advance-on-plan-to-take-over-canadian-company.html
  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  and  TMX Group Inc . rallied after LSE agreed to buy the owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange for about $3.2 billion in stock. The
shares pared gains after  NYSE Euronext  said it’s in merger talks
with  Deutsche Boerse AG .  LSE climbed 3.1 percent to 920 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close
in London, the highest level since October 2009, as some
investors speculated that the agreement may spur competitors to
make rival bids. TMX jumped 6.4 percent to C$42.85, the highest
since June 2008.    Xavier Rolet , LSE’s chief executive officer, will cut 35
million pounds ($56 million) a year in costs and expand into new
businesses such as derivatives as competition from alternative
trading platforms increases. Today’s agreement comes four months
after  Singapore Exchange Ltd . offered to buy  ASX Ltd ., operator
of  Australia ’s main bourse, for A$8.4 billion ($8.5 billion) in
a cash and shares deal that would create the world’s fifth-
largest listed exchange company.  “The market may potentially see this merger announcement
as both LSE and the Toronto Stock Exchange putting themselves in
play,” Nese Guner and Haley Tam, analysts at Citigroup Inc. in
London, wrote in a note to investors today.  LSE shares pared a rally of as much as 11 percent, while
TMX trimmed a 12 percent surge. Deutsche Boerse is in advanced
talks to buy NYSE Euronext in an all-stock transaction that
would create the world’s biggest exchange operator, the
companies said in a statement. NYSE shares jumped 13 percent to
$37.84 at 12:47 p.m. in  New York .  Five Offers  Rolet’s predecessor Clara Furse fought off five takeover
offers in two years and bought the operator of the Milan stock
exchange. The LSE’s share of U.K. equity trading was 63.8
percent last quarter, compared with 75 percent in 2009, data
from the London-based company show.  TMX shareholders will receive 2.9963 LSE shares for each
they own, the exchanges said today in a statement. That values
the Toronto-based company at about C$42.68 a share, based on
yesterday’s closing prices. Investors in LSE, the 210-year-old
bourse operator, will own 55 percent of the company, while TMX
investors will hold the rest.  First Move  “This deal comes against the backdrop of consolidation in
world exchanges and represents the first strategic move by
Xavier Rolet,” Phil Dobbin, an analyst at Shore Capital
Stockbrokers, wrote in a note to investors today. “The key
benefit is the creation of a global exchange with a strong
presence in natural resources and emerging markets.” He has a
“buy” recommendation on LSE.  Today’s gains in LSE and TMX shares bring the combined
market value of the companies to 4.48 billion pounds ($7.2
billion).  CME Group Inc ., the world’s largest futures exchange,
has a market capitalization of $20.5 billion.  LSE is paying 9.3 times TMX’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest ever among exchange
acquisitions, considering deals bigger than $500 million, the
data show.  LSE was advised by  Barclays Capital ,  Morgan Stanley & Co .
and  RBC Capital Markets . Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
and BMO Capital Markets advised TMX.  The bid may face opposition as the Canadian government
reviews its foreign ownership rules after blocking a hostile
takeover of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. Canadian law
allows the government to reject foreign takeovers that don’t
provide a “net benefit” to the country. The Ontario and Quebec
securities regulators would also have to approve any sale of
more than 10 percent of the voting shares of TMX.  Foreign Takeover  A sale to the  London  exchange would be the largest foreign
takeover of a financial services company in Canada. The federal
government is reviewing the limits, which apply to industries
including airlines, telecommunications firms and media.  Industry Minister Tony Clement and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  declined to comment on the stock exchange merger talks
yesterday in Ottawa.  The deal is forecast to close in autumn this year, Rolet
said today on a conference call with reporters.  The exchanges are targeting 35 million pounds or C$56
million in additional revenue in the third year, rising to 100
million pounds or C$160 million annual revenue in the fifth
year. This will come from cross-listings and admissions, cross-
selling and distributing products and services and new products,
according to today’s statement.  In costs, the target is for annual savings of 35 million
pounds or C$56 million by the end of the second year. The deal
is expected to add to earnings per share in the first full year
after completion.  Achievable Synergies  “We believe that this level of cost synergies is
achievable even with a board of 15,”  James Hamilton , an analyst
at Numis Securities in London, wrote in a note to investors.
With the revenue forecast “should these synergies be achieved
they would equate to a huge 56 percent of the underlying profit
reported by the LSE last year. A clear strong ‘Buy’ if you
believe the 100 million pounds of revenue synergies can be
achieved.”  At the end of March 2010, LSE had a total of 1,135
employees. TMX employed 841 staff as of Dec. 31. 2010.  Rolet will be CEO of the company, which will be renamed,
according to today’s statement. TMX CEO Kloet will become
president, and Michael Ptasznik, chief financial officer of TMX,
will be CFO. Raffaele Jerusalmi, CEO of LSE’s Borsa Italiana,
will be a director. The stock will trade in London and Toronto.  Limiting Costs  European equity markets are undergoing an overhaul aimed at
spurring competition among exchanges and broker-operated venues
and limiting costs for investors. Mifid, or the Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, is being updated by the
European Union after it was adopted in 2007. Canadian regulators
are also assessing trading rules.  The LSE already licenses TMX’s Sola trading technology for
its EDX London derivatives venue under a partnership formed in
March 2009, replacing a platform provided by Nasdaq OMX.
Toronto-based TMX operates the Montreal exchange, which
developed Sola.  LSE, with average profit growth of 21 percent since 1999,
is swapping stock priced at 6.6 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for TMX shares that trade
at an Ebitda multiple of 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TMX’s annual income has risen 3.5 percent annually
since 2000.  About 16 cents of every dollar LSE takes in as revenue is
recorded as net income, according to the average since 2002
compiled by Bloomberg. At TMX, net margins have averaged 32
percent, the data show.  Wave of Mergers  The agreement, following a decade-long wave of mergers
among exchange companies, unites two of the biggest venues for
commodity producers. While energy and raw-materials suppliers
make up 22 percent of the value of equities worldwide, they
account for 36 percent of companies listed in the U.K. and 50
percent in  Canada , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We actually recommended it to both companies months
ago,”  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of Caldwell
Securities Ltd. in Toronto, which, with its affiliates, oversees
about C$1 billion ($1 billion), including LSE and TMX shares.
“It seems so logical to me because you’re creating the largest
resources exchange in the world and really allowing London to
get into the derivatives business. It’s a worldwide business and
they’re very similar. That would be a great merger.”  Asked about consolidation the day he was named to the post
in 2009 Rolet said “all avenues are open, all avenues are
considered. We wouldn’t be doing our jobs otherwise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 