-- Hong Kong Regulator Seeks Freeze on Assets of China Forestry Executive Li
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2011-02-09T10:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/hong-kong-regulator-seeks-to-freeze-china-forestry-ceo-s-assets-after-sale.html
  Hong Kong  regulators are seeking to
freeze assets of  China Forestry Holdings Ltd .’s chief executive
officer after he sold HK$398.7 million ($51.2 million) of shares
in the company before it disclosed accounting irregularities.  The Securities and Futures Commission asked Hong Kong’s
High Court on Feb. 7 to freeze HK$398.2 million of assets
belonging to Li Han Chun. The regulator also sought an order
restraining Li and his company, Top Wisdom Overseas Holdings
Ltd., from dealing in  China  Forestry shares while “in
possession of unpublished information about accounting
irregularities in the company.”  Shares of China Forestry fell 13 percent after it announced
that Li had sold 119 million shares on Jan. 12 for HK$3.35 each.
The Beijing-based private plantation forest operator suspended
its shares on Jan. 26 and announced five days later that  KPMG 
identified “possible irregularities” in an audit for the
fiscal year ended Dec. 31. The  SFC  didn’t detail in its
application the reasons it wants to freeze the assets of Li.  “The freeze order shows that Hong Kong regulators will
flex their muscle where investor harm may have occurred,” said
William McGovern, a Hong Kong-based partner at law firm Kobre
and Kim LLP.  Moody’s Investors Service put China Forestry’s debt on
review for a downgrade after the share suspension. The company,
11 percent owned by Washington-based private equity firm The  Carlyle Group , sold $300 million of 7.75 percent five-year notes
in November.  Seeking Resolution  Li wasn’t at China Forestry’s Beijing office and couldn’t
be reached for comment. “The company is operating normally and
board members are actively seeking to resolve the current
situation,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Carlyle’s Beijing-based spokesman, Brian Zhou, said the
firm takes the matter seriously and has been in contact with
China Forestry’s management. He declined to comment further.  SFC spokesman Jonathan Li said the regulator has no further
comment on the court filing. A hearing for the SFC’s application
is scheduled for Feb. 11.  The SFC won a court order last March freezing the listing
proceeds of Fujian province-based Hontex International Holdings
Co. Its investigation of Hontex for disclosing “materially
false or misleading” information in its Hong Kong listing
prospectus, continues, according to  a November press release .  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year
launched a probe of China-based companies listed in the U.S. and
their auditors amid concerns that some of those firms may be
doctoring their financial statements to attract investors. SEC
official Wayne Carnall said the probe has prompted some of the
firms to de-register.  Aggressive Regulators  “As Hong Kong competes with New York for the attention of
Chinese companies seeking access to the world’s investors, we
will likely see the regulators in each market adopt increasingly
aggressive tactics,” McGovern, a former branch chief with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said.  The SFC  said  last month that disclosure irregularities such
as inflated asset values, misstated income statements, and false
information about customers and other issues were found in 84
out of 100 applications for share flotation in Hong Kong.  China Forestry, which was listed in Hong Kong in 2009, said
in its Jan. 31 statement that it had suspended persons suspected
to be involved in the possible irregularities, without
identifying the staff.  The company has 229,113 hectares of forests in China, and
is amongst the country’s top three private operators, it said on
its  web site .  The China Council for the Promotion of Environment and
Forestry, which it cited, couldn’t be reached for confirmation.  Shares have fallen 18.7 percent to HK$2.95 this year.  “The incident will surely have a very large impact on the
company’s share prices,” said Michael Tam, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at South China Finance & Management Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  