-- Moody’s Byrne Says Japan Rating Outlook Is Stable
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2011-02-09T09:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/moody-s-byrne-says-japan-rating-outlook-is-stable-update2-.html
Moody’s Investors Service said the
outlook for Japan’s Aa2 sovereign  credit rating  is stable,
noting the debt’s domestic investor base gives it safety similar
to debt sold by top-rated nations.  “One of the credit strengths of Japan is not just its home
bias, but through the global financial crisis, the safe-haven
feature of  government securities ,”  Thomas Byrne , senior vice
president of Moody’s, said in an interview in Tokyo today. “In
that sense it shares the same feature as U.S. government
Treasuries.”  More than 90 percent of the nation’s government debt is
held domestically. The yen rose after Byrne’s remarks, trading
at 82.58 against the dollar as of 6:29 p.m. in Tokyo, as Moody’s
pointed out factors supporting the nation’s sovereign rating
even after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its sovereign-debt rating
for Japan to AA-, the first reduction in nine years.  “Moody’s comments weren’t as bad as expected, spurring some
covering of yen shorts,” said  Marito Ueda , a senior managing
director in Tokyo at FX Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin
company. “The yen had been sold earlier on speculation that
Moody’s may be pessimistic about Japan’s rating.”  A short position is a bet on an asset price’s decline.  Byrne also said the recent climb in Japanese government
bond yields isn’t necessarily detrimental to the nation’s credit
grade. The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10 year bond rose 1 basis
point to 1.325 percent today after climbing to 1.35 percent, the
highest since April. Byrne said nominal yields have remained
“remarkably low.”  ‘Downside’ Pressure  Byrne said failure by Kan to improve Japan’s financing
would increase risks on its credit rating. He said at a seminar
in Tokyo that pressures will be “mostly on the downside.”  “Pressures will increase on the JGB rating unless certain
things happen,” he said. “There should be an effective policy
response to try to address the fiscal deficit” he said. “Any
policy drift or friction” that prevents passage of bills in
parliament “would be a credit-negative development,” he said,
without elaborating.  Japan’s bond sales may surpass 50 trillion yen in the year
starting April 2013, according to a projection by the  Finance
Ministry  released last month. That suggests Prime Minister  Naoto
Kan  may not meet a pledge of capping sales at 44.3 trillion yen.  Public debt, already the largest burden in the
industrialized world, will probably increase 5.8 percent to
997.7 trillion yen in the year starting April 1, from a
projected 943.1 trillion yen this year, the ministry said in a
separate report released last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  