-- Top Forecaster Brown Sees U.S. Adding 2 Million Jobs in 2011
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/top-forecaster-brown-sees-u-s-adding-2-million-jobs-in-2011.html
The  U.S. economy  will create 2
million jobs in 2011, twice as many as last year, said  Scott Brown , the most accurate forecaster of the jobless rate over the
past two years according to Bloomberg News calculations.  Unemployment will end the year at 8.6 percent, projected
Brown, chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc., less
than the 8.8 percent median forecast of 61 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg from Feb. 2 to Feb. 8. It dropped to 9 percent in
January from 9.4 percent the prior month.  President  Barack Obama ’s deal with congressional
Republicans to reduce the  payroll tax  and extend Bush-era cuts
will put more money in Americans’ pockets and spur demand, said
Brown. The need to rebuild inventories as sales climb will give
the world’s largest economy an added lift this year, he said.  “We’ll see consumer spending remaining pretty strong,”
Brown said in a telephone interview from  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “Firms large and small won’t hire unless they see more
demand.”  Economists in this month’s survey projected gross domestic
product will grow 3.2 percent in 2011, the most in seven years,
according to the survey median. That was up from 3.1 percent in
the January survey. Brown forecasts growth this year of 3.3
percent accelerating to 3.4 percent in 2012.  Brown arrives at his unemployment forecasts by mining data
on jobless claims, firing plans, small business sentiment and
purchasing manager surveys. For his longer-term outlook on
economic growth, he often writes up lists of positives and
negatives, weighing how they may play out.  Years Away  Brown forecasts the economy will create about 167,000 jobs
a month on average this year. The total gain, while more than
double last year’s 909,000, shows the U.S. is still years away
from recovering the 8.75 million lost in the recession.  Some companies are focusing on adding hourly staff to boost
sales, while reducing higher-paid management positions.  Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, plans to add 8,000 to 10,000 weekend sales positions
to improve staffing at the busiest time of the week. The
Mooresville, North Carolina-based chain also will cut 1,700
middle-management jobs as profit growth trails that of larger
rival Home Depot Inc.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Discretionary Index,
which includes retailers like Lowe’s and J.C. Penney Co., has
climbed 34 percent since June 30, exceeding the 29 percent gain
in the broader 500 Index.    Walt Disney   Walt Disney Co., the world’s biggest theme-park company,
yesterday reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as the recovering economy drove attendance gains at
its theme parks and advertising growth at cable networks led by
ESPN.  A Labor Department report last week showed payrolls rose by
a fewer-than-forecast 36,000 in January, depressed in part by
winter storms. “Growth is improving but it’s not enough to
generate a lot of jobs,” said Brown.  That forecast is in sync with the view of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “Until we see a sustained period of stronger  job creation ,
we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established,”
Bernanke said in a speech in Washington last week. “With
employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their payrolls,
it will be several years before the  unemployment rate  has
returned to a more normal level.”  Less Optimistic  Brown’s peers this month were less optimistic on the
outlook for household purchases. Consumer spending will average
3.2 percent this year, the biggest gain since 2005, according to
the median estimate of economists. Brown sees  consumer spending 
rising 3.7 percent in the current quarter and advancing 3.4
percent for all of 2011.  Zach Pandl, an economist at Nomura Securities International
Inc. in  New York , is among those who agree spending will get off
to a strong start this year. “Better job-market conditions,
improving confidence and the payroll tax cut are supporting
spending in the first quarter,” said Pandl.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research sees the
consumer lagging behind the broader recovery, with inventory
rebuilding a major contributor to growth early in 2011 and
continued support from business investment.  “Income growth is weak and income is the single most
important feed into consumption,” Neil Dutta, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  Brown agrees hurdles remain for the expansion. He is
“watching housing prices closely” because further declines
will undermine confidence and consumer spending. Strains in
state and local government budgets will also lead to spending
cuts and job losses, weighing on the recovery, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net 
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  