-- Morgan Stanley May Turn Proprietary Group Into Client Business
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2011-02-09T00:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/morgan-stanley-said-to-consider-making-proprietary-group-a-client-business.html
  Morgan Stanley , the world’s top
merger adviser, may turn its remaining proprietary-trading group
into an electronic client-trading unit, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  A final decision hasn’t been made about the group, known as
Equity Trading Lab, or ETL, said one of the people, who declined
to be named because the talks aren’t public. New York-based
Morgan Stanley said last month that it plans to break off its
largest proprietary-trading group, Process Driven Trading, or
PDT, as an independent advisory firm by the end of 2012. Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined to
comment.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are among  Wall Street  firms breaking off or winding down such trading
units to comply with the Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-
Frank financial law that prohibits banks from betting capital
for their own accounts. Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Officer
James P. Gorman, 52, said last week that phasing out remaining
prop-trading businesses was one of management’s objectives.  “We should not be a firm that is betting our shareholders’
capital for our own benefit,” Gorman said at a conference in
November. “We should be working with our shareholders’ capital
for our clients’ benefit.”  The ETL group, which has fewer than 30 employees, generated
about $100 million in revenue annually in recent years, three
people familiar with the unit said. Daniel Ewig, Peter Bolland
and Peter Fanelli help run the unit, according to three people
who asked not to be identified.  The unit was started by Rohit D’Souza, Michael Botlo and
Sudeep Gupta around 2000, when the equity-trading division was
headed by current  Citigroup Inc . CEO Vikram Pandit.  Smaller Than PDT  The group is smaller than the 60-person PDT, which is led
by Peter Muller, a so-called quant manager who uses mathematical
models to trade securities. PDT produced a quarter of Morgan
Stanley’s earnings in some years during the late 1990s and early
2000s, according to the book “The Quants: How a New Breed of
Math Whizzes Conquered Wall Street and Nearly Destroyed It,” by  Scott Patterson .  Gorman said in February 2010 that Morgan Stanley, the
sixth-largest U.S. lender by assets, had only two prop
businesses remaining, both statistical arbitrage units in the
equity division.  The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a group of
regulators charged with preventing a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis, released a study Jan. 18 recommending a
“robust implementation” of the Volcker rule that includes
requiring banks “to sell or wind down all impermissible
proprietary trading desks.”  ‘Right Balance’  Executives from companies including JPMorgan, Citigroup
Inc., General Electric Co.’s GE Capital unit and Credit Suisse
Group AG have met with  Federal Reserve  or U.S. Treasury
Department officials since November to discuss implementation of
the Volcker rule.  The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ,
Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group, said in a statement Jan.
18 that “regulators will need to strike the right balance” to
ensure that market-making and hedging activities aren’t hurt by
the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading.  Ariel Roskis and Daniele Benatoff, traders for Goldman
Sachs’s principal strategies desk in  London , are preparing to
start their own hedge fund in the second quarter, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said last month. The pair has
secured a $300 million investment from Brummer & Partners, the
largest Scandinavian hedge fund, the person said.  Goldman Sachs’s Group  Goldman Sachs already shut down an equity proprietary-
trading group, Goldman Sachs Principal Strategies, to comply
with the Volcker rule. New York-based Goldman Sachs lost two
quant managers, Robert Litterman and Robert C. Jones, from its
asset-management unit last year. Pierre Henri Flamand, the
former head of Goldman Sachs’s Principal Strategies group,
retired last year to start his own hedge fund.  Morgan Stanley scaled back proprietary-trading after
posting its first quarterly loss as a public company in 2007.
The firm reported $9.4 billion of writedowns tied to mortgage
holdings in the fourth quarter of that year, driven from bets
made by a prop trading desk in its fixed-income unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  