-- Morgan Stanley, Starwood Capital Said to Bid for Centro U.S. Mall Assets
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2011-02-09T23:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/morgan-stanley-starwood-said-to-team-on-bid-for-centro-assets.html
  Morgan Stanley ’s global real estate
fund is teaming with Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group
LLC to bid for U.S. shopping centers being sold by  Australia ’s  Centro Properties Group , a person briefed on the plans said.  Centro said on Dec. 22 it had received several expressions
of interest.  Blackstone Group LP  made a preliminary bid for some
assets, a person with knowledge of the offer said in December.
Centro, based in  Melbourne , ceded control to its bankers at the
end of 2008 and put its assets up for sale after an acquisition
spree in the U.S. backfired as the credit markets seized up.  The person briefed on Morgan Stanley and Starwood’s plans
asked not to be identified because the information is private.  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in  New York , and  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Starwood Capital, declined to comment. Stacy Slater, a New York-
based spokeswoman for Centro, also declined to comment.  The Wall Street Journal reported Morgan Stanley and
Starwood’s interest on Feb. 8. Blackstone and a consortium led
by Lend Lease Group and NRDC Equity Partners also may submit
formal offers by Feb. 24, the newspaper said. The bids were
close to the $8 billion of debt on the U.S. properties and the
$9.5 billion book value of the malls, according to the Journal.  An NRDC spokeswoman declined to comment on the report.  Morgan Stanley last June raised $4.7 billion for a new
global real estate fund, less than half its target before the
financial crisis. The company has reported gains in its real
estate funds during the past four quarters as the commercial  property market  began to recover.  Share Decline  Centro shares fell A$0.01 to A$0.15 yesterday in Sydney
trading, and have declined 35 percent in the past year. They
reached a peak closing price of A$10.02 in May 2007.  The company has about 600 properties in the U.S., which it
leases to tenants including TJX Cos., the owner of T.J. Maxx,
Marshalls and HomeGoods stores; and Kroger Co., the largest U.S.
grocery store chain. The U.S. properties were 88.3 percent
leased in the year through June 30, compared with 88.7 percent a
year earlier, according to Centro’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  