-- Mortgage Applications in U.S. Fell Last Week as Costs Rose
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-09T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-fell-last-week-as-costs-rose.html
Mortgage applications in the U.S.
fell for the second time in three weeks as borrowing costs
climbed to a 10-month high.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index decreased 5.5
percent in the week ended Feb. 4 from the prior period. The
group’s purchase gauge fell 1.4 percent last week, and its
refinancing measure dropped 7.7 percent.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 5.13
percent last week, the highest level since April 2010, today’s
report showed, one reason why buying and refinancing may remain
depressed. Mounting foreclosures and elevated unemployment also
are delaying a sustained rebound in housing.  “Home sales remain moribund,”  Steven Wood , president of
Insight Economics LLC in Danville,  California , said in a note to
clients before the report. Rising borrowing costs are “removing
some of the incentive for both home buying and refinancing.”  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan increased last
week from 4.81 percent the prior week. The rate reached 4.21
percent in October, the lowest since the group’s records began
in 1990.  At the current 30-year rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be $545, or about $12 more than the
same week the prior year, when the rate was 4.94 percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage rose to 4.29
percent from 4.13 percent.  The share of applicants seeking to refinance a loan dropped
to 66.6 percent last week, the lowest level since May, from 69.3
percent the prior week.  Builder’s Concerns  Homebuilders continue to face hurdles.  Beazer Homes USA
Inc ., an Atlanta-based builder of homes for first-time buyers,
yesterday reported a loss for the quarter ended Dec. 31, as new
orders from continuing operations declined 24 percent from the
same period a year ago.  “We saw a continuation of the broad market conditions that
have been evident since the expiration of the first-time home
buyer’s tax credit last spring, namely poor  consumer confidence 
that has led to modest traffic in our communities and slow new
home sales,”  Ian McCarthy , chief executive officer, said
yesterday in a conference call with investors. “Consumers
remain concerned about their employment conditions.”  The Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association’s loan
survey, compiled every week, covers about half of all U.S.
retail residential mortgage originations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  