-- Motorola, British Land Sign Up to Voluntary U.K. Carbon Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2011-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/motorola-british-land-sign-up-to-voluntary-u-k-carbon-emissions-curbs.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.’s
U.K. unit, British Land Plc and  Mothercare Plc  joined a group of
500 companies and organizations making voluntary carbon-dioxide
emissions cuts, the agency that certifies them said.  The companies were awarded the Carbon Trust Standard, which
shows businesses have measured, cut and pledged to further
reduce their output of  greenhouse gases , the Carbon Trust said
today in an e-mailed statement. The group covers 18 percent of
U.K. business emissions, and has saved 165 million pounds ($266
million) in power and fuel bills, it said.  “There is a real business momentum now behind companies
measuring and most importantly committing to reduce their  carbon
emissions ,” Harry Morrison, general manager of the
 certification program , said in the statement.  The reductions are separate from mandatory carbon cuts
imposed on the largest emitters such as power stations and
factories that are covered by the European Union Emissions
Trading System. Retailers, universities and local authorities
are due to start paying for their emissions starting next year
under the government’s so-called Carbon Reduction Commitment.  Libertyville, Illinois-based mobile phone maker Motorola
cut the CO2 emissions of its U.K. unit by 20 percent, the Carbon
Trust said. Property developer British Land and children’s
clothing retailer Mothercare each reduced output of the gas 8
percent in the three years through March, it said.  The Carbon Trust is a U.K. government-funded company that
advises corporations on cutting emissions, saving energy and
advancing low-carbon technologies. Groups from  Tesco Plc , the
U.K.’s largest retailer, to the Treasury department are among
those to gain a Carbon Trust Standard, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 