-- House Republicans Seek to Cut Funds for Environment, Energy, Health Care
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-02-10T14:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/house-republicans-release-list-of-proposed-u-s-spending-cuts.html
House Republicans want to reduce the
U.S. deficit by ending more than 60 programs, including
President Barack Obama’s high-speed rail initiative, and cutting
funds for the environment, energy, health care and  law
enforcement .  After releasing a partial list of proposed cuts yesterday,
Republicans are scheduled today to spell out their full plan to
trim at least $35 billion from the deficit, which is projected
to reach $1.5 trillion this year. Republicans say the measure
also will bar the Obama administration from spending any money
to implement the 2010 health-care overhaul.  Republicans propose ending funds for the public service
 AmeriCorps , the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and a
program that provides contraceptives to low-income families. The
 Environmental Protection Agency ’s budget would be cut by 16
percent below what Obama has requested.  “We will respond to the millions of Americans who have
called on this Congress to rein in spending to help our economy
grow,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, said in a statement. He also said, “Every
dollar we cut has a constituency, an industry, an association or
individual citizens who will disagree.”  The spending reductions would be made during this fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30. Republicans plan to debate the
measure next week and consider amendments from members of their
party who seek deeper cuts.  Rebellion in Ranks  Republican leaders are confronting a rebellion in their
ranks over the scope of the spending cuts. The party won control
of the House on promises to shave the fiscal 2011 budget by $100
billion, and many of the 87 freshman Republicans vowed to scale
back the size of government and are insisting that leaders keep
their budget-cutting pledge.  The intra-party skirmish illustrates the difficulty
leadership has in cultivating unity on several pending spending
battles, including a vote to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling. The Treasury Department expects the limit will be
reached between April 5 and May 31. Many Republicans want deep
spending cuts as a condition for raising it.  The Republican Study Committee, a group of fiscally
conservative members, is demanding the party stick to its 2010
campaign promise to cut $100 billion from the current budget.  Resistance in Senate  Any plan that clears the House will meet resistance in the
Democratic-controlled Senate. A current stopgap budget measure
expires March 4.  “This administration strongly agrees that we have to make
tough choices to bring down the deficit and get the country back
on a sustainable path,”  Kenneth Baer , a spokesman for the
Office of Management and Budget, said in an e-mail. He pointed
to Obama’s plan for a five-year freeze on non-security
discretionary spending to save more than $400 billion over a
decade.  “But to win the future, we cannot make cuts that undermine
our ability to create jobs, drive innovation and compete in a
global economy,” Baer said.  The Republican plan would cut funding to the  National
Institutes of Health , which includes the  National Cancer
Institute  and other research facilities, by $1 billion, or 3.1
percent. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the
agency responsible for tracking disease outbreaks, would get a
reduction of $755 million, or about 12 percent.  Job-training programs would be cut by $2 billion. Funds for
a program that helps low-income families heat and cool their
homes would decrease by $400 million.  Objections From Democrats  Democrats say the cuts will hurt the most vulnerable
Americans and harm the economic recovery.  “Democrats are committed to fiscal discipline, starting
with an aggressive attack on waste, fraud, and abuse in our
federal budget,” House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
California said in a statement. “But we will not do so at the
expense of good jobs, a strong middle class and a growing
economy.”  Senator Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, said the
Republican plan “would get rid of cops that keep our streets
safe, food inspectors that keep our food safe, and cut home
heating oil for seniors.”  Obama plans to release his proposed fiscal 2012 budget on
Feb. 14. The president has called for a five-year freeze on
discretionary spending, outside of national security.  Spending Caps  Under spending caps the House Republicans previously
announced, transportation and housing programs would receive
cuts of 17 percent, while health and education programs would be
reduced by 4 percent.  Yesterday’s list included proposed cuts to the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the  National Science
Foundation ,  Amtrak  and the  Food and Drug Administration .  One of the biggest cuts, $1.6 billion, would hit the EPA.
Administrator Lisa Jackson said about half the agency’s budget
goes to help states “enforce our nation’s environmental laws.”
She spoke to reporters yesterday and said she hadn’t seen the
proposed cuts.  Legal assistance to the poor and the  Internal Revenue
Service  would be targeted. Energy-efficiency and renewable-
energy programs would lose $899 million. Republicans also want
to cut $1.4 billion from a program that guarantees construction
loans for new energy projects, such as nuclear reactors,
electric transmission lines and solar arrays.  High-Speed Rail  The proposal would eliminate $1 billion from spending on
high-speed rail service, a priority for Obama. Community health
centers, also championed by the president, would be cut by $1.3
billion.  A program started under former President  Bill Clinton  to
put more police officers in local communities would lose $600
million.  AmeriCorps , slated for elimination under the plan, also was
created under Clinton and set up a network of national service
programs for Americans to serve in health care, education,
public safety and the environment. Obama sought $914 million in
spending authority for fiscal 2011 for AmeriCorps, up from $698
million in fiscal 2010, budget documents show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  