-- Toyota Says It Was Unable to Duplicate Throttle Flaw
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d
-- 2011-02-09T21:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/toyota-says-it-never-was-able-to-duplicate-results-showing-flaw.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . was always
confident in its electronic-throttle technology and was unable
to tie the system to the unintended acceleration events in its
vehicles that led to record recalls, an executive said.  “We’ve produced 40 million vehicles globally and have not
duplicated any issues that would anywhere come close to
replicating or suggesting that electronic throttles would lead
to unintended acceleration,”  Bob Carter , general manager of
Toyota brand sales in the U.S., told reporters today at the
Chicago Auto Show.  NASA, the U.S. space agency, and the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  said yesterday their probe of
possible electronics defects found no cause for unintended
acceleration beyond sticking accelerator pedals and floor mats
that jammed the pedals. Toyota, the world’s largest automaker,
had identified those causes and addressed them with recalls.  The U.S. findings “validated” Toyota’s position that
electronics played no part in the incidents and will help to
repair the automaker’s reputation among consumers, Carter said.
Toyota’s U.S. sales fell 0.4 percent last year, while
industrywide deliveries gained 11 percent, according to Autodata
Corp.  “If any consumers did have some lingering concerns, to
have it validated by  NASA  and the Department of Transportation
is certainly encouraging,” he said.  Prius Family  Toyota last month unveiled the Prius v, a wagon that is
larger than the current gasoline-electric sedan, and a concept
version that’s smaller than the present model. Gas prices, which
Toyota expects to average $3.50 a gallon in the U.S. this
summer, may continue to rise and help the line of cars overtake
the Camry and Corolla in sales, Carter said.  “As the market continues to evolve and natural resources
get depleted and fuel prices go up, I see a day that eventually
Prius will become the leader in the Toyota franchise,” he said.
“Not short-term, but toward the end of the decade, Prius should
be No. 1.”  The automaker plans to introduce a plug-in version of the
Prius in the first quarter of 2012, and the model may initially
sell for less than $30,000, Carter said.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, rose $1.06, or 1.2 percent, to $89.63 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the highest
closing price in more than a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  