-- Paris Wheat Surging Above Chicago’s on Africa: Freight Markets
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-09T09:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/paris-wheat-surging-20-above-chicago-s-on-africa-demand-freight-markets.html
French wheat costs are near their
highest in three years compared with U.S. grain and the premium
is likely to rise as record food prices stoke demand from
governments in North Africa seeking to end growing protests.  Importers are paying 20 percent more for a metric ton of
wheat on the Paris NYSE Euronext bourse than on the Chicago
Board of Trade because they need cargoes now, said Gautier Le
Molgat, a consultant at Paris-based Agritel, which advises about
2,000 farms on crop sales. Shipments at Rouen, France’s main
grains terminal, are at a two-month high, with  Algeria , Egypt
and Morocco among the destinations, port data show.  “Algeria, which is one of the biggest wheat importers in
the world, can’t jeopardize the food security of its
population,” said Alexandre Marie, a Bourges, France-based
wheat analyst at Offre et  Demande Agricole , which advises more
than 5,000 farms on crop sales. “The geographical position
influences things when there’s a quick need for stocks.”  Protests have spread across North Africa and the Middle
East in the last month, driving  Tunisia ’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile after 23 years in power and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  to pledge an end to his three-decade-
long rule by September. Riots erupted in part because of food
prices the  United Nations  says reached a record last month.  While the French premium is about three times the 10-year
average, it may keep rising until farmers start harvesting in
July, said Luke Chandler, head of agricultural research at
Rabobank in London. The premium exceeded 21 percent in November
and again last week. It was previously at these levels in
September 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The two
prices only evened out about five months later.  Trading Window  “The importing countries have advanced their window for
wheat trading,” said Agritel’s Le Molgat. “Normally they’re
not this active in January. They are anticipating future needs,
and there is the idea of quality and security of supply.”  Stockpiles of French wheat available for shipping may start
to run out as early as next month, according to FranceAgriMer,
the government crops agency. While that won’t create shortages
for French buyers with long-term supply contracts, it will
probably mean higher prices for importers.    France , the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter after the
U.S., will ship a record 12.1 million tons outside the European
Union in the 12 months ending in June, FranceAgriMer said today,
increasing its estimate.  Milling-wheat prices may rise to 300 euros ($410) a ton by
April, about 9 percent more than now, maintaining or even
widening the premium over Chicago wheat, according to Cedric
Weber, an analyst at Offre et Demande Agricole.  ‘Forced to Buy’  “The Maghreb countries thought they had enough stocks,”
said Weber, referring to Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. “They
saw prices rise and waited, thinking it would come down. Now
they’re finding themselves forced to buy.”  While that demand may support freight rates, it’s not
enough to eliminate a glut of ships. Rates for handysizes, a
class of vessel used at Rouen, fell 11 percent to $9,422 a day
last week, data from the London-based Baltic Exchange show.  Cereal prices started surging in June as  Russia , formerly
the second-biggest wheat exporter, had its worst drought in at
least a half century, prompting the government to impose an
export ban in August. Ukraine, previously the largest barley
shipper, set quotas on overseas sales in October.    China , the world’s largest wheat producer and consumer, is
facing severe drought in the main region growing the winter
crop, the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  reported
yesterday, adding to concern about grain supply.  Loadings Triple  Rouen, on the Seine River downstream of Paris and the port
of delivery for the NYSE Euronext milling-wheat contract, loaded
more than 250,000 tons of wheat onto ships in the last week of
September, more than triple the amount six weeks earlier. The
increase reflected orders made when Russia’s export ban started.  Loadings almost tripled again two weeks ago, boosted by
sales to  Morocco . Cargoes to the North African nation reached
82,400 tons in the week ended Feb. 2, the most since November,
port data show.  Shipments to Algeria, the biggest buyer of French wheat,
added another 28,940 tons, the most in a month. The nation
bought 2 million tons over 20 days in January, equal to four or
five months of demand, according to Roger Janson, head of
European grain and oilseed trading at Cargill Inc.  The premium for French wheat will eventually drive buyers
to U.S. and Argentine supplies, said Francois Gatel, head of
France Exports Cereales, the cereals-export lobby with offices
in Egypt, Morocco and China.  ‘No Longer Competitive’  “European wheat is really no longer competitive at all,
probably because all of it has been sold,” said Emmanuel Jayet,
head of agricultural-commodity research at Societe Generale SA
in  London , who in June correctly anticipated a jump in grain
prices in the second half of last year. “In the U.S., there’s
still quite a bit available.”  While French Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire has ruled
out restrictions on exports, stockpiles are dwindling. The
country’s soft-wheat stocks at the end of June will probably
have fallen to 2.21 million tons, compared with 3.42 million
tons a year earlier, according to the crops office.  “We have to reduce the pace of exports,” said Weber of
Offre et Demande. “If not, there won’t be enough left in
France. The only way to regulate the exports is for European
wheat to rise so much that it’s no longer competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 