-- Peru's Sol Falls Most in Three Weeks on Finance Ministry Dollar Purchases
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-02-09T20:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/peru-s-sol-falls-most-in-three-weeks-on-finance-ministry-dollar-purchases.html
Peru’s sol fell the most in three
weeks after the government said it will resume dollar purchases
this month as the central bank may raise  interest rates .  The sol closed 0.1 percent weaker at 2.7685 per  U.S.
dollar , from 2.7669 yesterday. That’s the sol’s steepest decline
since Jan. 20.  Peru’s  Finance Ministry  will buy $100 million in the
foreign exchange market each month to stem the currency’s rally,
spokesman Fernando Mendoza said yesterday. The sol has climbed
1.4 percent against the dollar this year, the second-biggest
advance among Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
and rose to the highest level since May 2008 on Feb. 2.  “This adds to the efforts of the government and the
central bank to avoid appreciation pressures on the currency,”
said  Roberto Melzi , a Latin American strategist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York . “Potentially what they are doing is
having a stronger hand in the foreign exchange market so the
central bank can continue the tightening process.”  Inflationary pressures from higher food and fuel costs may
lead policy makers in the South American country to raise the
benchmark rate for the seventh time since May at tomorrow’s
meeting. The central bank will increase the rate by a quarter-
point to 3.50 percent, according to 11 of 13 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The central bank has bought $274 million in the foreign
exchange market since Feb. 1, restarting purchases after halting
them in October. The bank, which didn’t buy dollars today,
purchased almost $9 billion last year, the second-highest amount
ever.  Certificates of Deposit  The central bank has also issued 991 million soles ($358
million) this year in certificates of deposit payable in dollars
to cool demand for the sol.  The government bought around $100 million a month last year
to stem gains in the sol, state news agency  Andina  reported
yesterday, citing comments by Finance Minister Ismael Benavides.  The yield on  Peru ’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 slid 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 6.01 percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local
unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  