-- Peugeot Plans to Set Up Factory in India, Raises Three-Year Savings Target
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2011-02-09T17:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/peugeot-posts-2010-profit-on-emerging-market-sales-raises-savings-target.html
(Corrects net-income figure in second paragraph.)  PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s second-
biggest carmaker, said it plans to expand into  India  as the
company targeted an extra 400 million euros ($546 million) in
earnings from its three-year turnaround plan.  Peugeot will choose an Indian factory site this year to
assemble an entry-level compact model, Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  said at a Paris press conference today as he
announced a second-half  profit  of 454 million euros.  Varin is negotiating to add factories in India and  China  in
an effort to reduce the automaker’s dependence on the slower-
growing European market. Paris-based Peugeot wants countries
outside Europe to account for half of sales by 2015, he said
today. That compares with 39 percent last year.  The carmaker is “behind most competitors” in expanding
outside Europe, said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein with a “market-perform” recommendation on
the company’s stock.  Second-half profit compared with a 199 million-euro year-
earlier loss and beat the 269 million-euro average of 10 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent to 27.67
billion euros. Operating profit as a proportion of sales was 2.4
percent, with the operating margin from carmaking at 0.5
percent.  ‘Miserable’ Industry  The auto division’s performance offers a “harsh reminder
of just how miserable the business of mass-market carmaking in
Europe has become,” even as net income exceeded expectations,
Warburton said in a report e-mailed to investors.  Peugeot fell as much as 1.18 euros, or 3.8 percent, to
30.02 euros and was down 3.6 percent as of 2:24 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has risen 5.7 percent this year, outstripping
a 4.2 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe Autos Index.  Models that the company has introduced in the past two
years include the Peugeot 3008 crossover and Citroen DS3 upscale
minicar. The carmaker will defend profitability this year with
European retail-price increases averaging 100 euros per vehicle,
Varin said in a Bloomberg Television interview after the results
presentation.  In fleet sales, rising second-hand values will help the
Peugeot and Citroen brands increase market share without
slashing prices, Varin said.  “Fleet managers are very rational buyers, and our new
models are well positioned on total cost of ownership because
we’ve massively increased their residual values,” he said.  Target Through 2012  Peugeot, which ranks second in Europe to  Germany ’s  Volkswagen AG , raised the target for savings and additional
earnings for the three years through 2012 to 3.7 billion euros.  The carmaker said it’s ready to repay 2 billion euros
outstanding from an emergency government loan received in 2009
after free  cash flow  rose to 1.11 billion euros last year from
809 million euros reported in 2009.  “The biggest positive in this result is the free cash-flow
performance and the promise to repay the French government
early,” London-based Credit Suisse analyst David Arnold said.  The medium-term turnaround strategy, which Varin introduced
in 2009, initially was aimed at generating the earnings gain
from higher sales, shorter model-development times, a 20 percent
manufacturing productivity gain and 400 million euros in
operating-cost savings.  Suspended Hyderabad Project  The announcement on an Indian strategy comes almost two
years after Peugeot suspended a project to build a plant near
Hyderabad, the capital of  Andhra Pradesh  state, pending the
outcome of tie-up talks with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp .
Negotiations between the French and Japanese carmakers ended
without a deal last year.  Varin said today that he expects Chinese approval by June
30 for a joint-venture agreement concluded last year with China
Changan Automobile Group Co., the parent of Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. The CEO had previously said he expected the
regulatory go-ahead in the first quarter.  Peugeot is also adding a third Chinese factory with
existing partner Dongfeng Motor Group Co. in an effort to more
than double its market share in the country to 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  