-- Pfizer, Novartis Drugs Fight Rare Pancreatic Tumors in Studies
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2011-02-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/pfizer-novartis-drugs-fight-rare-pancreatic-malignancies-in-studies.html
Cancer drugs made by  Pfizer Inc . and  Novartis AG  helped combat a rare form of pancreatic tumor, the
type diagnosed in  Apple Inc .’s  Steve Jobs  in 2004, reports in a
medical journal confirmed today.  Pfizer’s Sutent and Novartis’s Afinitor, both used to treat
kidney cancer, more than doubled the time that patients lived
without their pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors spreading,
according to company-funded research reported today in the  New
England Journal of Medicine.  Data from the studies were
previously presented at medical meetings and submitted to
regulators for marketing approval, according to the companies.  Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors make up about 1.4 percent
of the 40,000 people a year who are diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer. Patients have few treatment options and die an average
of three years from diagnosis, according to a 2007 study. The
new treatments may prolong survival, while adding side effects,
including diarrhea, vomiting and infections. Jobs, 55, chief
executive officer of Cupertino, California-based Apple, told
employees on Jan. 17 he was taking his third medical leave.  “These studies provide optimism,” said Robert T. Jenson
and Gianfranco Delle Fave, doctors at the National Institute of
Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, in Bethesda,  Maryland , in an editorial that accompanied the studies. “Both
drugs are effective at improving disease-free survival, even in
patients in whom other treatments have failed, and thus offer
effective therapies where there were none before.”  European Clearance  Both companies have applied to regulators in the U.S. and
the European Union. Pfizer won European approval in December to
market Sutent for pancreatic tumors. Pfizer also has clearance
to sell Sutent for gastrointestinal stromal tumors.  In the Sutent study, patients lived without progression of
their advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors for a median
time of 11.4 months compared with 5.5 months for patients taking
a placebo, according to authors led by Eric Raymond of the  University of Paris .  Those taking Sutent lived longer, and the study was halted
early because it would have been unethical to continue giving
any patients a placebo instead of the medicine, Pfizer said in
March 2009.  Afinitor from Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis kept
advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors at bay for 11 months
compared with 4.6 months for patients on a placebo. The study
failed to prove that the drug extended overall survival,
possibly because patients on the placebo were allowed to switch
to Afinitor once their disease progressed, wrote authors led by
J.C. Yao of the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in
Houston.  Unanswered Questions  The studies leave unanswered questions, according to
today’s editorial. Doctors don’t know how long patients should
take the medicines. If one drug fails, it’s unclear whether
switching to the other would help. Doctors also don’t know
whether it’s safe or effective to give the drugs in combination
with other treatments, including radiation and surgery, and
whether long-term side effects will limit the usefulness of the
treatments.  Apple CEO Jobs took a leave of absence in 2004 after
saying he had a neuroendocrine tumor. He left again in 2009 for
a  liver transplant , sometimes done when the cancer spreads. He
didn’t say on Jan. 17 why he was taking the third medical leave.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  