-- Platinum Group Metals Says Bushveld Production to Begin in 2013
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-02-09T08:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/platinum-group-metals-says-output-from-its-bushveld-mines-to-start-in-2013.html
  Platinum Group Metals Ltd ., a
Canadian mining company, said it’s begun developing a mine in
northern  South Africa  with first production scheduled to start
in 2013.  The company owns 74 percent of two projects in an
exploration area in South Africa known as the Western Bushveld
Joint Venture. One of the projects is the new mine, which will
require an estimated capital investment of $443 million and
produce platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.  “We’re in the process of starting construction,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Jones said in an interview in Cape
Town yesterday. “We expect a bulk sample permit to be issued in
the next week or two. That will be on time for our initial
investment of $100 million” into the project, he said.  Platinum Group, based in  Vancouver , also secured funding
from state-owned Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp. last
year to begin exploration at its War Springs and Waterberg
projects on the northern limb of the Bushveld Complex. Drilling
is already under way, Jones said.  Platinum Group’s future exploration will focus on  Canada ,
where promising new palladium and platinum deposits have been
identified, he said. The company has no intention of entering  Zimbabwe , which has the world’s second-biggest platinum deposits
after South Africa, Jones said.  Demand Outstrips Supply  The price of platinum has risen 24 percent over the past 12
months, following a rebound in the global economy. Platinum and
palladium are used in automobile pollution-control devices and
other industrial applications.  Jones expects the price of the metal to continue climbing,
as demand from vehicle manufacturers outstrips supply, and for
the rand to weaken against the dollar, increasing the
profitability of South African mines. The rand has gained 31
percent against the U.S. currency since the beginning of 2009.  “The strength of the rand has really knocked out the U.S.
dollar move” in the price of platinum, Jones said. “We really
haven’t seen a rand price increase in platinum like we have in
the other commodities. There is potential for platinum to play
catch up. Platinum is getting harder to find, harder to develop
The market is going to remain very tight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  