-- Poland Sells Most 2-Year Debt Since July on Curve
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2011-02-09T14:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/polish-two-year-yields-near-lowest-to-10-year-since-2002-spur-bond-auction.html
  Poland  today raised the most from the
sale of two-year bonds in seven months, seizing on yields near
the lowest compared with 10-year debt since 2002 to help fund
its  budget deficit .  The  Finance Ministry  sold a total of 5.24 billion zloty
($1.84 billion) of notes due in January 2013, it said in e-
mailed statements. The average yield reached 5.031 percent and
was 127 basis points below 10-year bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The spread was 138 basis points, or 1.38
percentage points, on Jan. 14, the widest since 2002.  Investors are switching to shorter-maturity bonds as
accelerating inflation puts pressure on central banks to raise
borrowing costs. The demand for shorter maturities has swayed
governments from  Russia  to  Turkey  to abandon selling longer-
dated debt in the past two weeks.  “Demand for two-year debt should always be there even as
inflation pressures grow because banks need to park their cash
somewhere,” Arkadiusz Urbanski, a fixed-income analyst at Bank
Pekao SA, said by phone from Warsaw yesterday. “Every time
there is volatility and uncertainty on the market, reducing
supply on the longer end helps.”  Poland decided against issuing bonds due 2020 this month,
opting to offer Treasury bills, inflation-linked and two-year
bonds, the ministry said on Jan. 31.  Russia, Turkey  Russia last week switched to selling two-year bonds,
scrapping plans to offer debt due in 2018, as the prospect of
higher  interest rates  reduced demand for longer-dated fixed-
income securities. Turkey on Jan. 28 withdrew the sale of fixed-
rate bonds maturing 2020, replacing them with floating-rate
notes, as five-year yields climbed to a seven-month high on
concern political unrest in the Arab world would spread from
Egypt and  Tunisia .  The amount of two-year bonds Poland sold today was the
biggest since the auction on July 7, when the ministry raised a
total of 5.96 billion zloty, according to its page on Bloomberg.
The average yield was the highest since the sale of similar
maturity debt on Jan. 13, 2010 when it reached 5.052 percent,
according to the ministry’s  website .  Bank Millenium predicted a yield at today’s auction of
about 5 percent while Bank Handlowy estimated 5.01 percent. ING
Bank Slaski SA said it expected a yield “close to 5 percent,”
and Pekao predicted an average yield of 5.05 percent.  “The shorter end is looking relatively cheap for the
government and has held up pretty well as it’s seen as less
risky,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist at Bank
Millennium, a unit of Banco Comercial Portugues SA, said by
phone from Warsaw. “The market has probably gotten ahead of
itself pricing in interest-rate increases and we might see some
relief.”  Raising Rates  Poland’s central bank lifted its main interest rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3.75 percent last month, the
first increase since June 2008, to help bring inflation back to
its 2.5 percent target. Consumer price growth accelerated to 3.1
percent in December, the fastest rate in 11 months.  Polish policy makers shouldn’t rush another rate increase,
central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak said last week. Andrzej Bratkowski, another monetary policy council member, was quoted
by PAP newswire on Jan. 25 as saying that a rate increase in
March looks “relatively unlikely” as the economic situation
doesn’t require several quick moves.  ‘Intermittently’  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs in a
year’s time indicate Polish rates will rise by 1.05 percentage
points, based on a difference between the 12-month contract and
the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate to which it
settles.  The central bank may delay its next increase in interest
rates until May and tighten the monetary policy “intermittently
rather than continuously” due to lingering concerns about the
sustainability of economic growth, Daniel Hewitt and Piotr Chwiejczak, analysts at  Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote in a
note yesterday following their trip to Warsaw.  The Finance Ministry has covered 18 percent of its 2011
borrowing needs of 167.5 billion zloty through the end of
January,  Piotr Marczak , who heads its public debt department,
said on Jan. 31. Poland sold 350 million Swiss francs ($366
million) of five-year bonds this week in its third offering of
foreign-currency debt this year as domestic borrowing costs
increase.  Poland is planning to sell bonds in dollars “in the near,
although not the imminent future,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  