-- Gilts Decline, Pound Appreciates Versus Dollar on BOE Interest-Rate Bets
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-02-09T17:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/pound-snaps-four-day-decline-against-dollar-on-bank-of-england-rate-bets.html
Ten-year gilts fell for an eighth
consecutive day and two-year note yields rallied for the third
time in four days amid speculation accelerating inflation may
prompt the  Bank of England  to raise  interest rates .  The pound strengthened against the dollar after the  Confederation of British Industry  said price pressures have made
an increase in the cost of borrowing more likely. Policy makers
conclude a rate-setting meeting tomorrow. Sterling earlier
declined against the dollar as data showed the U.K. trade
deficit unexpectedly widened to a record in December.  “Without a doubt, people are very cautious about what
tomorrow will bring,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “People
are probably trimming positions in case policy makers start to
hint that their position is changing.”  The yield on 10-year gilts rose four basis points to
3.88 percent as of 4:26 p.m. in  London , headed for its longest
run of declines since December 2006. The 4.75 percent security
maturing in March 2020 fell 0.345, or 3.45 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,608) face amount, to 106.58. The two-year note yield
added three basis points to 1.55 percent.  Two-year note yields have surged more than 40 basis points
since the start of the year amid speculation above-target
consumer prices will compel Bank of England policy makers to
raise rates above a record low 0.5 percent. A split on the
central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee widened
last month when  Martin Weale  joined  Andrew Sentance  in voting
for increases.  Food Prices  The yield on the short-sterling futures contract expiring
in December rose three basis points as investors added to bets
for higher borrowing costs.  Consumer-price growth will average 3.9 percent in 2011, the
CBI -- the U.K.’s biggest business lobby -- said in a report
released in London today, after forecasting 3.3 percent growth
in December. Food-price inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace in 19 months in January, according to British Retail
Consortium data.  Money-market rates indicate an almost 20 percent chance
that the U.K. central bank will increase borrowing costs as soon
as tomorrow, even as economists forecast no change, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  “Investors are worried about the possibility of an early
hike by the bank, either tomorrow or in the next few months,”
said  Sam Hill , a fixed-income strategist at the bank in London.
“It seems rational from a risk-management perspective that
markets would put more weight on the possibility of a move than
economists or analysts would.”  Rate Forecast  The overnight deposit rate will be 0.547 percent tomorrow,
following the MPC meeting, 4.7 basis points more than the
current benchmark rate, according to derivative prices on
Bloomberg from Tullett Prebon Plc.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg unanimously forecast the
benchmark will remain unchanged for the 24th consecutive month.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.6081 after earlier falling
0.2 percent to $1.6033. Against the euro, sterling slipped 0.3
percent to 85.08 pence.  The U.K. goods-trade gap rose to 9.25 billion pounds from a
revised 8.46 billion pounds in November, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. The median of 17 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of 8.6 billion pounds.
Imports rose 3.5 percent, outpacing a 1.5 percent increase in
exports.  “An early surprise MPC hike could still lead to a
significant pound-sterling rally, but much seems priced now on
the fixed-income side,”  Thomas Stolper , chief currency
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London, wrote in an
investor note today. “With a very uncertain macro outlook the
risk of renewed pound weakness on the back of disappointing data
remains high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  