-- Powerfuel’s U.K. Carbon Project Bids for Slice of European Funds
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2011-02-09T10:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/powerfuel-s-u-k-carbon-project-bidding-for-a-slice-of-european-funds.html
The Hatfield carbon capture project,
whose U.K. owner  Powerfuel Plc  went into administration in
December, could receive a share of funds from the sale of 4.4
billion euros ($6 billion) of carbon dioxide permits.    KPMG  International, administrator for coal mine operator
 Powerfuel , said the Hatfield carbon-capture project applied to a
European Commission funding program for clean energy as the bloc
seeks to curb emissions from member states. Project sponsors
must submit plans to their governments by the deadline  today .  “It’s a sign of the fact that it’s business as usual,”
Alison Anderson, a Leeds-based spokeswoman for KPMG, said by
telephone. Powerfuel is owned by Chief Executive Officer Richard Budge and former Russian billionaire Mikhail Abyzov.  Powerfuel’s assets include a  coal mine  and a project to
build a power station that captures carbon dioxide from gasified
coal for underground storage. KPMG has received 10 proposals
concerning the assets, Anderson said.  “The expressions of interest have reflected the complexity
of this job,” she said. She declined to give further details as
the process is commercially sensitive. The company’s debt is
about 85 million pounds ($137 million), according to KPMG.  Powerfuel has permission to build a power station at the
site near its coal field and already won 180 million euros of
European Commission funding. Powerfuel is 653 million pounds
short of the investment needed to develop the CCS project,
according to KPMG.  New Entrants’ Reserve  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change expects to
announce the number of proposals for EC funds received after the
deadline later today, with a “more complete announcement” next
week, a DECC spokeswoman said by e-mail.  Funds will come from the sale of 300 million allowances to
emit carbon dioxide under Europe’s cap-and-trade program.
Revenue from the sale will be used to aid carbon-capture and
renewable energy projects. The  European Investment Bank  will
sell the permits from the so-called new entrants’ reserve, or
NER300, and disburse the revenue via national governments.  Powerfuel has applied to the first round of the contest,
where revenue from the sale of an initial 200 million allowances
will fund “ at least eight CCS projects ,” according to the EC.
EU carbon allowances traded at 14.73 euros a metric ton at 9:17
a.m. in London. At this price, 200 million permits would raise
2.95 billion euros to be dispersed among them.  Second Round  The final number of projects would depend on the resources
available, according to the commission. The second round to sell
the remaining 100 million permits allows for the “potential
adjustment of the technological, geographical or geological
representation of projects,” after the first round awards, the
EC said. The total amount of funding for an individual project
will be limited to 15 percent of the full amount available,
according to the EC.  Britain’s coalition government has pledged 1 billion pounds
to fund the first commercial demonstration project to capture
and permanently store carbon dioxide. This money will go to a
CCS technology that captures CO2 from a coal plant after burning
the fuel. Iberdrola SA’s Scottish Power unit is the only company
in the running for the funds.  Powerfuel’s plans, to capture emissions before combustion,
are among the most advanced in  Europe  according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance analysts. Pre-combustion is a more efficient
option, said Jeff Chapman, chief executive of the Carbon Capture
& Storage Association industry group.  “Pre-combustion capture means making hydrogen out of
fossil fuel whilst capturing carbon dioxide,” Chapman said.  Vehicles, Homes  This hydrogen can be sold as fuel for vehicles or homes and
used as a feedstock in chemical factories. “That’s a lot more
flexible and you get revenue stream from that,” Chapman said.
“Whether that makes it cheaper is a matter yet to be proven.”  The benefit of capturing carbon dioxide from a coal plant
after burning fuel is that it can be retrofitted on existing gas
or coal plants, Chapman said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  