-- Prostate Cancer Genome Map Shows Genes Tied to Seven Tumor Types
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-02-09T23:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/prostate-cancer-genome-map-shows-genes-tied-to-seven-tumor-types.html
A complete genetic map of  prostate
cancer  has been charted for the first time by scientists, an
achievement that may expand understanding of the disease and
lead to new treatments.  Scientists looked at seven kinds of prostate tumors, using
a technology that allowed them to sequence the full genetic
plan, and compared them to sequences from normal tissue samples,
in a study published in the journal  Nature . The work was led by
researchers from the Broad Institute of Harvard and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.  The work is already providing insights into the disease,
researchers said. Scientists have uncovered alterations in
tumors that prevent the body from making proteins that suppress
cancer growth. Other findings may eventually allow scientists to
tell whether the cancer is slow-growing or aggressive.  “This first whole genome view shows us tantalizing
evidence for several new prostate cancer genes that likely would
have remained undiscovered” without this approach, said senior
author  Levi Garraway , a senior associate member of the Broad
Institute, an assistant professor at the Boston-based  Harvard
Medical School , and an oncologist at the  Dana Farber Cancer
Institute , in a statement today.  A  genome  is the complete set of genes, comprised of DNA,
contained in a body cell, according to the National Human Genome
Research Institute.  Older Men Affected  Prostate cancer was estimated to kill 32,050 American men
in 2010, and there were 217,730 new cases that year, according
to the  National Cancer Institute . The disease generally affects
older men.  The tumor genomes were identified using technology from  Illumina Inc ., the San Diego-based gene-sequence machine maker.  The findings also may lead to new tests for prostate
cancer, allowing doctors to know whether the disease will
advance quickly or grow slowly, the authors said in the
statement. For people with slow-growing prostate cancer, a
watch-and-wait approach is recommended, according to the Mayo
Clinic. More aggressive tumors may be treated through radiation,
hormone therapy or surgery.  Mark Rubin, the other senior author on the paper, is a
professor of oncology and pathology at Weill Cornell Medical
College in  New York .  The project was funded by the Prostate Cancer Foundation,
based in Santa Monica,  California , the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute based in  Chevy Chase , Maryland and the National Human
Genome Research Institute, part of the Bethesda, Maryland-based  National Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 