-- Prudential Profit Beats Estimates on Annuities Sales
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-09T22:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/prudential-s-profit-exceeds-analysts-estimates-on-record-annuities-sales.html
  Prudential Financial Inc ., the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on increased sales of
individual annuities.  Profit was $1.78 a share, excluding some investments and
the results of policies sold before the company went public,
Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential said today in a statement.
The average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
$1.48 a share. Net income fell to $177 million from $1.87
billion a year earlier when earnings were boosted by the sale of
a stake in a brokerage venture. Net sales of individual
annuities rose to $4.2 billion from $3.2 billion a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld is using capital he
accumulated after the financial crisis to add clients in the
U.S., expand abroad and increase Prudential’s dividend. In the
fourth quarter, the company’s retirement savings and annuities
businesses were helped by an advance in U.S. stock markets.  “Investments are doing well,” said  Randy Binner , an
analyst with FBR Capital Markets who has an “outperform”
rating on Prudential. “Over a third of Prudential is U.S.-
focused asset management, of one form or another. There’s a
decent amount” of improvement when markets go up, he said.  Operating income from the U.S. retirement and investment
management division advanced to $624 million from $323 million
in the year-earlier quarter.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 10 percent in the
three months ended Dec. 31. Prudential gained 8.3 percent in the
last six months through yesterday, less than the 17 percent
advance of  MetLife Inc ., the biggest U.S. life insurer.  The company said full-year profit climbed 2.3 percent to
$3.2 billion from $3.12 billion in 2009.  Prudential and New York-based MetLife have boosted sales in
the U.S. since 2008, taking market share from smaller rivals
that scaled back after losses during the recession. Prudential,
which declined a bailout in 2009, jumped to No. 1 among sellers
of variable annuities in the U.S. that year.  Prudential reported gross annuities sales for the quarter
rose to $6.1 billion from $4.8 billion a year earlier. Gross
sales for the year reached a record $21.8 billion. Gross sales
don’t take into account annuities that are withdrawn from
Prudential or surrendered, said Gabrielle Shanin, a company
spokeswoman.  Book Value  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$63.11 a share at the main business, from $67.81 on Sept. 30.
Net unrealized gains on fixed maturity holdings at the main
portfolio slipped to $5.7 billion on Dec. 31 from $9.6 billion
on Sept. 30.  Strangfeld added to Prudential’s business in Japan this
month by completing the $4.8 billion acquisition of two life
insurance units from  American International Group Inc .
Prudential, which has generated more than a fifth of its revenue
in Japan, is strengthening its presence in the country after
MetLife acquired a Japanese business in November as part of its
$16.2 billion purchase of American Life Insurance Co. from AIG.  Prudential’s deal for Star Life Insurance Co. and Edison
Life Insurance Co. was Strangfeld’s second in Japan since taking
over as CEO in 2008. The country is the world’s second-largest
life insurance market, after the U.S. Prudential had realized
pretax investment losses of $912 million, compared with a loss
of $49 million in the year-earlier period amid declines in the
value of derivatives.  International Business  The international insurance business posted $598 million in
adjusted operating income, up from $455 million a year earlier.  Net income in the fourth quarter of 2009 was helped by the
$4.5 billion sale of a minority stake in the firm once known as
Wachovia Securities to  Wells Fargo & Co . In last year’s fourth
quarter, Prudential sold $1 billion of stock and $1 billion of
debt to help finance the Star and Edison deal.  Strangfeld increased Prudential’s annual dividend 64
percent in the fourth quarter to $1.15 a share, the highest
payout since 2007. He had cut the dividend in 2008 when the
credit crunch interrupted insurers’ traditional sources of
funding. MetLife, like Prudential, shunned government capital
injections, while AIG took a rescue valued at $182.3 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 