-- Mr. 210% Sees M&A Boom as Best Deflation Slayer: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2011-02-09T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/mr-210-sees-m-a-boom-as-best-deflation-slayer-william-pesek.html
Steel company mergers are a little
below  Timothy Geithner ’s radar. Yet the U.S. Treasury secretary
should think long and hard about a recent one in Japan.  On the surface, Nippon Steel Corp. and  Sumitomo Metal
Industries Ltd . joining forces to become the world’s second-
largest producer isn’t wildly interesting. It’s the “why”
below it that’s important: Such deals are now the official
policy of a Japanese government desperate to boost its global
standing.  Expect a 1980s-like overseas-buying binge amid a strong
yen, a simplified takeover approval process and a sudden urgency
for economic relevance at the highest levels of government.  This burst of acquisitiveness has  China  and the rest of
developing Asia written all over it. Japan has been painfully
slow to realize the world is passing it by and now is racing to
again be relevant. No fruit hangs lower than mergers and
acquisitions, and Japan’s focus there is music to the ears of
bulls like hedge-fund manager Curtis Freeze. They see an M&A
boom as Japan’s way out of deflation and the world’s biggest
public debt.  Even when Geithner was a staffer in  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury
Department in the 1990s, the U.S. was urging Japan to contribute
more to world growth. Yet the U.S. may not be ecstatic about
Japan’s new game plan. Instead of reflecting free-market
principles, Japan’s M&A tear will have more of a Chinese flavor
-- more “Beijing consensus” than “Washington consensus.”  China-Style Wave  This merger wave is, for better or worse, going to be
government directed. China’s rise is beginning to catalyze
Japan, as many economic observers long expected, though not
exactly as they had hoped. This is more an attempt to emulate
China’s state-capitalism than buyout legends like  Henry Kravis .  You may think you’ve seen this movie before. That economic
machine known as Japan Inc. with its incestuous ties between
government and industry is what delivered the nation to today’s
heights. The public-private partnership worked wonders until
markets and banks crashed two decades ago.  There’s a crucial difference, though. Japan’s ‘80s-era
shopping binge was about vanity. Ego was behind headline-
generating purchases of Rockefeller Center and the Pebble Beach
golf course. It wasn’t Japan’s government that had company
presidents bidding on every  Van Gogh , Picasso and Monet up for
auction. It was hubris. Many of those investments ended badly,
or were dumped at fire-sale prices as cash became scarce.  This time, the government will lead the charge, China-
style, to ensure deals are strategic, logical and primed for
long-term growth. Japan needs raw materials, and bigger is
better when bidding for them overseas. The laissez-faire crowd
won’t be happy to see  Japan Inc . re-assert itself. What’s more
important, though, is that the end justifies the means.  U.S. Brand  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. irreparably
damaged the U.S.-capitalism brand. When you are competing with a
country that’s run like a company -- China -- the lines between
government and the private sector are bound to disappear.  It may be too late for Japan, which for decades dragged its
feet. The extent to which Japan is playing catch up was apparent
recently when  Korea Electric Power Corp . led a group that won a
$18.6 billion order to build nuclear  power plants  for the  United
Arab Emirates . The size of the deal shocked Tokyo.  Freeze and his ilk believe inbound and outbound M&A is the
shock Japan’s flat-lining economy needs. And Freeze, chairman of
Honolulu-based Prospect Asset Management Inc., has done well by
clients by putting his money where his mouth is: His firm’s
Japan-focused hedge fund returned 210 percent last year.  Mr. 210 Percent  So how does Mr. 210 Percent, as Freeze is sometimes called
in Tokyo, view the government’s M&A push?  “The best is yet to come,” he says, predicting management
buyouts where companies are taken private and delisted and
straightforward takeover bids will rapidly pick up pace.  Japan needs a bit of this drama. Every January opens with a
barrage of predictions that this is Japan’s year, the one in
which growth will return. Each time, hopes are thwarted.  Last year was a banner one for disappointment. Deflation
deepened, Japan Airlines Corp. went bankrupt, Toyota Motor Corp.
became a punch line, Sony Corp. slid further toward irrelevance
and China became  Asia ’s biggest economy.  Yet here is a sign Japan gets it. The benefits of increased
M&A activity might be profound and provide a much-needed growth
engine to help Japan rely less on debt and zero  interest rates .  Increased productivity, improved corporate governance and
fresh economic growth rank near the top of any investor’s wish
list for Japan. All of these concerns, and more, might be
addressed by domestic companies eliminating inefficiencies and
executives looking overseas for greater market share and growth
opportunities.  It won’t fix all of Japan’s problems. The population still
is aging too fast, the birthrate is too low, job growth is too
anemic and entrepreneurship is too rare. Yet M&A has the power
to shake up an economy that’s too rigid and insular for its own
good. If giving Japan Inc. a new lifeline can do that, then so
be it. Could Geithner really disagree?  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  