-- RBS Says `Epic Swindle' Claim Over Liverpool Sale Must Be Heard in U.K.
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-09T18:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/rbs-says-epic-swindle-claim-over-liverpool-sale-must-be-heard-in-u-k-.html
Former Liverpool owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  can only seek damages from their former
lender  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  over the sale of the
club, which they have described as an “epic swindle,” so long
as the case is heard in the U.K., a lawyer for the bank said.  “RBS isn’t seeking to stop Hicks, Gillett or any of their
companies from suing,” the bank’s lawyer Richard Snowden said
at London’s High Court today. “If they want to do so they are
free to, provided they do it in this jurisdiction.”  He made the statement during the first day of a hearing on
the former owners’ request to amend the October ruling that
cleared the way for the 300-million-pound ($483 million) forced
sale to the owners of the  Boston Red Sox .  That judgment blocked Hicks and Gillett from continuing a
suit in the U.S. to stop the sale. The former owners argue that,
now that the club has been sold, the ruling should be changed to
allow them the possibility of pursuing damages in the U.S. Hicks
and Gillett claimed $1.6 billion in damages related to the sale
of the club, which they called an “epic swindle” because it
fell below their valuation of the team. Hicks had wanted as much
as 800 million pounds.  Hicks and Gillett were hit with the injunction after
seeking a restraining order in  Texas  to block the sale to New  England  Sports Ventures, which a  London  judge had already
approved. They withdrew their suit after being told they risked
being in contempt of court -- an offense that carries a jail
term -- if they continued.  Unintended Protection  Paul Girolami, the lawyer for the former owners, said the
judgment had unintended consequences beyond paving the way for
the sale. He said the order inadvertently protected potential
defendants from damage claims.  His clients “are not so stupid” that they would proceed
with any action that would require another injunction, Girolami
assured the court. They would give all parties involved advanced
warnings when they intend to file litigation, he said.  “There is no settled decision by us to sue in England or
abroad,” Girolami added.  Justice  Christopher Floyd , who presided over the October
hearings, may come to a decision later this week.  There is no option other than to file in an English court
because loan agreements struck with RBS, the U.K.’s biggest
taxpayer-owned lender, stipulated any disputes be settled there,
said Snowden, the bank’s lawyer.  18-Time Champion  Hicks and Gillett lost the club after failing to come up
with 200 million pounds to pay off a debt with RBS and  Wells
Fargo & Co  linked to their 2007 leveraged buyout of the 18-time
English champion. They lost their entire $222 million of equity
in the sale, and still owe RBS millions in penalty fees. The duo
has said three English board members didn’t inform them of sale
talks with the new owners, now known as Fenway Sports Group.  Former Liverpool chairman Martin Broughton and RBS are
countersuing, alleging their reputations were damaged by claims
made by Hicks after the sale.  “We have a case where serious allegations have been made
in public,” said Philip Marshall, a lawyer for Broughton, who
said his client “is a very prominent” corporate director who
“remains under a cloud.”  Broughton is deputy chairman of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, the company created in January via the merger
of British Airways Plc and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  