-- Treasuries Advance Before Bernanke Testimony as Stocks Decline
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2011-02-09T11:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/treasuries-gain-before-bernanke-testimony-as-stock-decline-boosts-demand.html
Treasuries rose on speculation
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will reaffirm the
central bank’s commitment to keeping  interest rates  low, as
falling stock markets stoked demand for the safest assets.  The advance pushed the yield on benchmark 10-year
securities down from the highest in nine months before a sale of
$24 billion of the securities. Treasury 10-year yields climbed
11 basis points yesterday, the most in more than a month, as
demand fell at an auction of three-year notes. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index fell 1.1 percent, the most in almost three weeks,
while futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares
dropped 0.4 percent.  “There are some Fed members that are on the hawkish side
of the spectrum but Bernanke should at least counterbalance this
by saying that the Fed is likely to keep rates on hold and
remain accommodative,” said  Orlando Green , a strategist at
Credit Agricole SA in London.   Monetary policy  remains loose so
Treasuries should find some support,” because some buyers will
be attracted by the relatively high yields, he said.  The benchmark 10-year note yield fell two basis points to
3.72 percent as of 11:33 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 2.625 percent security maturing in November
2020 rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 91 2/32. The
yield earlier rose to 3.77 percent, the highest since April 29.
Two-year yields declined four basis points, to 0.83 percent.  Bernanke is scheduled to testify before the House Budget
Committee today and may say the central bank plans to push ahead
with its plan to buy $600 billion of Treasuries to boost the
economy. On Feb. 3, he said that the U.S. needs to see faster
job growth before policy makers can be assured the recovery has
taken hold.  Fed ‘On Hold’  The FOMC voted last month to press ahead with so-called
quantitative easing to spur growth and create jobs even as some
members expressed skepticism. The U.S. unemployment rate
declined to a 21-month low in January, a Feb. 4 report showed.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said yesterday policy
makers need to take “quite seriously” their commitment to
review the bond buying program as the U.S. recovery quickens.
The Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher , who votes this year on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said he’d oppose
any proposal to do more, flagging the prospect of inflation.  A promise to see out the current bond program “might be
positive for Treasuries and yields could come back because the
market expects that Bernanke will be slightly more hawkish in
the wake of the labor market report last week,” said Ralf Umlauf, head of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “We have some signals for a better
economy and a better labor market but the Fed is on hold and
they can wait until June.”  Indirect Bidders  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded
3.75 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 3.388 percent
at the previous sale of the debt on Jan. 12.  Investors bid for 3.30 times the amount on offer last
month, versus the average of 3.13 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the group that includes foreign central banks,
bought 53.6 percent, while the 10-sale average is 46.4 percent.  Yesterday’s $32 billion three-year note auction drew a
yield of 1.349 percent, compared with a forecast of 1.345
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 8 of the Fed’s 20 primary
dealers. The yield was the highest since the government sold $38
billion of the securities in May at 1.414 percent.  Indirect bidders at the auction, a class of investors that
includes foreign central banks, bought 27.6 percent of the
notes, less than 39.4 percent in January.  The government will conclude this week’s auctions with a
$16 billion 30-year sale tomorrow.  ‘Unmitigated Disaster’  “The three-year auction last night was an unmitigated
disaster,” because of the structure of the bidding and the low
foreign demand, said  Marc Ostwald , a London-based strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. “This doesn’t mean that tomorrow’s 30-
year will go badly but it does leave a lot of questions about
the 10-year tonight.”  The Fed is scheduled to buy $6 billion to $8 billion of
securities due from February 2015 to July 2016 today, part of
its bond purchase plan, according to its  website .  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, fell one basis point
to 2.35 percentage points after rising to an eight-month high of
2.42 percentage points on Jan. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  