-- Reckitt Benckiser Forecasts Slower Revenue Growth for 2011 Amid Stagnation
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-02-09T11:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/reckitt-benckiser-forecasts-slower-revenue-growth-correct-.html
  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc , the
maker of Nurofen painkillers, said 2011 sales will probably rise
at a slower pace than last year as the global market stagnates,
sending the shares down the most in two years.  Revenue will increase 4 percent this year, excluding
currency shifts and acquisitions, the Slough, England-based
company said today, less than last year’s 6 percent gain. Profit
growth will be “ahead of that,” Reckitt Benckiser said.  “The relative caution and lack of definition of the target
testifies in our view to the tough challenges that Reckitt and
the industry will be facing in 2011,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst
at Investec Securities, said in a note to clients.  Reckitt Benckiser also reported fourth-quarter margins that
analysts said missed their estimates. Chief Executive Officer
Bart Becht is having to contend with more competition in fabric
care and a potential generic alternative for the company’s
Suboxone heroin dependency drug. It bought Durex condom-maker
SSL International Plc last year for 2.54 billion pounds ($4.1
billion) to expand in health and personal-care.  “It is not often we can say this about Reckitt Benckiser,
but the results were light,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at  Sanford
Bernstein , said in an e-mail. “And the 2011 guidance was even
lighter, or at best, significantly low-balled.”  The shares fell as much as 255 pence, or 7.4 percent, to
3,190 pence, the steepest drop since Feb. 5, 2009. The stock
traded at 3,226 pence as of 11:28 a.m., giving the company a
market value of 23.4 billion pounds.  Competition ‘Intense’  “It was well known and should be well known that market
growth was declining,” the CEO said on a conference call.  Fabric care sales fell 1 percent in the final quarter of
last year. Competition remains “intense,” Becht said.  The gross margin, a measure of profitability, narrowed by
80 basis points to 61.5 percent as cost savings failed to offset
increased promotional spend, the company said. Reckitt Benckiser
will “continue to invest behind our business,” Becht said. The
company won’t cut its marketing budget this year, he said.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time items, rose 13
percent to 507 million pounds in the fourth quarter, slowing
from the third-quarter pace of 19 percent. Full-year adjusted
profit rose 17 percent, Reckitt Benckiser said. The company had
forecast growth of more than 16 percent.  Including acquisitions and excluding currency fluctuations,
the company targets 12 percent sales growth and a 10 percent
jump in adjusted profit this year.  Acquisitions  Reckitt Benckiser, which also bought  India ’s Paras
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. last year, will continue to look at
takeovers, Becht said, including “bolt-on” purchases in
southeast  Asia  and potential acquisitions in Latin America. He’s
also interested in snapping up potential “Powerbrands.”  “We’re looking at health and personal care,” Becht said.
“Within that, we’re either looking at strengthening our
infrastructure in certain markets; alternatively we’re looking
at brands with strong potential.” He declined to comment on
specific acquisition targets.  The healthcare division, the company’s fastest-growing
division by sales in 2010, may lose as much as 80 percent of
revenue in the U.S. as generic drugs enter the market after the
loss of the company’s exclusive rights to make its Suboxone
heroin-dependency treatment in the country in October 2009.  Reckitt Benckiser has created a Suboxone film-strip that
dissolves under the tongue, which has captured a 25 percent
volume share of the U.S. market, it said today. That could
represent about 23 percent of the unit’s U.S. revenue.  Developing Markets  “Our research suggests that the take-up of the new film
technology has been excellent,” analysts including Andy Smith
at MF Global wrote in a note. “Should no generic entrant come
in over the next six months we believe that the new film could
represent over half Suboxone volumes.”  Reckitt Benckiser reported an 18 percent increase in sales
at its developing markets unit in 2010, compared with unchanged
sales in Europe and a 3 percent increase in  North America  and  Australia . The company gets “about mid-30s percent” of its
revenue from emerging markets, including eastern  Europe .  The healthcare division gained market share, Becht said,
boosted by the introduction of a no-touch hand-sanitizer
dispenser under the Dettol brand.  Increasing prices of product ingredients including oil,
palm oil and latex will have an effect in 2011, Becht said.
Commodity price swings are “hitting categories like fabric
care, some of the personal care and wellbeing categories like
Dettol and brands like Durex,” he said. He declined to comment
on the likely effect of input cost inflation on margins.  Reckitt Benckiser will take “selective price increases
where possible” to offset input cost pressures, and will aim
for savings through the logistics chain, including adjusting how
it makes packaging and seeking better deals from suppliers.  The final dividend was raised 14 percent to 65 pence a
share, bringing the total 2010 payout to 115 pence a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 