-- Renault Is Said to Target 5% Profitability on Low-Cost Car Growth Strategy
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2011-02-09T16:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/renault-is-said-to-target-5-profitability-on-low-cost-car-growth-strategy.html
  Renault SA  will place emerging-market
sales of budget cars at the center of a three-year plan to reach
annual deliveries of about 3 million and an operating margin of
around 5 percent, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The strategy, which Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn 
will present tomorrow along with the French carmaker’s full-year
earnings, would involve ramping up overseas production of the
Entry model range derived from the no-frills Logan sedan,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the plans have not yet been made public.  Renault had no comment on the objectives, said Frederique Le Greves, a spokeswoman at the Boulogne Billancourt-based
manufacturer. The plan would be Ghosn’s second attempt to
restore profitability at  France ’s No. 2 carmaker to a level last
seen in 2004, when earnings before interest and taxes amounted
to 5.2 percent of sales. Ghosn became CEO in 2005.  The company is trimming domestic manufacturing capacity in
response to stagnant western European car sales, while adding
factories in Tangier,  Morocco , and Chennai,  India , to serve
faster-growing markets. Renault said on Feb. 2 that it will
avoid mass firings while reorganizing production in France to
focus on pricier models, electric cars and batteries.  The new targets will the first Renault has given to
investors since the 2008 financial crisis, when Ghosn scrapped
his “Commitment 2009” pledges to achieve a 6 percent operating
margin and 3.33 million vehicle sales. Renault went on to record
a 3.13 billion-euro ($4.3 billion) net loss while missing the
delivery target by about 1 million cars.  Revenue Gains  Renault said on Jan. 31 that revenue rose 16 percent last
year to about 39 billion euros, helped by government sales
incentives in  Europe  and recovering demand for cars elsewhere.
The operating margin was 2.8 percent, compared with a negative
1.2 percent in 2009.  The automaker is at the center of an industrial-espionage
investigation after ousting three senior executives on Jan. 3
and filing a criminal complaint with French prosecutors alleging
theft and breach of trust. The three executives, including long-
term product development chief Michel Balthazard, have denied
accusations that they sold electric-car secrets, contested their
dismissals and filed defamation claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  