-- Republican Governors in 28 States Request Fast Review of Health Law Suits
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2011-02-09T22:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/republican-governors-request-fast-u-s-supreme-court-review-of-health-law.html
Republican governors in 28 states are
asking President Obama to support an expedited U.S.  Supreme
Court  ruling to settle the constitutionality of the health-care
overhaul passed last year.  The governors sent a letter to Obama today asking him to
direct the U.S. Justice Department to support a fast-track
appeal of lawsuits filed in  Virginia  and Florida challenging the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  The letter said states shouldn’t “endure years of
litigation” in lower courts, which have produced conflicting
rulings.  “Given the daunting and costly financial and regulatory
burdens that our states and the private sector will face in
implementing PPACA over the coming years, particularly during
this unprecedented budgetary time, public interest requires
expediting a final resolution of the litigation to give
certainty as soon as possible,” the governors said in their
letter.  On Jan. 31, U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson in  Florida 
ruled in a lawsuit brought by 26 states that the law’s
requirement that citizens over 18 obtain health insurance
beginning in 2014 was unconstitutional. Three other federal
judges in Virginia and  Michigan  also have issued rulings on the
law, two affirming its legality and one striking it down.  Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, referred calls to the
Justice Department.    Tracy Schmaler , a Justice spokeswoman, referred in a
telephone interview to previous statements that the Virginia
lawsuit “should follow the ordinary course of allowing the
court of appeals to hear it first.”  Two federal appeals courts are already planning to hear
challenges to the law on expedited schedules, with arguments in
May or June.  The Obama administration didn’t object to fast-track
consideration at the appeals-court level. The  Justice Department 
last week said it will oppose Virginia’s request that the
Supreme Court take the unusual step of considering the case
immediately, bypassing the appeals court.  Mary Fallin of Oklahoma was the only Republican governor
who didn’t sign the letter. A voicemail message left today at
her office seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned. That
state has its own lawsuit challenging the federal law, said Mike
Schrimpf, a spokesman for the  Republican Governors Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  