-- Rolls-Royce Engine Blowout May Crimp Profit as Rose Prepares for Departure
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2011-02-09T10:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/rolls-royce-engine-blowout-may-crimp-profit-as-rose-prepares-for-departure.html
Rolls Royce Group Plc, the world’s
second-largest aircraft-engine maker, may report its first
decline in annual profit in almost a decade because of the cost
to fix faulty A380 superjumbo engines and develop new turbines.  Earnings, excluding revaluation of currency hedging
contracts, likely fell to 706.9 million pounds ($1.13 billion)
last year, from 732 million pounds, according to 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Rolls-Royce probably incurred costs of as
much as 50 million pounds from the explosion of an engine in mid
flight on Nov. 4, said  Nick Cunningham , an analyst at Agency
Partners LP in London with a “sell” rating on the company.  The disintegration of the Trent 900 engine on the  Qantas
Airways Ltd . flight forced the airline to temporarily ground its
A380 fleet, and manufacturer Airbus SAS had to take some new
engines off the assembly line to swap for faulty ones. The
companies have vowed to claw back costs from London-based Rolls,
piling pressure on Chief Executive Officer John Rose to appease
his clients before he steps down after 14 years.  “This is John Rose’s last session at a company where he’s
had an enormous impact, so is he really going to go out on a
earnings mess?,” said Ross Cowley, a Credit Suisse with an
“outperform” rating on engine maker. “Rolls should know more
about the situation now, and if they come out and say the charge
is higher than expected, it’s going to be an issue.”  Roll-Royce rose 3.5 pence, or 0.5 percent, to 657.5 pence
in  London  trading, valuing the company at 12.3 billion pounds.
The stock has gained 5.5 percent in the year to date.  Rising Sales  Revenue in 2010 probably rose to 10.84 billion pounds from
10.41 billion pounds, the Bloomberg survey found. Rolls-Royce
generates about 44 percent of sales from the civil aerospace
market, with the remainder spread across marine, defense and
energy businesses, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The company
reports earnings tomorrow before the U.K. markets open.  The last time Rolls-Royce had a drop in full-year earnings
was in 2002. Rose has been credited with boosting the company to
the second position behind General Electric Co. from an also-ran
in the industry, swelling the order book to 58.3 billion pounds
in 2009 from 10.4 billion pounds in 1998. Rose is leaving at the
end of next month to hand the reins to Royal Ahold NV CEO John Rishton, who previously also worked in the aviation industry.  Rolls-Royce’s investigation of the Trent 900 malfunction
found a manufacturing defect caused the oil leak that ultimately
led to the explosion. Rolls said after the incident that the
defect would “slightly” clip its estimated underlying profit
growth for the full year. Nobody was hurt in the Qantas blowout.  Stock Survival  The explosion, the most severe incident on an Airbus A380
since the aircraft began commercial operation in 2007, has had
little impact on Rolls-Royce’s stock. The shares have gained 5.2
percent since the blowout.  Four days after the explosion, Rolls-Royce said it had a
better understanding of what caused the explosion, and that such
incidents are rare, with the Trent 900 explosion being the first
of its kind on a large commercial aircraft since 1994.  Zafar Kahn, an analyst at Societe Generale in London, said
Rolls-Royce may be able to limit charges stemming from the Trent
900 fallout for 2010 by reducing service payments from affected
customers. He estimates the costs to be about 30 million pounds.  The company, whose products include marine propulsion and
energy-generating turbines, had estimated growth in so-called
underlying profit of 4 percent to 5 percent. Rose, who announced
his departure in September, hasn’t discussed the Qantas incident
in public beyond three press releases the company issued
following the blowout.  Test-Bed Incident  Airbus Chief Executive  Tom Enders  said last month that
costs associated with the Trent 900 difficulties would only
become apparent later in 2011. Rolls-Royce received 20 Trent 900
engines from Airbus’s assembly line to supply customers. A delay
would lead to penalty payments Airbus would ask Rolls to assume.  The Trent 900 explosion on the A380 followed the blowout of
a Trent 1000, the model to be used on the forthcoming Boeing 787
Dreamliner, at a test site in Derby,  England , in August. The
A380 engine failure on the Qantas flight was unconnected to the
Trent 1000 blast, which Rolls-Royce said was caused by testing
“outside normal parameters.”  Rolls-Royce competes with a joint venture of General
Electric and  Pratt & Whitney  to build engines for the A380, the
world’s largest passenger aircraft. GE and Rolls also compete in
the Dreamliner program, while Rolls-Royce is the only supplier
for Airbus’s upcoming A350 wide-body aircraft, which is slated
for entry into service in 2013 using the Trent XWB engine.  “They’ve got a lot of new programs on and you have a lot
of people working on them,” Kahn of Societe Generale said in an
interview. “As John Rose always says, R&D cost is people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  