-- Troy Stratos Takes Money Running From Investors Always in Black Limousines
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/troy-stratos-takes-money-running-from-investors-always-in-black-limousines.html
Troy David Stratos, self-described
movie producer and music impresario, was peeved.  The limousine that had come to pick him up from his hotel
in  Switzerland  was white, not black. Rather than sort it out
himself, he called his assistant back in  Vancouver , Canada,
where his company, Next Level Media, was based and where, at the
time, it was 3 a.m.  “White limousines are for drug dealers and weddings,”
Stratos told a groggy Tamara Hegan, whom he roused that morning
in early 2003. He demanded she get him a black one. And she did,
Hegan recalls.  Such requests were routine for Stratos, who claimed to have
made a fortune when he and some Middle Eastern princes he’d met
in college bought America Online Inc. shares before they soared.
Hegan, his office manager, knew wealthy people could be
petulant, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its March issue.  “After a while, you get to think, ‘Maybe this is normal,’”
she says.  Normal for Stratos, now 44, was over the top. For the past
15 years, he has traveled the world signing up investors for
films that never got made and real-estate projects that never
got built. Though Next Level never earned a dime in profits,
Hegan says, Stratos spent as much as a million dollars of its
money each month living like a Hollywood player.  Always First Class  Stratos once bought a Hummer in Los Angeles for $70,000,
drove it to  Las Vegas  and sold it for $40,000, Hegan says. In
Vancouver, he paid cash for a hand-built Mercedes G-Wagen SUV
(price: $104,000). He always flew first-class and claimed to one
friend in  London , who declined to be named, that he employed a
person in Dubai whose sole job was to make sure cars he rode in
smelled nice.  Stratos’s days of big spending may be over. In September,
Nicole Murphy, ex-wife of comedian Eddie Murphy, sued him for
fraud in federal court in California, saying he bilked her out
of $11 million after she hired him as her financial adviser in
2006.  The FBI has set up a tip line for complaints about him,
Special Agent Steve Dupre says.  Stratos, who has done business under several other names,
including David Burton and Troy David, faces an unpaid civil
judgment against him for $2.1 million in  Hawaii , too. There, he
convinced real-estate broker Dennis Rush and his friends to
invest $1.9 million to produce a CD and video featuring jazz
singer Nancy Wilson, who married Stratos’s biological father.  No Song Rights  The idea was to spark a comeback like the one that made
Tony Bennett popular with the MTV generation in the early 1990s,
Stratos told them.  They shot the video, and then Rush learned that Stratos
didn’t own the rights to Wilson’s hit, “If I Had My Way” as he’d
claimed, Rush says.  Stratos disappeared. Since then, he’s traveled to
Vancouver; Los Angeles;  Boston ; Fort Lauderdale,  Florida ; Cairo;
Dubai; London; and Paris, passing himself off as a billionaire
developer or movie producer, spending money like a sultan and
then skipping town.  Stratos, who was born and raised in Northern California, is
one of many fast-talking charmers who promise investors the
world and then vanish, says Jeff Greenberg, owner of The  Village
Recorder , the  Los Angeles  studio where the Rolling Stones
recorded “Angie” and where Stratos brought Nicole Murphy to
record songs as part of her effort to launch a post-divorce
singing career.  “He showed up with a Rolls-Royce and started paying us in
cash,” Greenberg says. “He was handing out $100 bills.”  Unpaid Judgment  Greenberg, too, has a judgment against Stratos, for
$50,717.98 in unpaid bills, interest and attorney fees, ordered
by the Los Angeles Superior Court on April 21, 2009. Greenberg
settled with Murphy for her portion of the unpaid costs of the
production, his lawyer, Alan Gutman, says.  Stratos hasn’t paid any part of the judgment.  Stratos was arrested in Paris on Aug. 31, 2009, at the
 Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan , a luxury hotel near the Eiffel
Tower, for nonpayment of 32,000 euros ($43,000) in bills at two
hotels and for fraud. Police confiscated two black ledgers,
meticulously kept by Stratos, showing loans, gifts and
investments in his projects totaling just under $1 billion over
the years, says Gary Peters, a Paris-based investment manager
for three wealthy families who says he was hoodwinked by Stratos
after being introduced to him by a member of a royal family from
the Middle East.  Peters says he fronted Stratos 150,000 euros for purported
emergency treatment of testicular cancer, a portion of his hotel
bills and a full-time driver after Stratos told him he had been
robbed of his passport and credit cards.  Arrested in  France   At the time, Stratos was going by the name David Burton.
Peters says he called the French police after concluding that
Stratos was a fraud.  The police let him look through the ledgers to see if he
recognized any names in them, and also let him search Stratos’s
luggage, Peters says, one piece of which he had loaned Stratos.
In the lining of one bag, Peters says he found passports and
several credit cards issued in Stratos’s various names.  Stratos has convinced at least three wealthy women to part
with millions, according to several people who’ve known him. The
son of a white mother and black father, he often visits salons
for facial treatments and manicures, people who know him say. He
wears expensive suits, always without a tie. He doesn’t do drugs
and rarely drinks, save for an occasional glass of vintage
champagne, people who have known him say.  A Heavy Gambler  He’s a heavy gambler, Jose Figueroa says. The two of them
spent time at the  Mohegan Sun  casino in Uncasville,  Connecticut ,
when they were together in 2004, Figueroa says.  “One night, his average bet was $20,000 or $30,000, and he
played for hours,” says Figueroa, who sells a line of hair care
products.  So far, Stratos has stayed ahead of his accusers. French
police locked him up in La Sante prison, where terrorist Carlos
the Jackal was once held, while they investigated the fraud
charges. Stratos remained there for six weeks, until a friend
paid his 20,000 euro bail. He was allowed to leave France as
part of his bail agreement, says his lawyer, Marie Guiraud.  A French judge dropped the case on Sept. 28, 2010, saying
that while Peters gave Stratos money, there wasn’t evidence that
Stratos had convinced him to do so through deceit.  French prosecutors are considering investigating another
complaint lodged by an alleged English victim of Stratos, a
person familiar with the investigation says.  Charges Dropped  “The charges have been dropped against me in France, which
allows me to seek damages against Mr. Peters for false
accusations,” Stratos said in a voicemail left with a Bloomberg
Markets reporter one Saturday in late October.  Stratos’s dispute with Murphy is in hand, too, he said.  “Nicole Murphy and I are not interested in any publicity
regarding a very private matter between us,” he said in the
voicemail.  Murphy’s lawyers say they’re pursuing their case.  Since the voicemail, Stratos hasn’t returned numerous phone
calls and e-mails. A lawyer he said he has retained, David Meyer
of Venable LLP in Los Angeles, also failed to return phone calls
and e-mails.  As for his whereabouts, Stratos said he is in Los Angeles.  “I’m not hiding,” he said in the voicemail.  A Torrent of Pitches  Stratos has talent and good ideas, says Richard Hack, a
former protégé of author Truman Capote who went on to write his
own books about J. Edgar Hoover and Howard Hughes. Stratos hired
Hack to write numerous screenplays and a torrent of business
pitches over a 15-year span, Hack says. Sections of
“Plantation,” a television script about a wealthy sugar cane-
growing family in Hawaii that Stratos helped Hack write, are
very good, and the CDs of songs he produced with Murphy make an
amateur sound very professional, Hack says.  “It wasn’t just an optical illusion,” he says.  Murphy also sued Hack, accusing him of working hand in hand
with Stratos on his schemes. Hack denies it.  “I, like others, have been left in financial ruin by this
man,” he says.  Stratos until recently managed to recruit new investors,
even though his alleged victims tried to expose him on the
Internet. Rush posted his complaint against Stratos and many of
the court records at  www.troystratos.com  in 2001.  “He’s the smoothest guy you’ve ever met in your life,” says
Rush, who lives on Maui. “He’s a con man’s con man.”  Pursuit by Internet  Sheri Farley worked for Stratos when he was based in
Sacramento,  California , and says he cheated her out of $95,000
in pay and business expenses. She started  imettroy.com  in June
2007, posting stories from people who had dealt with him.  Bill Branscum, a private investigator hired by Murphy’s
lawyer, posted his  report  on the Internet, together with audio
interviews with alleged victims.  Stratos told variations of the same story to many of the
people he met, according to interviews with more than a dozen of
them. He said he attended the University of Southern California,
where he met some wealthy scions of Middle Eastern royalty. (He
did attend for one year, according to the Los Angeles school’s
records.)  They had bought shares of America Online, and Stratos sank
the profits into oil investments at the direction of his Middle
Eastern friends.  He claimed the Middle Eastern princes were keen to invest
in movies that Stratos would help produce. Stratos and Hack did
write treatments for a series of films that they passed along to
the Middle Eastern “silent partners,” Hack says.  Dropping Kutcher’s Name  Stratos’s films, including one that was to star actor
Ashton Kutcher as Freddie Mercury, lead singer for the rock
group Queen, never got made. Kutcher’s publicist says he never
agreed to do the movie.  When he arrived in a new city, Stratos called realtors like
Rush and asked to see multi-million-dollar properties. From
there, he worked his way into social contact with the moneyed
class.  “He captured the vacancy in people’s personalities and
filled them with promises,” says Joe MacKinnon, who owns a
company that  lists  apartments and houses in Vancouver for
filmmakers to use for sets.  Stratos was raised in Fair Oaks, California, by his
grandmother, Mary Stafford, who says Troy is the product of a
relationship between her then-18-year-old daughter and a black
preacher named Wiley Burton. Her daughter put the baby up for
adoption after he was born on April 13, 1966, she says. No one
wanted a mixed-race child, Stafford says, so she took him into
her own family. His mother helped when she could.  High School Sweethearts  “I raised him the same way I did my five children,”
Stafford said in a telephone interview.  Stratos attended Bella Vista High School in Fair Oaks,
Stafford says, and was a straight-A student.  “Troy was smart enough to be president of the  United
States ,” she says.  He met Nicole Mitchell in Sacramento when they were
teenagers. In a letter to Hack sent from his Paris prison cell,
he called her his first true love. She married Eddie Murphy in
1993.  At 21, Troy changed his name from Stafford to Stratos, his
Greek grandfather’s name before he Americanized it to Stafford,
according to Stratos’s prison letters. He dropped out of USC in
1987 and worked with Berry Gordy, founder of the Motown record
label, in Los Angeles, says Hack, who met Stratos in 1990. Hack
was a syndicated television columnist for the  Hollywood Reporter 
in L.A. at the time.  A Referee’s Story  The two kept in touch. In 1994, Stratos contacted Hack in
Hawaii, where Hack had moved. Stratos wanted Hack to rewrite a
script called “The Fight,” about Gwen Adair, who for a long time
was boxing’s only female referee. Hack did the rewrite, he says.  Stratos pushed hard on the project, Adair says.  “With me, he was very straightforward,” she says. Adair
became the first woman to referee a world title fight, in
Tijuana,  Mexico , in 1998.  Then Hack pitched Stratos on a script of his own:
“Plantation.” Stratos bought it for $8,000, Hack says, and
contributed to the rewrites, earning a writing credit. They
spent the next several years scouting locations to film it, with
Stratos all the while saying that he had money from his AOL
killing.  “He always had lots and lots of cash,” Hack says.  Much of that money came from a wealthy woman named Jodi Tu,
the sister of John Tu, co-founder of Fountain Valley,
California-based memory-chip manufacturer Kingston Technology
Co., two people who worked with Stratos at the time say.  Let’s Live Together  Stratos and Jodi Tu planned to buy land on Maui with Tu’s
money and build a subdivision, where they would live together,
one of the people says. Instead, Stratos spent the money, the
person says.  David Leong, a spokesman for Kingston, says John and Jodi
Tu decline to comment on Stratos.  In the middle of scouting locations for “Plantation” and
trying to develop part of Maui, Stratos cooked up another idea:
the Nancy Wilson Project. Wilson, a three-time Grammy Award-
winning jazz singer, had married Stratos’s father, Wiley Burton,
in 1974. While at  New York  University, which he attended for one
year, Stratos looked him up, he says in an essay, “For My
Father,” that Peters attributes to Stratos.  He went to the Blue Note club, where Wilson was performing.
He met her road manager, told him who he was and got a number
for his father in California. They met later at a Burton family
reunion in Lynchburg,  Virginia , Stratos writes.  Meeting Nancy Wilson  Wilson and Burton, who died in 2008, welcomed Stratos into
their family and helped pay for his education, says her manager,
John Levy.  “She did a lot to help him,” he says.  In Hawaii, Stratos pitched the Nancy Wilson Project to
Rush, the real-estate agent. Rush was a fan, and says he had a
Wilson CD in his car on the day he met Stratos.  Stratos said he needed $1 million to get started, which he
would pay back with 10 percent interest in 90 days. He would
also give Rush a share of the profits. Rush went for it,
investing $100,000 at first, he says.  “He kept needing more money,” Rush says. Rush went to his
friends and family. Eventually, they coughed up $1.9 million.  In January 2000, Rush says he learned that Stratos had
never paid Sony Corp. for the rights to any Wilson songs.
Stratos had told him he’d paid Sony $2 million for those rights.  Wilson Bankruptcy  Rush filed a complaint against Stratos and Wilson in May
2000 and won a judgment against them in 2001. Wilson declared
bankruptcy in August 2003, listing Rush as her biggest creditor.
She later settled with Rush by turning over a condominium and
some stock, Rush says.  Stratos never paid anything on the judgment, Rush says.  Wilson won’t discuss Stratos, Levy says.  From Hawaii, Stratos moved to Vancouver. He told people
there he was scared for his safety in the U.S. after the 9/11
terrorist attacks. He said the records for his film production
company had been stored in the World Trade Center in New York
and had been destroyed, says Christian Allen, who owns a film
production company in Vancouver.  As usual, Stratos started by looking at high-end real
estate. He toured a house at the nearby Whistler Blackcomb ski
resort that was built by a friend of Allen’s. The friend
connected them because they were both in the film business.  An Old Story  Stratos told Allen that he had just been robbed, losing his
passport and his wallet. Allen helped him open a bank account at  Toronto-Dominion Bank .  Stratos started Next Level Media purportedly to produce
music, movies and television shows, according to Hegan and
others. He lived in the exclusive Waterfall Building, named for
a sheet of water that flows out of its underbelly. He traveled
often to Los Angeles, where he would spend $4,000 a night on
hotels, and to Las Vegas. Hegan says she cut checks to pay off
at least $500,000 in gambling debts while working for him.  “He went through a million dollars in a month,” Hegan says.
He spent a fortune on personal care, too, she says. “I’ve never
known a person to get more colonics,” she says.  Footing many of the bills was a wealthy, divorced woman
named Viive Truu, according to Hegan. Truu handed over $15
million to Stratos during a six-year period, according to an e-
mail she sent to Peters on Sept. 2, 2009.  “I have given Troy at least $15mm in cash and incurred
another $2mm in costs and expenses,” she wrote in the e-mail.  Now, Truu says the figure is incorrect. “I did not give
Troy $15 million,” she said in a telephone interview.  “I haven’t dealt with Troy in years. I just want to move on
with my life.”  Vancouver Deadbeat  With no money coming in from any Next Level productions and
so much going out for Stratos’s travels, Hegan says she became
suspicious.  Then, Stratos stopped paying his bills. She and the rest of
his staff figured the payroll would be next, so they shredded
all of their personnel files, locked the door, dropped the keys
in the mail slot and left in August 2003, Hegan says.  Stratos turned up a few years later in Sacramento, where
his friend Nicole Murphy was living, having finalized her
divorce from Eddie Murphy in April 2006. Troy offered to serve
as her financial adviser, Nicole Murphy says in her complaint.
She had recently received her divorce settlement and had money
to manage, says Farley, whom Stratos hired to help manage the
finances of Next Level Media, which Stratos had moved to
Sacramento.  Dubai and Gone  Stratos convinced Nicole to put most of her divorce
settlement in an account in Dubai, where, because of his
connections, he said she could earn a higher rate of interest,
according to Farley and Branscum. To do so, Stratos told her the
account had to be in his name, they say.  Stratos bubbled with ideas in Sacramento, Farley says. He
pitched Nicole on launching her singing career, and on starting
a line of jewelry called Collection X that would consist of
copies of jewelry that women had gotten from their celebrity ex-
husbands. Farley says she personally flew Nicole’s jewelry to
Florida, where Troy said he wanted to have it appraised.  Nicole never got it back, Farley and Branscum say.  Stratos didn’t last long in Sacramento. The FBI  subpoenaed 
Farley for Stratos’s business records on Feb. 28, 2007. Stratos
was in Florida, where he said he intended to move Next Level. He
had her send him reams of documents he said were exempt from the
subpoena.  Last Straw  The last straw for Farley, she says, was when Stratos
refinanced the house where Nicole Murphy’s parents lived. Real-
estate records show the house had been in a trust -- controlled
by Stratos and Nicole, Farley says -- and that the trust sold it
to them, with the sale financed by a $367,000 mortgage. Money
came out of escrow from the loan to make overdue payments on a
Rolls-Royce, a Lamborghini and other cars that Troy drove,
Farley says.  There was about $70,000 left from the loan after the
payments, and that vanished too, Farley says.  Farley quit Next Level in May 2007. Around the same time,
Stratos was cooking up a trilogy of films to be called “18 D:
The Pharonic [sic] Prophesies.” The films would have a budget of
$1 billion and would be shot on location in  Egypt , where Stratos
had first-time access to rare artifacts, according to a synopsis
of the movies.  The minimum investment for anyone interested was $50
million, according to a pitch describing the films to potential
investors.  Disappearing Pharaoh  Stratos called upon Hack to write a 140-page treatment.  “I became an Egyptian scholar for this guy,” says Hack,
whom Stratos had promised $11 million for 11 movie scripts,
according to a copy of a contract signed by Stratos in 2005.  After Sacramento, Stratos pushed hard on the pharaoh
movies. He called Hack from Cairo to come over for a press
conference about the commencement of the project. He had hired
public relations firm Hill & Knowlton to do publicity.  Hack agreed, and Stratos flew him first-class from Florida,
where he was living. They stayed at the Four Seasons in Cairo.
The press conference was to be there, too, on April 30, 2008,
and include presentations by Zahi Hawass, the secretary-general
of Egypt’s Supreme Council of Antiquities, and by actor Omar
Sharif, according to an agenda for the event.  After that, Onsi Sawiris, founder of Orascom Construction
Industries, an Egyptian conglomerate, would talk about the
film’s $1 billion budget in a “lighthearted way” with his sons,
Naguib, Samih and Nassef, the agenda says.  ‘Never Heard of Him’  Riham El Adl, a senior consultant at Hill & Knowlton in
Cairo, says that Stratos came in for one or two brief meetings
and then disappeared. El Adl says Stratos owes no money to the
firm.  “Never heard of him or invested a dime with him,”
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , chairman of Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE, the Middle East’s largest wireless phone operator, wrote in
a text message concerning Stratos.  The press conference never happened, Hack says. Stratos
said the Egyptian government had balked at giving him access to
the country’s antiquities.  At that point, after 15 years of working with Stratos, Hack
says he ran out of patience. It became clear to him, he says,
that none of the 11 movies were going to be made and he would
never get paid. After a brief trip to Dubai with Stratos, who
said he was planning a birthday celebration for Michael Jackson
there, Hack took a flight back to Florida.  Grand Entrance  In February 2009, Stratos met Peters, the man who would
help send him to jail in France. Peters got a call from a
contact in the Middle East who told him that he’d met a well-to-
do filmmaker named David Burton who was going to be in Paris,
where Peters is based. They met at the Hotel Plaza Athenee.  The next day, Peters traveled to Chateau de Farcheville, a
walled, 15-bedroom castle outside Paris that was on the market
for $57 million. Peters, who had loaned money to the owner of
the chateau, was there to meet a potential buyer. That buyer
arrived in a helicopter. It was Stratos.  “He got out of the helicopter and said, ‘No way! You’re in
charge of this?’” Peters says. Stratos would later make a formal
offer to buy the chateau and the land around it for 16.5 million
euros.  Then came the story of Stratos losing his wallet and
passport and being afflicted with cancer. Peters loaned him the
150,000 euros for living expenses and medical treatments.  In July 2009, Peters took a trip to Los Angeles, and while
there, he contacted music producer Quincy Jones, whom Stratos
had claimed as a mentor. He showed Jones a picture of Burton
that he had.  Hotel Arrest  Jones said he’d never met him, Peters says.  Peters had Stratos watched by friends who worked at the
Radisson Blu, where Stratos was staying. He was handing out 100
euro tips and wasn’t getting the cancer treatments he had said
he needed. Peters shot video while Stratos complained on a phone
call to a friend on Aug. 30 that he was getting tired of Paris
and planned to retreat to a beach.  Peters tipped off the police and the hotel that Stratos
might flee. He kept Stratos in town with a promise of more cash,
he says.  The next day, Peters went to the Radisson Blu and, instead
of giving Stratos more money, told him he had to pay the hotel
bill or the manager would call the police. Stratos tried to
leave the hotel with his bags and was intercepted by the
manager, who presented him with a bill for 30,000 euros. Stratos
became indignant and ran out the door, Peters says. The police
were waiting.  ‘I Have Told Lies’  Stratos wrote Hack at least two letters from La Sante
prison, including a long response to his critics. In one letter
he writes, “I have borrowed a lot of money from various people
for many different reasons, but I have never stolen it.” He also
writes, “I have told many lies to many people. I regret that.”  At the same time, he announced in one of the letters that
he was developing a new project, a trilogy of books, one of
which would be called “Liesexual.”  Stratos made bail on Oct 16. Since then, old associates
have been getting e-mails. He sent one to Peters on Jan. 1,
promising to pay him back and saying he still wanted to buy the
Farcheville chateau.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ; Anthony Effinger in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
 at   aeffinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 