-- Russia Set to Top Helium Supply as U.S. Sells Reserve
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-02-09T17:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/russia-aims-for-top-spot-in-helium-production-as-u-s-depletes-stockpiles.html
  Russia , already the largest producer
of crude oil and natural gas, is weighing up plans to become the
biggest supplier of helium, the inert gas vital for medical
scanners, welding tools and rocket fuel, as the U.S. sells
reserves from storage.  Russia’s remote, undeveloped gas fields in eastern Siberia
are helium rich and could hold a third of the world’s remaining
resources, said Vadim Udut, head of OAO Geliymash, a Moscow-
based helium research company that advises gas-export monopoly
OAO Gazprom. The country may build storage caverns, he said.  While helium is the universe’s most abundant element after
hydrogen, supply on earth is limited to natural gas reservoirs.
The U.S., the largest supplier today, is selling a federal
stockpile maintained during the  Cold War . Global demand may rise
2 to 3 percent a year over the next five years, said Maura
Garvey, director of market research at CryoGas International.  “Russia may take the place of the U.S.,” said Andrei
Korzhubayev, a professor at the Russian Academy of Natural
Sciences who helped draft the country’s energy strategy to 2030.
“ Eastern Siberia  can open the entry to that market.”  Today, Russia lags behind the U.S., Algeria and Qatar,
where  Exxon Mobil Corp . and industrial gas producers Linde Group
and  Praxair Inc . have invested in capacity.  Qatar  will open the
world’s biggest production plant in 2013.  Global Demand  Russia may be able to catch up because its gas reserves
hold a higher proportion of helium and the fields are close to
Asian markets, where Garvey said demand is growing faster.  Global demand may rise to about 300 million cubic meters
(10.6 billion cubic feet) a year in 2030 from 175 million cubic
meters now, Geliymash’s Udut said. Magnetic resonance imaging
scanners used in hospitals are the biggest consumer of the gas.
Russia may meet as much as half of the future demand, Udut said.  “The U.S. is a significant piece of the global supply and
we don’t really know what the government plans to do with the
Bureau of Land Management reserve after 2015,” Garvey said in a
phone interview, referring to the strategic stockpile. “What
will replace the BLM supply if it goes away?”  The  U.S. Bureau of Land Management  raised the price for
open market crude helium by almost 16 percent to $75 a thousand
cubic feet for this year, after a review of how the policy
affected U.S. interests and the global market.  ‘Trump Card’  President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s drive to transform Russia,
dependent on energy exports, into a knowledge-based economy may
expand the domestic market for helium. Medvedev has won
commitments from international partners such as  Cisco Systems 
and Nokia Oyj in his push to build the Skolkovo technology hub
outside Moscow.  “The component may encourage the development of high
technology,” Udut said. “It may become a political trump card
to improve relations with countries that aren’t rich in the
element.”  Gazprom will have to make a plan for helium before starting
natural-gas output at the eastern  Chayanda  deposit in 2016. The
development plan, which Gazprom is preparing in the first half
of the year, will lay out sites for a processing facility and
how to extract, transport, store and sell helium.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil company, and other gas
producers in the country, are also drafting plans on how to
utilize helium as they tap eastern Siberian deposits, Udut said.  Kazakh Border  Russia’s only helium facility, in Orenburg close to the
Kazakh border, processes less than half the helium extracted at
nearby fields, releasing the rest into the atmosphere, he said.
Some volumes are exported.  “The scale of the eastern Siberian program makes such
practice senseless,” Korzhubayev said. “We need a government
decision, a ban on release of helium, and international
experience.”  Gazprom sent a container with 40 cubic meters of liquid
helium from Orenburg to  South Korea  last month, Russia’s first
delivery to  Asia , according to the gas exporter’s  website .  Qatar will be the world’s  second-largest  helium supplier
after opening a second production facility in 2013, according to
QatarGas. The Qatar Helium 2 Project plans sales of 1.3 billion
cubic feet a year, almost double the first plant’s capacity. The
Qatari volumes will help replace withdrawal volumes from U.S.
storage, which Garvey said in a report are operationally capped
at 2.1 billion cubic feet a year.  “There is a lot of competition to be the one first with
the gas at the right time and attracting that market demand,”
Garvey said. The key to developments is what the U.S. does to
secure future global supply after selling reserves by 2015.
Russian capacity won’t be needed until at least then, she said.  To make extraction profitable in Russia, the government
must invest in storage capacity and guarantee helium purchases,
Korzhubayev said. The amount of helium Gazprom could produce in
eastern Siberia is more than the market can now absorb, Gazprom
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Valery Golubev said.  “There are no other deposits like these,” Golubev said in
November. “That is why it is important to keep this helium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  