-- SAC, Citigroup, Galleon, Airgas, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-02-09T11:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/sac-citigroup-deutsche-bank-galleon-bosch-in-court-news.html
Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil,
former junior portfolio managers at SAC Capital Advisors LP,
were accused of insider trading while working at the $12 billion
hedge fund in the latest round of charges stemming from a
nationwide crackdown by federal prosecutors.  The allegations mark the first time in the 16-month U.S.
probe that insider trading has been publicly alleged to have
occurred at SAC Capital.  Longueuil, who worked at SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit
from July 2008 to July 2010, was arrested yesterday. Freeman,
who worked at the hedge fund founded by Steven A. Cohen from
June 2008 to January 2010, pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a
cooperation deal with prosecutors.  Two others charged in the probe are Samir Barai, the
founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum, who
worked for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty in December as part of a
cooperation deal. From 2006 to 2010, the four men, while working
at six funds, swapped tips from employees of public companies
and from consultants at an expert-networking firm, prosecutors
said.  “We are outraged by the alleged actions of two former
employees, which required active circumvention of our compliance
policies and are egregious violations of our ethical
standards,” SAC Capital said yesterday in a statement. “The
government alleges that their improper conduct together began at
their prior firms in 2006 and continued after they joined SAC in
mid-2008.”  The Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund said the
defendants were employed “for a short time” and fired last
year “due to poor performance.”  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at  Primary Global Research LLC , a
Mountain View, California-based expert-networking firm that
links investors with industry experts who work for public
companies. Barai got inside tips from Primary Global consultants
Anthony Longoria and Winifred Jiau, both previously charged,
according to the complaint  Barai was granted release on $1 million bail by U.S.
Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan. Barai must surrender
his travel documents, Maas said.  Evan Barr, Barai’s lawyer, declined to comment after court.  Longueuil was arraigned yesterday before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Theodore Katz, who granted his release on a $1.5 million
bond secured by $750,000 in cash or property.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday sued
the four, saying they earned more than $30 million on insider
trades of stock in companies including  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc ., Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Western Digital Corp.,
Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc. and Seagate
Technology Plc.  The case is U.S. v. Barai, 11-mag-00332, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Citigroup, Ally Class-Action Foreclosure Suit Dropped  Kentucky homeowners dropped a possible class-action suit in
which Citigroup Inc. and Ally Financial Inc. units were accused
of conspiring with Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems Inc.
to falsely foreclose on loans.  Heather Boone McKeever, the Lexington, Kentucky, lawyer who
sued on behalf of the homeowners, said yesterday by e-mail that
she dropped the case Feb. 3 because as a solo practitioner she
wouldn’t be able to clear the “necessary hurdles” for
maintaining a federal class action and she couldn’t interest a
larger law firm. She said she continues to advise the plaintiffs
in their individual state-court cases.  “My plan is to try to keep the cases in state court by
filing class-action counterclaims against the individual
creditors and MERS in each family’s action,” she said.  The lawsuit, filed as a civil-racketeering case on behalf
of all Kentucky homeowners facing foreclosure, also named as a
defendant Reston, Virginia-based MERS, the company that handles
mortgage transfers among member banks.  MERS and banks have been accused in at least two other
federal suits of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act, a law originally passed to pursue organized
crime. A Florida case was thrown out Jan. 31 by a judge in
Miami. Another is in Brooklyn, New York.  The Kentucky homeowners filed their complaint Sept. 28 in
Louisville. They claimed that through MERS the banks are
foreclosing on homes even when they don’t hold titles to the
properties. The suit was dismissed without prejudice, meaning
that the homeowners can refile it.  The case is Foster v. Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc., 10-cv-611, U.S. District Court, Western District
of Kentucky (Louisville).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Deutsche Bank May Lose Top Court Swap Case, Judge Says    Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, may lose a ruling
in the first case heard by the country’s top civil court over an
interest-rate swap the lender sold to companies and local
governments, a judge said.  The bank may have violated its duties when advising  Ille
Papier Service GmbH  on a swap purchase, Federal Court of Justice
Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said at a hearing yesterday. The
lender may have had the duty to disclose an initial negative
market value that covered its fees or even to advise the company
not to buy the product, he said.  “When advising in financial matters, the bank must guard
the interests of its customer alone,” Wiechers said at the
hearing in Karlsruhe. The assessment is preliminary and a ruling
is scheduled for March 22.“A conflict of interest must be
disclosed. That the bank earned money from the initial market
value may be such a conflicted interest.”  Deutsche Bank has been sued by local governments,
community-owned utilities and companies that claim the lender
sold swaps without adequately disclosing risks. Cases over swap
agreements have spread through Europe with similar disputes in
Italy and England.  “If the court really intends to require banks to disclose
fees built into a swap, it would open a new door,” Reiner Hall,
a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, said at yesterday’s hearing. “This
would shake up the whole market because it would require banks
to disclose their profit from a deal. Such a ruling could even
cause a new financial crisis.”  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  For more, click here.  Raj Rajaratnam Has Little to Lose in Demanding Trial Over Deal  Billionaire Raj Rajaratnam must decide this month whether
he will join the few insider-trading defendants who “roll the
dice” and seek acquittal by a jury, Bloomberg News’ David
Voreacos and David Glovin report.  Rajaratnam, co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund,
is set for trial Feb. 28 in Manhattan federal court on charges
he made $45 million on illegal stock tips dating back to 2003.
He faces as long as 20 years in prison on the most serious
charges. Two legal experts predicted a 12-year term if he is
convicted.  To secure an acquittal, Rajaratnam’s lawyers must overcome
a case built on wiretapped conversations and insiders who
pleaded guilty and may testify against him. His lawyers may also
believe they can beat some of the counts and persuade the judge
to impose a shorter term than he would get in a plea deal,
according to five lawyers not involved in the case.  “Prosecutors have some strong evidence, based on the
wiretaps, so why would they want to cut a good deal?” said
former federal prosecutor William Mateja, now with Fish &
Richardson PC in Dallas. “From the defense side, if the
prosecution is not going to cut a good deal, then why not roll
the dice and see if they can get an acquittal?”  Rajaratnam has denied wrongdoing in a case that is the
centerpiece of the largest U.S. crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and defense
attorney John Dowd of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
declined to comment on whether plea talks have taken place.  Dowd said in court papers that Rajaratnam, 53, broke no
laws in speaking to corporate insiders to “ferret out”
information before making trades. Prosecutors must prove that he
knew he was receiving illegal tips from company insiders who
violated their duty to keep the information confidential.  Rajaratnam is alone among the six people arrested Oct. 16,
2009, not to plead guilty. Peter Henning, a professor at  Wayne
State University Law School  in Detroit, said prosecutors have
too strong a case to offer the hedge fund manager anything less
than a seven- or eight-year prison term in any plea arrangement.
Henning said Rajaratnam could still plead guilty on the eve of
trial.  Rajaratnam is accused of using secret tips from hedge fund
executives, corporate officials and other insiders to trade in
more than a dozen stocks, including  Intel Corp .,  International
Business Machines Corp .,  Akamai Technologies Inc .,  Google Inc .
and Advanced Micro Devices Inc.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News Corp. Unit Broke Antitrust Law, Jury Is Told  A News Corp. unit disparaged a smaller rival and broke
antitrust law while attempting to dominate the U.S. in-store
advertising market, a lawyer said at the start of a trial.  The rival, Minneapolis-based  Insignia Systems Inc ., sued
News America Marketing In-Store Inc. in federal court in
Minneapolis in 2004, alleging violations of U.S. antitrust law
and the Lanham Act, which prohibits unfair disparagement of
competitors.  “This trial will show how News set out to be not just the
largest company, it wants to be the only company that can put
the sign in the aisle,” Julian Solotorovsky, Insignia’s lawyer,
said yesterday at the start of the trial. “News is using
illegal conduct to obtain a monopoly.”    News Corp . previously settled unfair-competition suits
brought by two other rivals in the in-store advertising and
promotions market. The New York-based company agreed last year
to pay $500 million to  Valassis Communications Inc . It also paid
$29.5 million in 2009 to settle a claim of anti-competitive
behavior brought by Floorgraphics Inc.  “Insignia’s losses were significant and devastating,”
Solotorovsky told the Minneapolis jury. “It cost them a bundle
in sales. Insignia has lost hundreds of millions of dollars
while News has profited.” He didn’t specify how much the
company is seeking.  News Corp. has denied any unfair or illegal behavior.  The case is Insignia Systems Inc. v. News America Marketing
In-Store Inc., 04-cv-04213, U.S. District Court for the District
of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  Airgas Improperly Using Takeover Defense, Suitor Says    Airgas Inc ., the gas company fighting a $5.9 billion
hostile buyout bid, is improperly using an anti-takeover defense
to bar investors from accepting any offer, lawyers for  Air
Products & Chemicals Inc . told a judge.  A majority of Airgas shareholders want to accept Air
Products’ $70-a-share offer and are being wrongfully blocked by
the company’s poison-pill takeover defense, Kenneth Nachbar, one
of Air Products’ lawyers, said in closing arguments in the case.
Air Products is seeking to have Airgas’s poison pill thrown out.  By using the defense to frustrate investors, Airgas
executives are “protecting shareholders from themselves,”
Nachbar told Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler
III in Georgetown, Delaware.  Chandler said he was “reluctant” to rule yesterday from
the bench and instead will issue a written opinion in the next
few days.  “I don’t make snap judgments,” Chandler said after
closing arguments ended. “It would be more prudent of me to
digest the arguments you just made.”  Air Products, which has been pursuing Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas for more than a year, raised its bid on Dec. 9 to
$70 a share from $65.50 and called it the company’s “best and
final offer.” Airgas rejected the offer that same month.  Chandler must decide whether Airgas officials are acting
reasonably by refusing to deactivate the poison pill, which is
designed to make hostile takeovers of the gas distributor
prohibitively expensive.  Marc Wolinsky, a New York-based lawyer for Airgas,
countered that the directors are keeping the pill in place so
the gas company can continue to generate good earnings from its
businesses.  The case is Air Products and Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
CA5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  UBS Buys Back $1.5 Billion in Auction Rate Securities  Two  UBS AG  units agreed to repurchase $1.5 billion in
auction rate securities sold in New Jersey, resolving
allegations that the firms failed to fully disclose risks, state
Attorney General Paula T. Dow said.  “Disclosure of material facts to the investing public is
not only the law, but is necessary for consumers to make fully
informed decisions about investing their hard-earned money,”
Dow said in a statement announcing the agreement.  In addition to the repurchases by UBS Securities LLC and
UBS Financial Services Inc., Zurich-based UBS will pay New
Jersey $3.7 million in civil penalties, representing the state’s
pro rata share of an agreement negotiated by a multistate task
force of regulators, Dow said.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. Underwriters and broker-
dealers have been sued since the February 2008 collapse of the
$330 billion market for auction-rate securities.  UBS, according to Dow, marketed the securities as safe and
liquid when they were actually long-term investments subject to
the since-failed auction process.  “UBS is pleased this matter has been resolved,” the
investment bank said in an e-mailed statement. “This is part of
UBS’s ongoing effort to restore liquidity to its ARS clients who
were adversely affected by the failure of the ARS market.”  Citigroup Settles Fraud Cases Tied to Texas Mortgage Assigner    Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest U.S. bank, settled or
lost at least five claims in 2010 brought by borrowers who
accused the bank of filing fraudulent mortgage documents
provided by a Texas firm.  In the most recent settlement in December, a bankrupt
homeowner in Wappingers Falls, New York, challenged Citigroup’s
use of a mortgage “assignment,” which shows the transfer of
ownership of a mortgage. It was signed by an employee at  Orion
Financial Group Inc.,  a Southlake, Texas, firm that provides
document services to lenders.  The document was “of fraudulent nature and questionable
origin,” the borrower’s attorney, Linda Tirelli, wrote in an
August objection to the bank’s claim at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
New York. Citigroup created and filed the assignment after
proceedings began because it otherwise couldn’t prove its right
to collect the debt, she wrote in an e-mail. The bank denied the
allegations and didn’t admit liability in the settlement.  Attorneys general in 50 states are investigating the
industry’s use of mortgage assignments as part of a wider probe
into faulty foreclosure methods, according to Geoff Greenwood, a
spokesman for Iowa attorney general Tom Miller. Last month, a
Massachusetts court ruled that two foreclosures by Wells Fargo &
Co. and U.S. Bancorp were invalid because assignments presented
in those cases failed to prove the chain of ownership of the
mortgage, sending financial stocks down.  A spokesman for Citigroup,  Mark Rodgers , said it doesn’t
comment on individual cases. The company continues to use Orion
for assignment letters, he said. While borrowers have disputed
the bank’s use of assignments, they haven’t accused Orion of
wrongdoing.  “We don’t create fraudulent documents,” said  Orion  Chief
Executive Officer Mike Wileman. His firm’s documents show which
company may hold the note and can be based on information from
the bank, he said. “Sometimes the evidence is circumstantial,”
he wrote in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Pfizer Must Pay $10 Million Drug Damages, Judges Say    Pfizer Inc . must pay more than $10 million in damages to an
Arkansas woman who blamed her cancer on the company’s Prempro
menopause drug, after an appeals court reinstated a jury
verdict.  A Pennsylvania appeals court yesterday overturned a judge’s
ruling that Pfizer’s Wyeth unit deserved a new trial in
connection with Mary Daniel’s claim that Prempro caused her
breast cancer. A Philadelphia jury in 2007 awarded Daniel and
her family $1.5 million in compensatory damages and $8.6 million
in punitives on her claim, according to Esther Berezofsky, one
of the family’s lawyers.  The appellate judges concluded no “fraud on the court took
place here and a new trial should not have been granted,”
according to the 55-page decision from the  Superior  Court of
Pennsylvania.  Officials of New York-based Pfizer said they were
disappointed with the decision and considering their legal
options. Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, completed its
$68 billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  “The company disputes the fairness of the previous trial
and the appropriateness of the jury’s verdict,” Christopher
Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Daniel v. Wyeth, 040602368, Court of Common
Pleas (Philadelphia).  Robert Bosch Settles U.K. Antitrust Claims Against SGL Carbon  Robert Bosch GmbH, the world’s biggest automotive supplier,
settled a U.K. lawsuit accusing  SGL Carbon SE  of overcharging
for graphite products during a price-fixing cartel uncovered
more than a decade ago.  Terms of the accord are private and neither company was
ordered to pay the other’s costs in the case, Justice Gerald
Barling wrote Feb. 7 in a notice on the website of the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London.  Stuttgart-based Robert Bosch’s settlement doesn’t involve
other customers or cartel participants in the four-year-old
lawsuit by  Valeo SA , France’s second-largest car-parts maker,
and St. Louis-based  Emerson Electric Co . Other defendants in the
case include Morgan Crucible Co. and Schunk GmbH.  The companies sued after the European Union in 2003 fined
Wiesbaden, Germany-based SGL and other cartel members a total of
101 million euros ($137 million) for fixing prices on graphite
products from 1988 to 1999. While Morgan Crucible received
immunity from the fines because it was the first to cooperate,
its former Chief Executive Officer Ian Norris was sentenced to
18 months in prison in a U.S. case over his role in the cartel.  Achim Schneider, a Robert Bosch spokesman, and SGL
spokeswoman Corinna Gemein declined to immediately comment when
reached yesterday by phone.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Chevron Wins Order Against Lawyers for Ecuadoreans    Chevron Corp . won a court order halting lawyers for
Ecuadorean residents suing the second-largest U.S. oil company
over environmental pollution from trying to immediately enforce
an anticipated multibillion-dollar damage award outside of their
home country.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan, at a hearing yesterday in
Manhattan, granted a temporary restraining order for 28 days
against lawyers for Ecuadorean citizens who accused Texaco Inc.,
acquired by Chevron in 2001, of fouling the Amazon basin.
Chevron will seek at a Feb. 17 hearing to extend the judge’s
order through a preliminary injunction.  “I’m persuaded that the likelihood of irreparable injury
is quite high,” Kaplan said at the hearing.  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, sued New York
attorney Steven Donziger and others, alleging that they made
misrepresentations to the U.S. Congress, government agencies and
shareholders in a conspiracy to “force the company into making
a payoff.”  Chevron said in its complaint it believes a judgment is
“imminent” from a Lago Agrio,  Ecuador , court that closed the
evidence phase of the case in December. A judgment “for
billions of dollars is a foregone conclusion,” Chevron said.  Attorneys for the Ecuadoreans plan to immediately seek to
enforce a judgment in countries other than Ecuador because
Chevron has no assets there, the company said.  Chevron claimed in its suit that the lawyers and activists
fighting the company in the Ecuador lawsuit fabricated evidence
to make their case and produced a report that was supposed to be
written by an impartial expert appointed by a court in Ecuador.
The lawyers now estimate damages at as much as $113 billion,
Chevron said.  Donziger, who has his own law firm in New York, was
representing himself in court yesterday. He had asked for an
adjournment of the hearing, which the judge denied.  “I don’t feel comfortable responding without counsel,”
Donziger told the judge.  Sheldon Elsen, representing Ecuadorean citizens who sued
Chevron, argued against the temporary restraining order.  The case is Chevron Corp. v. Donziger, 11-0691, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here. For the latest litigation department
news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 