-- Sack Says Fed's Asset Purchases Have Led to `More Accommodative' Markets
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2011-02-09T23:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/sack-says-fed-s-asset-purchases-have-led-to-more-accommodative-markets.html
  Brian Sack , the  Federal Reserve  Bank
of  New York ’s markets group chief, said the central bank’s
asset-purchase program has supported the economic recovery by
easing market conditions.  “The Federal Reserve’s balance sheet actions have helped
to make broader financial conditions more accommodative,” Sack
said in the text of remarks given in Philadelphia today. “Risky
asset prices such as equities have risen at a rapid pace, and
credit spreads and measures of credit availability have
continued to ease.”  Sack is among Fed officials defending the central bank’s
decision last month to press ahead with its plan to buy $600
billion of bonds through June in an effort to create jobs.
Republican Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , chairman of
the House Budget Committee, today repeated his criticism of the
purchases, saying they risk creating asset-price bubbles and
fueling inflation.  “The recent asset purchases by the Federal Reserve have
had helpful effects on financial conditions and have been
implemented in a manner that has been flexible enough to avoid
any significant negative consequences for the functioning of
financial markets,” Sack said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony before the
House budget panel today that the  unemployment rate  is likely to
remain high “for some time” even after its biggest two-month
drop since 1958, to 9 percent in January. Joblessness rose above
9 percent in May 2009, beginning the longest period of
unemployment at that level or higher since monthly records began
in 1948.  Adding to Concerns  Ryan today said an increase in long-term Treasury yields
this week “certainly adds to these concerns” about inflation.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields 3.65 percent, up from
2.57 percent on Nov. 3, the day the Fed announced its asset-
purchase program.  The increase “in large part reflects the greater optimism
among investors about the outlook for economic growth,” Sack
said. “The rise in yields does not appear to be driven by the
concerns expressed by some that the asset purchase program would
unleash a considerable rise in U.S. inflation.”  Sack said in response to audience questions that rising
Treasury yields reflect that “there’s a lot more confidence in
the markets that we’re seeing the beginnings of a more
sustained, robust recovery.” Equity prices “should have come
down,” if that weren’t true, he said. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has gained more than 10 percent since Nov. 3.  Dual Mandate  Bernanke said today that “inflation is expected to persist
below the levels that Fed policy makers have judged to be
consistent” with their dual mandate from Congress for stable
prices and maximum employment.  Sack said while the central bank has been pressing ahead
with quantitative easing, it has also been preparing to withdraw
its record monetary stimulus.  “Even as the Federal Reserve has been expanding its
balance sheet, it has not lost any momentum in the preparation
of its exit tools,” Sack said. “We continue to make
considerable progress increasing our capacity to drain reserves
if necessary.”  More than 500  depository institutions  have registered for
the Fed’s term deposit facility, and 58 money-market funds have
been added as counterparties for reverse repurchase agreements,
Sack said. Last week, the Fed also added two firms as primary
dealers, or counterparties to the central bank’s transactions.  “We have already established considerable capacity to
drain reserves with these two tools, and we will continue to
advance them in productive directions,” Sack said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  