-- Sanofi’s Genzyme Talks ‘Progressing;’ Earnings to Drop
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2011-02-09T16:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/sanofi-says-genzyme-talks-review-are-progressing-profit-drop-forecast.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s talks to buy  Genzyme Corp . are progressing, the French drugmaker said as it
forecast profit will drop as much as 10 percent because of
generic competition and the loss of flu vaccine sales.  Earnings per share this year will fall 5 percent to 10
percent at constant exchange rates, barring major unforeseen
events, Paris-based Sanofi said in a statement today. The
company reported better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit and
said it’s ahead of schedule with a cost-cutting plan.  “Given the better 2010 results and the acceleration of the
restructuring program, the 2011 guidance overall looks
disappointing,”  Justin Smith , an analyst at MF Global UK Ltd.  London , said in a report. He recommends buying Sanofi shares.  Acquiring Genzyme would help Sanofi replace some of the
revenue its top-selling drugs are losing to competitors. Sales
of the Lovenox and Plavix blood thinners sank 23 percent and 11
percent, respectively, in the fourth quarter, the company said.
Sanofi made an $18.5 billion cash offer for Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Genzyme in August.  Sanofi took the offer directly to Genzyme shareholders on
Oct. 4 after the U.S. company spurned the bid as too low. The
companies have since begun negotiations and Genzyme last month
agreed to give Sanofi access to confidential information.  ‘Working Away’  “We’ve still got our head down and we’re working away on
this,” Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher, 50,
said at a meeting with analysts in Paris. “We’ve made progress,
otherwise we wouldn’t have been able to sign a confidentiality
agreement and start looking at non-public data. This is a
company that’s present in 80 countries. Due diligence is not
something you take likely.”  Asked at a Paris news conference about when an agreement
might be reached, Viehbacher said the company isn’t “committed
to a calendar.”  Sanofi fell 80 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 50.34 euros at the
close of Paris trading. Before today, the shares had returned 2
percent including reinvested dividends over the past year,
compared with a 9.7 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  Earnings in the fourth quarter excluding costs such as
writedowns and merger expenses were 1.84 billion euros ($2.51
billion), or 1.41 euros a share, unchanged from the previous
year. The profit was higher than the 1.76 billion-euro average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  For the full year, earnings per share climbed 2.6 percent
at constant exchange rates. Sanofi said Oct. 28 it was expecting
2010 earnings per share to be between unchanged and up 2
percent.  Genzyme Price  Last year “was the first year in which the patent cliff
really became visible with generic competition for several of
our products, notably Lovenox in the U.S.,” Viehbacher said.  Sanofi and Genzyme have discussed a price of about $74 a
share plus potential payments tied to the performance of a
Genzyme drug, four people with knowledge of the plan have said.
Viehbacher declined to make any comments on price during the
call with reporters today.  “All options” remain on the table regarding Genzyme, he
said. Sanofi will remained “disciplined and patient” in its
acquisition strategy, Viehbacher said.  “We believe Genzyme has a transformative character for
Sanofi and provides the financial flexibility for the French
company to continue its strategy of a targeted effort to rebuild
its new drugs pipeline in pharmaceuticals,” Karl-Heinz Koch, an
analyst at Helvea AG in Geneva, wrote in a Feb. 2 note to
clients. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Cost Reductions  Sanofi is cutting costs more quickly than expected, with
1.3 billion euros of savings in 2010, the company said.  Viehbacher has shut or sold plants and canceled the least
promising research projects in a bid to trim 2 billion euros in
costs and ensure earnings in 2013 are at least equal to 2008
profit. Sanofi said today that it expects to reach that cost-
saving target in 2011, two years earlier than first predicted.  Sales at the company slipped 5.9 percent to 7.4 billion
euros at constant exchange rates during the quarter, Sanofi
said. Including currency gains, sales climbed 0.5 percent.  Research and development expenses were down 7.2 percent in
the quarter, the company said.  The drugmaker lost U.S. marketing exclusivity on Lovenox in
July. Lovenox sales plunged 23 percent to 582 million euros in
the quarter after Novartis AG and  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc .
began selling a generic copy of the anti-clotting drug. Plavix
sales fell 11 percent to 505 million euros. Vaccine sales
slumped 19 percent to 890 million euros after the flu pandemic
ended.  ‘Tough’ Year  “We know patents are expiring, we know 2011 will be
tough” for Sanofi, Michael Leacock, an analyst at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in London, said in a telephone interview today. He
recommends buying the stock.  Sanofi’s forecast for this year assumes no generic
competition for the company’s Eloxatin cancer drug, and doesn’t
include a possible Genzyme acquisition.  Generic copies of Eloxatin were pulled from the market last
year after Sanofi won a court ruling in June.  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd ., one of the generic manufacturers, successfully
appealed the decision, and a lower court is now considering
Sun’s request to resume selling the drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  