-- SAS Returns to Profit in Fourth Quarter on Cost Cuts, Increase in Travel
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-02-09T08:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/sas-returns-to-profit-in-fourth-quarter-on-cost-cuts-increase-in-travel.html
SAS Group, the Nordic region’s
largest airline, returned to profit in the fourth quarter after
it cut costs and passenger travel increased.  Net income was 47 million kronor ($7.3 million), compared
with a 1.3 billion-kronor year-earlier loss, the Stockholm-based
company said today in a statement. Sales rose 2.3 percent to
10.6 billion kronor as passenger traffic increased 10 percent.  SAS, which cut unit costs by 8.3 percent in the three
months, had been unprofitable in all but one of the previous 12
quarters as it struggled with a drop in travel, strikes and a
volcanic eruption in Iceland. Results for the first quarter, a
low season for flights, are likely to turn “negative” again,
the company said, while predicting a full-year pretax profit.  “Our aircraft are more well-filled than ever before, with
a rising number of passengers,” John Dueholm, acting chief
executive officer until Feb. 1, said in the statement, while
cautioning that “price trends in some of the group’s markets
remain weak, particularly in European traffic from  Denmark .”  SAS, which is part-owned by the governments of Sweden,
Norway and Denmark, was trading unchanged at 23.90 euros as of
9:23 a.m. in Stockholm, valuing the company at 7.83 billion
kronor. It earlier rose as much as 2.9 percent.  The average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts
was for a fourth-quarter net loss of 300 million kronor  Earnings were boosted by a 12 percent drop in payroll
costs, excluding currency changes, as the company reduced
headcount by 1,100 in 2010 as part of a 7.8 billion kronor cost-
cut program.  While SAS’s seat occupancy level increased by 2.7
percentage points in the quarter, yield, a measure of average
fares, dropped 6.7 percent as competition from discount carriers
such as Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA pushed down prices. Jet fuel
costs jumped more than 17 percent as the oil price rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible on this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 