-- Senators Urge Regulators to Move Cautiously on Derivatives Rules
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2011-02-09T17:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/senators-urge-regulators-to-move-cautiously-on-derivatives-rules.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
urged regulators implementing derivatives measures under the
Dodd-Frank Act to move cautiously so the rules can be
“completed without unintended consequences.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and two other top officials were warned
against “overly prescriptive rules” that might push market
participants abroad in a letter signed by 13 members of the
Senate Banking and Agriculture committees and dated yesterday.  “If the major overhaul of our derivatives market is
implemented hastily, agency rulemakings could have negative
effects on our economy at a time when we can least afford it,”
the lawmakers said in the letter signed by three Democrats and
10 Republicans including Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska, who
serves on both the Banking and Agriculture committees.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission are leading efforts to regulate the
$583 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the credit crisis. SEC Chairman
Mary Schapiro and CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  also were sent
copies of the letter.  The lawmakers urged regulators to exempt “end-users” --
non-financial firms that use derivatives to hedge business risk
-- from margin requirements stipulated by Dodd-Frank. Failing to
do so would “blatantly disregard” the law’s intent, they said.  Swaps and other derivatives are financial instruments whose
value is based on an underlying security or benchmark, such as a
stock option. Companies may use them to hedge risks and other
investors employ them to bet on markets.  The letter was signed by Republican Senators Pat Roberts of
Kansas, Thad Cochran of Mississippi,  Ron Johnson  of Wisconsin,
David Vitter of Louisiana, Mike Crapo of Idaho,  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, Roger Wicker of Mississippi, John Boozman of
Arkansas and Jerry Moran of Kansas as well as Johanns. Democrats  Max Baucus  of Montana, Herb Kohl of Wisconsin and Jon Tester of
Montana also signed the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  