-- Sexless Couples Need Economist in Bedroom, Game Theory: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2011-02-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/sexless-couples-climb-into-bed-with-economists-to-rescue-marriages-books.html
Humans respond to incentives, as
every economist knows. For evidence, consider Howard, a
hypercompetitive litigator with a volcanic temper.  Howard would come home so stressed out that he’d go
ballistic about tricycles in the driveway and toys on the floor,
write  Paula Szuchman and Jenny Anderson  in “ Spousonomics ,” a
geeky guide to finding marital bliss through economics.  His tantrums had to go, as Howard always recognized after
he calmed down. So he and his wife Jen, a fellow lawyer, sought
ways to check his anger. Counting to 20 didn’t work. Nor did
deep breathing. Desperate, they created a game in which Jen
called out “Red Flag” whenever he looked ready to explode.  “If Howard went three days without a red flag, she’d have
sex with him,” the authors write. As puerile as that sounds,
the game worked, restoring peace to their home and rekindling
their sex life: A classic economic tradeoff, to hear Szuchman
and Anderson tell it. Or was it a coup for a manipulative male?  Szuchman works for the Wall Street Journal, Anderson for
the New York Times. They interviewed couples across the U.S. to
explore the underpinnings of gross domestic puzzles, from the
division of labor (who has the comparative advantage in mowing
the lawn?) to moral hazard (are you bailing out a deadbeat hubby
because your partnership is too big to fail?).  Like many self-help books, this one gets cutesy. Mothers
learn  baby sign language , and there’s talk of opening your
“chakras,” or energy centers. Many of the couples sound like
bobos in paradise lost, and some strain credulity: Did that New
York fashion writer really marry a cowboy she found riding bulls
at a Wyoming rodeo?  Saving Marriages  Am I being churlish? Perhaps. The book is grounded in solid
research, makes economics entertaining, and might just save a
marriage or two (if you can ignore the cringe-making references
to kinky lingerie and  My Brest Friend  nursing pillows).  The authors began by consulting economists, neoclassical
and behavioral alike. Then they hired a market-research company
to conduct a nationwide poll that put 63 nosy questions to some
1,000 Americans. They call this their Exhaustive, Groundbreaking
and Very Expensive Marriage Survey, a phrase that becomes a
running epithet, like Homer’s “rosy-fingered dawn.”  Armed with the findings, Szuchman and Anderson sat down
with couples from  San Francisco  to Miami and plied them with
pizza and beer. Anonymity was granted; names and identifying
details were changed to protect the guilty.  Burst Bubbles  Two by two, the couples described marital clashes that
reflected economic dilemmas including burst bubbles (remember
those torrid nights before we had baby?) and asymmetric
information (how is Bill supposed to know what Angela wants if
she doesn’t tell him?). Sound farfetched?  Random House  editors
verified the veracity of the cases, says publicist Karen Fink.  There are chapters on supply and demand -- “or, how to
have more sex” -- and “intertemporal choices,” jargon for
decisions made today that have consequences in the future. And
then there’s loss aversion, the syndrome that makes traders (cue  Jerome Kerviel ) so desperate to recoup losses that they dig
themselves into deep holes.  Szuchman knows something about this, having spent a year
fighting with her husband over her frayed La-Z-Boy. He saw the
chair as a hideous “brown lump in the middle of his living
room.” She saw it as a symbol of her single days and couldn’t
“stand the pain” of losing what it meant to her. Until her
husband suggested replacing it with a vintage Danish desk from
her favorite furniture store. Did she really “weigh the costs
and benefits” before ditching the brown lump?  Game Theory  For advanced couples, there’s even a chapter on game
theory, which brings us to newlyweds Mike, who had just started
a hedge fund, and Ingrid, who worked in crisis communications.
Mike was what economists call a free rider: He let Ingrid do the
laundry, empty the kitty litter and plan their weekends.  So Ingrid systematically reduced his temptation to freeload
by keeping him off guard. One weekend, she made plans for
herself and left him home alone. The next week, she didn’t do
laundry, leaving him without clean underwear and socks.  Soon, Mike began picking up some slack, which is great,
though it makes me wonder how his hedge fund is doing. Wouldn’t
a  Ken Griffin  just pay someone to separate his lights and darks?  “Spousonomics: Using Economics to Master Love, Marriage
and Dirty Dishes” is from  Random House  in the U.S. and from
Bantam Press in the U.K. (332 pages, $26, 10.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 