-- SingTel Third-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates on Singapore, Australian Unit
-- B y   C h a n   S u e   L i n g
-- 2011-02-10T00:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/singapore-telecom-posts-783-6-million-profit-beating-analysts-estimates.html
  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd .,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest phone company, reported an unexpected
increase in third-quarter profit after boosting sales at home
and in Australia.  Net income rose 0.8 percent to S$998.2 million ($784
million) in the quarter ended in December, SingTel, as the
company is also known, said in a statement today. That beat the
S$925 million average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 5.7 percent to S$4.7 billion on growth in  Singapore  and Australia, the company’s biggest markets, which
made up for lower contributions from regional operations such as  Bharti Airtel Ltd . in India and Indonesia’s PT Telekomunikasi
Selular. Chief Executive Officer Chua Sock Koong is counting on
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and investments in
startups to revive profit growth as markets saturate worldwide.  “Their regional associates are not doing well because
competition is keen in countries such as India and  Indonesia ,”
Alfred Low, an analyst at Philip Securities in Singapore, said
before the results.  SingTel, whose largest shareholder is Singapore state-owned
investment company Temasek Holdings Pte, declined 1 percent to
S$3.09 at the close of trading in Singapore yesterday. The
earnings were released before trading began today.  Of the 24 analysts tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12
months, nine recommended buying the company’s stock, three
recommended selling it and the remainder rated it “hold.”  Optus Customer Additions  “Singapore and Australia continued to perform and deliver
strong revenue growth,” Chua said in the statement. The group
continued to invest in multimedia “as we transform the group’s
business beyond telecommunications.”  At Optus,  Australia ’s largest phone operator after Telstra
Corp., earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rose 5 percent to A$553 million ($559 million) as
the company added 150,000 postpaid mobile customers.  In Singapore, revenue rose 7 percent to S$1.63 billion,
with Ebitda rising 1 percent to S$587 million. SingTel signed up
41,000 postpaid mobile customers in the quarter, the highest in
two years, according to the statement.  Average revenue per user, a key measure of profitability in
the mobile phone industry, for postpaid customers in Singapore
rose 3 percent to S$92, according to the statement.  Innov8  The pretax profit contribution from the company’s regional
mobile units fell 13 percent to S$488 million.  New Delhi-based Bharti reported a worse-than-expected 41
percent drop in profit on Feb. 2. SingTel owns 32 percent of
Bharti,  India ’s biggest wireless provider, and 35 percent of PT
Telekomunikasi Selular in Indonesia.  To boost growth and get access to new technologies, SingTel
last year set up a S$200 million venture fund to invest in
start-ups. The company will work with innovators, government
agencies and research organizations to explore new technologies,
according to Chua.  The SingTel Innov8 venture fund is part of the company’s
plan to transform itself from a traditional telecommunications
supplier to a multimedia and information-technology services
provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Sue Ling in Singapore 
 slchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 