-- St. Joe Declines After Florida Developer Announces Plans to Explore Sale
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-02-09T21:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/st-joe-declines-after-florida-developer-announces-plans-to-explore-sale.html
St. Joe Co., the  Florida  developer
criticized by hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , fell 7 percent
in New York trading after the company said it hired Morgan
Stanley to explore a possible merger or sale.  St. Joe will consider a new business plan, partnerships,
joint ventures, alliances, asset sales and acquisitions, the
Watersound, Florida-based developer said yesterday in a
statement. The announcement came a month after  Bruce Berkowitz 
and Charles M. Fernandez of Fairholme Capital Management LLC,
the company’s biggest shareholder, were named to the board.  Berkowitz and Einhorn have placed opposing bets on St. Joe,
the largest private landholder in northern Florida. The timber
company-turned-developer, which has reported 10 consecutive
quarterly losses, may have trouble finding a buyer, said James
Wilson, director of research at JMP Securities LLC.  “I question anyone buying it,” Wilson said in an e-mail
today from  San Francisco . “With no earnings, it’s tough to get
a deal done with any private or public buyer. I think they
decide to grow the business beyond the  Florida panhandle ,
probably through acquisition.”  The shares dropped 7.1 percent to $27 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock had gained
16 percent from Jan. 12 through yesterday after the company said
it ended a cap on Fairholme’s ownership and that the investor
can discuss alternatives for the company with the board.  ‘Stay Tuned’  Fairholme owns about 29 percent of St. Joe’s shares.
Berkowitz, named U.S. stock-fund manager of the decade last year
by research firm Morningstar Inc., said he and Fernandez
“applaud” their fellow  St. Joe  board members for taking steps
to explore options.  “Yesterday was a good day for Joe and its shareholders,”
Berkowitz said in a statement. “Joe’s independent directors
know they have more to do. Stay tuned.”  It may be hard for St. Joe to find a buyer given the
stock’s valuation, Einhorn’s hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc.
said yesterday. Einhorn, who profited from bets against Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, said in October he had taken a
short position in St. Joe because the property owner needs to
take “substantial” asset-impairment charges on its land.  Informal Inquiry  St. Joe said last month that the Securities and Exchange
Commission opened an informal inquiry over the company’s
policies for impairing investments in real estate assets.  “With the company trading at more than three times its
value, it is easy to see why the Board wants to sell, but hard
to fathom why anyone would buy,” Greenlight said in a statement
yesterday. “The lack of  cash flow  creates a particular
challenge for any financial buyer.”  Short selling, or bets against the stock, increased to a
52-week high of 27 percent of outstanding shares on Jan. 25,
according to data compiled by Data Explorers, a New York-based
research firm. That compares with a low of 12 percent a year ago
and 17 percent on Oct. 12, the day before Einhorn said he was
betting against the stock.  St. Joe’s market value of about $2.5 billion indicates that
its 576,000 acres of land are worth about $4,400 an acre. That
is “way too high” compared with what other undeveloped Florida
land fetches, said John Burns, chairman of John Burns Real
Estate Consulting in Irvine,  California   ‘At the Bottom’  “I’ve got plenty of clients now looking at land,” Burns
said in a telephone interview today from  Sacramento , California.
“And St. Joe’s land is at the bottom, really because you can’t
develop or monetize much of it anytime soon.”  St. Joe’s land, in Florida’s panhandle, is valuable mostly
for its timber, because demand for new homes and commercial
property will remain weak for years, said Steven Ruoff, senior
associate at Land Advisors Organization, a Scottsdale, Arizona-
based land broker. Florida timberland gets about $2,000 to
$3,000 an acre today, he said.  “If they just want to sell the whole company as is, they’d
take a scalpel and cut very deep on the price,” Ruoff said.  St. Joe reported a net loss of $13.1 million and revenue of
$27.1 million for the quarter ended Sept. 30.  The company is more likely to seek partnerships or joint
ventures rather than a merger or sale, Sheila McGrath, an
analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in  New York , said in a
telephone interview today.  “It’s an asset-rich, no-debt company,” McGrath said.
“Those alternatives are going to include things that will
enhance the value more quickly. So I think there’s more upside
than downside.”  Raymond James & Associates Inc. cut St. Joe to “market
perform” from “strong buy” today.  “This is a prudent time to step to the sidelines,” Buck Horne, a  St. Petersburg , Florida-based analyst, wrote in a note
to clients. “A neutral investment position is appropriate until
more details are revealed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  