-- Statoil Fourth-Quarter Net Gains 33% on Higher Oil, Gas Prices
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2011-02-09T06:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/statoil-fourth-quarter-net-misses-estimates-says-2011-output-may-decline.html
  Statoil ASA ,  Norway ’s largest oil and
natural gas company, said fourth-quarter profit rose 33 percent
on higher crude oil and gas prices.  Net income rose to 9.53 billion kroner ($1.7 billion), or
2.99 kroner a share, from 7.16 billion kroner, or 2.25 kroner a
share, a year earlier, the Stavanger-based company said today.
That missed the 12.5 billion kroner average estimate from a
survey of 12 analysts.  “Whilst production volumes were below our expectations in
the second part of the year due to high maintenance, specific
operational issues and reduced production permits, Statoil
continues to deliver strong financial results and cash flows”,
Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said in the statement.    Brent crude  climbed 16 percent in the fourth quarter from
the year-earlier period, while U.K. natural gas prices were on
average 88 percent higher because of colder weather. Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, Europe’s biggest oil company, and BP Plc posted
fourth-quarter earnings last week that missed estimates.  Exxon
Mobil Corp ., the world’s largest company, reported its highest
quarterly net income in more than two years of $9.25 billion.  So-called entitlement production fell to 1.768 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day from 1.852 million barrels a
year earlier. That missed a median estimate of 1.796 million
barrels of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Oil, Gas Price  The company got an average $84.1 a barrel for its liquids
in the quarter, compared with $71.3 a year earlier. It fetched
1.84 kroner for every cubic meter of gas, up 17 percent from
last year.  “Statoil’s fourth-quarter results have definitely been
saved by lower than normal temperatures in  Europe , corresponding
to strong gas demand and a high spot price,” Helge Andre Martinsen, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a Feb. 1
report. He has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Entitlement production doesn’t include production-sharing
agreements in countries such as Iran and  Azerbaijan . Output
including those agreements fell to 1.945 million barrels a day
from 2.057 million a day a year earlier.  Statoil, which operates 80 percent of Norway’s oil and gas
production, is seeking to maintain domestic production and is
expanding in countries such as  Angola ,  Brazil  and the U.S. as
Norwegian reserves dwindle. The country’s output is forecast to
decline for an 11th year in 2011, according to the  Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate .  “Recent exploration results have been poor and an
increasing number of fields are having production problems,”
John Olaisen, an analyst with Carnegie ASA in Oslo, said in a
Jan. 28 report.  Output at the Gullfaks oil and gas field was reduced after
Statoil shut 50 wells out of safety concerns in the second half
of 2010. Production at the Kvitebjoern and Ormen Lange fields
was also reduced, while output at the Snohvit and Kollsnes
plants was hampered by technical issues.  To contact the reporters on this story: Marianne Stigset in Oslo
at   mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  