-- SuperGroup Plans to `Accumulate' Brands to Reduce Its Reliance on Superdry
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2011-02-09T10:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/supergroup-plans-to-accumulate-brands-to-reduce-its-reliance-on-superdry.html
  SuperGroup Plc  plans to add more
brands to reduce its reliance on the Superdry clothing range,
Chief Executive Officer Julian Dunkerton said after the U.K.
retailer reported an 87 percent gain in third-quarter sales.  “The long, long-term vision is to accumulate brands,” the
founder and CEO said in a phone interview today. SuperGroup may
develop more of its own brands and will consider buying others,
he said, although Superdry remains “99 percent of our focus.”  SuperGroup relies mainly on the  Superdry  fashion range,
which includes hoodies, t-shirts and $130 jeans and is worn by
celebrities including soccer star  David Beckham  and model  Kate
Moss . The retailer is growing faster than rivals as it opens
more stores, franchises and foreign-language websites.  “The Superdry brand through January remains very much on
trend and shows no sign of losing its universal appeal,”
Freddie George, an analyst at  Seymour Pierce , said by e-mail.  SuperGroup rose 6 pence, or 0.3 percent, to 1,751 pence at
9:27 a.m. in  London  trading. The stock has surged 35 percent
this year and has more than tripled since a 500 pence-a-share
initial public offering in March 2010.  The biggest risk to the company’s growth “is around the
fashionability of the Superdry brand,” Andrew Wade, an analyst
at Numis Securities, said in a report today, initiating coverage
of the stock with a “buy” recommendation.  Dunkerton said he spends most of his time on Superdry and
extending the brand’s product ranges.  ‘Growth Potential’  “There is so much growth potential,” he said, adding that
the brand will shortly be introducing a fragrance.  Superdry’s weakest points are womenswear and denim, more of
which will be added to the autumn range, he said. The retailer
aims to increase womenswear to about half of sales from a third.  The CEO said he’s “bullish” about demand for Superdry
this year, even as shopper sentiment weakens. U.K. consumer
confidence plunged the most in almost two decades in January.  “I don’t like being taken down by macro-economic
miseries,” Dunkerton said. “If you’re improving, which we are,
the product is improving, the stores are getting better and the
distance between you and the competition is growing, then I’m
happy.”  Sales in the 13 weeks through Jan. 30 climbed to 81.7
million pounds ($131 million), the Cheltenham, England-based
company said today in a statement.  The retailer plans about 20 new outlets per year and said
last week it will spend 40 million euros ($54.6 million) buying
its largest franchise and distribution partner in  Europe .  Dunkerton said the consensus estimate for annual pretax
profit is 48.9 million pounds. SuperGroup had adjusted pretax
profit of 26.5 million pounds in the previous year.  The retailer plans to add foreign-language websites after a
successful rollout in France, Belgium and Germany, the CEO said.
The conversion of visitors into sales has tripled in  Germany 
since the site was launched, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 