-- Swiss Stocks Fluctuate; Syngenta Rises as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2011-02-09T12:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-syngenta-rises-as-profit-beats-analysts-estimates.html
Stocks in Switzerland fluctuated near
the benchmark  Swiss Market Index ’s highest level since April
2010 as  Syngenta AG  posted profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and  Transocean Ltd . announced a dividend.  Syngenta rose 3.5 percent after the world’s largest maker
of agricultural chemicals reported higher-than-predicted profit
and pledged to return cash to shareholders. Transocean increased
1.1 percent as the owner of the drilling rig that exploded in
the  Gulf of Mexico  last year said it can now pay a dividend
because the Swiss authorities have changed tax laws.  The Swiss Market Index of the biggest and most actively
traded companies slid 0.1 percent to 6,635.48 at 1:23 p.m. in
Zurich. The gauge has advanced 3.1 percent so far this year as
investors speculated that the recovery in the global economy is
strengthening and as  UBS AG  and Credit Suisse Group AG surged.
The broader Swiss Performance Index lost less than 0.1 percent
to 5,963.22.  “The Swiss consumer stocks are trading flattish today,”
said Lars Knudsen, fund manager at LGT Capital Management Ltd.
in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “I’m still very positive for the
overall market.”  Syngenta rallied 3.5 percent to 317.60 Swiss francs after
posting net income of $1.4 billion. Analysts had predicted
profit of $1.31 billion. Sales added 6 percent to $11.6 billion.
The company also pledged to return $850 million in cash to
shareholders.  “Expansion has been particularly rapid in emerging
markets,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Mack said in a
statement. “This is enabling us to implement a step change in
the dividend and to plan a further share repurchase in 2011.”  Transocean Climbs  Transocean climbed 1.1 percent to 76.20 francs after Chief
Executive Steven Newman announced a $750 million dividend for
shareholders. A change in Swiss tax laws this year will allow
the company to distribute cash to investors without incurring
withholding taxes and free of regulatory involvement, Newman
told analysts during a presentation today in Colorado.  Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based  Georg Fischer AG  advanced
2.1 percent to 536 francs. The company’s “automotive division
has a strong exposure of around 50 percent of sales to the
European premium car market and hence should strongly benefit
from” that industry’s January sales figures, Fabian Haecki,
analyst at Vontobel AG, wrote in a note to customers today.    Acino Holding AG  plunged 7 percent to 84.15 francs, the
largest drop in 14 weeks, after the drugmaker said in a
 statement  that it will recall its Goserlin one-month implant
from the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 