-- Syngenta Profit Beats Goal; Chief to Reorganize Units
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2011-02-09T08:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/syngenta-profit-beats-estimates-plans-return-of-cash-in-2011.html
  Syngenta AG , the world’s biggest
maker of agricultural chemicals, reported annual profit that
beat analyst estimates and pledged to return $850 million in
cash to shareholders.  Net income was $1.4 billion, little changed from a year
earlier, Syngenta, based in Basel, said in a statement. Analysts
had predicted $1.31 billion. Sales added 6 percent to $11.6
billion. The stock advanced as much as 2.5 percent in Zurich.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Mack plans to merge crop
protection and seeds divisions to enhance sales and generate
savings of about $650 million by 2015 through shared
procurement. Now in his fourth year at the helm, Mack aims to
seize market share each year  as he battles with DuPont,  Dow
Chemical Co .,  BASF SE  and  Monsanto Co . for farmers’ investment.  “We’ve been taking market share consistently for six
years,” Mack said in an interview. “We’re the only one that
has the diversity of assets for this strategy.”  Shares of Syngenta climbed to 314.9 Swiss francs in Zurich
trading as of 9:43 a.m. The stock has added 15 percent this
year, valuing Syngenta at 29.66 billion francs ($30 billion).
Monsanto has advanced 7.3 percent in the same period.  Mack Making Mark  Mack has said his priorities include reaping the benefit of
expansion and research into seeds. Formed a decade ago through
the combination of the farm-chemical units of drugmakers
Novartis AG and  AstraZeneca Plc , Syngenta is on the heels of
Monsanto to develop genetically modified crop traits that are
resistant to bugs and drought.  The reorganization follows three years of preparation and
tests in Italy and  Brazil  that aligned seed-sales operations
with the relevant herbicides and other crop-protection products,
Mack said. Savings will help the company meet new margin targets
of 22 percent to 24 percent by 2015. The ratio stood at 21.5
percent in 2010.  Syngenta faces flat pricing in 2011, though a rebound in
the price of commodities like corn and wheat is bolstering the
confidence of farmers as they weigh investment in seeds and crop
protection, Mack said.  “We’re targeting  price stability , we will have price
increases going into the market but our target is stability,”
Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said in the interview.
“There’s been no new pricing events on the negative side so
we’re hoping we can improve on that position as we go into
2011”  The company proposed raising its dividend 17 percent to 7
Swiss francs, and future cash returns will “prioritize” the
dividend. Syngenta plans to repurchase $200 million in shares.  With a debt-to-equity ratio of 20 percent, the company has
the headroom to make “meaningful” acquisitions, Mack said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Andrew Noel in  London  at
   anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  