-- Inflation Surge Means BOE More Likely to Raise Rates, Industry Group Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-k-inflation-surge-makes-boe-second-quarter-rate-increase-more-likely-.html
The  Confederation of British Industry 
raised its forecast for inflation and said price pressures have
made it more likely that the Bank of England will increase
interest rates in the second quarter.  Consumer-price growth will average 3.9 percent in 2011, the
group, the U.K.’s biggest business lobby, said in a report
released in  London  today, raising its prediction from 3.3
percent in December. It sees inflation slowing to the bank’s 2
percent target in 2012.  Soaring food and energy costs helped to push inflation to
3.7 percent in December, the 13th month it’s been above the
target. Manufacturing and services surveys last week showed
price pressures continued to build in January, further
complicating policy makers’ task of balancing growth and
inflation as they start a two-day meeting today.  “Persistently high levels of inflation” make it “more
likely that the  Bank of England  will need to start putting up
interest rates,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser Ian McCafferty
said. “While there are concerns about the fragility of the
economy,” the “risks of allowing inflation expectations to
become unhinged and hence requiring higher and sharper increases
later on also need to be taken into account.”  A report today from the British Retail Consortium showed
U.K. food-price inflation accelerated to its fastest pace in 19
months in January. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has
forecast that higher commodity prices and an increase in  sales
tax  may push inflation above 4 percent in the coming months.  Muddy Waters  The bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee will
probably hold the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent at this
week’s meeting, all 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast. The panel will announce the decision at noon tomorrow.  The CBI said that while the economy’s 0.5 percent
contraction in the fourth quarter has “somewhat muddied the
waters” and prompted the group to cut its growth forecasts, it
doesn’t expect a double-dip recession. It sees gross domestic
product rising 1.8 percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2012,
compared with December forecasts of 2 percent and 2.4 percent
respectively.  In a separate report, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and
Employment Confederation said an index of hiring strengthened to
a six-month high in January, with the gauge of full-time job
placements reported by employment consultancies rising to 57.4
from 54.9 in December. Readings above 50 indicate an increase in
hiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  