-- U.K. Food-Price Inflation Soars as BOE Begins Policy Meeting
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2011-02-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-k-food-price-inflation-soars-as-boe-begins-policy-meeting.html
U.K. food inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in 19 months in January, pointing to
strengthening price pressures in the economy as  Bank of England 
policy makers meet to set  interest rates .  Food prices rose an annual 4.6 percent, up from 4 percent
the previous month and the most since June 2009, the  British
Retail Consortium  said in an e-mailed statement today in London,
citing a survey by Nielsen. Overall shop prices increased 2.5
percent from a year earlier.  Non-food prices rose 0.1 percent on the month, which the
BRC said indicates retailers absorbed the government’s increase
in value-added tax in January. Still, the impact of the levy on
consumers may only have been postponed as rising commodity costs
push stores to raise prices. That would add to inflation, which
has been above the Bank of England’s target for 13 months.  “Retailers generally took the hit on behalf of
customers,” said BRC Director General  Stephen Robertson ,
referring to the tax increase. “But with a range of other cost
pressures also squeezing margins, retailers will struggle to go
on absorbing it.”  The Monetary Policy Committee will probably hold the
benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent after its
meeting tomorrow, a Bloomberg News survey shows. Still, minutes
of its Jan. 13 decision showed “most” members noted that
medium-term risks had “probably shifted upwards.”  Inflation for non-food items accelerated to 1.3 percent in
January from 1.1 percent in December, the BRC said. On the
month, overall shop prices rose 0.6 percent, led by a 1.6
percent surge in food prices, the BRC said.  “Pressure on vital food commodities have come on the back
of continued strong demand from emerging economies and poor
harvests from major exporting countries,” the BRC said. That is
“working its way through the supply chain to wholesalers and is
now beginning to materialize in shop prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in  London  at 
 forbien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  