-- U.K., Banks Said to Announce Project Merlin About Noon
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2011-02-09T09:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-k-banks-said-to-announce-pay-business-lending-agreement-at-noon-today.html
A deal between the British government
and the country’s biggest banks on pay and business lending,
known as Project Merlin, is expected to be announced around
midday London time, said two people familiar with the
discussions.  The agreement between the banks and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  will be announced around prime
minister’s question time today, one of the people said.
Questions to Prime Minister David Cameron in the House of
Commons start at midday.    Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,  Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Banco Santander U.K. are
expected to agree to make loans of about 190 billion pounds
($306 billion) this year to companies with fewer than 250
employees, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are confidential. Bonus restraint will also be
included in the document.  The deal follows 10 weeks of talks between government and
lenders, and comes a day after Osborne told the banks they would
have to pay an additional 800 million pounds in tax by April.
That announcement angered the banks, who hadn’t been informed of
the decision before it was made, a person familiar with the
banks’ position said yesterday.  “The government has not got as much as they hoped from the
banks and the levy increase is one way of suggesting they are
tough,” Tim Bale, professor of politics at  Sussex University ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s a pretty transparent way
of doing it.”  Four of the banks will also agree to disclose the
remuneration details of the five most senior employees below
board level, though not their names, one of the people said.  Sky News reported the announcement earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  