-- Goldman Sachs, S&P at Odds Over Future of U.S. Banks' Fixed-Income Revenue
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2011-02-09T18:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-s-banks-fixed-income-revenue-will-continue-decline-s-p-says.html
Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S.
banks will continue to fall, Standard & Poor’s said, differing
from comments made by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . Chief Financial
Officer David A. Viniar.  Banks are trading fewer high-margin securities and putting
tighter risk controls on trading desks, which will contribute to
the revenue decline, S&P said today on a conference call. The
Volcker rule, a provision of the Dodd-Frank financial law that
prohibits banks from betting capital for their own accounts,
will also reduce revenue, S&P said.  Goldman Sachs, the U.S. bank that relies on fixed-income
trading for the largest portion of its revenue, doesn’t think
that last year’s decline will continue, Viniar, 55, told
investors today at a conference in Miami hosted by Credit Suisse
Group AG. Revenue from fixed-income, currencies, and
commodities, known as FICC, fell 37 percent last year. The
division accounted for 35 percent of the firm’s overall revenue.  In the fourth quarter, the five biggest Wall Street firms
-- Goldman Sachs,  Morgan Stanley ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  Bank of
America Corp . and  Citigroup Inc . -- posted the lowest fixed-
income trading revenue since 2008.  “You’ll see the markets pick up again as the environment
gets a little better -- which, it feels like, it’s a little
better now,” Viniar said. “You’ll see more activity level and
I think you will see FICC start to improve.”  Viniar attributed the decline in trading revenue last year
to “a lot of headwinds” that included concerns about new
regulations, European debt, U.S. mortgages and municipal
finances. Trading in an array of different fixed-income
businesses is also likely to become increasingly electronic and
that may boost volumes and profitability in the long term, as
has already happened in equities and currencies, Viniar said.  The forecasted revenue decline won’t be a rating risk for
banks because a “gradual shift away from  investment banking ”
is a credit positive, S&P said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 