-- Growth May Promote ‘Mutiny’ at Fed, Crescenzi Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-09T18:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-s-growth-may-promote-mutiny-at-fed-pimco-s-crescenzi-says-tom-keene.html
At least two members of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  may vote against extending a stimulus
program if the pace of U.S. economic growth climbs, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Anthony Crescenzi .  “Three votes against an action by the chairman is
mutiny,” Crescenzi, 46, a portfolio manager and strategist at
Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It’s
looking as if there will be at least two lining up against an
extension of the program.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser and Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  may dissent if
growth accelerates and the policy-setting FOMC still moves to
extend its program to spur the economy by buying $600 billion of
Treasuries, Crescenzi said. The plan, a strategy called
quantitative easing, is scheduled to end in June.  Plosser and Fisher are among the FOMC’s voting members this
year. There hasn’t been more than one dissenting vote at a
policy meeting since April 2008.  The  U.S. economy  expanded in the fourth quarter at a 3.2
percent annual rate as  consumer spending  climbed by the most in
four years. Crescenzi said growth of 3.5 percent to 4 percent
and a drop in unemployment might trigger the dissent.  Fisher said in a speech yesterday the Fed is “pushing the
envelope” with its purchases of U.S. government debt and that
he’d probably oppose any proposal to do more. Richmond Fed
President Jeffrey Lacker -- who doesn’t vote this year on the
FOMC -- said in a speech that policy makers need to take “quite
seriously” their commitment to review the program as the U.S.
recovery quickens.  ‘Effectively’ a Cut  “We’d expect them again to vote against what is
effectively an interest-rate cut, purchase of  Treasury
securities ,” Crescenzi said of Plosser and Fisher.  Treasuries rallied today as Bernanke told the House Budget
Committee that while the recovery has strengthened, unemployment
will remain high “for some time.” Yields on the benchmark 10-
year note fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
3.65 percent, after rising 11 basis points yesterday.  Pimco manages the world’s biggest bond fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  