-- U.S.-Bound Supertanker Hijacked by Pirates Off Oman
-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 2011-02-09T19:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-s-bound-supertanker-hijacked-by-pirates-off-oman.html
A 1,100-foot supertanker carrying
Kuwaiti oil to the U.S. was seized by pirates off eastern Oman
today, the first hijacking of a vessel that size since April.  The Irene SL has 17 Filipinos, seven Greeks and a Georgian
on board, according to a statement on the website of the
European Union’s anti-piracy force. It is carrying 270,266
metric tons of oil destined for the  Gulf of Mexico , Enesel SA,
its owner, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The vessel was attacked by armed men in skiffs,” Enesel
said in the statement. “For the moment there is no
communication with the vessel.”  Pirates hijacked a record 53 ships and 1,181 crew members
in 2010, most of them off Somalia, according to the London-based
International Maritime Bureau. Average ransom payments rose to
$5.4 million last year, compared with $150,000 in 2005,
according to Louisville, Colorado-based One Earth Future
Foundation, a non-profit group.  The Irene SL is a double-hulled tanker built in 2004 and in
the last three months has traveled to destinations including the  Persian Gulf ,  Malaysia  and  South Korea , according to ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. It wasn’t heading for the  Suez Canal  as earlier reported by EU Navfor, Elise Croonen, an
outside spokeswoman for Enesel, said by phone.  ‘Increasing Capabilities’  The tonnage being held is equal to 1.98 million barrels,
according to a calculator on the website of the Energy
Information Administration. Kuwait crude sells for $84.84 a
barrel when being shipped to the U.S., valuing the cargo at
about $168 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The last supertanker to be hijacked was the Samho Dream in
April, according to the IMB. It was released in November. This
year there have been 58 attacks reported worldwide as of
yesterday, 45 of which were off Somalia, Cyrus Mody, an IMB
manager in  London , said by phone today. A total of eight ships
was hijacked, he said.  “They are definitely increasing capabilities and capacity
to go out and stay out for” longer, Mody said. Pirates are
operating in areas not seen before, including an attack 60 miles
off Minicoy Island, he said. The  island  is across the  Arabian
Sea  from Somalia, toward southwestern  India .  Pirates are outwitting attempts by the international
community to stop them, United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki- moon said on Feb. 3.  About 30 anti-piracy ships are deployed daily in the region
by groups including the EU and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. The European Naval Force patrols about 2 million
square nautical miles, or an area 10 times the size of  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 