-- U.S. House Defeats Measure to Collect $179 Million From UN for Second Day
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-02-09T21:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-s-house-defeats-measure-to-collect-179-million-from-un-for-second-day.html
For the second straight day, U.S.
House Speaker  John Boehner  failed to deliver the votes to pass
legislation, this time for a measure that was part of the
party’s agenda for cutting  government spending .  A bill to collect $179 million from the United Nations
failed to get the necessary two-thirds majority needed under
streamlined procedures. Last night, the House fell short of the
two-thirds vote needed to pass legislation to extend three
expiring provisions of anti-terrorist laws. Today’s vote was
259-169.  New York Republican  Peter King , chairman of the Homeland
Security Committee, spoke on the floor against the bill, saying
the money had been committed to improve security at the UN
against a possible terrorist attack.  Most of the money has been pledged to fix “really serious
concerns” about UN security in  Manhattan  “that would result in
many, many deaths if not corrected,” King told reporters. “I
went to too many wakes and funerals on 9/11 to do that over
again.”  King and fellow New Yorker Michael Grimm were the only
Republicans to oppose the measure as 167 Democrats voted against
it. Grimm, a freshman, represents  Staten Island . King’s suburban
New York district on  Long Island  represents families of
firefighters and police officers who died in the Sept. 11
attacks.  Counterterrorism Laws  Yesterday, House Republicans failed to muster the votes for
a nine-month extension of the government’s authority to conduct
roving wiretaps of suspected terrorists, along with two other
expiring sections of counterterrorism laws.  Boehner of  Ohio  and other Republican leaders blamed
Democrats today, citing the “no” votes of 36 members from that
party who voted last year to extend the counterterrorism
provisions until Feb. 28.  “We are not going to be perfect every day, but if the
Democrats who had voted for these same provisions last year
would have voted for them this year, it would have passed,”
Boehner said.  Republicans used the streamlined procedure to bring up the
counterterrorism measure because “we needed to meet the
deadline” to pass the legislation, Majority Leader Eric Cantor
of Virginia told reporters.  ‘A Mind of Their Own’  Republican leaders may have hit a bumpy patch because their
majority of 242 lawmakers has “a lot of new members” who
“have a mind of their own, said Connecticut Representative John Larson, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. Such diversity
of opinion leads to “a lot of angst and lots of struggle,” he
said.  Washington Republican Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a member of
Boehner’s leadership team, dismissed concerns about the two
losses.  “It’s all under control, no worries,” she said.  House Republicans touted the  United Nations  measure as part
of their “You Cut” agenda, in which voters go to Cantor’s
 website  to express their preference for which spending-cut
measure will be brought to the floor each week.  The legislation sought to collect the $179 million from a
fund that is used to reimburse UN employees whose wages are
subject to U.S. taxation. A surplus has built up in the fund
over time.  Legislative Agenda  King told reporters he didn’t know about the measure until
yesterday afternoon when he was given the week’s legislative
agenda at a meeting of committee chairmen.  “I don’t think they knew the security issue was in
there,” King said regarding House leaders. King said the UN
agreed last October to use $100 million of the fund to help  New
York  improve security at its site and the State Department
agreed to the deal.  “I was on the phone with the NYPD until after midnight
last night” discussing “the concerns they have over this,” he
said.  The House Rules Committee, meeting in emergency session,
voted 7-2 to schedule debate as early as tomorrow on the
counter-terrorism legislation under a rule that allows for no
amendments.  That bill was supported by 277 House members, while 148
opposed it. Voting against the extension were 122 Democrats and
26 Republicans, including more than half a dozen Republican
freshmen.  The Republicans leaders weren’t able to get the needed
support even as they held the roll call open for about a half
hour beyond its 15-minute allotted time.  Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s second-ranking
Democrat, said the split among Republicans on the anti-terror
law shows the new majority will have “a very difficult
challenge in their party” as it seeks support to raise the
government’s borrowing authority later this year.  Boehner has pledged to have an “adult conversation” with
new Republican lawmakers about the need to raise the borrowing
limit. “We’ll see if in fact Mr. Boehner’s ‘adult moment’ is
met by adults,” Hoyer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  