-- U.S. House Thwarts Extension Measure for Three Anti-Terrorist Provisions
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-02-09T18:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/u-s-house-rejects-extending-three-anti-terrorist-provisions.html
House Republicans failed to muster
the votes needed to extend for nine months the government’s
authority to conduct roving wiretaps of suspected terrorists,
along with two other expiring sections of counter-terrorism law.  The measure fell short yesterday of the two-thirds majority
needed under the streamlined procedures used by Republican
leaders. The vote marked the first time since the party took
control of the chamber last month that House Speaker  John Boehner  wasn’t able to deliver the votes to pass legislation.  Today, Boehner and other Republican leaders blamed
Democrats, citing the “no” votes of 36 members from that party
who voted last year to extend the provisions until Feb. 28.  “We are not going to be perfect every day but if the
Democrats who had voted for these same provisions last year
would have voted for them this year, it would have passed,”
Boehner said.  During today’s lunch at the White House, Republican leaders
plan to raise the Democratic defections with President  Barack Obama , whose administration wants the provisions extended for
three years, Majority Leader Eric Cantor told reporters.  Those Democrats “are not serious” because “this is
needed for  law enforcement ,” Cantor said.  Republicans used the streamlined procedure because “we
needed to meet the deadline” to pass the legislation, Cantor
told reporters.  Simple Majority  Representative Lamar Smith, the measure’s leading backer,
said he hoped to bring it up again later this week under rules
allowing passage by a simple majority.  The bill was supported by 277 House members, while 148
opposed it. Voting against the extension were 122 Democrats and
26 Republicans, including more than half a dozen Republican
freshmen.  The Republicans leaders weren’t able to get the needed
support even as they held the roll call open for about a half
hour beyond its 15-minute allotted time.  Steny Hoyer of  Maryland , the House’s second-ranking
Democrat, said the split among Republicans on the anti-terror
law shows the new majority will have “a very difficult
challenge in their party” as it seeks support to raise the
government’s borrowing authority later this year.  Boehner has pledged to have an “adult conversation” with
new Republican lawmakers about the need to raise the borrowing
limit. “We’ll see if in fact Mr. Boehner’s ‘adult moment’ is
met by adults,” Hoyer said.  Roving Wiretap  The roving wiretap provision enables federal agents to
obtain a single warrant, from the secret court that supervises
counter-intelligence investigations, to monitor the phone calls
of suspected terrorists who use a series of mobile phones and
other communications devices.  The second provision proposed for extension allows agents,
with approval from the secret court, to obtain any “tangible
item” that aids investigations of a suspected plot by foreign-
based terrorists. It is known as the library records provision.  The third provision authorizes surveillance of so-called
lone-wolf terrorists unconnected to foreign groups.  The first two provisions are part of the  USA Patriot Act ,
which Congress enacted after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to
boost law enforcement’s ability to monitor suspected terrorists
in the U.S. The act’s provisions have been updated and extended
since then, and the overall law is set to expire in 2013.  The “lone wolf” provision is part of a 2004  law .  ‘Meaningful Debate’  Smith, a Texas Republican who leads the  House Judiciary
Committee , said in a statement that extending the provisions
until Dec. 8 would give “time for an open and meaningful
debate, while ensuring that our law enforcement and intelligence
communities can continue to prevent attacks.”  Michigan Representative John Conyers, the judiciary panel’s
ranking Democrat, said he opposed the extensions because they
would “authorize extraordinarily intrusive acts by the
executive branch.” Conyers called the Patriot Act “one of the
worst laws this body has ever passed.”  In the Democratic-controlled Senate, lawmakers are pushing
for a lengthier extension. Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat who heads the  Senate Judiciary Committee , is sponsoring
a bill to extend the provisions to 2013 with additional
congressional oversight.  Another proposal by  Senate Intelligence Committee  Chairman  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , favored by the Obama
administration, would extend the provisions until 2013 without
any modification.  ‘Make Some Decisions’  At a Feb. 4 hearing, Feinstein said 2013 is “the time to
look at the entire act and make some decisions” about “whether
there should be reforms” or changes.  The Obama administration, in a statement of its position on
the House measure before yesterday’s vote, said it would
“strongly prefer” Feinstein’s legislation because “the longer
duration provides the necessary certainty and predictability
that our nation’s intelligence and law-enforcement agencies
require as they continue to protect our national security.”  Still, “the administration does not object” to the House
measure, the statement said.  Leahy said in a statement before the House vote that “it
should not take an entire year to pass improvements to these
provisions, which we should have adopted last year.” He urged
Congress not to “extend this debate into an election year and
risk that some will play politics with our national security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  