-- Mubarak Won't Take Medical Leave in Germany, Vice President Suleiman Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2011-02-09T16:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/mubarak-won-t-take-medical-leave-in-germany-suleiman-says.html
The Egyptian authorities said
President  Hosni Mubarak  won’t seek medical treatment in Germany,
as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said no offer had been
made to take in Mubarak as a way to meet protestors’ demands.  Vice President  Omar Suleiman  was cited by the semi-official
Al-Ahram newspaper as saying that Mubarak “is in good health
and does not need treatment in Germany.” The newspaper quoted
Suleiman as saying that he “thanks” Merkel, though speculation
about a possible medical leave is a “flagrant” interference in  Egypt ’s internal affairs, according to a report today.  The German government, which has said there’s been no
request from Mubarak’s regime about a possible stay, denied that
any such offer had been extended to the 82-year-old ruler.
Merkel has made no public statements on the matter.  “Not only has there not been any sort of official or
unofficial request by the Egyptian government, there was also in
no way any official or unofficial offer,” German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters today in Berlin.  Mubarak has received medical treatment in Germany in the
past. The Egyptian leader had his gallbladder and an intestinal
polyp removed by doctors at Heidelberg University Hospital in
southern  Germany  during a three-week stay in March 2010. In June
2004, he underwent surgery in Munich for a slipped disc.  The New York Times, citing officials in President Barack Obama’s administration, reported this week that one of the
options being considered to ease Mubarak from power was an
extended medical leave of absence to Germany.  Mubarak’s pledge last week to step down in September failed
to placate the protesters, who say he must go immediately. Tens
of thousands of Egyptians filled Cairo’s Tahrir Square yesterday
in what may have been the largest demonstration in almost two
weeks of protests that have left some 300 dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  