-- TUI's First-Quarter Loss Narrows as Hapag-Lloyd Shipping Returns to Profit
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2011-02-09T09:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/tui-s-first-quarter-loss-narrows-as-hapag-lloyd-shipping-returns-to-profit.html
  TUI AG , the German owner of  Europe ’s
largest travel company, said its first-quarter loss narrowed as
the Hapag-Lloyd container-line venture returned to profit.  The net loss in the three months through December was 46.4
million euros ($63 million), or 21 cents a share, compared with
104 million euros, or 44 cents, a year earlier, the Hanover,
Germany-based company said today in a statement. Sales rose 11
percent to 3.29 billion euros.  TUI and Hapag’s majority owner, Hamburg-based investment
group Albert Ballin GmbH, began preparations in December for an
initial public offering of the shipping line this year. Hapag’s
owners said they will also seek industry and financial investors
to buy a minority stake. Plans for Hapag’s sale are “well on
track,” TUI Chief Financial Officer Horst Baier said today on a
conference call, adding that his company may retain a holding.  “Hapag-Lloyd had a better recovery than expected and TUI’s
tourism business is also doing well,” said Stefan Kick, an
analyst at Silvia Quandt & Cie. with a “buy” recommendation on
the stock.  TUI rose as much as 2.8 percent to 10.74 euros and was up
1.1 percent as of 10:43 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has
gained 0.5 percent this year, valuing the company at 2.66
billion euros.  Freight Rates Rise  Earnings from TUI’s stake in Hapag totaled 18.2 million
euros compared with a loss of 14.7 million euros a year earlier.
Container-carrying rates rose 20 percent in the period as the
number of containers handled increased 6.6 percent, driven by
higher demand on trans-Pacific routes, TUI said.  TUI increased its holding in Hapag to 49.8 percent from 43
percent in the quarter, with Albert Ballin’s stake declining to
50.2 percent, under a financing agreement for the sale.  “TUI is benefiting from higher freight rates and volumes
as global trade is coming up again,”  Martina Noss , an analyst
at Norddeutsche Landesbank in Hanover, said before the earnings
report. TUI has a “good chance” of selling Hapag in coming
months because of the company’s operating strength and favorable
market conditions, according to Noss.  Narrower Tourism Loss    TUI Travel Plc , in which TUI holds a majority, said on Feb.
3 that its first-quarter loss narrowed to 99 million pounds
($159 million) from 124 million pounds a year earlier. Revenue
rose 6 percent to 2.69 billion pounds. The Crawley, England-
based tour operator makes most of its annual profit during the
peak period for vacations in summer.  The tourism division’s loss before interest, taxes,
amortization and one-time gains or costs narrowed to 107 million
euros in the quarter from 135 million euros a year earlier, TUI
said. The unit includes TUI Travel as well as the parent
company’s hotel and cruise-ship operations. Group net debt was
reduced by 16 percent from a year earlier to 3.12 billion euros
as of Dec. 31.  The political turmoil in Egypt and  Tunisia  will probably
hurt TUI’s hotel business by 2 million euros, the company said
today. That’s in addition to as much as 30 million pounds which
may burden TUI Travel’s second-quarter profit. TUI operates 25
hotels under its own brands in  Egypt , including eight owned
through joint ventures.  TUI reiterated that it expects full-year operating profit
and sales to rise. The company is holding its annual
shareholders meeting today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Hanover, Germany at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  