-- Vestas to Unveil 6-Megawatt Offshore Turbine in March, CEO Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2011-02-09T18:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/vestas-planning-to-sell-6-megawatt-offshore-wind-power-turbine-ceo-says.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S will unveil a
new offshore wind turbine, its biggest yet, at the end of next
month, the company’s chief executive said.  “The 6-megawatt turbine will be marketed and presented
here in London on the 30th of March,” Ditlev Engel, CEO of the
Randers, Denmark-based company, said today in a London
interview. He declined to give more details.  The turbine has a greater electricity-generating capacity
than any machine currently commercially producing sea-based wind
power. Companies including REpower Systems AG and Areva Wind
GmbH have commercialized 5-megawatt offshore turbines and German
manufacturer Enercon GmbH has a land-based 7.5-megawatt
generator, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  New European installations of offshore wind power may surge
70 percent this year, topping 2010’s record 51 percent gain, the
Brussels-based lobby group European Wind Energy Association said
last month. Vestas is vying with companies including  Germany ’s  Siemens AG , Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA of  Spain  and  General Electric Co . for sales in the growing market.  “Vestas is the last of the major turbine makers to set out
their concrete sale and marketing plans for a 5- or 6-megawatt
offshore wind turbine,” Glen Walker, an analyst at New Energy
Finance, said in an e-mail. “It’s playing catch-up with some of
its competitors.”  Vestas, the largest wind-turbine maker, has the biggest
share of installed offshore capacity in  Europe , according to
NEF. Of the 3,045 megawatts installed by the end of 2010, 1,391
are from Vestas machines while Siemens has 1,357, it said.  Wind Power  The U.K., with more than 40 percent of the total installed
capacity, is “leading the world” in offshore wind power, EWEA
said. In January 2010, the U.K. government awarded licenses for
32.2 gigawatts of offshore wind projects to companies including  Centrica Plc ,  RWE AG  and  Statoil ASA .    E.ON AG , Germany’s largest utility, won permission to build
a 230-megawatt wind farm off the coast of Humberside in the
U.K., the company said today.  Engel said Vestas hasn’t decided yet whether to build an
offshore wind turbine factory in the U.K. after Siemens and
Gamesa said in January they’d open plants. GE’s head of U.K.
energy operations, Magued Eldaief, said in a Feb. 1 interview
that GE plans to announce the site of a new 110 million-euro
($151 million) wind turbine factory in Britain “very soon.”  “Realistically you’re not going to see any installation
taking place before 2014, 2015” Engel said, referring to
turbines for the licenses granted last year under the U.K.’s
third round of offshore permitting. “It would take us maybe a
year to build a plant. We’ll see how these things evolve.”  Isle of Wight  Engel said Vestas will complete 50 million pounds ($81
million) of investments in a testing facility for turbine blades
on the Isle of Wight in southern  England  “over the summer.”
That will fulfil a pledge the company made in 2009 when it
closed a factory on the island, he said.  “At the time when we announced the closure on the Isle of
Wight, a lot of people said it is wrong, the projects are
coming,” Engel said. “Well, if we had maintained that plant,
it would have had nothing to do from 2009 until 2015. From a
financial point of view, it was the right decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 