-- Virginia Democrat Webb Won't Seek Senate Re-Election
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-02-09T20:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/virginia-democrat-james-webb-says-he-won-t-seek-re-election-to-u-s-senate.html
U.S. Senator James Webb, a  Virginia 
Democrat who won his seat in one of 2006’s key races, said today
he won’t seek re-election next year.  Webb, a former Navy secretary and author of eight books,
said in a statement that “after much thought and consideration
I have decided to return to the private sector, where I have
spent most of my professional life.”  Webb, 65 today, said he plans to continue focusing on
national security and foreign policy issues during the remainder
of his term.  He is the fourth senator who has decided to leave office
rather than run for re-election in 2012. Announcing their
retirements earlier this year were Senate Budget Committee
Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat;  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Texas Republican, and  Joe Lieberman  of  Connecticut ,
the 2000 Democratic vice-presidential nominee who is now an
independent.  Webb’s decision short-circuits a potential rematch with
Republican George Allen, the then-incumbent he defeated in 2006.
Allen, 58, announced last month he is again running for the seat
he won in 2000. Jamie Radtke, a former leader of the Federation
of  Virginia Tea Party Patriots , also has said she will seek the
Republican nomination.  Democratic National Committee Chairman Tim Kaine, 52, a
former Virginia governor, is viewed as a possible Senate
contender for his party.  Conversation With Obama  President  Barack Obama  spoke with Webb by telephone today
and thanked him for his service, particularly his focus on
issues related to veterans, White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs 
told reporters.  “I think Virginia is going to be a very competitive state,
as it was last time,” Gibbs said. When asked whether Webb would
make a good replacement for Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  --
who has said he intends to leave his post this year -- Gibbs
said Webb has “great experience.”  Although Obama carried Virginia in 2008 -- the first
Democrat to do so in 44 years -- the state has been moving away
from his party. Republicans won two Democratic-held House seats
in last fall’s elections, and Republican Robert McDonnell won
the governorship in 2009.  Webb’s Senate seat “goes from a good opportunity for
Republicans to a great one,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political
editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report .  ‘Macaca’ Remark  Allen, a former Virginia governor, was favored to win re-
election and was being discussed as a potential 2008
presidential contender when his 2006 campaign began. During a
campaign appearance in August 2006, he referred to a Webb
campaign aide as “macaca.” The remark, circulated widely on
video, is considered a racial slur in some countries, referring
to a macaque, a kind of monkey.  Allen later said he made up the word and apologized for
using it to refer to the Indian-American man who was videotaping
him. Still, that campaign mistake combined with a wave of
support for Democratic candidates that year helped Webb defeat
Allen, 50 percent to 49 percent.  Webb’s win helped Democrats gain a Senate majority, which
they have held since then. Currently, they control the Senate
53-47.  Senator  Patty Murray  of  Washington , who leads the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said her party is
determined to hold onto the seat.  “As Republicans face a brutal primary between a flawed
Washington establishment candidate and a right-wing extremist
who is raising money at a good clip, Democrats will field a
strong candidate,” she said.  Republicans say they are now more confident they’ll take it
back.  ‘Great Difficulty’  “While there is no doubt Republicans will field a strong
leader as our nominee, Democrats will have great difficulty
finding an electable candidate for this open seat as Virginians
continue to reject their agenda of higher taxes and reckless
spending,” said  Brian Walsh , a spokesman for the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee . “We can only hope that
Democrats succeed in recruiting President Obama’s number one
cheerleader in Washington   Tim Kaine .”  Allen has said his goals in office would include pushing
for repeal of the health-care overhaul enacted last year and
cutting spending. He praised Webb’s service in a statement
today, adding that he “did not enter into this race to run
against any one person, but to fight for the families of
Virginia to improve their opportunities in life.”    Vietnam  Service  Webb, a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy, served in
Vietnam as a Marine and was Navy secretary during the
administration of President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican. He
previously served as an assistant defense secretary under
Reagan. His books include novels set in the Vietnam war.  In the Senate, Webb has a reputation for splitting with his
party on some issues. Last year, he worked with Republicans to
rebuff an effort by Democratic leaders to allow a vote on
Obama’s health-care overhaul before Republican Senator  Scott Brown , the winner of a special election in January 2010 to fill
a Massachusetts Senate seat, could be sworn in.  Brown’s election cost Democrats a 60-vote supermajority
that could have eased the overhaul’s passage, and they instead
had to rely on various parliamentary procedures to enact the
measure two months later. Webb voted for the health-care plan.  Webb sits on three committees that give him clout over
military and foreign policy matters: Armed Services, Foreign
Relations and Veterans’ Affairs.  In 2007, one of his aides was arrested after an X-ray
machine detected he was carrying a loaded pistol and two clips
of ammunition into a Senate office building. The weapon wasn’t
registered in Washington, D.C.  While charges against the aide were later dropped, court
papers showed that the aide, Phillip Thompson, had told police
the gun and ammunition belonged to Webb. Webb told police that
he didn’t give the weapon to his aide, and his office told
reporters that the matter stemmed from an “oversight” on
Thompson’s part.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  