-- Vodafone, Essar Said Close to Naming UBS for Indian Valuation
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s
-- 2011-02-09T15:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/vodafone-essar-said-close-to-naming-ubs-for-indian-valuation.html
Essar Group and  Vodafone Group Plc 
will probably appoint  UBS AG  as a third investment bank to help
reach an independent valuation of their Indian joint venture,
said four people with knowledge of the plan.  UBS’s task would be to help the companies reach a
compromise on the valuation of Vodafone Essar Ltd., said the
people, who declined to be named before an official
announcement. Vodafone Chief Executive Officer Vittorio Colao
said this month that Vodafone appointed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
and Essar appointed  Standard Chartered Plc . The investment banks
may submit a report in March, said two of the people.  Essar has an option to sell its entire 33 percent stake for
$5 billion to Vodafone or it can sell a smaller stake at an
independently appraised fair market value. Essar, founded by
billionaires Shashi and Ravi Ruia, is seeking a higher valuation
of its stake in  Vodafone Essar . The company may sell about 22
percent in the venture before the window to divest the holding
closes in May, said two of the people.  Essar may hold the remaining 11 percent stake in a listed
Indian company as part of an earlier agreement between both
companies, the people said. Spokespeople for Vodafone and Essar
declined to comment.  Last year, bankers had valued the company at between $13
billion and $18 billion when Essar had considered an initial
public offering for the Indian venture, said one of the people.
That would have valued Essar’s stake at $4.3 billion to $6
billion.  Intense Competition  The valuation included Vodafone Essar’s 42 percent stake in
Indus Towers, the world’s largest phone tower company, according
to Essar’s website. Vodafone also in July agreed to pay an extra
34 billion rupees should Essar sell some of its shares to
account for the cost of high-speed Internet licenses.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , bought a 67 percent
stake in Hutchison Essar for $10.7 billion in 2007. Vodafone’s
outlook for India soured a year after its entry, when six new
national licenses were awarded.  Vodafone in May took a $3.3 billion charge for the Indian
unit, citing “intense price competition.” Vodafone competes
against more than a dozen operators in the world’s second-
largest market for mobile-phone customers.  Since then, prospects have improved. India was one of the
“jewels” in the three months through December, Vodafone CEO
Colao said this month. Vodafone’s service revenue from India
increased by 17 percent in the fiscal third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  