-- Wall Street Boosts Borrowers as Real Estate Bond Market Returns
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/wall-street-boosts-borrowers-amid-revival-of-u-s-real-estate-bond-market.html
Randy Waesche was running out of time
to retire debt he took on to build a Marriott hotel in downtown  New Orleans . Then  Citigroup Inc . showed up.  Waesche had spent six months seeking a more affordable
alternative to terms being offered by his lender, a unit of
Capmark Financial Group Inc. Citigroup was able to offer a
better rate as the market for bonds tied to commercial mortgages
revives following its 2008 collapse. The loan was completed in
November, and was part of an $876 million securitized debt sale
by Citigroup and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . in December.  “We went to life insurance companies, we went to
everybody,” said Waesche, president of Resource Management
Inc., a Metairie, Louisiana-based financial-planning firm, and
an investor in several New Orleans-area hotels. “There were
very few rocks we didn’t turn over.  Wall Street  was the only
venue available.”  Banks and other firms that bundle mortgages into bonds are
lending more money as demand for the securities increases from
investors seeking higher yields. That’s making refinancing
easier for property owners that have been passed over by
institutions that usually hold real estate debt on their books,
aiding a recovery in commercial property values.  The rebound in commercial-mortgage backed securities is
benefiting borrowers with smaller properties and in areas
outside the biggest cities. CMBS issuers fare better in these
markets because they can get the higher rates they need to cover
the costs of packaging and selling loans. Institutions that keep
mortgages on their balance sheets, including insurance companies
and non-U.S. banks, focus on top-tier buildings in large
metropolitan areas.  ‘Smaller Assets’  “Loans from CMBS lenders are more often on smaller assets
or Class B office properties,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a commercial-property research
company based in  New York . “They haven’t been able to compete
that well with insurance companies and international lenders in
the office market on the highest-quality buildings.”  About 71 percent of commercial-property lending by
insurance companies was done in primary markets in 2010,
compared with 67 percent for foreign banks and 47 percent for
CMBS lenders, according to Real Capital. About one-third of
loans from CMBS firms were in tertiary markets, compared with
6.6 percent for insurance companies and 12 percent for non-U.S.
banks, the data show.  ‘Good, Stable Properties’  “Just because it’s a secondary or tertiary market doesn’t
mean it’s a bad market,” said Mitchell Resnick, co-head of
commercial real estate origination and securitization capital
markets at Goldman Sachs in New York. “Some of these markets
didn’t experience as much of a downturn because they didn’t
experience as much of an upturn during the boom years. What
people are really looking for is stability. You can find good,
stable properties in secondary and tertiary markets.”  Primary markets include metropolitan areas such as New York
and  San Francisco  that are mostly located on the U.S. coasts,
while secondary and tertiary markets are comprised of smaller
cities and towns.  Citigroup has originated more than $1 billion in CMBS loans
over the past six months, about half of which are backed by
properties outside major cities, said Marcus Giancaterino,
global head of real estate finance at the New York-based bank.  “That is the bread and butter of CMBS,” he said. “The
insurance companies have a lot of flexibility on pricing. They
select the best. If an insurance company wants a deal, they are
going to beat you.”  Sales to Quadruple  Sales of commercial mortgage-backed securities plunged to
$11.2 billion in 2008 from a record $230 billion in 2007 when
credit markets seized during the financial crisis. Less than $4
billion was sold in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Last year, $11.5 billion was sold, and sales may
reach $45 billion in 2011,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . said in a Nov.
24 report.  Wall Street banks were able to land more trophy assets
during the real estate boom as sales of commercial-mortgage
bonds surged. Still, one of the primary benefits of CMBS is the
ability to bundle smaller mortgages and create a diverse
investment pool, according to Alan Todd, an analyst at JPMorgan
in New York.  “The CMBS market was never solely intended to be the
lender to the stars,” he said. “For commercial real estate to
fully recover, the CMBS market has to originate loans that
insurance companies aren’t vying for.”  CMBS lenders are most competitive on high-profile buildings
when the loan is too big to be taken on by a single insurance
company, according to Giancaterino of Citigroup. A loan secured
by One Bryant Park, home to  Bank of America Corp .’s midtown
Manhattan offices, was sold in June in a $650 million
commercial-mortgage bond deal.  Medical Facilities  George Yerrall, managing director at  RiverOak Investment
Corp.  in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , needed to refinance debt on six
properties leased to  Novant Health , a Winston-Salem, North
Carolina-based operator of medical facilities. Five of the
properties were in Winston-Salem and the sixth was in
Loganville, Georgia.  While Novant carries an investment-grade  credit rating ,
insurance companies and commercial banks couldn’t come up with
attractive bids because of where the properties are located,
according to Yerrall.  “It was all reflected in the price,” he said in an
interview. “The tertiary market was more influential than the
credit rating.”  Ladder Capital Finance LLC, a New York-based company that
makes loans that are packaged into bonds by Wall Street, came up
with the only “reasonable offer,” Yerrall said.  Recovering Property Prices  Most traditional insurance companies are focused on cities
where property prices are recovering and rents are showing signs
of stabilizing, according to Pat Halter, chief executive officer
of Principal Real Estate Investors, the fourth-largest U.S.
institutional real estate manager.  “In the past year, that’s been mainly in the gateway
markets such as New York, D.C.,  Boston , some parts of  Seattle 
and San Francisco,” Halter said in a telephone interview. Last
year was “a story of trying to find high-quality assets in
those markets,” he said.  The CMBS originators, while also competing in big cities,
are willing to look at a broader base of locations than most
major insurance companies, Halter said. In a $2.2 billion sale
of commercial-mortgage bonds yesterday by  Deutsche Bank AG  and  UBS AG , properties span the U.S., from Manhattan and  Washington 
to Knoxville, Tennessee, and Stillwater, Oklahoma, according to
documents distributed to investors and reviewed by Bloomberg.  Self-Storage Centers    Extra Space Storage Inc ., a Salt Lake City-based real
estate investment trust that operates self-storage centers, used
the CMBS market for about 80 percent of its financing until the
market froze three years ago, Chief Financial Officer Kent Christensen said. Unable to refinance the debt, the company
turned to bank loans, he said.  The company took out an $82 million mortgage from Bank of
America last month, the company’s first CMBS loan since February
2007, he said. One of the major advantages in using CMBS debt is
that it’s non-recourse, meaning the lender can’t seize the
borrower’s assets in the event of default.  “Repayment is subject to the performance of the asset,”
Christensen said in an interview. “I like loans that don’t have
covenants in them that make it difficult to repay them in a
difficult environment, like we had in the past two years.”  Banks, insurance companies and foreign investors are
chasing lending assignments across the U.S. amid signs
commercial real estate may be recovering. Property values, which
have declined 42 percent from 2007 peaks, rose for the third
consecutive month in November, Moody’s Investors Service said on
Jan. 24.  Late Payments  While late payments on commercial mortgages bundled and
sold as bonds increased to 8.8 percent in December from 4.9
percent a year earlier, the pace of rising delinquencies is
slowing, according to Moody’s.  Still, many borrowers will have difficulty coming up with
the additional cash to pay off debt that exceeds the current
value of the property. Additionally, occupancies and rents have
yet to recover in many areas, said Halter of Principal Real
Estate, based in Des Moines,  Iowa .  “It is a good time to be thinking about lending,” he
said. “You have to be prudent and you have to be careful about
the risk you take.”  New Entrants  Some of the CMBS lending in smaller cities is by new
entrants, primarily non-bank finance companies that contribute
loans for Wall Street to pool for sale, said Jonathan Pollack,
head of commercial real estate capital markets at Deutsche Bank.
The Frankfurt-based company’s CMBS lending is concentrated in
major metropolitan areas and on the coasts. As the market
evolves, the bank plans to expand its reach, he said.  “Sooner rather than later, we intend to be more regionally
focused,” Pollack said. “When you look within these markets,
there are clear winners and losers. Things are happening within
those markets that create lending opportunities.”  Loans being written for sale as securities today are
conservative compared with those done when sales peaked in 2006
and 2007, when borrowers were allowed to take on more debt with
the assumption that rising rents would cover future payments,
said Frank Innaurato, a managing director at Horsham,
Pennsylvania-based credit-rating company Realpoint LLC.  Boom-Time Excesses  As competition among lenders increases, investors need to
be on the lookout for the excesses found in loans made during
the boom, Innaurato said.  Borrowers are benefiting as investors drive CMBS prices up,
with some top-ranked bonds trading for as much as 108 cents on
the dollar, according to JPMorgan data. Higher bond prices
translate to lower rates on new loans.  “Today, we have about 60 percent CMBS and 40 percent other
debt,” said Christensen of Extra Space Storage. “I think we
will be above 60 percent CMBS again, but not above 80 percent.
After seeing the CMBS market go away, we don’t want to be as
dependent on it as we were.”  Waesche, who opened his Marriott five weeks before
Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005, was able to extend the
construction loan from Capmark for five years in the wake of the
storm. Capmark, which filed for bankruptcy in 2009, would have
extended the loan again -- an expensive, short-term fix, Waesche
said. Thomas Fairfield, a Capmark representative, didn’t return
a phone call seeking comment.  While financing for hotels has become easier to obtain in
the past three months, they remain the toughest type of property
to borrow against, Waesche said. Had Citigroup not come through
with a loan, he would have taken Capmark’s terms, he said.  “We would have cried every month when we saw all our
earnings go out the door to pay the mortgage,” Waesche said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  