-- WaMu, Junco Steel, Meridian, Hardage: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-02-09T13:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/wamu-junco-steel-meridian-mortgage-hardage-bankruptcy.html
  Washington Mutual Inc . shareholders
can question  hedge funds  about allegations they used
confidential information to trade in the bankrupt company’s
securities, a judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath approved the probe
yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware . Authorizing depositions and
document subpoenas may be the only way to determine whether the
hedge funds violated bankruptcy rules related to insider
trading, she said.  A committee of shareholders sought to investigate
allegations of insider trading by Appaloosa Management LP, Owl
Creek Asset Management LP, Centerbridge Partners LP and Aurelius
Capital Management LP. Walrath said she was troubled by the
allegations.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co . for
$1.9 billion. Washington Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to
fail in U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and
$188 billion in deposits.  The hedge funds own WaMu notes and are set to receive a
payout as part of the company’s proposed bankruptcy plan. The
funds are allied with JPMorgan and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., which are trying to persuade Walrath to approve a
proposal to end WaMu’s bankruptcy by paying bondholders and
other creditors more than $7 billion.  The centerpiece of the bankruptcy plan is a settlement
supported by JPMorgan, the FDIC and the noteholders that is
valued at about $10 billion. The shareholders and some lower-
ranking creditors oppose the settlement and the payment proposal
because it would give them nothing.  WaMu yesterday filed a new plan and a new version of the
settlement. The company has proposed coming back to court in May
to seek Walrath’s approval of both.  The insider-trading investigation must be concluded before
that May hearing, where shareholders will use any information
collected to attack the proposed plan and the settlement. The
hedge funds will be required to reveal details of their
purchases and sales in WaMu debt since the company filed for
bankruptcy and any protections they put in place to avoid
misusing confidential information.  The case is In re  Washington  Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Other Updates  Ex-Lehman Executives, Underwriters Sued by Calpers Over Bonds  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. executives and underwriters
were sued by the  California  Public Employees’ Retirement System
over claims they hid Lehman’s exposure to subprime loans when
they sold the pension fund about $700 million in bonds.  The retirement system known as Calpers said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco  that the
executives and about 34 investment banks made false statements
in offering documents for bonds issued from June 2007 to
September 2008.  Lehman’s bankruptcy continues in  Manhattan . Lehman filed a
revised plan to exit Chapter 11 on Jan. 25, offering bondholders
more money.  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, is among a group of
Lehman creditors that filed a competing reorganization plan in
December for the company after objecting to Lehman’s original
plan to emerge from court protection. Calpers, hedge fund
Paulson & Co., and other sponsors of the rival plan together
hold about $16 billion of senior Lehman bonds.  Defendants named in yesterday’s lawsuit include former
Lehman Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld and Citigroup Inc.’s
Citigroup Global Markets unit. Patricia Hynes, Fuld’s attorney,
and  Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages left after regular
business hours yesterday.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing
$613 billion in debt.  The Calpers case is The California Public Employees’
Retirement System v. Fuld, 11-00562, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco). The Lehman
Chapter 11 case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc ., 08-
13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  Deel, Also Known as Fuddruckers,  Magic Brands , Gets Sale Order  A sale of the property of Deel LLC, the bankrupt Austin,
Texas-based restaurant-franchise company, was formally approved
yesterday by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Brendan Linehan Shannon in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Deel and its affiliates, also known as Magic Brands LLC and
Fuddruckers Inc., held an auction June 17. Magic Brands LLC
overcame objections from Tavistock Group and received authority
at a June 23 hearing to sell the Fuddruckers stores and
franchise business to Luby’s Inc. for $63.5 million.  Tavistock, the so-called stalking-horse at the June
auction, made the first bid of $40 million. It claimed before
the sale-approval hearing that there were irregularities in the
auction.  Shannon rejected objections to the sale of intellectual
property raised by the operators of five stores under franchise
agreements.  Luby’s, based in Houston, operates 96 restaurants, mostly
in  Texas . After closing stores, Magic Brands has 62 company-
owned Fuddruckers locations in 11 states.  The company listed debt of as much as $50 million and
assets of as much as $10 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
April 21. Fuddruckers Inc. listed assets and debt of as much as
$100 million each.  The case is In re Deel LLC, 10-11310, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filings  Junco Steel Files for Bankruptcy in Puerto Rico  Junco Steel Corp., a Bayamon, Puerto Rico-based steel
products maker, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy court protection
on Feb. 2 in San Juan, Puerto Rico.  Banco Popular de Puerto Rico holds a $6.1 million secured
claim, according to court papers. Other creditors listed include
Catano, Puerto Rico-based Platt Metal Manufacturing Inc., with
an unsecured claim of $1.2 million, and Norcross, Georgia-based
STC-Intermesa Trading Co., with an unsecured claim of $432,171.  Junco Steel declared assets of less than $50,000 and
estimated liabilities at as much as $50 million.  The case is In re Junco Steel Corp., 11-00827, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Puerto Rico (San Juan).  Meridian Mortgage Investors Fund I Files Bankruptcy;  Meridian Mortgage Investors Fund I LLC filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection on Jan. 27 in Seattle, where it is based.  The company, which follows seven affiliates into
bankruptcy, said in court filings it has fewer than 50
creditors. It declared less than $50,000 in assets and estimated
liabilities at as much as $50 million.  In a schedule listing its 20 largest unsecured creditors,
MMFI I was unable to specify the amount owed to individual
creditors and described the debts as “contingent.”  The consolidated lead case is Meridian Mortgage Investors
Fund V LLC, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, 10-17952, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  Hardage Hotels VIII Files for Bankruptcy Protection  Hardage Hotels VIII LLC filed for Chapter 11 protection
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The San Diego-based unit of Hardage Suite Hotels LLC listed
assets of as much as $10 million and liabilities of as much as
$50 million.  The largest unsecured creditors are  Stutman, Treister &
Glatt  and  Soloman Ward Seidenwurm & Smith , with claims of
$30,545, and $26, 249, respectively.  The case is In re Hardage Hotels VIII LLC, 11-10210, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Four Lions Files for Bankruptcy Protection in Puerto Rico  Four Lions Corp. filed for Chapter 11 protection on Jan. 24
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in San Juan, Puerto Rico.  The San Juan-based company didn’t provide a reason for the
filing. It declared assets and liabilities both in the range of
$10 million to $50 million.  The company said it owns real property valued at
$17.9 million. Secured claims total $26.5 million and unsecured
non-priority claims total $14.4 million.  The case is In re Four Lions Corp., 11-00419, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Puerto Rico (San Juan).  Daily Podcast  Blockbuster, Tribune, Madoff, Statistics: Bankruptcy Audio  Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia talked with Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist and editor-at-large Bill Rochelle. Today’s
podcast looks at the  Blockbuster Inc . case, in which creditor
Summit Entertainment has called for a conversion to Chapter 7,
alleging that Blockbuster told Summit employees that it lacked
enough cash to pay for goods shipped after the Chapter 11
filing. Other cases discussed include Tribune Co. and the
Bernard Madoff bankruptcy estate.  For the audio, click here.  Statistics  Debt Maturity Wall Crumbles by $482 Billion: Credit Markets  The wall of bonds and loans maturing through 2014 has
crumbled by $482 billion, or 44 percent, since 2009, reducing
the threat of defaults and allowing companies to bring riskier
deals to market.  The amount of debt due in the next four years dropped to
$671 billion, from $1.2 trillion in 2009, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. About $163 billion of bonds and loans come due in
2011 and 2012, or about 60 percent of the refinancing activity
in 2010. Clear Channel Communications Inc. plans to begin
marketing $750 million of bonds to repay $500 million of short-
term loans.  Stronger economic growth and the  Federal Reserve ’s decision
to keep benchmark  interest rates  at almost zero, while pumping
$600 billion into the financial system by purchasing Treasuries,
have driven down yields and spurred demand for low-rated debt.
That’s allowed companies to seek new borrowings with fewer
provisions that protect investors.  For more, click here.  Downgrades/Other Ratings News  Bank Ratings Can Withstand Loan Buybacks, S&P Says  The biggest U.S. lenders including  Bank of America Corp .
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will probably avoid rating downgrades
from costs to repurchase faulty mortgages,  Standard & Poor’s 
said.  The six biggest residential lenders have already booked
most of the costs from buying back loans from U.S.-controlled
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and other demands will be resolved
over a “protracted timeline,” S&P credit analysts led by
Stuart Plesser said yesterday in a research note.  “Based on banks’ 2010 pretax earnings and our projection
that 2011 earnings will be even higher, representations and
warranty expenses should easily be covered,” Plesser wrote.  Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender by assets, posted
a $1.24 billion fourth-quarter loss after writing down the value
of mortgage operations and setting aside more for loan buybacks.
The 2008 acquisition of Countrywide Financial Corp., then the
biggest U.S. mortgage lender, saddled the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company with lawsuits and demands to repurchase
bad loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in Jersey City at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 