-- Weber Is `Slam Dunk' as Chairman of Deutsche Bank, Not CEO, Analysts Say
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2011-02-10T12:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/weber-is-slam-dunk-as-chairman-of-deutsche-bank-not-ceo-analysts-say.html
Bundesbank President Axel Weber
would make a better chairman than chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG  because he has political connections and lacks
commercial banking experience, analysts said.  Weber, 53, plans to leave the German central bank this
year, ruling himself out of the race to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as head of the  European Central Bank , according to a
person who spoke to him yesterday. That sparked speculation in
German media outlets including Die Welt that he might succeed  Josef Ackermann  as CEO of that country’s largest bank.  “It would be a slam dunk to get Weber as chairman because
he’s so well connected in Germany,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst with Mediobanca SpA who has a “neutral”
rating on the Frankfurt-based bank. “It’d be inconceivable to
have an academic running a bank of that size as CEO.”  Deutsche Bank spokesman Armin Niedermeier declined to
comment. At the lender’s annual earnings news conference on Feb.
3, Ackermann, 63, dodged questions about succession and whether
he plans to fulfill his contract, saying only that it runs until
2013.  Weber told reporters today in Vienna that he won’t make a
statement on his plans for the future after speaking with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and agreeing with her not to disclose
the content of the discussion.  Internal Candidates  Weber, who taught applied monetary policy and international
economics before he was selected to lead the Bundesbank in 2004,
is unlikely to be named CEO of Deutsche Bank because his lack of
experience would make it difficult for him to execute the bank’s
strategy and would risk driving away internal candidates, two
people familiar with the company’s thinking said yesterday.  Internal candidates to succeed Ackermann include Anshu Jain, head of the corporate and investment bank that was
responsible for most of the company’s profit, Chief Financial
Officer Stefan Krause and Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in August.  A more realistic option would be appointing Weber to the
chairmanship or an advisory role, said the people. The topic of
him taking the CEO job hasn’t come up in management meetings, a
third person said. All three people declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak for the bank.  Weber, who is married and has two children of high school
and university age, told an audience in Tallinn,  Estonia , on
Feb. 7 that the financial crisis meant “working days become
longer and weekends are no longer weekends.”  ‘Plausible Option’  “I never dreamed I would be a policy maker myself,” said
Weber, who grew up in southwestern Germany and taught at
universities in Siegen, Bonn,  Frankfurt  and Cologne.  “One plausible option would be to make Weber Deutsche Bank
chairman because he carries a lot of weight in political and
regulatory circles,” said Stefan Scharff, an analyst at SRC
Research in Frankfurt. Another would be making Weber a co-head
of the German lender, Scharff said.  Die Welt newspaper  reported  that Weber is Ackermann’s only
external candidate to take over his post when he steps down,
citing people familiar with the matter. Talks have been ongoing
for at least a year, the newspaper said.  Deutsche Bank’s choice for CEO may reveal whether the 141-
year-old Frankfurt-based institution embraces its role as a
global investment bank that makes most of its money trading
securities on international markets, or whether long-standing
business and political ties to  Germany  remain paramount.  Ackermann counseled ChancellorMerkel and worked with Weber
on the rescue of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in
2008, avoiding the country’s biggest bank failure since 1931. He
also advised the government on Germany’s bank-rescue fund, which
his company never needed to tap.  Regulatory Hurdles  Deutsche Bank ducked the succession question in 2009 by
unexpectedly extending Ackermann’s tenure for three years after
the board failed to agree on a replacement, people familiar with
the matter said at the time. The current supervisory board
chairman, Clemens Boersig, put himself forward as Ackermann’s
replacement at the time and he was rebuffed by labor union
representatives on the board, the people said.  Any successor will need expertise to run  Europe ’s biggest
investment bank by revenue and retain profitability in the face
of rising regulatory hurdles, analysts said. The bank aims to
double pretax profit at its operating businesses to 10 billion
euros ($13.7 billion) this year from 2009 levels, helped by the
investment bank, Asian growth and  consumer lending .  Deutsche Bank is also still integrating consumer lender  Deutsche Postbank AG  and private-wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim
Group, which it bought last year to reduce dependence on  investment banking .  “Deutsche Bank’s next important move is to make sure they
have an orderly succession,” Wheeler said, citing Jain and
Krause as possible CEO candidates. “It would be an impressive
move” to get Weber as chairman, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  