-- Weber's Withdrawal Throws Open ECB Race as European Debt Crisis Persists
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2011-02-10T12:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/weber-s-withdrawal-throws-open-ecb-race-as-european-debt-crisis-persists.html
The campaign for the top job at the  European Central Bank  was thrown open as the sudden and
unexplained withdrawal of German front-runner Axel Weber cleared
the way for a slew of candidates to replace Jean-Claude Trichet.  Central bankers  Mario Draghi  of Italy, Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and Erkki Liikanen of Finland saw their chances of
winning Europe’s top economic post rise as did Germany’s Klaus Regling, who runs the region’s bailout fund. Trichet’s non-
renewable eight-year term expires in October.  “The top candidate is now out of the game,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global Research in
Milan. “We can now focus on alternative candidates and the
political push behind appointing the next ECB president.”  The fate of Bundesbank President Weber whipsawed the euro,
forcing the debate over the world’s second-most important
monetary post after U.S. Federal Reserve chairman into the
spotlight just as European leaders grapple with how to put an
end to the sovereign debt crisis that has shaken the single
currency’s foundations.  Weber, who ducked calls for a public declaration yesterday,
today reversed a plan to comment on his intentions. Having said
he would issue a statement before a speech in Vienna, he then
said he would not do so having spoken with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel. The two intend to talk again and ``will 
coordinate in taking all necessary decisions,'' Weber said.   Weber’s Record  Unsourced media reports yesterday of a pullout by Weber
shattered German efforts to steer the ECB nomination behind the
scenes, prompting a telephone confrontation with Merkel and
subsequent confirmation by Weber associates.  Weber, 53, plans to quit the Bundesbank in a decision that
would rule him out of the ECB running, said a person who spoke
with him yesterday. He will leave about a year before his term
ends in April 2012.  Until his exit, leaders would have had to balance Weber’s
two-decade academic record and citizenship of Europe’s largest
economy with his outspokenness and opposition to the ECB’s bond-
buying program, a key part of  Europe ’s crisis-fighting strategy.  Weber summoned the Bundesbank board to a hastily scheduled
meeting late on Feb. 8 to announce plans to quit after one term,
the  Financial Times Deutschland  reported today, without citing
sources. Merkel, learning the news from the media, pressured him
to delay a public statement until she taps a successor, the
newspaper said.  ‘Good Person’  As Merkel weighed whether to push Weber to reconsider or
float another German candidate, the ECB succession looked set to
come up March 11 at a special 17-nation euro-area summit on the
debt crisis that European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
called yesterday.  “We have time now to find a replacement at the Bundesbank
because as I understand it Mr. Weber is leaving later this year,
Michael Meister, the senior finance and economy spokesman for
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, said in an interview. ‘‘As
for a successor to Mr. Trichet: no, it doesn’t have to be a
German. It has to be a good person.”  Whoever takes over from Trichet, Merkel has to persuade a
skeptical electorate that bailing out wayward partners in the
currency union and saving the euro is worth the cost, of which  Germany  bears the biggest share. Greater financial support for
indebted euro-area countries was opposed by 64 percent of German
respondents in a Jan. 28 FG Wahlen poll.  ECB Puzzle  “What a blow. For the Chancellor. For the Euro,” says the
lead editorial in Bild, Germany’s biggest-selling newspaper.
“And all this at a time when Germans are losing trust in the
euro, and when they feel like its mere paymasters. Against this
gut feeling a German at the head of the ECB would have been very
important.”  One piece in the ECB puzzle fell into place yesterday when
Belgium’s Peter Praet emerged as the favorite to win an
Executive Board seat that opens up in May. Praet, 62, a Belgian
central bank aide, is set to be recommended Feb. 14 for the post
being vacated by Austria’s Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell, seven
European officials familiar with the process said.  Weber enters the annals of EU history littered with front-
runners who ultimately failed to get the top job, from flopped
bids to run the  European Commission  by Belgium’s Jean-Luc Dehaene in 1994 and Guy Verhofstadt in 2004 to Tony Blair’s
campaign to be the first EU president in 2009.  Married with two children of high school and university
age, Weber took the helm of the Bundesbank in 2004 and spoke
just this week about the workload of being a top central banker.  “Working days become longer, and weekends are no longer
weekends,” Weber said in Tallinn on Feb. 7. “I never dreamed
that I would be a policy maker myself.”  Political Deal  Weber’s retreat was a reminder that politics, not central
banking ideology, will determine who succeeds Trichet. No
deadline is set for a decision, the first time Europe has named
a chief central banker since the ECB’s first two presidents were
picked at a dramatic summit in May 1998, eight months before the
euro’s birth.  At the time, Wim Duisenberg of the Netherlands, endorsed by
Germany, faced a veto threat from  France . A political deal was
hatched to give him the job, as long as he stepped down early to
make way for Trichet, who is set to serve the full eight-year
term. Citigroup Inc. economist  Juergen Michels  said yesterday
that this time leaders may wait until mid-October to make their
choice.  Draghi’s Record  Bank of Italy Governor Draghi, 63, is the only declared
candidate for the top post, though the backing of Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi may count against him in policy circles --  Italy ’s leader faces a formal request to stand trial for alleged
abuse of power and paying a minor for sex.  As chairman of the Financial Stability Board, Draghi has
been at the core of international efforts to rewrite the rules
of global finance following the credit crisis, experience that
may prove valuable given Trichet now chairs Europe’s new risk
watchdog.  The holder of an economics doctorate from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Draghi spent the early part of his
career as an official in the Italian Treasury. He worked on
Group of Seven meetings and led the privatization of $105
billion worth of Italian companies, including  Enel Spa ,  Telecom
Italia SpA  and Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA.  A potential handicap is Draghi’s three-year stint as a vice
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which may open him up to
sniping from leaders who blame investment banks for the credit
crisis. His selection would leave two southern Europeans atop
the ECB, with Portugal’s Vitor Constancio as vice president. A
third, Jose Barroso of  Portugal , runs the European Commission.  Inflation Hawk  Luxembourg Central Bank Governor Mersch, 61, ranks as a
German-style inflation hawk, with an ability to speak to Germans
and French in their own language and to the financial markets in
theirs, English. A lawyer by training who helped negotiate the
1991 Maastricht Treaty that created the euro, Mersch has sat on
the ECB’s council since its inception.  The appointment of Mersch, who decorates his bank with art
work from around Europe, might force Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker, Europe’s longest-serving government head,
to give up his role as the chairman of the monthly meetings of
euro-area finance ministers.  Longshot Contender  Liikanen, 60, has run Finland’s central bank since 2004.
After negotiating Finland’s 1995 accession to the EU, he served
as European budget and business-promotion commissioner. He made
his mark in Brussels prodding governments to open their
telecommunication markets to competition and for ensuring new
controls on chemicals didn’t put companies such as BASF AG at a
disadvantage to rivals.  As Finland’s finance minister in the late 1980s, he oversaw
the boom of the Nordic economy before growth slumped. The
youngest Finn ever elected to parliament at the age of 21,
Liikanen has first-hand knowledge of business as a former member
of the supervisory board of stainless-steel maker  Outokumpu Oyj .
A potential obstacle is that fellow countryman  Olli Rehn  is now
EU commissioner for economic and monetary affairs.  A longshot contender -- and the youngest -- could be
Athanasios Orphanides, 48, who heads Cyprus’s central bank and
counts 17 years as a Federal Reserve economist on his resume.
The first ECB official to argue in favor of zero  interest rates 
amid the recession, he was born in communist-ruled  Czechoslovakia  before studying at MIT.  ‘Great Job’  The ECB’s first two chiefs were drawn from the central
banking community, lessening the chances of a possible German
compromise candidate, Regling, now in charge of the 440 billion-
euro ($604 billion)  rescue fund  for debt-hit states.  While lacking a central banking pedigree, Regling, 60,
served in the German Finance Ministry and ran the European
Commission’s economics department before taking on his role as
debt-crisis firefighter. “I have a great job,” Regling told
reporters in Berlin yesterday.    Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital 
in  London , said whoever wins the job may not much change the
tone of ECB policy making, which is set by the consensus of a
23-member Governing Council.  “We would not envisage a significant change in its
strategy or reaction function,” said Callow. “The lesson of
the ECB’s history so far is that while the personnel may change,
the institution has stuck firmly to its clearly defined mandate
‘to maintain price stability.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
James Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  