-- Weber Throws ECB Race Open by Ruling Out Second Bundesbank Term
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w ,   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-02-09T15:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/weber-throws-ecb-race-open-as-he-signals-no-second-term-as-bundesbank-head.html
The race for the  European Central
Bank ’s presidency was thrown wide open as Axel Weber told
officials he may not seek a second term as head of Germany’s
central bank, casting doubt over his future career plans.  Weber told some Bundesbank officials in confidence that
he’s not necessarily interested in another eight-year term when
his current mandate ends in 2012, said an official who spoke on
condition of anonymity. That may also call into question whether
he’ll be available to succeed Jean-Claude Trichet as head of the
world’s second-most powerful central bank.  European Union leaders need to appoint a new ECB chief by
the time Trichet’s term expires on Oct. 31 and economists had
named Weber as a leading candidate to succeed him. Reuters
earlier reported that Weber was pulling out of the running to
head the ECB. At the same time, Weber could rule out a second
Bundesbank term and still take over at the ECB provided he
resigns this year.  “This is pure chaos,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “Europe has already made a
mess of the sovereign debt crisis, are we going to make a mess
of the succession of  Jean-Claude Trichet ? This mess needs to be
cleared up very quickly.”  The euro earlier lost half a cent, declining to $1.3611
after the Reuters report. The currency later recovered and
traded at $1.3709 at 4:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Bild later reported
that Weber could step down as soon as this summer.  Future Plans  A Bundesbank spokeswoman declined to comment on Weber’s
intentions. Weber, 53, may be bombarded with questions about his
future tomorrow when he speaks at a German-Austrian economic
forum in Vienna.  Weber, who has headed the Bundesbank since 2004, emerged as
the ECB frontrunner even after breaking from European policy-
making consensus by opposing the central bank’s bond-buying
program. Such opposition to a main plank of  Europe ’s crisis-
fighting campaign fanned speculation he may not win the support
of some EU leaders and lacked the ability to forge consensus on
the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council.    Chancellor Angela Merkel , who has not yet publicly backed
Weber’s candidacy, spoke with Weber by phone today, government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin today. The
German government has “no comment and no interpretation” of
Weber’s future, he said.  “Before we have any official statement from the Bundesbank
or Weber himself it’s certainly premature to draw any
conclusions on Trichet’s succession,” said  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc in London.  Jockeying  Weber may end up joining Deutsche Bank AG, Deutsche Presse-
Agentur said, without reporting where it got the information.
Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  declined to comment.  The political jockeying that will determine who gets the
ECB top job started more than a year ago, when European leaders
named Vitor Constancio vice president of the ECB. The real deal-
making over Trichet’s replacement has only just begun and may
culminate at a leaders’ summit in June.  “I could imagine that Weber wants to pressure the
government to decide on its position on Trichet’s succession,”
said Holger Sandte, chief European economist at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf.  Weber, a onetime marathon runner, specialized in studying
applied monetary and international economics before becoming the
surprise choice to take the helm of the Bundesbank in 2004. The
son of a teacher, he grew up in southwestern  Germany  before
teaching at German universities in Siegen, Bonn, Frankfurt and
Cologne.  Chief Candidate  His two-decades in academia, status as head of Europe’s
largest national central bank and the fact that Germany hasn’t
held a top European post since the 1960s were among the reasons
for his rank as the chief candidate to replace Trichet.  Some economists are already considering alternative
possibilities, including  Italy ’s  Mario Draghi , Erkki Liikanen of  Finland , Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and Nout Wellink of the
Netherlands. Klaus Regling, head of Europe’s bailout fund, has
also been mentioned.  “Draghi would be the best candidate but I doubt there will
be convergence on his name because it’ll steer the ECB too much
to southern Europe,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “In any case,
the ECB will remain committed to  price stability .”  EU history is littered with favorites who ultimately failed
to get the top job, from failed bids to run the European
Commission by  Belgium ’s Jean-Luc Dehaene in 1994 and Guy Verhofstadt in 2004 to Tony Blair’s campaign to be the first EU
president in 2009.  “The markets will have to live with the suspense,” said
Jens Sondergaard, chief European economist at Nomura in  London .
“We’ll probably only know who it’s going to be when the new
president is standing at the podium.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  