-- Weber Said to Step Down From Germany's Bundesbank, Ruling Out ECB Top Job
-- B y   H e l l m u t h   T r o m m ,   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2011-02-09T18:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/weber-might-not-seek-a-second-term-as-president-of-germany-s-central-bank.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  plans
to step down later this year, a decision that would rule him out
of the race to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as head of the  European Central Bank , said a person who spoke to Weber today.  Weber may leave his job about a year before his Bundesbank
term expires in April 2012, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The German central bank head discussed
his plans with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  today, the person said.  Weber’s resignation would open the field to replace Trichet
and head the world’s second most powerful central bank. European
Union leaders need to appoint a new ECB chief by the time
Trichet’s term expires on Oct. 31 and economists had named Weber
as a leading candidate to succeed him.  “It does sort of blow the race wide open and will no doubt
result in a number of alternative candidates which wouldn’t
otherwise have necessarily entered into people’s thinking,”
said  Nick Matthews , an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London . “At this stage it’s more likely that it would
still be a German candidate.”  Reuters earlier reported that Weber was pulling out of the
running, pushing the euro down half a cent to $1.3611. The
currency later recovered and traded at $1.3709 as of 5:41 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . Jens Weidmann, Merkel’s top economic advisor, may
replace Weber at the Bundesbank, Bild  newspaper  said, citing
unnamed government and central bank officials. A Bundesbank
spokesman declined to comment.  Workload  Weber, 53, may be bombarded with questions about his future
tomorrow when he speaks at a German-Austrian economic forum in
Vienna.  Weber, who is married and has two children of high school
and university age, just this week talked about the workload of
being a top central banker. On Feb. 7 he told an audience in
Tallinn, Estonia that the financial crisis meant “working days
become longer and weekends are no longer weekends.” He said “I
never dreamed I would be a policy maker myself.”  He may also have hinted at future career plans on Jan. 14
when asked about the differences between the ECB and  Federal
Reserve ’s mandates at an event in Vallendar,  Germany .  “I’ll give you an answer when I’m an academic again,” he
said.  Alternatives  Some economists are already considering alternative
possibilities, including Italy’s Mario Draghi, Erkki Liikanen of  Finland , Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch and Nout Wellink of the
Netherlands. Germany’s Klaus Regling, head of  Europe ’s bailout
fund, has also been mentioned. Asked about his ECB ambitions,
Regling today said he already has a “great job.”  “Draghi would be the best candidate but I doubt there will
be convergence on his name because it’ll steer the ECB too much
to southern Europe,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area
economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan. “In any case,
the ECB will remain committed to  price stability .”  Weber could be trying to force Merkel into coming out into
the open and back his candidacy, said Holger Sandte, chief
European economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. Merkel has yet to
publicly support him, though Bild reported last month that she
was getting ready to do so.  “I could imagine that Weber wants to pressure the
government to decide on its position on Trichet’s succession,”
said Sandte.  EU history is littered with favorites who ultimately failed
to get the top job, from failed bids to run the European
Commission by Belgium’s Jean-Luc Dehaene in 1994 and Guy Verhofstadt in 2004 to Tony Blair’s campaign to be the first EU
president in 2009.  Suspense  “The markets will have to live with the suspense,” said
Jens Sondergaard, chief European economist at Nomura in London.
“We’ll probably only know who it’s going to be when the new
president is standing at the podium.”  Weber, who has headed the Bundesbank since 2004, emerged as
the ECB frontrunner even after breaking from European policy-
making consensus by opposing the central bank’s bond-buying
program. Such opposition to a main plank of Europe’s crisis-
fighting campaign fanned speculation he may not win the support
of some EU leaders and lacked the ability to forge consensus on
the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council.  Weber may end up joining  Deutsche Bank AG , Deutsche Presse-
Agentur said, without reporting where it got the information.
Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hellmuth Tromm in Berlin at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  