-- Wells Fargo Says Fiduciary Standard for Brokers May Narrow Customer Choice
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-09T18:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/wells-fargo-says-fiduciary-standard-for-brokers-may-narrow-customer-choice.html
  Wells Fargo & Co .’s head of brokerage
operations said banks may reduce the number of investment
products offered to customers if regulators impose a fiduciary
standard on brokers.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s proposal for
a common fiduciary standard for brokers and registered advisers
may increase the need for due diligence from banks and advisers,
Senior Executive Vice President David Carroll said today at a
Miami investor conference.  The SEC’s plan would make all brokers and registered
investment advisers who provide personalized investment advice
adhere to a common standard when dealing with clients. Broker-
dealers currently must ensure only that an investment product
and accompanying advice is suitable for their clients’ needs. A
fiduciary duty would mean putting clients’ best interests first,
which might require passing up choices with bigger commissions.  “It’s going to cause the investment menu to narrow,”
Carroll said. “We won’t have 6,000 mutual funds in our network
probably two years from now like we do today.”  Wells Fargo, with $1.2 trillion in client assets and based
in  San Francisco , is the third-largest among U.S. brokerages,
behind Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch.  The process of developing the standard is moving along the
way Wells Fargo would like because it’s being developed by
regulators “and not by congressional staff,” he said.  “We have been driving our brokerage business toward a
fiduciary model starting back in 2004,” Carroll said. “So we’re
pretty pleased with where this is headed.”  Rule Change  The SEC was asked by Congress to look at the effectiveness
of existing rules as part of the Dodd-Frank financial services
overhaul law enacted on July 21. The standard is needed because
many retail investors don’t understand and are confused by the
roles played by investment advisers and broker-dealers,
according to a staff report delivered to Congress last month.  The brokerage business will be forced to move away from
models based on transactions in favor of more customized
solutions that may involve third-party managers, Carroll said.  Wells Fargo is looking to expand the business segment,
which contributed about 6 percent, or $197 million, in net
income to the company’s record $3.4 billion in profit for the
fourth quarter, Carroll said. In December, Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said the lender is “sub-optimized” in  wealth management  and would be open to an acquisition. Though
there aren’t many large-scale targets available, the lender has
the “track record and talent” to do a large-scale takeover if
it wanted to, Carroll said.  Carroll declined to discuss yesterday’s surprise
resignation of Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. The
company attributed his departure to personal reasons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 