-- Wells Fargo CFO Atkins Takes Unpaid Leave, Set to Retire as Sloan Steps In
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-09T19:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/wells-fargo-finance-chief-atkins-steps-down-takes-unpaid-leave.html
  Wells Fargo & Co . Chief Financial
Officer Howard I. Atkins resigned for personal reasons, taking
an unpaid leave of absence, and will be replaced by Chief
Administrative Officer Timothy J. Sloan. Shares fell as much as
3.5 percent.  Atkins’ departure, effective immediately, “is unrelated to
the company’s financial condition or financial reporting,”
according to a statement yesterday from the San Francisco-based
bank. Atkins, who turns 60 this week, retires Aug. 6, when
benefits tied to 10 years of employment become effective, Oscar Suris, a bank spokesman, said in an interview. The leave of
absence will be unpaid because it’s “typical” for executives
taking a personal leave to give up compensation, Suris said.  “This is rather sudden and it raises the question of
why?” said  Charles Elson , director of the Weinberg Center for
Corporate Governance at the  University of Delaware . Elson owns
Wells Fargo shares. “You don’t just leave and take an unpaid
leave of absence. CFOs don’t usually depart in this manner.”  Wells Fargo reported record net income for last year of
$12.4 billion. Atkins, named to the CFO’s role in July 2001,
guided the bank through the takeover of Wachovia Corp. after the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender almost collapsed during
the 2008 financial crisis. He wasn’t available to comment last
night, Suris said.  Shares Decline  Wells Fargo, ranked fourth by assets among U.S. lenders,
fell $1.05 to $33.05 at 1:52 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. Earlier today it was as low as $32.90. Wells
Fargo is the day’s worst performer among the 24 banks in the KBW
Bank Index.  James Post, a professor of  corporate governance  and ethics
at the Boston University School of Management, said Wells Fargo
didn’t adequately explain the CFO’s departure.  “The unpaid leave of absence is a cloud over that person’s
reputation, raising lots of questions about what’s going on,”
Post said in an interview. That “won’t go away until another
round of questioning goes on to tease out the explanation.”  Suris declined to discuss reasons for Atkins’ resignation.  “The head-scratching element of the press release was the
lack of any transition period to his successor or the typical
departing statement from the retiring senior executive,”
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst John McDonald wrote in a
report today.  Home Lending  Atkins has defended Wells Fargo’s home-lending practices
amid calls from investors for buybacks of securities tied to
faulty mortgages. Wells Fargo set aside $464 million of
provisions in the fourth quarter to cover repurchases and spent
$506 million for buybacks.  He said last month in an interview that Wells Fargo
wouldn’t settle with  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac  because the
quality of the company’s mortgage securitizations “was of a
much higher caliber than all of the other large bank peers.”  “In the near term this uncertainty could weigh on the
stock,” said Joseph Morford, an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets . “But it’s important to keep in mind that while Howard
will be missed, he’s leaving the company in very capable hands.
One of the real strengths of the Wells story is its
management.”  Sloan, 50, has been with Wells Fargo for 23 years, Chief
Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, said in the statement. Sloan
moved into his current post as chief administrative officer in
September and previously was head of commercial banking, real
estate and specialized financial services. He will keep
oversight of the company’s strategic planning functions,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 