-- West Ham Plan for Olympic Stadium `Broke in 10 Years,' AEG's Leiweke Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-02-09T12:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/west-ham-plan-for-olympic-stadium-broke-in-10-years-aeg-s-leiweke-says.html
West Ham United ’s plan to turn
London’s Olympic stadium into a joint soccer and athletics
complex would create a sporting facility that will be “broke in
10 years,” according to one of the organizers of a rival bid.  The east London team wants to retain a track around the
soccer field to permit other sporting events, while a bid from
Anschutz Entertainment Group Worldwide and Tottenham Hotspur
proposes partly razing the 80,000-seat stadium and building a
soccer-specific complex.  “You can’t build a 60,000-seat track and field stadium
standalone and make it work anywhere in the world today,” Tim Leiweke, president and chief executive officer of AEG, said in a
conference call from  Los Angeles . “So the worst thing for the
legacy of track and field and athletics is building a complex
that is going to be broke in 10 years.”  Under the plan of the U.S. entertainment site operator and
Tottenham, the facility would function as a track and field
venue for just 30 days before conversion work started. AEG and
the north London soccer club would rebuild the Crystal Palace
track-and-field stadium in the southern part of the city to keep
the local Olympic organizing committee’s pledge of new sporting
facilities.  Running a track-and-field stadium successfully can be
“very difficult,” Leiweke said. AEG owns sports facilities all
over the world, including London’s O2 arena and the Home Depot
Center in Carson,  California .  ‘Government Subsidies’  West Ham’s plan, which it’s working on with the London
Borough of Newham, will eventually cost the U.K. government
money, Leiweke said.  “Anyone that says that they can make a track and field
work economically has never tried to promote track and field,”
Leiweke said.  “I can tell you, if London wants the world championships
of track and field, then there is going to have to be a
governing body or a sports authority in London that’s going to
be willing to underwrite that event. Because that’s how that
event is promoted and paid for in every other place on the face
of the earth. You need government subsidies to take those big
events and make them work.”  West Ham vice-chairman Karren Brady has said that
Tottenham’s proposal would be a waste of 500 million pounds
($803 million) and wouldn’t keep London’s pledge to have a major
track-and-field stadium as a legacy of the 2012 Games.  “We believe in that promise,” Brady said yesterday on the
team’s website. “It’s important for the U.K.’s credibility as a
sporting nation, especially in the wake of the 2018 FIFA  World
Cup  disappointment, to keep that promise.”  In December,  England  failed to win rights to host the 2018
soccer World Cup, losing out to  Russia .  Crystal Palace  Tottenham Chairman Daniel Levy yesterday dismissed the idea
that the soccer team would rip down most of the stadium.  “Accusations that we would ‘demolish’ 500 million pounds
of stadium are hugely inaccurate and highly irresponsible and I
want to be very clear on this issue,” Levy said in a statement
on the club website.  He said the joint AEG/Tottenham proposal would retain 420
million pounds worth of Olympic Stadium, “and we will reuse or
recycle the 80 million pounds that will be dismantled with zero
landfill.”  Levy added that as part of its bid, Tottenham is also
proposing a “significant redevelopment” of the Crystal Palace
Athletics Stadium that would boost its current capacity by 9,500
to 25,000 seats and include building a new four-lane warm-up
track and all-weather hockey pitch.  AEG has a 15,000-seat standalone track-and-field facility
next to the Home Depot Center.  “We didn’t overbuild it, and that’s the key,” Leiweke
said. “The 25,000-seat Crystal Palace isn’t going to be
overbuilt. It’s about usage every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  