-- Whole Foods Rises After Boosting Annual Forecasts
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2011-02-10T21:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/whole-foods-shares-rise-as-natural-goods-grocer-boosts-full-year-forecast.html
  Whole Foods Market Inc ., the largest
U.S. natural-goods grocer, surged the most in more than three
months after raising its annual forecasts, buoyed by freer-
spending consumers prepared to pay for healthy food.  Earnings will be as much as $1.80 a share in 2011, the
company said yesterday after markets closed. That compared with
a previous target of as much as $1.71. The Austin, Texas-based
grocer also raised its sales growth forecasts for the year,
citing increasing  consumer confidence .  Shoppers are putting more items in their baskets and paying
more per item, Co-Chief Executive Officer Walter Robb said on a
conference call yesterday. Whole Foods also has wooed customers
away from traditional supermarkets as people seek out healthier
fare for themselves and their children amid rising obesity rates
in the U.S.  “Their turnaround is more than a result of just simply
rich people spending more,” said Neil Currie, an analyst at UBS
Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They’ve recaptured that
customer who is still in cost-saving mode by refocusing on their
heritage, which is healthy eating and natural foods.” Currie
rates the shares “neutral.”  Whole Foods climbed $6.30, or 12 percent, to $60.05 at 4
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest jump
since Nov. 4. The shares more than doubled in the past 12
months, compared with a 12 percent increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  Wellness Initiative  The retailer, founded more than 30 years ago, operates more
than 300 stores globally, with locations in the U.S.,  Canada  and
the U.K. The company’s “Health Starts Here” program encourages
shoppers to stock up on unprocessed foods, healthy fats and
nutrient-dense items. Some stores have a nutritionist on staff
to answer questions.  “They’re winning a lot of share based on this wellness
initiative,” said Scott Mushkin, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.
in New York. “The mom who is newly pregnant is saying, ‘my baby
is worth it.’” He advises investors to buy the shares.  Last month, the U.S. government updated its dietary
guidelines, saying most adults should eat less salt and sugar
and get more exercise. More than two-thirds of the nation’s
adults are overweight or obese, according to the Departments of
Agriculture and Health and Human Services.  Grocers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .,  Kroger Co . and  Safeway Inc . also are vying to win over American shoppers as
they recover from the worst recession since the 1930s. Consumer
spending accounts for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .
Confidence among shoppers has shown signs of improvement, with
sentiment falling less than forecast last month, according to
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index.  Improving Confidence  “The new norm is that people have a better sense of
value,” Robb said in an interview yesterday. “We are seeing an
incrementally improving level of confidence.”  That came through in Whole Foods’s first-quarter results
yesterday. Sales at stores open more than a year rose 9.1
percent in the period, and the grocer also boosted its forecast
for that measure for the year. Analysts consider same-store
sales a key measure of a retailer’s results because they exclude
store openings and closings.  “You can eat healthfully and not necessarily break the
piggybank,” Robb said. Stores have seen “a wonderful uptick in
fresh fruits and vegetables.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  