-- Wiping Out Chronic Diseases May Add 10% to South Asia GDP, World Bank Says
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-09T02:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/wiping-out-chronic-diseases-may-add-10-to-south-asia-gdp-world-bank-says.html
Eliminating  heart disease , diabetes
and other non-communicable illnesses may add between 4 percent
and 10 percent to the gross domestic product of South Asia
including India, the  World Bank  said.  Heart disease is the biggest killer of people between the
ages of 15 and 69 years in South Asia, the Washington-based bank
said in a report published today. Non-communicable diseases now
account for more than half of all disease in the region
traditionally plagued by infectious maladies, the bank said.  Economic growth has helped increase average life expectancy
to 64 years in South Asia, which includes Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,  Pakistan  and  Sri
Lanka , the report showed. Still, people in the region are aging
without the better  living conditions , improved nutrition, rising
incomes and access to health care that benefit older people in
developed nations, it said.  “This unfair burden is especially harsh on poor people,
who, after heart attacks, face life-long major illnesses, have
to pay for most of their care out of their savings or by selling
their possessions, and then find themselves caught in a poverty
trap where they can’t get better and they can’t work,”  Michael
Engelgau , a senior public health specialist, said in a statement
accompanying the report that he co-wrote.  Cutting tobacco use, alcohol abuse, consumption of
unhealthy fats and excessive salt intake would reduce the burden
of non-communicable disease in the nations, helping boost GDP,
the report showed.  Reducing salt consumption by 15 percent in Bangladesh,  India  and Pakistan would prevent as many as 70 deaths per
100,000 of those at risk of dying from non-communicable disease
over 10 years, according to the report.  “While elimination is not feasible nor a current,
realistic goal, these findings give a sense of the impact that
interventions might have,” the World Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 