-- Two Fed Skeptics of Bond Purchases Say Inflation Underscores Stimulus Risk
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-09/two-fed-skeptics-of-qe-say-inflation-underscores-program-risks.html
Two Federal Reserve Bank presidents
skeptical about the Fed’s $600 billion bond-buying program said
the prospect of accelerating inflation underscores the risk from
a record increase in the central bank’s balance sheet.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said yesterday policy
makers need to take “quite seriously” their commitment to
review the program as the U.S. recovery quickens. The Dallas
Fed’s  Richard Fisher , who votes this year on the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said the central bank is
“pushing the envelope” with its purchases and that he’d oppose
any proposal to do more.  The comments show Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may face
opposition to stepping up the stimulus should he deem it
necessary before the purchases end as scheduled in June, or to
completing the program if the economy speeds up. The FOMC voted
last month to press ahead with so-called quantitative easing to
spur growth and create jobs, even after sparking the harshest
political backlash in three decades.  Lacker, speaking in Newark,  Delaware , said reviewing the
monetary stimulus “will be challenging, because inflation is
capable of accelerating, even if the level of economic activity
has not yet returned to pre-recession trend.”  Fisher, in a Dallas speech yesterday, also flagged the
prospect of inflation.  “I will be at the forefront of the effort to trim back
our Treasury holdings and tighten policy at the earliest sign
that inflationary pressures are moving beyond the commodity
markets and into the general price stream,” he said.  Round Two  Fed policy makers in November announced a second round of
asset purchases to reduce borrowing costs. The program followed
the $1.7 trillion of purchases of mortgage and government debt
that ended in March 2010.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday in
Anniston,  Alabama , that while concerns about the durability of
the recovery are “justified,” he expects the purchases to end
as schedule in June.  “My working assumption is the schedule of purchases, as
stated, is going to be held to closely,” Lockhart told
reporters after his speech.  Neither Lockhart nor Lacker votes this year on the FOMC.  “The distinct improvement we’ve seen in the economic
outlook since the program was initiated suggests taking that re-
evaluation quite seriously,” Lacker said. Replying to a
question during a panel discussion, he said that while the
program shouldn’t end now, a halt may be warranted if job growth
strengthens and gains in  consumer spending  persist.  ‘Close Call’  “I’m not ready to stop it right now, but I think it was
widely recognized that it was a close call as to the costs and
benefits,” Lacker, 55, said at an economic-forecasting forum at
the  University of Delaware . “Growth has come in stronger, at
least for me, than I was expecting over the last couple of
months.”  Speaking with reporters afterward, Lacker declined to say
whether the Fed is likely to halt the purchases or phase them
out. There are a “lot of options,” he said.  Lacker and Fisher are among a minority of Fed policy makers
who have voiced skepticism about the asset purchases. The Fed
has said it will regularly review the pace and size of its
stimulus.  Fisher said in response to questions from reporters that he
expects the Fed to complete the announced purchases and that he
opposes any expansion of the program.  ‘New Information’  “I would not vote for another round of quantitative
easing,” said Fisher, who voted in support of the FOMC’s Jan.
26 decision to press ahead with the purchases. “Unless we
receive new information, I would dissent against any further
programs.”  The  U.S. economy  will display “noticeably stronger
growth” this year and the inflation outlook is “benign,”
Lacker said. He projected price increases this year of 1.5 to 2
percent, and U.S. growth “pretty close to 4 percent.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.4 percent
yesterday to 1,324.57. The index has risen more than 10 percent
since Nov. 3, when the bond purchases were announced. Yields on
10-year Treasuries rose 11 basis points to 3.74 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and were up from 2.57
percent on Nov. 3.  Risks to the economy include a “depressed” housing market
along with foreclosures and a high inventory of vacant homes,
Lacker said. At the same time, the industry represents about 2
1/4 percent of U.S. output, “so the damage this sector is
capable of inflicting is in some sense limited,” he said.  Lockhart said concern about the U.S. economy is warranted
as hiring lags behind economic growth.  ‘Top Concern’  “Main Street is justifiably concerned today about the
sustainability of the modest recovery that’s been under way now
for six quarters, the persistence of high unemployment and the
specter of inflation,” Lockhart said. Unemployment remains a
“top concern” and job growth has been “frustratingly slow.”  Unemployment declined to 9 percent in January from
December’s 9.4 percent, the Labor Department said Feb. 4.
Employers added 36,000 workers, short of the 146,000 median gain
projected in a Bloomberg News surveyed of economists, as winter
storms deterred hiring. The two-month decline in the jobless
rate, which was 9.8 percent in November, was the biggest since
1958.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Newark , Delaware, at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  