-- Karzai Says Afghans to Take Control of U.S.-Run Bagram Prison Within Month
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-01-06T03:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/afghans-will-take-control-of-bagram-prison.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  ordered
the transfer of the U.S.-run Bagram prison to his government’s
control within a month, citing human rights violations.  Karzai decided the transfer should be made after hearing a
report on the prison from the Constitutional Oversight
Commission that  “details many cases of violations of the
Afghan Constitution and other applicable laws of the country,
the relevant international conventions and human rights,” the
president’s office said yesterday in a statement.  The detention center is located in the Bagram Air Base, 30
miles (48 kilometers) north of the capital of Kabul. While the
number of high-value prisoners isn’t known, human rights groups
allege that detainees are kept in solitary confinement in
windowless cells, and have been menaced and forced to strip
naked, the  Associated Press  reported without naming the groups.  The U.S. plans to withdraw most of its 98,000 combat
soldiers from  Afghanistan  by 2014 as it hands over operational
control of the war against the Taliban and al-Qaeda to Afghan
forces. Karzai has clashed with American officials over issues
such as corruption and civilian casualties during the conflict.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said at a
briefing yesterday in  Washington  that the Obama administration
will work with the Afghan government “in a manner that is
maximally responsible” to implement the transfer of control of
detention centers.  The timeline for such transfers “is a matter that we have
to work on with the Afghan government as appropriate mechanisms
are put in place,” she said. “Those discussions are still
ongoing.”  The commission is led by Abdul Rahim Wardak, the Afghan
defense minister, and includes the minister of interior, the
minister of justice and the general director of Afghan
intelligence agency among its members, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  