-- Air India’s U.S. Bank Loan Guarantees Unlawful, Groups Argue
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-06T23:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/air-india-loan-guarantees-by-u-s-export-import-bank-unlawful-groups-say.html
U.S. pilots and airlines asked a
federal judge to stop the Export-Import Bank of the United
States from giving  Air India  $1.3 billion in loan guarantees to
buy Boeing Co. aircraft.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in  Washington  today
heard arguments by trade associations for the largest U.S.
airlines and pilots requesting that he block the guarantees
while he considers their legal challenge. Boasberg said he would
rule on the request by Jan. 13, three days before Boeing is
scheduled to deliver one of its aircraft to Air India.  “It’s highly likely that Air India will put these
airliners on routes in competition with American airlines and
records show zero jobs would be created,”  Robert Bailey , a
lawyer for the Air Line Pilots Association, told the judge.  The  Air Transport Association of America Inc. , now called
Airlines for America, filed the lawsuit in November claiming the
bank didn’t seek public comments or consider the impact on the
U.S. airline industry before approving $1.3 billion in loan
guarantees and $2.1 billion in preliminary commitments to
support the sale of 30 Boeing aircraft to Air India.  At least 27 of those aircraft are the 787 Dreamliner, which
lawyers for the trade groups said are “dramatically
efficient.”  Air India is getting “access to the very best planes in
the world at a subsidized rate,” Michael Kellogg, a lawyer for
the  Air Transport Association , told the judge.  Potential Impact  The groups asked the court to find the loan-guarantee
commitments unlawful, to prevent them from being issued and to
require the Export-Import Bank to study the guarantee’s
potential impact on U.S. industry and jobs.  The Export-Import Bank is a federal agency that provides
loans, loan guarantees and insurance to foreign companies.
According to the lawsuit, the bank’s loan portfolio is
“overwhelmingly devoted” to financing the purchase of
airplanes for export. In fiscal year 2010, air transportation
loans accounted for 47 percent of the bank’s $75.2 billion in
total outstanding loans, the lawsuit claims.  The Air Line Pilots Association intervened in the lawsuit
in the airlines behalf.  The bank argued that the association lacks any legal basis
to challenge the loan commitments and that blocking the
commitments would be disastrous for the 77-year institution.  Market Signal  “It would send a signal to the market that it could no
longer rely on Ex-Im as a guarantor,” Ian Gershengorn, deputy
assistant attorney general in the  Justice Department ’s civil
division, told the judge.  If the Export-Import Bank didn’t guarantee the Air India
loans, the airline would have sought financing elsewhere and
purchased aircraft from Airbus, the world’s largest passenger-
jet maker, Gershengorn said.  “Boeing was awarded a contract of $5 billion with Air
India in large part because of efforts by the bank,” he said.  Gershengorn argued that Congress gave the bank wide
discretion to operate much like a commercial bank.  He also noted that several of the trade group’s largest
members, such as United Air Lines Inc., Continental Airlines
Inc., American Airlines Inc., Atlas Air Inc., Federal Express
Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc., didn’t join the lawsuit.  Chicago-based Boeing isn’t a party in the case.  The case is Air Transport Association of America Inc. v.
Export-Import Bank of the  United States , 11-cv-2024, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  