-- Airbus Wins Order for A380s From Hong Kong Airlines
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-06T13:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/airbus-wins-bulk-order-for-a380s-from-hong-kong-airlines.html
(Corrects to add dropped decimal point in first
paragraph.)  Airbus, the world’s largest
passenger-jet maker, won a contract from  Hong Kong Airlines Ltd. (HKAIRZ) 
for 10 double decker A380s, valued at about $3.8 billion at list
prices.  The planemaker plans to deliver the first A380 to the
Chinese airline, backed by HNA Group, in 2015, Kenneth Thong,
head of corporate governance and international affairs at the
carrier, said in an interview today. Airbus spokesman  Stefan
Schaffrath  declined to comment on orders in advance of a Jan. 17
press conference.  The orders lifts Airbus’s A380 backlog to 188 planes, amid
doubts surrounding  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ’s ability to proceed
with its planned purchase of five A380s. The Indian airline has
reduced flights and in late 2011 deferred delivery of its
orders,which include five Airbus A350-800s, 15 A330s, and 24
A320s, to preserve cash.  “We’re in constant communication with Kingfisher but as
always, we can’t give details about talks with customers,” said
Justin Dubon, a spokesman for Airbus, by telephone from
Toulouse.  Shares of Kingfisher fell the most in three weeks today
after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation in  India 
requested that it provide a recovery plan following financial
and safety audits.  “I don’t see any significant deliveries coming over the
next couple of years for Kingfisher,” said  Kapil Kaul , the
Indian director for CAPA Centre for Aviation, which advises
carriers. “Certainly not this year, not next year, though if
the airline’s performance improves Airbus should be able to keep
the planes in the backlog.”  The  Hong Kong  Air order hasn’t yet appeared in Airbus’s
order and delivery figures on the Internet. It will bring
Airbus’s order tally for A380s to 27 won last year, when the
manufacturer also signed contracts with Japan’s Skymark Airlines
and South Korea’s Asiana Airlines Inc. for six each, and a
further five for Qatar Airways Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  