-- Taiwan Candidates Vow to Contain Home Prices
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-01-06T01:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/taiwan-candidates-vow-to-contain-home-prices.html
Taiwan’s presidential candidates have
vowed to rein in property prices by imposing new taxes, making
surging housing values a key political issue.  President Ma Ying-jeou, the Kuomintang party chairman who
is seeking re-election on Jan. 14, and opposition Democratic
Progressive Party chairwoman Tsai Ing-wen both said they would
introduce a capital gains tax on transactions of properties to
curb speculative buying. Tsai plans to draft the law within a
year, Apple Daily  reported  on Dec. 18.  The new taxes will add to Ma’s earlier efforts to fight
real-estate speculation that led housing prices in the capital
Taipei to more than double since 2000 and reach a record high in
September. Ma has introduced a 15 percent tax on some homes sold
within a year of purchase, and a 10 percent levy on some sold
within two years.  “It’s quite clear that the rise in property prices is
driven by investors speculating on the market, and that’s a
bubble,” said Frank Lin, a Taipei-based analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets. “That has become a social issue and will be
one of the most important election topics, not just this month,
but in the future as well.”  Tsai, who has been campaigning on promises to narrow the
wealth gap and contain property prices, said Ma’s administration
had failed to look after the less privileged.  Taiwan ’s home prices are set to fall this year with the new
taxes, according to CLSA, which commissioned Gallup MRC Taiwan
to conduct public opinion polls to help determine the outcome of
the election next weekend.  Price Declines  Housing prices in Taipei are set to decline 10 percent this
year, said Lin, while those in areas including New Taipei City,
the metropolitan area outside of the capital with one of the
highest vacancy rates on the island, may face a drop of as much
as 20 percent, he said.  The average price of existing homes in Taipei dropped 2.3
percent in November from a record NT$571,000 ($18,870) per ping
(36 square feet) in September, according to Sinyi Realty Co.
Transactions slipped as much as 38 percent in the fourth quarter,
the island’s biggest real-estate brokerage said.  The central bank tightened mortgage lending rules in 2010.  Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. and  Europe  will hurt
Taiwan’s economy, adding to uncertainties in the  property market ,
according to CLSA and Sinyi Realty. Exports account for more
than two-thirds of Taiwan’s gross domestic product.  “The economy is a big unknown facing us at the moment,”
said Stanley Su, chief analyst at Sinyi Realty. “Differences in
the policy directions of the candidates will add to
uncertainties. If we have a political change of power, potential
buyers may be even less willing to make bids.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  