-- Amgen May Join Gilead as Biotechs Seek Acquisitions to Grow
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l ,   R y a n   F l i n n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-01-06T21:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/amgen-may-join-gilead-as-biotechs-seek-acquisitions-to-grow.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  and  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  may dive
into deal-making this year as the biggest biotechnology
companies seek to return to the industry’s high-growth roots.  Amgen and Celgene are trying to boost investor returns that
have lagged behind peers and may have to compete with
traditional acquirers from the pharmaceutical industry, such as
New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co (BMY) , to do
it. In the past five years, the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index has
risen 36 percent while Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology
company, fell 6 percent and Celgene gained 18 percent.  The biotechs have historically been less active than their
pharmaceutical industry counterparts. Bristol-Myers has
completed 17  acquisitions (BMY)  since 2007, a period in which Amgen
had nine and Celgene three.  “We expect the large biotechs to be active acquirers in
2012,” said Henry Gosebruch, managing director of health-care
mergers and acquisitions at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  “Investors
have rewarded strategic acquisitions that enhance long-term
growth and companies that continue their history of developing
innovative therapies, as opposed to turning into dividend-
paying, share-repurchase type low-growth stocks.”  Amgen, based in  Thousand Oaks ,  California , will see a
smorgasbord of potential targets next week at the 30th annual
J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San Francisco.  The meeting will draw 8,000 participants and 395 presenting
companies, according to its host. Bristol-Myers and Pfizer, the
world’s largest drugmaker, will join Amgen, Celgene, based in
Summit,  New Jersey , and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , of Weston,
 Massachusetts , in scouting trips that often pack 200 meetings
into the week.  Biotech’s ‘Lollapalooza’  “It’s certainly a good time to meet not just with
investors, but other companies that may become partners,” said
Patrick Mahaffy, chief executive officer of Boulder, Colorado-
based  Clovis Oncology Inc. (CLVS) , which will present at the conference
for the first time.  The meeting, which Mahaffy described as the health-care
industry’s “Lollapalooza,” is a chance for smaller companies
to impress the crowd, he said.  Companies looking to buy assets or forge partnerships
attend the start-of-the-year conference with new budgets and
fresh investment track records, JPMorgan’s Gosebruch said.
Biotech and medical-device companies use presentations to set
expectations for the year, and investor reaction can be a
barometer of their ability to stay independent.  Temperature Check  “It’s always a bit of a temperature check on how people
feel about the year,” Gosebruch said. “People pay pretty
careful attention to what those companies will say at the
conference about their objectives and milestones.”  Amgen gained less than 1 percent to $64.76 at the close in
 New York , while  Gilead (GILD)  Sciences Inc. rose less than 1 percent to
$42.78. Celgene declined 1.9 percent to $67.22, and Biogen
increased less than 1 percent to $115.50.  Gilead’s $10.8 billion purchase of Princeton, New Jersey-
based  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) , announced Nov. 21, was the highest
valuation on record for drug-industry acquisitions greater than
$500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gilead
agreed to pay 70 times the net assets of Pharmasset, a maker of
hepatitis C drugs, 94 percent higher than the company’s 20-day
trading average.  ‘Enormous Premiums’  “That’s what we’re starting to see now,” said Raghuram Selvaraju, an analyst with Morgan Joseph TriArtisan Group in New
York. “There’s much more willingness for big companies to pay
enormous premiums to get control of high-value assets.”  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , suggested
Amgen should be shopping. The biotech had $17.7 billion in  cash (AMGN) 
and short-term investments as of Sept. 30, compared with $8.2
billion held by Bristol-Myers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Amgen, with a market value of $56.5 billion, declared its
first quarterly dividend last year, and announced a $10 billion
buyback program, promising to return more value to stockholders.
It’s not enough for investors, RBC’s Yee suggested.  “This company has not had a successful history of business
development,” Yee said in an interview after Amgen announced
Dec. 15 that CEO Kevin Sharer would be replaced in May by Chief
Operating Officer Robert Bradway.  “Amgen needs to go on an aggressive business development
spree to in-license and partner high-impact new drugs in Phase 2
so they can have Phase 3 read-outs over the next three to five
years,” Yee said.  Amgen’s Largest Deal  Amgen’s largest deal in the past five years was its $425
million purchase of BioVex Group Inc. in 2010 for its
experimental cancer drugs. One of the BioVex drugs, Oncovex for
skin cancer, is in late-stage testing along with trebananib, for
ovarian cancer, and ganitumab, a therapy for pancreatic cancer,
according to data collected by Bloomberg.  Mary Klem, an Amgen company spokeswoman, said, future
acquisitions by the company “will be borne out of our growth
strategy, including our desire to expand our global footprint.”  Companies with market values of $3 billion to $10 billion
may be the most likely targets for larger biotechs, JPMorgan’s
Gosebruch said. That’s a shift from 2010, when French drugmaker
Sanofi pursued Genzyme Corp., the largest maker of medicines for
rare diseases, in a deal worth $20.1 billion that closed last
April.  Celgene’s largest buy was its $2.8 billion purchase of
Pharmion Corp. in 2007. The company, with a market value of
$30.4 billion, also has completed seven other equity or
partnership deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Celgene’s Medicines  “We’re constantly out there canvassing what’s going on in
hematology and oncology to make sure we’re on top of technology
and compounds that are in development,” said Chief Financial
Officer Jacqualyn Fouse, in an August interview. “If the right
thing comes along, we can and will do it.”  Celgene has two experimental drugs, including the cancer
treatment pomalidomide, in Phase 3 testing, the last of three
stages usually required for U.S. regulatory approval. Four
existing products are in late testing for additional uses, said
Brian Gill, a Celgene spokesman.  “Celgene has been very active on the business development
front and will continue to work in partnerships with
companies,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  While biotechnology stocks outperformed the broader market
last year, newly public drugmakers and companies trying to sell
new products found conditions more difficult, ripening their
takeover prospects.  The  Nasdaq Biotechnology Index (NBI)  gained 12 percent in 2011,
compared with little change in the  Standard & Poor’s  500;
however,  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN)  and  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  brought
their first drugs to the market with disappointing early sales,
and dropped 78 percent and 69 percent, respectively.  Share Sales  Some newly public biotechs are in a similar position.
Eleven of 20 drugmakers to have initial public offerings since
2010 have declined, with six falling 60 percent or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are a lot of biotech companies that have become
public over the years that really were either not prepared, or
the kind of companies that weren’t well-positioned to be public
entities,” Robert Moore, general partner at Frazier Healthcare
Ventures, said in an interview. “They were going public because
it was their least costly form of capital they could raise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  