-- Manchester United May Move for Lampard, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-06T11:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/manchester-united-may-move-for-lampard-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  United for Lampard  Manchester United  is considering signing Chelsea’s Frank Lampard and the midfielder may be interested in moving to Old
Trafford, the  Daily Mail said .  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has a shortage in midfield
because of injuries and wants Lampard to help keep pace with
Premier League leader  Manchester City , which has a 3-point
advantage, the newspaper said.  Lampard, 33, is in the final 18 months of his contract and
wouldn’t command a significant fee though United’s board will
have to be convinced of his value given the player’s current
salary of 140,000 pounds ($217,000) per week, the Mail added.  Lampard, who’s in his 11th season with the Blues, has been
benched for the first time in his Chelsea career as manager
Andre Villas-Boas has relied on other players.  Ganso Move?  Tottenham may offer 15 million pounds to bring Santos and
Brazil national team player Pablo Henrique Ganso to the Premier
League after the midfielder’s agent arrived in  London  for talks,
the  Telegraph said .  Ganso has been linked with European clubs including
Manchester United, AC Milan and  Inter Milan , the newspaper said.  Santos president Luis Oliveira said recently that the team
would be willing to listen to offers for the 22-year-old should
he wish to leave. The deal would see 55 percent of the fee go to
a third party that owns that percentage of Ganso’s rights, the
Telegraph added.  West London Transfer  Queens Park Rangers is close to signing Fulham striker
Andrew Johnson after Blackburn’s bid faltered on a lack of
finances, the  Daily Mail  said.  QPR may make space in its squad for Johnson by trading Jay Bothroyd to Celtic.  Faulty Coin  A new soccer-themed coin designed to explain the offside
rule is out of date, the  Guardian  said.  The diagram appears to illustrate the offside law as it was
until 1995, and not the latest form of the regulation, the
newspaper said.  The coin is one of 29 produced to commemorate the  Olympic
Games  which will be held in London later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 