-- Apple Is Gaining on Microsoft in Corporate-Technolgy Market, Report Finds
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-06T21:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/apple-gaining-on-microsoft-in-enterprise-sales-report-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is becoming a favorite of
information technology departments, with the popularity of the
iPad and Mac computers eroding what businesses are spending on
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  machines, according to a new report.  The Cupertino, California-based company will sell $10
billion worth of iPads and $9 billion of Mac computers to
enterprise customers this year, a 58 percent jump,  Forrester
Research Inc. (FORR)  said in its global IT market outlook report. By
contrast, computers and tablets running Microsoft’s Windows
software will decline 3 percent this year.  Apple is the “biggest disruptive force in the computer
equipment market,” Forrester said in the report released today.  The company is leading the so-called consumerization of IT,
in which people use technology gadgets for both personal and
work tasks. By expanding its leadership in consumer electronics
to business customers, Apple is bucking a global slowdown in IT
spending. Forrester estimates that global IT purchases will rise
5 percent to $2.12 trillion in 2012, versus last year’s 10
percent growth rate, as companies ratchet back spending amid a
sluggish global economy.  Apple doesn’t break down how much of its sales are from
business customers, though in October it said that 92 percent of
Fortune 500 companies are testing or deploying the iPad.
Forrester said that Apple isn’t doing much to drive the sales
and that businesses are adopting its devices because of their
popularity for personal use.  “The Apple assault on the corporate market has so far
taken place without much formal Apple support, and probably with
Apple itself understanding its full extent,” Forrester said.  Microsoft software and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  semiconductors still
dominate the corporate market. Businesses are projected to buy
$69 billion worth of Windows-Intel PCs and tablets in 2012, and
$68 billion in 2013, the report said. Apple’s Mac and iPad sales
to businesses will total $28 billion in 2013, according to
Forrester.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  