-- Apple’s Siri Doubles IPhone Data Volumes
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-06T15:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/apple-s-voice-recognition-siri-doubles-iphone-data-volumes.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s voice recognition
software Siri has prompted owners of the iPhone 4S to use almost
twice as much data compared with the handset’s predecessor,
placing greater pressure on operators, network firm Arieso said.  “Voice is the ultimate human interface,” Arieso Chief
Technology Officer Michael Flanagan said in an interview in
London. Voice recognition is prompting consumers to use their
smartphones’ functions more often, he said. Arieso advises
clients such as  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Nokia
Siemens Networks Oy on how to manage wireless networks.  Apple brought in Siri, dubbed a virtual personal assistant,
in its latest iPhone update in October. With a few spoken words,
the artificial-intelligence feature helps iPhone users schedule
appointments, write  text messages  and check the local weather.
Arieso, based in Atlanta, said it measured more than 1 million
subscribers across a single European network in both urban and
rural areas, without identifying the operator.  The strain of data-intensive devices may place additional
pressure on mobile operators as they build out faster networks.
Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. carrier, said this week the
number of iPhones it sold doubled to 4.2 million in the fourth
quarter.  Network Load  AT&T Inc (T) , which last year lost the exclusive U.S. rights to
the iPhone, has been criticized for dropped calls and network
coverage among high-use areas such as New York and  San
Francisco .  A London-based Apple spokesman said he couldn’t immediately
comment. The iPhone 4S, the latest update of Apple’s best-
selling product, is its first major release since the death of
 Steve Jobs , who helped guide the company’s product design and
marketing.  Apple rose 0.7 percent to $421.14 in New York trading today
as of 10:50 a.m.  While the iPhone is the world’s most popular smartphone,
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software is more widely used, showing up
in devices from Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp.  The iPhone 4S’ regular connections with Apple’s servers to
synchronize applications including music lists may also
contribute to the data load, Flanagan said.  Operators have sought to limit their data tariffs to
prevent heavy use as subscribers record high-definition video
and images and browse the Internet and play music on their
phones. Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator, has
shifted toward consumption-based billing to protect its network
capacity.  ‘Getting Hungrier’  Arieso’s research showed that a minority of users account
for half of downloaded data. About one percent of the high-use
subscribers downloaded half of the data volumes, according to
the company. “The hungry are getting hungrier,” Flanagan said.  An average user of  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s latest
BlackBerry smartphones, the Curve and the Bold Touch, downloads
about 20 percent of the data of an iPhone 4S subscriber,
according to Arieso. While RIM compresses data, the company’s
traditional business users also use fewer applications beyond e-
mail, Flanagan said.  The proliferation of voice command software may accelerate
as more manufacturers adopt the technology, Flanagan said.
“What makes Apple unique is that they have done it first
successfully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  