-- Argentine Drought May Be Worst for Crops in Over 70 Years
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-06T19:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/argentine-drought-may-be-worst-for-crops-in-more-than-70-years.html
Dry weather that’s hurting soybean
and corn crops in  Argentina  may cause more damage than the
2008-2009 drought that was the worst in 70 years, a farming
group said today, disputing a government statement.  The current spell of hot, dry weather covers more area and
started earlier in the season than the previous drought, the
Argentine Association of Regional Consortia for Agricultural
Experimentation said in an e-mailed statement today.  That contradicts Argentina’s National Institute for Farming
Technology, which said it’s “optimistic” the weather situation
will improve. While precipitation levels in December were “way
below average,” the drought can “in no way be compared to what
happened in 2008,” Carlos Casamiquela, the institute’s head,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Corn and soybean crops are suffering after weeks of low
rainfall in Argentina and southern  Brazil  because of the La Nina
weather pattern. Argentina’s soybean output plunged by almost a
third to 32 million tons in the 2008-2009 season from 46.2
million tons a year earlier.  Farmers were forecast to produce about 53 million tons of
the crop this season, then-Agriculture Minister Julian Dominguez
said Nov. 29.  Corn for March delivery was unchanged at $6.435 a bushel on
the Chicago Board of Trade at 1:27 p.m. Soybeans for delivery in
March fell 1.3 percent to $11.9375 a bushel.  Critical Situation  The situation is “critical” for corn in parts of Buenos
Aires because of the lack of rain and lack of soil moisture, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said in its weekly crop report today. The
corn crop is 88 percent planted, soybeans are 89 percent planted
and wheat is 91 percent harvested, according to the report.
Argentina is the world’s second-biggest corn exporter.  “The situation could improve slightly if there is
significant rainfall over the next few days,” the ministry
said, “though the probability of that phenomenon happening is
low or none.”  The next rainstorm is forecast for Jan. 10, Martin Fraguio,
executive director of the corn growers’ association Maizar, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  