-- Argentina Relaxes Wheat-Export System After Farm Group Pressure
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-01-06T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/argentina-relaxes-wheat-export-system-after-farm-group-pressure.html
Argentina,  Latin America ’s biggest
wheat producer, agreed to eliminate most export quotas after
pressure from farmers who said that the system hinders sales,
and a similar reform for corn shipments may follow.  The revised system will require about 7 million metric tons
of wheat to be reserved for domestic supply and farmers will be
allowed to export the remainder under certain conditions,
Agriculture Minister Norberto Yauhar told reporters yesterday.
Output from the current harvest, which is 93 percent complete,
may be 13 million to 14 million tons, he said.  Farm groups have pressured President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government to remove the quota system, which has left
producers with excess stock they can’t sell. Increased shipments
from  Argentina  may swell global supplies and help to extend the
grain’s 20 percent decline in  Chicago  over the past year.  Growers will now be able to export wheat crops “as they
please” providing they meet conditions, such as being able to
deliver the physical goods or holding certain futures contracts,
Yauhar said in Buenos Aires.  Similar measures are likely to be taken for corn exports,
Agriculture Undersecretary Oscar Solis said at the same media
conference. No final decision has yet been made for corn
shipments, according to Solis.  Wheat for March delivery fell 3.2 percent to $6.2925 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday, the most since
Dec. 14. Corn and soybeans also dropped on speculation that
rains will revive dry fields in  South America , boosting
prospects for global grain production.  Increased Forecast  Wheat growers may produce 2.9 percent more than forecast a
week ago because of favorable weather, the Buenos Aires Cereals
Exchange said yesterday. Output should reach 14 million tons, up
from the 13.6 million ton week-earlier estimate.  A prolonged spell of dry, warm weather that has hurt the
development of soybean and corn crops, is helping wheat growers
harvest faster and avoid damage caused by moisture in silos. The
drought came as soybean and corn crops were being planted and
needed soil humidity to grow. The harm to soybean and corn crops
also led farmers to focus more on wheat harvesting, avoiding
losses, the exchange said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  