-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania’s Debt Driven Up by Profit From Fees, Lawyer Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/harrisburg-pennsylvania-debt-driven-by-profit-from-fees-lawyer-asserts.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) ’s incinerator debt, which
pushed  Pennsylvania ’s capital into insolvency, generated $49.1
million in fees to raise $310 million, a sign that the sales
were at least partly driven by the profit they generated, said
 Mark Schwartz , a bankruptcy lawyer for the City Council.  Documents provided by Schwartz that summarize some of the
debt sales tied to the trash-to-energy plant from 1998 to 2007
show the Harrisburg Authority paid $39.7 million in fees,
including premiums for bond insurance. He said he has additional
evidence showing that the total surpassed $49 million.  “Clearly it was the obvious profit motive of the
participants which drove these public-finance transactions,” he
wrote in a report to the council. The payments went to bankers,
consultants, lawyers and others connected to the sales.  Typically, municipal-bond sales incur fees of less than 2
percent of the money raised, excluding insurance costs, said
Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. Schwartz’s report indicates
the fees reached almost 16 percent for the Harrisburg Authority.  “Forty-nine million is ridiculously high,” said
Christopher Taylor, executive director of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board from 1978 to 2007. “You’re sitting
there with excessive profit, no doubt about it.”  Harrisburg itself, as well as Dauphin County, which
includes the city, each received fees for guaranteeing some of
the debt, which Taylor called uncommon.  Auditors Examining  Schwartz produced his report as the incinerator financings
are being audited by the Harrisburg Authority, the municipal
agency that owns the incinerator.  David Unkovic, the city’s state-appointed receiver, has
called the fees “disturbing” and has asked lawyers to assist
in the authority’s examination of the deals.  Unkovic has until Feb. 6 to produce a plan for Harrisburg
to cope with its debt, which amounts to five times its general-
fund budget. The proposal may call for sales of assets,
including the incinerator.  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500 on the Susquehanna River, in
2003 overhauled the waste-burning plant that was in violation of
environmental rules. While now running near capacity, it doesn’t
produce enough revenue to cover its costs including the debt.  Schwartz said debt continued to be piled on the project
even though the incinerator was operating in deficit and there
was no performance bond to protect the city. He flagged a 2007
deal in which $28 million was used to pay fees and less than $2
million went into project accounts.  “This issue showed the degree to which THA, the city and
the county were addicted to incurring debt to pay for
anything,” Schwartz said in the report, referring to the
Harrisburg Authority. “It is also testimony to Wall Street’s
ability to market any piece of junk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  