-- As Best Anyone-But-Mitt Choice, Santorum Can Win: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-01-06T00:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/as-best-not-romney-choice-santorum-can-win-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Even after a surging Rick Santorum
had tied  Mitt Romney  in the Iowa caucuses,  Intrade , the
predictions market for politics, put Santorum’s chances for the
Republican presidential nomination at less than 5 percent.
Traders apparently think Romney will win because he has the
funding and organization.  This shows why investors should stick to making money on
companies, not candidates.  Although Romney remains the favorite, this now looks to me
like an emerging two-man race, especially if Saturday’s Texas
conclave of social conservative leaders rallies around Santorum.
( Rick Perry ’s reversal of his decision to withdraw could
complicate that.) Because money follows momentum, Santorum now
has a good shot at mounting a stiff challenge to a stiff front-
runner who, despite his peerless establishment support, has
shown little ability to appeal to three-quarters of today’s GOP.  On Tuesday, Romney will finally break 25 percent among his
summer-home neighbors in  New Hampshire , where his business-class
profile fits the state well even though he lost there in 2008.
Romney may win handily but won’t beat the expectations spread,
thanks in large part to  Jon Huntsman ’s traction (every one of
his votes comes from Romney’s hide) and the likelihood of a
withering assault from a steamed  Newt Gingrich  in two debates
this weekend. Santorum, in single digits in New Hampshire this
week, almost certainly will surpass the forecasts. The old mill
towns of the northern part of the state contain the same blue-
collar Catholics who were his base for so many years in
Pennsylvania, and they’ll probably respond well to his message
about the manufacturing sector.  The ‘Right’ Stuff  Then it’s on to Mormon-unfriendly  South Carolina  on Jan.
21, where Gingrich and Perry will mercilessly pummel Romney, an
assault that -- like every instance of negative campaigning --
will pull down all three of them and benefit Santorum.
(Gingrich, by the way, blames Romney’s super PAC ads for his
dwindling prospects, but those ads only ran in Iowa and not the
rest of the country, where Gingrich also tumbled out of serious
contention.)  Florida , 10 days later, is a Tea Party state, which
favors Santorum (or Gingrich), though Jeb Bush’s team is mostly
with Romney. The big Super Tuesday states are swayed less by
money and organization than by the center of gravity in the
party, which will eventually produce an ABM (Anyone But Mitt)
candidate, most likely Santorum.  In the scrum, Romney will try to make Santorum out to be an
earmarking errand-boy for the welfare state (already a theme on
right-wing blogs). Santorum will reply that he was actually a
Senate floor manager of the landmark 1996 welfare reform, and
then pivot to pound Romney on “Romneycare.” Running to
Santorum’s right will be as futile as, say, challenging Barry Goldwater’s conservative credentials in the 1964 primaries. And
Gingrich isn’t likely to try. He praised Santorum extensively in
his  Iowa  concession speech before telling radio host  Laura Ingraham  that he sees himself and his old wingman from the House
as teammates.  For years, the news media has snickered about Santorum, a
dour scold whose belief that all same-sex marriages should be
annulled is only one of the  views  that reporters and Democrats
(if that isn’t redundant) find abhorrent. His “I’m for
inequality” provocations, defense of discrimination against
people with pre-existing medical conditions, opposition to  food
stamps , belief that exceptions from abortion laws in the case of
rape and incest are “phony,” and pre-Vatican II view that
contraceptives are “a license to do things in a sexual realm
that is counter to how things are supposed to be” all render him
a likely loser in the general election.  Changing His Game  But not in the Republican primaries, where candidates see
no percentage in parsing the extremist statements of their
rivals. (Santorum’s false implication last week that food stamps
go mostly to blacks got little attention within the GOP.)
Because he knows that a good chunk of the party is conservative
fiscally but moderate socially, Santorum can be expected to tamp
down his holier-than-thou act and stress economic themes.  He’s already adapting his game to reflect more of the
middle-class pragmatism that got him elected statewide twice in
blue  Pennsylvania , where in 2004 he pleased moderates and
enraged conservative activists by endorsing pro-choice  Arlen Specter  over reliably conservative  Pat Toomey  in a GOP primary.  A rangier Rick, more ready for The Show, was on display
late Tuesday when both Santorum and Romney addressed supporters
in Des Moines after midnight. These victory speeches were seen
only by night owls and those of us who inspect political
horseflesh for a living. But if they’re indicative of future
performance, superconfident Romney aides are indulging in false
bravado.  A smiling Santorum was gracious and moving. He even showed
a little self-effacing humor, joking about his widening
waistline. He kept the God talk to a minimum and articulated a
vision based on his grandfather, an immigrant coal miner, that
didn’t seem conspicuously right-wing. He explained how his
proven appeal in working-class Democratic districts made him
electable. Most of all, he seemed authentic, the most elusive
and critical ingredient in politics.  Romney, by contrast, cobbled together bits of his stump
speech into an off-key mishmash. His peroration on the campaign
as a struggle “for the soul of America” was soulless. When he
asked that the veterans in the crowd identify themselves, it
didn’t escape notice that none of his four sons on the stage
raised a hand. Like a Ginsu knife salesman, he was trying too
hard.  Potential Pitfalls  Of course, if Santorum is like  Mike Huckabee , the 2008
winner in Iowa, and has no talent for fundraising and
organization, he’ll lose. If Romney, as expected, maintains his
dominance in debates, Santorum will lose. Or he may simply blow
himself up. After strong House and Senate campaigns in 1990,
1992, 1994 and 2000, he lost by 17 points to  Bob Casey  in his
bid for a third Senate term in 2006. Santorum was so obtuse in
that campaign that he tried to explain away accepting $73,000
from a local school district for home-schooling his children
when his family was actually living most of the time in
 Virginia . Instead of sweeping his defeat under the carpet, he
needs a humble explanation of how it changed him.  Yet if he softens his views on women’s issues (not so hard
for a politician), nearly everything else about him fits the
temper of his party, from draconian budget cuts to the class
resentments that always arise in a deep recession. The
comparisons this week to  Ronald Reagan  were overdrawn. But so
were those to  Michele Bachmann .  Rick Santorum  is the old-new
face of the GOP. Don’t be shocked to see him accept the
nomination late this summer in Tampa, Florida.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 