-- Asian Refiners Seek Iran Oil Alternatives on Disruption Threat
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2012-01-06T11:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/asian-refiners-seek-iran-oil-alternatives-on-disruption-threat.html
Refiners in Asia, the destination for
65 percent of  Iran ’s oil exports, are seeking alternative
sources of crude in the event of a supply disruption from the
world’s fourth-largest producer.  Taiwan’s  Formosa Petrochemical Corp. (6505)  bought extra crude
and naphtha cargoes, Tsao Mihn, the company president, said in a
phone interview today.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. (5020) , Japan’s
biggest processor, is in talks with Saudi Arabia to replace
shipments in case Iranian supplies are halted, President Yasushi Kimura told reporters yesterday in Tokyo.  The U.S. and European Union are seeking help from Asian
allies to reduce oil revenues for Iran, which is suspected of
trying to develop nuclear weapons. Brent crude is poised for a 
5.4 percent gain this week after the country threatened to
block the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the
world’s crude, in retaliation for further sanctions.   “Iranian oil is a very big deal to  Asia ,” said  Victor Shum , a senior principal at energy consultants Purvin & Gertz
Inc. in Singapore. “They have to show efforts that they are
really making attempts to seek alternative supplies” to show
the U.S. and  Europe  they are backing the sanctions, he said.  Iran exported an average of 2.53 million barrels a day in
the first nine months of 2011, according to the Dec. 13 Monthly
Oil Market report from the International Energy Agency. Asia
took 65 percent of those supplies, the report said.  China   purchased (CCCIIQIR)  550,000 barrels a day, or 22 percent of
Iran’s exports, during the period, the IEA reported. That’s
followed by India’s 310,000 daily barrels, or 12 percent of
shipments.  Japan   bought (JPCIIRAN)  327,000 barrels a day, or 13 percent,
over the first nine months of last year and  South Korea 
accounted for 9 percent, according to the IEA.  Bank Sanctions  Taiwan received 4.3 percent of its oil supplies from Iran
in the first 10 months of last year, according to the website of
the Asian country’s energy bureau.  Banks doing business with the  Central Bank  of Iran would be
blocked from the U.S. financial system under a law passed on
Dec. 31. The sanctions would curtail the ability of U.S. allies
South Korea and Japan to pay for oil imports. EU foreign
ministers plan to sharpen their sanctions on Iran’s energy and
banking industries at a Jan. 30 meeting.  The Obama administration is “likely to give waivers” to
those countries using the Iranian central bank to “avoid
conflict with their allies,” according to a report from Facts
Global Energy, a consultant based in Singapore.  Refiners in Japan and South Korea may be highlighting their
search for alternative suppliers to show they are taking the
sanctions seriously in order to help convince the U.S. to grant
the waivers, said Purvin & Gertz’s Shum.  The companies need “to demonstrate to the West how
difficult it is,” said Shum. “This is in a way part of showing
the efforts.”  Reduce Imports  Some processors, including Japan’s  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  and
Taiwan’s  CPC Corp. (CPC) , have cut the amount they buy from Iran.  CPC, Taiwan’s largest refiner, has reduced its imports to
about 4.7 percent of total purchases last year from 11 percent
in 2010, Lin Maw-Wen, the state-run refiner’s president, said by
phone today.  Iranian crude accounts for only about 2 percent of Tokyo-
based Idemitsu’s supply, so it wouldn’t have to take
countermeasures in the event of an embargo, spokesman Kei
Uchikawa said in a phone interview today.  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007) , which is partly owned by Abu Dhabi, had
taken no steps to replace its Iranian crude imports, which
account for 12.1 percent of its supply, because it was waiting
for guidance from the government, Katsuhisa Maeda, a spokesman
for the Tokyo-based refiner, said by phone.  Geithner Visit  Japanese officials are studying how the country would
respond to a curb on Iranian crude imports and are discussing
the matter with their U.S. counterparts, Trade and Industry
Minister  Yukio Edano  told reporters today.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  plans to hold talks on
the embargo next week in  Tokyo  during a visit that also includes
a stop in Beijing. Japan intends to express its concerns about
an embargo during the discussions, Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura said today.  South Korea said that it would look for alternative
suppliers because of the sanctions, according to a joint
statement from government ministries yesterday.  SK Innovation Co., South Korea’s biggest refiner, was
monitoring the situation, Chung Tae Hoon, a spokesman for the
Seoul-based company, said in a phone interview. He didn’t give
details about steps the company is taking.  A spokesman at Hyundai Oilbank Co., South Korea’s fourth-
largest refiner, declined to comment, saying the topic is too
sensitive.  Brent Rally  Brent crude futures, trading at 113.22 a barrel today in
 London , may rally to $125 should Europe ban imports, according
to Societe Generale SA. Such a move would require about 600,000
barrels a day of replacement supply from  Saudi Arabia , said  Mike
Wittner , the bank’s head of oil market research for the
Americas, in a phone interview on Jan. 4.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, will ship
crude from its ports on the Red Sea if the Strait of Hormuz is
blocked, Riyadh newspaper reported Dec. 31, citing an
unidentified official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  