-- Stocks End Lower as Jobs Gains Fail to Impress
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-01-06T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/asian-stocks-oil-decline-on-europe-concern.html
Stocks dropped, trimming a weekly
gain, as faster-than-forecast growth in U.S. jobs failed to lift
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index above its October high.
Treasuries rose as Federal Reserve Bank of New York President
 William Dudley  said more monetary accommodation is appropriate.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent to
close at 1,277.81 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming its weekly
gain to 1.6 percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 55.78
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,359.92. Treasury 10-year yields
fell four basis points to 1.96 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index ended little changed as  Germany ’s DAX Index tumbled 0.6
percent and the euro traded at a 15-month low versus the dollar.
 Natural gas  and heating oil led gains in commodities.  While U.S. employers added more workers to payrolls than
forecast in December and the jobless rate fell to an almost
three-year low, the growth did not beat estimates by as wide a
margin as data from ADP Employer Services yesterday that helped
trigger gains in equities. A 4.8 percent decrease in German
factory orders was the biggest decline in almost three years and
fueled concern that  Europe  was heading into a recession.  “A lot of people knew or suspected that the U.S. number
would be a pretty good number but there’s still concerns about
the economic growth in Europe,”  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage
$23.5 billion at Security Global Investors in Irvington, New
York, said in a phone interview. “Germany had some economic
numbers that were disappointing.”  Alcoa Slips  Alcoa Inc. slid 2.1 percent to help lead the Dow lower
after saying it will cut smelting capacity by 12 percent amid a
slump in the price of aluminum due to a global surplus. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley fell at least 1.2 percent as
analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group LLC and Ticonderoga Securities LLC lowered the
banks’ fourth-quarter earnings estimates. Bank of America Corp.
lost 2.1 percent.   Banks  (BKX) also retreated after an Obama administration
official, who asked for anonymity, late yesterday denied
speculation that the White House is considering a trillion-
dollar plan to refinance home loans. Bank of America surged 8.6
percent yesterday amid speculation the U.S. may introduce a new
mortgage refinancing program.  Alcoa is scheduled to mark the unofficial start of the
fourth-quarter earnings season on Jan. 9. Profit at  S&P 500 
companies rose 6 percent during the September-December period,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which
would mark the slowest growth since the third quarter of 2009.  Jobs Data  The 200,000 increase in jobs last month followed a revised
100,000 gain in November that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed. Private payrolls
increased by 212,000, beating the median economist estimate by
19 percent. ADP’s payroll figures yesterday showed employers
added 325,000 jobs, topping forecasts by 83 percent. The jobless
rate dropped to 8.5 percent, compared with the median forecast
of 8.7 percent.  Delivery companies such as FedEx Corp. and United Parcel
Service Inc. added 42,200 jobs to payrolls in December, about a
fifth of the total for all employers last month, as holiday
shopping on the Internet spurred hiring of delivery drivers and
warehouse workers. History indicates the gain will be followed
by a similar-sized loss in January.  ‘Need More Catalysts’  With the S&P 500 this week approaching its highest closing
levels since Oct. 28 and Aug. 1, chart levels fixated investors
today. The index ended yesterday at 1,281.06, within 0.4 percent
of its highest close since Aug. 1. Its  relative strength index (SPX) ,
a measure of how fast prices have risen in the last two weeks,
was 61.2. Readings above 70 are considered by some traders as
evidence a rally has been too rapid.  “The feeling in the market is that we need more catalysts
to break above the resistance levels we are bumping up against
right now,” Dan McMahon, director of equity trading at Raymond
James Financial Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re in the high end of the trading range that we’ve been
stuck in since August.”  Thirty-year U.S. bond yields dropped five basis points to
3.02 percent.  Dudley called on the U.S. government to try new programs to
revive the housing market while saying the central bank may
still consider ways to cut  interest rates .  “Implementing such policies would improve the economic
outlook and make monetary accommodation more effective,” Dudley
said today in a speech to bankers in Iselin,  New Jersey . At the
same time, it’s “appropriate” for the Fed to consider steps to
ease monetary policy, he said.  Oil, Natural Gas  Crude oil, which surged to the highest price in almost
eight months this week, slipped 25 cents to settle at $101.56 a
barrel in New York, trimming its weekly advance to 2.8 percent.
Natural gas climbed 2.8 percent to settle at $3.062 per million
British thermal units on forecasts of below-normal temperatures
later this month.  Among European stocks,  UniCredit SpA  (UCG) sank 11 percent,
bringing its three-day plunge to 37 percent since Italy’s
biggest lender priced a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.5 billion) rights
offer at a discount. Mitchells & Butlers Plc, the Birmingham,
England-based pub owner, jumped 8.7 percent after Morgan Stanley
recommended the stock.  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, dropping as
much as 0.7 percent versus the dollar to a 15-month low of
$1.2698 before paring losses and trading at $1.2721. Yields on
10-year Spanish bonds climbed seven basis points to 5.71 percent
and Italian yields increased four basis points to 7.13 percent.
German 10-year bund yields were little changed at 1.85 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
six trading partners, rose 0.4 percent to 81.26, the highest
end-of-day level since September.  Emerging Markets   The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 0.6 percent,
cutting this week’s gain to 1.1 percent.  South Korea ’s Kospi
Index declined 1.1 percent and the won weakened against all 16
major counterparts as financial regulators said they were
investigating the spreading of rumors about an explosion in
 North Korea . The nation’s stock exchange said it will probe
whether there were any “unusual” trades made to profit from
sudden market moves.  Hungary’s BUX Index slipped 0.7 percent, extending its
weekly loss to 5.1 percent. Hungarian bonds pared gains after
 Fitch Ratings  became the third company in two months to cut the
country’s credit ranking to junk as the government worked to
restart talks on an international bailout. Ten-year government
bonds yields fell 32 basis points to 10.08 percent, after
dropping as low as 9.9 percent earlier, according to generic
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.7 percent, snapping a
two-day, 2.3 percent drop, on speculation the central bank will
cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios to boost lending to small
companies hurt by a cash crunch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  