-- Asian Currencies Slide This Week, Led by Rupiah, on Europe Crisis Concern
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-01-06T09:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/asian-currencies-slide-this-week-led-by-rupiah-on-europe-crisis-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah and South Korea’s
won led declines in Asian currencies this week on speculation
investors will favor safer assets than those in  emerging markets 
as Europe struggles to contain its debt crisis.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index fell for a second
week after  France ’s borrowing costs rose at a debt auction
yesterday. The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index of shares lost 1.9
percent after Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said Jan. 4
the economy could collapse as early as March if the country
doesn’t accept income cuts needed to secure foreign aid. Asian
currency losses were limited after data showed hiring by private
employers in the U.S. beat economists’ estimates.  “Asian currencies have been under downward pressure on
 Europe ’s lingering debt crisis,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a trader
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Bangkok. “We have seen
solid U.S. data, which lends some support.”  The rupiah slumped 1.5 percent this week to 9,208 per
dollar as of 3:34 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from
local banks compiled by Bloomberg. South Korea’s won weakened
0.9 percent to 1,162.75 and the Philippine peso dropped 0.7
percent to 44.138. Thailand’s baht slid 0.2 percent to 31.63.  France sold 10-year bonds at an average yield of 3.29
percent at yesterday’s auction, up from 3.18 percent on Dec. 1.
In the U.S., private employers added 325,000 workers to payrolls
in December, according to figures released yesterday. That was
the biggest increase in records going back to 2001 and exceeded
the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 38
economists.  Indonesia Rates  The rupiah dropped for a third week on speculation the
central bank will cut  interest rates  after official data showed
the  inflation (IDCPI)  rate fell to a 21-month low of 3.79 percent in
December.  Bank Indonesia , which cut its benchmark  reference (IDBIRATE)  rate
by a total 75 basis points last quarter to 6 percent, is due to
next review it on Jan. 12. The monetary authority sees room to
reduce borrowing costs if needed, Deputy Governor Hartadi
Sarwono said in Singapore yesterday.  “Another rate cut of 25 basis points to 50 basis points is
expected in the first quarter,” said Wiwig Santoso, head of
treasury and markets at PT Bank DBS Indonesia in Jakarta.  The won’s losses were partly driven by “investors
demanding the dollar after rumors today on  North Korea ,”
according to Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based senior currency dealer
with Hana Bank.  South Korea ’s Financial Supervisory Service said today it
was investigating talk spreading through markets that an
explosion had occurred in North Korea.  Peso, Yuan  The peso dropped for a second week as government figures
showed inflation eased to an 11-month low last month, boosting
scope for an interest-rate cut.  Annual inflation in the Philippines was 4.2 percent last
month, compared with 4.8 percent in November, official data
showed yesterday. The report added to confidence that price
pressures will be manageable, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday in a mobile-phone message. The monetary
authority has room to reduce borrowing costs and may review the
benchmark rate and banks’ reserve-requirement ratios at a
meeting on Jan. 19, Tetangco told reporters.  The yuan headed for its first weekly drop since the five
days through Dec. 9 on signs policy makers are limiting gains to
protect export growth. The People’s Bank of  China  set the fixing
0.08 percent weaker at 6.3166 per dollar today after Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said the government will unveil measures to
boost consumption this year. The yuan fell 0.3 percent this week
to 6.3095 per dollar.  ‘Buying Time’  “They are buying time to slow yuan appreciation but not to
engineer depreciation,” said  Nizam Idris , a currency strategist
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “We could see a slower
pace of appreciation in the months ahead until a soft landing in
the Chinese economy is achieved.”  India’s rupee was set for its first weekly gain in a month
on speculation foreign funds will step up purchases of local
assets. The nation’s government said on Jan. 1 it will allow
overseas individual investors to directly buy local equities.
Foreign funds boosted local stock holdings by $102 million this
week through Jan. 4, exchange data show. The rupee gained 0.5
percent this week to 52.78.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar climbed 0.2 percent to
NT$30.245, Singapore’s currency advanced 0.2 percent to S$1.2940
and the ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent to 3.1510.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 