-- Asian Stocks Rise for Third Week on China, U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-01-06T23:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/asian-stocks-rise-for-third-week-on-improved-china-u-s-economic-data.html
Asian  stocks (MXAP)  rose for a third week,
its longest streak of weekly advances since July, as
manufacturing growth from China to the U.S. stoked optimism the
global economy will withstand Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker by market
value, climbed 2.9 percent this week in  Tokyo .  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , a
Japanese maker of construction equipment that gets about 23
percent of sales from China, gained 1.5 percent.  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
the nation’s largest oil company, jumped 9.8 percent in  Hong
Kong  after crude prices advanced and China raised the threshold
for a tax on oil profits.  “Markets are a lot more comfortable with the U.S. economy
at this point,” said Belinda Allen, a Sydney-based senior
investment analyst at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which oversees about $145 billion. “Europe is going
to be a headwind with all the bond auctions coming up,”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.5 percent to 114.39 this
week on rising factory activity in Australia, China, India and
the U.S. and as China’s oil companies surged on market reforms
and the prospect of lower taxes. The gauge pared gains at the
end of the week as France faced higher borrowing costs at a bond
auction and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said the
country must cut spending to avoid economic collapse.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.6 percent this week,
extending losses for a ninth week. the longest such streak since
June 2004, on concern government tightening measures are making
it hard for small businesses to borrow money. The gauge rose
yesterday afternoon amid renewed speculation the central bank
will lower banks’ reserve-requirement ratios.  Commodity Producers  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added 0.9 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 gained 1.3 percent as the better outlook for
manufacturing boosted commodity producers.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  decreased 0.8 percent this
week as the euro fell to an 11-year low against the yen,
clouding the earnings outlook for exporters. South Korea’s Kospi
Index rose 1 percent.  Toyota Motor, which gets more than 70 percent of its
revenue overseas, gained 2.9 percent to 2,638 yen in Tokyo this
week.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , the biggest supplier to Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., jumped 7.4 percent to HK$15.44 in Hong Kong.  Komatsu, which counts China as its fastest-growing market,
rose 1.5 percent to 1,825 yen this week in Tokyo and Murata
Manufacturing Co., an electronic-parts maker that depends on
China and Taiwan for almost 50 percent of its sales, climbed 1.4
percent to 4,010 yen in Osaka, Japan.  Debt Crisis  The MSCI Asia-Pacific gauge declined 17 percent last year
as energy, financial and raw material companies declined amid
 Europe ’s worsening debt crisis, U.S. lawmakers’ bickering over
how to reduce that country’s deficit and China’s efforts to curb
inflation. The decline dragged shares in the measure to 12 times
estimated earnings, according to  data (MXAP)  compiled by Bloomberg.  Power producers led  declines (MXAP)  last year as Tokyo Electric
Power Co., whose Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant is at the center
of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years, plunged more than 90
percent. Steelmakers have dragged materials companies lower amid
slumping demand and as soaring Japanese and Australian
currencies made their products less competitive.  This week, energy companies gained the most among the 10
industry groups of the MSCI Asian index as crude oil for
February delivery rose as much as 5 percent in  New York  on
concern that sanctions against Iran will curb supplies.  ‘Big Drag’  “The bigger issues are the geopolitical crisis with Iran
and the European debt crisis, pushing and pulling against the
market,” said  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for risk
management at Mitsubishi Corp. in Tokyo. “People are coming
back to the reality that the European crisis will still be a big
drag on the economy.”  BHP Billiton Ltd., Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, advanced
2.4 percent to A$35.24 in Sydney, while Inpex Corp., Japan’s
largest oil explorer by market value, added 1 percent in Tokyo.  PetroChina soared 9.8 percent to HK$10.62 this week in Hong
Kong. Cnooc Ltd., the country’s largest offshore oil producer,
surged 11 percent to HK$15.08.  The threshold for  China ’s windfall oil tax was raised to
$55 a barrel from $40 effective Nov. 1, PetroChina and China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, said in statements
filed to the Hong Kong stock exchange Jan. 5. The tax was
introduced in March 2006. Sinopec climbed 7.8 percent through
the week.  -- Editors: Nick Gentle, Paul Tighe  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  