-- Tata to Undo ‘Stigma’ on Nano With Upgrades
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   D a v i d   M e r r i t t
-- 2012-01-06T10:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/tata-to-undo-stigma-on-nano-with-upgrades-to-boost-sales.html
Ratan Tata , the chairman of  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  who conceived the Nano as the world’s cheapest car,
said the automaker is working on the vehicle’s upgrades to undo
the “stigma” attached to the hatchback that pushed down sales.  “We will see a resurrection of this product as we move
forward,” Tata told journalists in New Delhi yesterday. “We
will resolve the problems. The vehicle will be more robust.”  Tata said the company wasn’t “adequately ready” with
advertising campaigns and a dealer network when it started sales
of the car in 2009. The Nano, developed as an upgrade option for
millions of Indian motorcycle owners, has lagged behind pricier
rivals because of safety concerns caused by some cars catching
fire and as rising interest rates damped overall auto demand.  “Everybody thought the Nano would be a great success, but
it acquired somewhat of a bad reputation because of the
incidents of fire,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund
manager  at Raiffeisen Capital Management that oversees about
$1.1 billion of emerging-market assets. “There is still a
chance if Tata can improve the quality.”  Starter Motor  Last month, Tata Motors, which also owns Jaguar Land Rover,
said it would change the starter motor in about 115,000 Nanos as
part of efforts to improve the vehicle’s performance. It also
introduced a new version of the compact with a more powerful
engine in November.  Tata Motors  rose (TTMT)  0.7 percent to 203.6 rupees at close of
Mumbai trading. The stock fell 32 percent last year, compared
with 25 percent drop for the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Sales of the Nano fell three percent to 39,646 units in the
period from April to November, according to the latest data from
the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Industrywide car
sales declined 3.5 percent to 1.22 million.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s sales of Santro and Eon small cars rose
27 percent in the period. The Eon, the South Korean company’s
cheapest offering in  India , costs almost double that of Nano,
which sells at about 140,880 rupees ($2,659) in New Delhi.  Demand for Nano plunged to a record low of 509 units in
November 2010 after at least three cars caught fire and
customers faced difficulties obtaining loans to fund purchases.
Tata Motors then said it would retrofit the cars with additional
protection in exhaust and electrical systems.  Investigations concluded the reasons for the fires were
“specific” to the cars involved, the company has said. In
December 2010, Tata lengthened warranties to four years or
60,000 kilometers (37,290 miles) and started offering as much as
90 percent financing through unit Tata Motors Finance Ltd.  Diesel Version  Tata displayed a concept version of Nano that runs on
compressed natural gas at the  New Delhi  auto show. The company
is also developing a diesel variant that will debut at least
after a year, according to Ravi Kant, vice chairman of the
company who was present with Tata at the briefing.  The automaker, based in Mumbai, chose the first 100,000
customers for the Nano through a lottery from the 206,703 orders
it got in the initial sales period in April 2009. The car was
first displayed at the New Delhi auto show in 2008.  “I consider that we wasted an early opportunity,” said
Tata, who decided to develop the car after seeing a family
riding on a scooter. “We never really got our act together when
the 100,000 were depleted.”  Tata faced hurdles even before the sales of the car began.
In October 2008, the company had to abandon a near-complete
factory in West Bengal state because of violent protests by
farmers demanding the return of land acquired for the site. It
later set up a 250,000-capacity plant for the  Nano  in the
western state of Gujarat.  “There have been many efforts made to discredit the
vehicle,” said 74-year-old Tata, who will retire in December
after running the  Tata Group  for two decades. “We’ve never
pushed it as poor man’s car, we have pushed it as an affordable
all-weather car. Whatever stigma has been attached to it, we
will undo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt in London at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  