-- ECB Takes Record Overnight Deposits Stoked by Emergency Lending Operations
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-06T10:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/banks-in-europe-park-record-deposits-at-ecb-after-flood-of-emergency-cash.html
The  European Central Bank  took a
record amount of overnight deposits yesterday as the region’s
financial institutions entrusted funds amassed from emergency
lending operations.  Euro-area banks parked 455.3 billion euros ($582 billion)
with the Frankfurt-based ECB, the most since the euro’s
introduction in 1999 and up from 443.7 billion euros reported
yesterday. Financial institutions borrowed 1.9 billion euros at
the central bank’s marginal lending facility.  The ECB last month loaned 523 banks a record 489 billion
euros for three years to keep credit flowing to the 17-nation
euro economy during the sovereign debt crisis. It loaned the
money at its  benchmark rate (EURR002W)  of 1 percent. The surge in deposits
suggests banks are placing excess cash back with the ECB at the
overnight rate of 0.25 percent, incurring a loss rather than
lending it for more elsewhere.  “This was to be expected,” said  Nick Matthews , a senior
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The
banks have large amounts of cash after refinancing operations,
which they are happy to redeposit with the ECB. Expect the
deposit facility usage to increase over the coming days.”  Matthews predicted further record amounts because the ECB’s
reserve maintenance period, during which banks are required to
hold a certain amount of reserves on average, is drawing to a
close on Jan. 17. That can provoke fluctuations in deposits as
lenders, who tend to front-load ECB borrowings, seek to balance
accounts.  Barclays Capital  estimates the three-year loans injected
193 billion euros of new money into the financial system, with
296 billion euros accounted for by maturing loans. Since the
three-year loans started on Dec. 22, overnight deposits have
jumped by 190 billion euros, suggesting banks are parking almost
all additional liquidity back with the ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  