-- Basci Says Lira Will Advance, Maybe While ’You Sip Coffee’
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-01-06T11:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/basci-says-lira-will-advance-maybe-while-you-sip-coffee-1-.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci said the lira will gain this year and warned investors who
want to test that prediction that the bank has a range of
instruments with which to “surprise” them.  The bank in Ankara is able to shift borrowing costs at a
moment’s notice and deploy  reserves (TURWL)  in dollar sales when it
chooses, Basci told executives in the western city of Bursa
today. The lira could strengthen “as you sip your coffee,” he
said.  The currency declined 18 percent last year, a depreciation
the bank triggered and allowed until it threatened to push up
the  inflation (TUCPIY)  rate, Basci said. Spending about $15 billion of
foreign-exchange reserves to stabilize the lira has been “worth
it” and it’s now possible the currency could become overvalued
this year, he said.  “Turkey will have no problem in attracting external
investment,” Basci said. “2012 will be a year in which the
Turkish lira is one of the currencies that strengthens the most.
Lira investors in 2012 will gain.”  The currency fell 0.1 percent to 1.8828 per dollar at 1
p.m. in Istanbul today. Its depreciation last year was the
biggest among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
and helped drive inflation to a 20-month high of 10.5 percent in
December.  ‘Exceptional Tightening’  A week of “exceptional tightening” by the central bank,
combined with direct sales of dollars has quelled
“speculation” against the currency and prevented it from
falling as far as 1.94 per dollar, Basci said. “I don’t use the
word speculation in a pejorative sense,” he said. “People can
have opinions about the lira.”  Those who believe  Turkey ’s  current-account deficit (TUCALNEW)  was
caused by an overvalued currency are “wrong,” Basci said. The
deficit was widened by excessive credit growth in Turkey, which
the bank has now slowed, bringing domestic demand for imports to
moderate levels, he said.  The cumulative 12-month current-account gap in October
widened to $78.6 billion, the central bank said Dec. 12. That’s
about 10 percent of  gross domestic product (TUGPCOQS) , and defies Basci’s
prediction in August of a “rapid and sizeable reduction” in
the gap in late 2011.  The exceptional tightening may end next week, Basci said,
warning that the bank can reintroduce it at any time. The bank
has a range of instruments to manage the currency and banks that
depend on monthly decisions on a single benchmark rate are
struggling in the volatile global environment, he said.  The Turkish central bank is “No. 1” for the diversity of
its instruments, he said. “It’s important to have the element
of surprise.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  