-- Belgium Comes Under Increased EU Pressure to Meet Deficit Goal
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-06T16:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/belgium-comes-under-increased-eu-pressure-to-meet-deficit-goal.html
Belgium  came under increased pressure
from the European Union to ensure that it can cut the 2012
 budget deficit (EUBDBELG)  to less than the EU limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product.  “We need to have a thorough discussion to see if we come
to the same figures in terms of revenues and expenditures,”
Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the EU, told reporters today in
Brussels. “We want to have some clarification to make sure they
will meet this target and that it will not have to trigger
another step in the excessive deficit procedure.”  Belgium is one of five EU member states that are in danger
of missing their 2012 deficit targets and could face sanctions
for overstepping the EU’s limit. The European Commission
projects that Belgium’s deficit will be about 3.25 percent of
GDP this year, wider than the government’s 2.8 percent target,
 De Tijd  reported on its website, citing a Jan. 5 letter from EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn .  In the letter, Rehn told the Belgian government to at least
hold back some  additional expenditure (BEGDPQS)  pending a decision in
February about added budget savings of 1.2 billion euros ($1.5
billion) to 2 billion euros, according to the newspaper. The EU
set a deadline of Jan. 9 for Belgium to respond, De Tijd said.  Belgium will review its 2012 budget next month, following
parliamentary approval of the spending plan and taking into
account the latest growth estimates and last year’s deficit
figures, Budget Minister Olivier Chastel told reporters today in
Brussels.  External Pressure  “Given that the budget agreement is only one month old and
has met with fierce opposition from the labor unions, the
appetite to do more is currently low among the ruling parties,”
Steven Vanneste, an economist at BNP Paribas Fortis in Brussels,
wrote in a research note. “However, the Belgian government has
recently shown that it can act fast when confronted by external
pressure.”  Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s six-party coalition
reached a budget agreement less than 24 hours after Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services on Nov. 25 lowered Belgium’s credit
rating one step to AA with a negative outlook.  Belgian bonds fell today, pushing the extra yield investors
demand to hold Belgian 10-year bonds rather than German
government securities of similar maturity 6 basis points higher
to 278 basis points at 4:42 p.m. in Brussels. That’s the most
since Nov. 30. The so-called  spread (GDBR10)  reached a record 360 basis
points on Nov. 25, just before S&P cut Belgium’s credit
standing.  Tax Increases  Di Rupo’s government, which was sworn in on Dec. 6, has
pledged 11.3 billion euros in spending cuts and tax increases to
pare the  budget deficit  to 2.8 percent of GDP. The 2012 spending
plan was drawn up assuming the economy would expand 0.8 percent
this year.  Belgium’s central bank last month reduced its forecast for
economic growth this year to 0.5 percent, in line with the
latest prediction by the Organization for Economic Development
and Cooperation, following a 0.1 percent quarterly GDP
 contraction (BEGDPQS)  in the third quarter. Vanneste said he sees Belgian
growth stagnating this year.  Acknowledging that growth assumptions might need to be
lowered when Belgium reviews its budget next month, Belgian
Finance Minister Steven Vanackere said today that he disagreed
with the EU’s deficit projections.  “We want to show that with the budget makeup of December,
we will be able to cut the deficit to less than 3 percent,” he
told reporters in Brussels. “I’m sure that we will have to take
important political decisions in February, but that’s not what’s
on the agenda right now in January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  