-- Best Buy Repeats Forecast as December Sales Show Stability
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-01-06T21:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/best-buy-december-same-store-sales-fall-1-2-as-television-demand-drops.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  posted a same-store
sales drop in December that was in line with analysts’ estimates
and repeated its forecast for profit this year as it fought off
challenges from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Sales at stores open at least 14 months fell 1.2 percent in
December, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company said today in a
statement. Total revenue in the month was $8.4 billion, about
the same as last year, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  stepped up holiday
discounts to keep customers from going to Amazon and Wal-Mart.
Best Buy increased its share of the U.S. television market and
improved its showing online, with Web sales gaining 26 percent,
said  David Strasser , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “After being hit hard through 2011, this provides some
sense of stability and a reality check that they are not share
donors, as is so widely anticipated,” Strasser, who’s based in
New York, wrote today in a note to clients. He  recommends (BBY)  buying
Best Buy shares and had estimated same-store sales would decline
1 percent.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, rose 3.3 percent to $24.22 at 4 p.m. in New York. The
shares tumbled 32 percent in 2011, the third  annual decline (BBY)  in
four years.  Last month’s comparable-store sales “were largely in line
with overall expectations,” Colin McGranahan, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote today in a note to
clients. He rates Best Buy “market-perform.”  Dunn said that the December results were lower than the
company’s expectations, with customer traffic trailing Best
Buy’s projections until the week before Christmas.  The company reiterated its forecast that profit this year
would be $3.35 a share to $3.65 a share. The average of 26
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $3.40.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  