-- Oyster Cult Roadie Brawls With Cokehead; ‘Norwegian Wood’: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/blue-oyster-cult-roadie-brawls-with-cokehead-anguished-love-rick-warner.html
Fired by Blue Oyster Cult after 26
years on the road with the band’s equipment crew, Jimmy
Testagross returns to his old blue-collar  New York  City
neighborhood because he has nowhere else to go.  The fictional centerpiece of Michael Cuesta’s “ Roadie ”
stays with his widowed, Alzheimer’s-stricken mother and sleeps
in his childhood bedroom, perfectly preserved as a rock n’ roll
shrine with its concert posters, turntable and boxes of vinyl
records.  Now a paunchy, never-married guy in his 40s, he also
reconnects with a former flame, a local singer married to a jerk
who used to torment Jimmy in high school.  “Roadie” is tinged with nostalgia, but never overwhelmed
by it. It’s a clear-eyed, pitch-perfect look at a Peter Pan
dreamer forced to face the fact that he’s never grown up.  The film features standout performances by its four primary
actors: Ron Eldard as the washed-up roadie, Lois Smith as his
tough-minded mom, Jill Hennessy as his sexy ex-girlfriend and
Bobby Cannavale as her obnoxious husband.  Eldard gives a gritty, lived-in performance as Jimmy, whose
long sideburns, horseshoe mustache and scruffy dirty-blond hair
make him look like a relic from another era.  Jimmy is in denial about his failed career, telling
everyone in his Queens neighborhood that he’s the band’s manager
and a part-time songwriter. Meanwhile, he’s begging for his job
back.  Good Rats  Hennessy, best known for her TV roles in “Crossing
Jordan” and “ Law & Order ,” is also a singer-songwriter who
released her first CD in 2009. She puts her musical talents to
good use in “Roadie” as Nikki, who plays at a local club but
yearns for a bigger stage.  Her husband Bobby is a car salesman and paranoid cokehead
who likes to rib Jimmy about his vulgar nickname in high school.
Bobby thinks Jimmy looks down on him and wants to reignite his
romance with Nikki, leading to an ugly confrontation between the
men in a motel room.  “Roadie” is infused with the rock music that Jimmy grew
up with. In addition to Blue Oyster Cult, the mood-inducing
soundtrack includes songs by Jethro Tull, Robin Trower, the
Ramones and Good Rats.  A cover of Jackson Browne’s “The Load-Out,” his
affectionate tribute to roadies, is played over the closing
credits. A good choice, though I preferred the original.  “Roadie,” from Magnet Releasing, is playing in New York.
Rating: ***1/2  ‘Norwegian Wood’  “Norwegian Wood” isn’t about  Norway  or wood. And though
it takes its title from the 1965 Beatles song, that soothing
sitar melody only plays a minor role in this depressing,
gorgeously photographed Japanese film about anguished love.  Based on a novel by Haruki Murakami, “Norwegian Wood” is
narrated by Toru Watanabe as he looks back on his complicated
romantic life in the turbulent late 1960s, when many of his
fellow students were protesting in the streets.  After his friend Kizuki commits suicide, Watanabe (Kenichi
Matsuyama) falls in love with Kizuki’s troubled girlfriend Naoko
(Rinko Kikuchi from “Babel”). When Naoko leaves  Tokyo  for a
forest retreat, Watanabe hooks up with Midori (Kiko Mizuhara),
an outgoing young woman with her own emotional baggage.  Watanabe swings back and forth between the women before
another tragedy strikes and sets him adrift.  Writer/director Tran Anh Hung strips “Norwegian Wood” to
its core, eliminating all but essential dialogue in favor of
facial close-ups and striking cinematography of the Japanese
countryside.  It’s sometimes hard to follow the story and the slow pace
makes the film seem even longer than its 2 hours and 13 minutes.  “Norwegian Wood,” from Red Flag Releasing,” is playing
in New York and Jan. 27 in  Washington  and  Los Angeles . Japanese,
with English subtitles. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 