-- BNP Paribas Plans ‘Significant Drop’ in Bonuses, Prot Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-01-06T14:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/bnp-paribas-plans-significant-drop-in-bonuses-prot-says-1-.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, plans a “significant drop” in bonuses for top executives
and capital-markets employees as the European debt crisis and
stricter capital rules crimp earnings.  BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-
largest bank, are cutting corporate- and investment-banking jobs
as they speed up reductions of assets that rely on short-term
dollar funding after they struggled to obtain financing from
U.S. money markets last year. The asset reductions are also
compounded by higher  capital requirements  imposed by the
European Union for mid-2012.  BNP Paribas’s capital position is “very clear and very
solid,” Chairman  Baudouin Prot  said in an interview on BFM
radio today. The Paris-based bank will use retained earnings to
exceed the European Banking Authority’s 9 percent target for
core Tier 1 capital, he said.  Prot didn’t give any estimate for the decline in bonuses.
He said he will have an annual salary of 850,000 euros ($1.09
million) as chairman, compared with 950,000 euros he received as
chief executive officer, a position held until last year. His
bonus for last year will have a “significant” reduction, Prot
said.  The company will pay a dividend for last year, with the
payout dropping in line with the decline in earnings, Prot said,
without give any figure for 2011 profit. BNP Paribas’s net
income for the first nine months of last year fell 16 percent to
5.29 billion euros as the lender took writedowns on its Greek
sovereign-debt holdings, it said Nov. 3.  Michel Pebereau, Prot’s predecessor as BNP Paribas’s
chairman, had an annual fixed salary of 700,000 euros in 2010,
according to the company’s annual report.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  