-- Air France-KLM Said to Be Unidentified Buyer of 25 Boeing 787s
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-01-06T23:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/boeing-order-for-25-dreamliners-said-to-confirm-air-france-deal.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  is  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
unidentified buyer for 25 composite-plastic Dreamliners, after
agreeing to buy the planes in September without signing off on
the order, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The accord was completed just before Christmas, said the
person, who asked to remain anonymous because the details aren’t
public. Boeing declined to specify a buyer on Jan. 5 when it
disclosed the latest order for the 787s, which have a list value
of about $5 billion. Airlines usually get a discount.  Boeing spent most of 2011 with more cancellations than
orders for the 787, which entered service in October after more
than three years of delays. Because Air France-KLM didn’t sign
the deal when it was announced Sept. 16, the planes hadn’t been
counted in Boeing’s tally. Finishing the sale in the final days
of the year pushed the Dreamliner’s 2011 total to 13 net orders.  Air France-KLM,  Europe ’s largest carrier, is struggling
with an earnings slump and is preparing to announce cost-cutting
measures this month as part of a “transformation plan” to be
outlined by May or June. The Paris-based airline’s board meets
next week.  Marc Birtel , a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, said he
couldn’t comment on the buyer’s identity. Jean-Charles Trehan,
an airline spokesman, didn’t return telephone messages left for
comment yesterday.  Boeing Rises  Boeing rose 0.6 percent to $73.98 yesterday at the close in
 New York , the third advance in the first four trading days of
2012. Air France gained 3.9 percent to 3.96 euros in Paris.  The Dreamliners were part of a split order at Air France,
with the carrier saying in September it also would buy 25  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  A350s, a 787 competitor set to reach customers in 2014.
Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus, declined to say whether that order had been signed.  Deliveries of the Boeing and Airbus jets in that purchase
were set to start in 2016, with Dutch unit KLM getting the first
arrivals, according to an airline statement in September. The
company said at the time that the deal was “still subject to
the finalization of discussions with the manufacturers.”  Air France ousted Pierre-Henri Gourgeon as chief executive
officer a month afterward, as the airline grappled with a
declining profit outlook and regulators’ revelations about
cockpit confusion before a 2009 crash in the South Atlantic that
killed 228 people.  The 787 is the world’s first jetliner with a fuselage built
chiefly of composite-plastic materials, instead of traditional
aluminum. Struggles with those materials, new manufacturing
techniques and suppliers pushed back the plane’s debut. All
Nippon Airways Co. is the first commercial operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  