-- Brazil Futures Yields Drop as Inflation Meets Target; Real Falls
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-06T23:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/brazil-futures-yields-drop-as-inflation-meets-target-real-falls.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts fell for the first time in four days after
inflation unexpectedly slowed to within the government’s
targeted range last year, prompting bets the central bank has
room to speed up interest-rate cuts.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013 dropped
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.07 percent.
The yields rose 3 basis points this week. The real weakened 0.7
percent to 1.8566 per dollar, paring the weekly gain to 0.5
percent.  Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent last year, the government
statistics agency said today, within the upper limit of the
government’s targeted range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. Since
March, policy makers have repeatedly pledged to slow inflation
to a 4.5 percent pace by the end of 2012, while saying that the
cost of doing so in 2011 would be “too high.”  “This data brings a bit of relief,” Mauricio Junqueira,
who helps oversee about $300 million at Squanto Investimentos,
said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “It removes a bit of the pressure
on futures yields.”  Brazilian consumer prices as measured by the so-called IPCA
index rose 0.5 percent in December from a month earlier, slowing
unexpectedly from 0.52 percent in November. The annual figure
was lower than the median forecast of 6.56 percent among 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Central bankers have cut the benchmark lending rate 150
basis points since August to shore up the economy. Traders are
wagering Tombini will reduce the Selic rate to as low as 10
percent by May, from 11 percent today, according to interest-
rate futures yields.  Rate Outlook  Yields on the January 2013 contract reached 10.18 percent
on Dec. 26, near a two-month high, after the central bank said
it sees some barriers to slowing inflation to target, including
household demand and a tight labor market.  Today’s inflation data doesn’t merit betting on a change in
the central bank’s rate-cut plan, Junqueira said.  “This will depend a lot on the external scenario,” he
said.  The Brazilian real fell on concern that European leaders’
inability to resolve the region’s debt crisis will weaken global
growth,  Reginaldo Galhardo , head of  currency trading  at Treviso
Corretora de Cambio in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  “The U.S. numbers were good, but they didn’t help that
much,” Galhardo said. “The main worry continues to be  Europe ,
and the quarrels among leaders.”  The currency’s weekly gain was fueled by speculation more
dollar borrowings will follow the $2.6 billion of international
bond sales by Brazilian companies and the government this week,
according to Junqueira.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  