-- Brazil Unexpectedly Meets 2011 Inflation Target as Price Increases Slow
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-01-06T15:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/brazil-unexpectedly-hits-2011-inflation-target-as-price-increases-slow.html
Brazil  unexpectedly met its inflation
target last year, prompting central bank President Alexandre Tombini to say that price pressures have eased “significantly”
in  Latin America ’s largest economy.  Prices rose 6.50 percent during Tombini’s first year in
office, the  statistics agency  said today in  Rio de Janeiro ,
within the target range of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points. The figure was lower than the median forecast
of 6.56 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 35 economists.  One 100th of a percentage point higher and Tombini would
have had to write a letter to the Finance Ministry explaining
why he missed the target. Instead, he issued a statement saying
recent rate cuts were consistent with a slowdown in inflation.
With the economy cooling and world demand damped by the European
debt crisis, Tombini has said he can make “moderate” interest
rate reductions and still achieve the inflation goal of 4.5
percent this year. Many economists remain skeptical.  “While this result relieved the Brazilian monetary
authority from the task of presenting a “mea-culpa” letter to
the  Finance Ministry , the IPCA outcome should not suffice to
ease market participants’ concerns with regard to inflation
dynamics in Brazil,” said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank, in an e-mailed report.
“Skepticism on the convergence to the targeted level still
abounds.”  Consumer prices (BZPIIPMO)  rose 0.50 percent in December from
November, lower than the 0.55 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. This means that the central bank keeps its
record of having met the inflation target every year since 2003.  Global Impact  Traders are wagering Tombini will cut the benchmark Selic
rate to as low as 10 percent by May, from 11 percent today,
according to Bloomberg forecasts based on interest-rate futures
yields.  “The central bank is concerned with the impact of the
crisis on the Brazilian economy,” said  Newton Rosa , chief
economist at SulAmerica Investimentos. “The goal is to preserve
growth and jobs even if that means missing the midpoint in
2012.”  Rosa expects consumer prices to increase 5.3 percent this
year.  Annual inflation was led by a 7.2 percent rise in food and
beverage costs, and an 8.6 percent increase in service prices.
Airplane fares leaped 52.9 percent.  Economy Contracts  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.07 percent at 1:02
p.m. in Brasilia. The real weakened 0.5 percent to 1.8525 per
dollar.  Latin America’s largest economy shrank in the third quarter
for the first time in more than two years, led by an annualized
3.4 percent contraction in industry. Business confidence in the
fourth quarter fell to its lowest level since the start of 2009.  Analysts have repeatedly trimmed their growth forecasts in
recent months as the economy began to cool and the effects of
European financial turmoil spread. Economists cut their estimate
for 2012 growth to 3.3 percent in a Dec. 30 central bank survey,
from a forecast of 4 percent at the start of August.  Peru missed its inflation goal last year, with a consumer
price rise of 4.74 percent exceeding the government’s 1 percent
to 3 percent target range.  Colombian prices rose 3.6 percent, within the central
bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent range. People’s Bank of China
governor Zhou Xiaochuan told Caixin magazine in December that
Chinese inflation probably exceeded its 4 percent target in
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  