-- Brown’s Budget Sends ‘Ransom Note’ to California Voters on Tax Increases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/brown-budget-sends-ransom-note-to-california-voters-on-taxes.html
California (STOCA1)  Governor  Jerry Brown 
proposed a budget that would lop off the equivalent of three
weeks from the public school year if voters reject his proposal
for $7 billion in temporary tax increases.  The $92.6 billion spending plan Brown unveiled yesterday
for the year that starts in July boosts spending by 7 percent
from the current year, even though the state faces a $9.2
billion deficit. The increase is to be financed through  economic
growth (BCAX) , higher income taxes on those making at least $250,000 a
year and expanded sales levies.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat who approved $16 billion in
cuts last June, said the state would have to slash another $4.8
billion from education if voters fail to approve his tax plan at
the polls in November. The largest U.S. state by population has
perennial  budget  crises and  Standard & Poor’s  worst credit
rating among its peers.  “It’s the most expensive ransom note in California
political history,”  Dan Schnur , a former aide to Republican
Governor Pete Wilson and now director of the Jesse M. Unruh
 Institute of Politics  at the University of  Southern California 
in  Los Angeles , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Brown wants to raise income taxes on individuals making at
least $250,000 a year to 10.3 percent from 9.3 percent. For
those earning $300,000 to $500,000, the rate would climb to 10.8
percent. For single filers with income above $500,000, the tax
would rise to 11.3 percent. Californians with income of more
than $1 million are now taxed at 10.3 percent.  Sales Taxes  He also wants to boost retail sales taxes to 7.75 percent
from 7.25 percent. The higher income and sales levies would
expire after five years.  Brown has been trying to forge a coalition with unions and
some business groups to raise the money needed to gather enough
signatures to put the measures on the ballot. His effort for a
voter initiative on higher taxes last year was blocked by
Republican lawmakers.  “There are people who say we shouldn’t scare the voters,”
Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from
 Sacramento , told reporters in the capitol yesterday. “I agree
with that. But on the other hand, it is our obligation, the
governor’s obligation, to inform the voters. The voters aren’t
going to want to lose three weeks of the school year.”  Brown dismissed the notion that he was threatening to cut
school funding to win support for his tax increase. His finance
director, Ana Matosantos, noted that public schools, from
kindergarten through 12th grade, account for 40 percent of state
spending.  ‘Where the Money Is’  “That’s where the money is,” Brown told reporters at a
news briefing yesterday.  The new budget, Brown’s second since taking office one year
ago, would slice $4.2 billion from existing spending, including
almost $1 billion from welfare and another $842 million from the
state’s health insurance program for the poor. School spending
will increase by $4 billion, or 11 percent under his plan.  Brown’s proposal to cut health-care and welfare programs
while maintaining education spending illustrates the disparate
view voters have of those expenditures, Schnur said.  “There are lot more Californians who attended public
school, or who have kids in school, than who receive health-care
or welfare benefits,” Schnur said. “This budget recognizes the
vast political difference between cuts in one versus the
other.”  Health, Welfare Cuts  Brown’s budget also finances a shift in some health,
welfare and prison programs to counties, which he has called
realignment. His ballot measure also would include a
constitutional protection of the money needed to keep paying
counties for those services.  “The  state of California (STOCA1)  is a very generous, compassionate
political jurisdiction,” Brown said. “When we have to cut
spending, that spending is going to come from programs that are
doing a lot of good. It’s not nice. We don’t like it. But the
economy and tax statutes of  California  make just so much money
available.”  The $4.8 billion additional cut in education would be
automatic if voters turn down Brown’s tax increase. Similar so-
called trigger cuts aren’t new. Last month, Brown had to make $1
billion in additional cuts, including eliminating a $258 million
busing subsidy, and trimming $230 million from higher education
and $200 million in programs that help the elderly and disabled,
after revenue fell below his estimates.  ‘Boomerang’ Effect  “The boomerang could be that it makes voters more angry if
they feel they’re being threatened,” state Senator Doug LaMalfa, a Richvale Republican, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Voters don’t cotton to being threatened.”  Brown and fellow Democrats in the Legislature inserted
those automatic reductions in the $86 billion budget they passed
in June. They said at the time that the nascent economic rebound
was likely to boost tax collections by $4 billion more than had
been forecast a month earlier.  Then the recovery was shaken by  Europe ’s widening debt
crisis and an impasse over raising the U.S. debt ceiling. In
December, Brown’s Finance Department said revenue for the fiscal
year ending June 30 would probably fall $2.2 billion below
projected levels.  The cuts were intended in part to make sure that the state
had enough cash on hand to repay investors who bought $5.4
billion of short-term cash-flow notes, which come due in June.  “The governor’s budget continues the progress made last
year toward restoring stability, solvency and sanity to the
state’s finances,” California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said
yesterday in a statement. “It’s an honest, balanced and prudent
plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  