-- Cadillac Takes on BMW Amid GM Rebound
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cadillac-taming-bmw-3-series-becomes-gm-s-detroit-battle-ground.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , with renewed
verve as the world’s biggest automaker, will be in the spotlight
at the Detroit auto show next week taking on BMW and its popular
3-Series line with a new compact Cadillac.  The new model represents Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson’s strategy for gaining ground in the compact-luxury
segment. GM is trying to barge into the market for small,
upscale cars, an important entryway for new customers that is
dominated by German vehicles such as the 3-Series and the
Mercedes-Benz C-Class.  “The gorilla in the room is the 3-Series,” Kurt McNeil,
Cadillac’s vice president of sales, said this week in a
telephone interview. The new car, planned for a Jan. 8 unveiling,
will be called the ATS and go on sale in the third quarter. “It
will be a key battle ground for us,” he added.  The introduction occurs on the eve of the media days at the
North American International Auto Show. Organizers expect more
than 5,000 journalists from more than 50 countries to attend two
days of press conferences and almost 40 worldwide product
unveilings, including the Mercedes SL roadster and Ford Fusion.
Show organizers announced yesterday that they had signed a five-
year contract to keep the show at Cobo Center in Detroit with an
estimated economic impact to southern Michigan of $1.75 billion.  The auto show will take place against the backdrop of the
improving U.S. auto industry. Sales rose by more than 10 percent
for two years in a row, the first time since 1983 and 1984, and
analysts estimate they will grow this year to the highest level
since 2007. Domestic automakers GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler
Group LLC all gained market share last year and all project a
full-year profit.  Akerson’s Strategy  GM has already hinted at its ATS marketing approach with an
online video that talks about how the new model was tested in
 Germany  on the famed Nurburgring racetrack. Equipped with rear-
wheel and all-wheel drive options, the ATS will be billed as a
performance machine that can compete head-to-head with the 3-
Series, a person familiar with GM’s plans said.  “We think we have the right product: nimble, quick, fun,”
Cadillac’s McNeil said. “Those are all of the attributes of
what that segment looks for.”  The ATS is part of Akerson’s plan to expand Cadillac’s
lineup to better compete in the luxury market. GM is also
planning to introduce a larger sedan this year called the XTS to
go against the  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW 7-Series and
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes E-Class.  Cadillac’s Position  BMW and Mercedes, the top two luxury brands in the U.S.
last year, outsold  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  for the first time
in 11 years on an annual basis. U.S. sales of Lexus last year,
hurt by reduced inventory following March’s earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan , fell 13 percent to 198,552.  U.S. sales of BMW, which finished ahead of Mercedes by
2,715 deliveries, rose 13 percent to 247,907.  Cadillac’s aging lineup ranked No. 4 in U.S. luxury vehicle
sales. The brand rose 3.7 percent last year to 152,389 led by
deliveries of the CTS and SRX sport-utility vehicle, according
to researcher Autodata Corp.  GM, based in  Detroit , added some spice to the CTS nameplate
in August 2010 by introducing a two-door version, which improved
sales. The success of the coupe may foreshadow similar plans for
the smaller Cadillac, McNeil said.  “It re-energized CTS and Cadillac but it wasn’t at the
expense of our sedan business,” he said. “It does give us a
little peek at what we’re going to deal with with ATS.”  ‘Important Vehicle’  The ATS is “certainly an important vehicle for them
because that segment is ridiculously competitive,”  said
 Rebecca Lindland , a Norwalk, Connecticut-based analyst with IHS
Automotive. “For a lot of manufacturers, it sets the luxury
tone for the brand because it’s the first place that a lot of
consumers venture into.”  Not having a compact model “has left them out of the
game,” she said of GM. “A lot of people feel the CTS is too
big, expensive.” The CTS has a starting price of $35,915,
according to Cadillac’s  website.   Lindland said she saw a concept version of the ATS’s
interior a few years ago at GM’s design studio.  “It was gorgeous,” she said. “I couldn’t resist petting
part of the seat section.”  GM hasn’t yet set a price for the ATS. The 2012 four-door
C-Class starts at $34,800, excluding destination charges. BMW’s
3-Series begins at $34,600, according to the company’s website.  BMW is planning to introduce a new version this year of the
3-Series, which saw U.S. sales decline 6.5 percent last year.  “That is the BMW,” Ludwig Willisch, chief executive
officer of BMW of  North America , said of the 3-Series during a
November interview in  Los Angeles . “It really is very important
for us.”  Sales Projections  Mercedes in September introduced a refreshed version of the
C-Class with an improved interior and a two-door version.  U.S. deliveries of the C-Class improved 18 percent last
year to 69,314, according to Mercedes, and helped reduce BMW’s
sales lead late in 2011.  IHS estimates that Cadillac will sell 15,000 of the ATS
this year and 60,000 next year, including a coupe version that’s
expected in 2013, Lindland said.  “That’s a pretty healthy number,” she said. “The
challenge for them is continuing to be a brand perception
issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  