-- California’s Debt-Issuance Drought Means Sales Held to Only $5.2 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/california-s-debt-issuance-drought-will-stretch-into-this-year.html
California (STOCA1)  bond sales this year will
remain at levels well below those of 2009 and 2010, as Governor
Jerry Brown attacks what he calls a “wall of debt.”  While the nation’s most-populous state will sell $5.2
billion of general-obligation bonds in 2012, up 18 percent from
2011, that amount is far less than was issued in either of the
two preceding years, according to  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for
state Treasurer Bill Lockyer.  In 2009, the state sold $20.5 billion in general-obligation
debt. The amount fell by almost half in the following year, to
$10.4 billion, Dresslar said.  Brown, 73, yesterday proposed retiring $6.3 billion of the
“economic recovery” securities voters authorized in 2004 and
sold when Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger was governor. Brown
aims to pay off those bonds by 2016. Reducing state indebtedness
is crucial to building investor confidence, Brown said at a
press briefing to unveil his proposed $92.6 billion general-fund
spending plan for fiscal 2013, which begins in July..  “That’s one thing I’m really committed to,” the Democrat
said. “We see what’s going on in  Europe . We see the pathetic
situation in  Greece .”  Continued restraint in bond issuance may raise prices on
Golden State bonds already outstanding, according to Bud Byrnes,
president and chief executive officer of RH Investment Corp. in
Encino, a part of  Los Angeles .  Scarcity Effect  “Relative to other markets,  California  will trade up,”
Byrnes said by telephone yesterday. “Because of scarcity, I
would expect it to trade higher relative to other bonds.”  California state and local debt returned almost 15 percent
last year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
that measures price changes and interest payments. That’s more
than the 11 percent earned by the overall U.S. municipal market.  Brown’s pledge will please voters who’ve had to tighten
their own belts, according to Michael Shires, who teaches public
policy at  Pepperdine University  in Malibu. The governor is also
proposing increases in income and sales taxes.  “He’s trying to promote a theme of accountability,”
Shires said. “Bond retirement has become part of that theme --
that there’s fixed amount of money we can spend.”  Those betting on the state include mutual-fund operator
Pacific Investment Management Co., or Pimco, in which California
debt made up almost 15 percent of its  Municipal Income Fund (PMF)  at
the end of October, according to a report filed yesterday. That
was up from about 8 percent at the same point in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Sacramento , California, at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  