-- California City With 3 Convictions Returns to Bond Market for $74 Million
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/california-city-with-three-convictions-seeks-74-million-from-bond-market.html
Vernon (29169MF) , California, the  Los Angeles 
suburb where two city managers and a mayor were convicted of
malfeasance in the past 25 months, triggering a series of audits
and investigations, is returning to the  bond market .  The city, which is home to 1,200 businesses employing
50,000 people yet has a population of 112, will offer $74.3
million of securities backed by revenues from its municipal
utility, according to a prospectus. The bonds, to be sold as
soon as Jan. 10, will be used to finance upgrades to Vernon’s
electric grid and pay interest and principal on a 2009 issue.  The 5-square-mile (13-square-kilometer) community, which
fought off efforts by state lawmakers to dissolve it last year
because of alleged corruption, is one of at least three
 California  cities set up specifically as manufacturing hubs more
than 100 years ago.  “Operating results are on the low side, relative to other
utilities,” said Kevork Khrimian, an analyst for Moody’s
Investors Service, which lowered its rating on the city’s $476
million in electric enterprise bonds to Baa1, the third-lowest
investment level, from A3 on Dec. 6.  The downgrade reflected the city’s “stagnant” power
demand, high debt burden and obligation to purchase natural gas
under a long-term contract, according to a Moody’s report.  Tax-exempt electric revenue bonds Vernon issued three years
ago and maturing in 2021 traded yesterday at a price that
yielded the investor an average of 4.52 percent, or about 50
percent higher than a Bloomberg  index (459M10Y)  of 10-year power bonds.  Mayor Convicted  Leonis Malburg, Vernon’s mayor for 50 years, was  convicted 
in December 2009 of charges including voter fraud for falsely
claiming residence in the city. Last May, former City Manager
Bruce Malkenhorst pleaded guilty to taking $60,000 in city money
for personal expenses, the Los Angeles County  District Attorney 
said in a statement at the time. Donal O’Callaghan, another
former city manager, pleaded guilty in July to conflict-of-
interest charges, according to a statement from the district
attorney’s office.  Anthony Murray, an attorney for Malburg, and Mark Werksman,
who represented 0’Callaghan, declined to comment. Jeffrey
Wittenberg, a lawyer for Malkenhorst, said he couldn’t
immediately respond.  California Assembly Speaker John Perez, a Democrat from Los
Angeles, pressed for legislation last year that would have
disincorporated the city due to its history of public
corruption. Vernon’s City Council passed reforms that included
adjusting public employee salaries to match comparable
municipalities and appointing an independent ethics adviser.
Local union and business leaders lobbied against
disincorporation, saying it would cause businesses to flee, and
the state Senate in August rejected Perez’s proposal.  ‘Stronger City’  “Despite what anyone inside or outside of the City of
Vernon might say, the changes enacted over the past 12 months to
implement a series of municipal reforms have made Vernon a
stronger city and more unified community,” City Administrator
Mark Whitworth said in a Dec. 23  statement .  Whitworth, who also serves as Vernon’s fire chief, has
worked for the city’s fire department for 22 years.  The  Internal Revenue Service  completed an examination of
$419 million of Vernon’s electric revenue bonds issued in 2009
with no change to the position that the interest received on
those bonds is tax-exempt, according to a  statement  and copy of
the IRS letter released by the city Dec. 22.  Vernon is still the subject of at least two audits and
investigations, according to the offering statement. The
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  is auditing the
city’s member enrollment and compensation to see if it’s in
compliance with state law. The state Bureau of Audits is
examining the Light and Power department’s operational structure
and compensation.  To contact the reporter on this story: Christopher Palmeri in
Los Angeles at   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  