-- Cameron to Give U.K. Investors Powers Over Out-of-Control Top Pay, Bonuses
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-01-06T12:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cameron-plans-to-give-u-k-investors-power-over-top-executive-pay-bonuses.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
he’ll set out plans in the coming days to restrain pay at the
top of British companies and in banks, saying rewards are
“completely out of whack” with performance.  Cameron said today he plans to use “the tools at our
disposal” to force more corporate transparency over pay and to
give shareholders more power to limit compensation. He said he
wanted the trend over recent years of smaller bank bonuses to
continue.  With his government’s austerity plans hitting public-sector
workers and welfare recipients this year, the prime minister’s
Jan. 2 New Year’s message contained a pledge to deal with
“excess” at the top of the income scale. He said both policies
were about “responsibility.”  “People aren’t satisfied, I’m not satisfied,” Cameron
told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “We’ve seen a level of
reward at the top which hasn’t been commensurate with success.”  The pledges on pay, which Cameron may flesh out in media
interviews over the weekend, are an enactment of ideas floated
by Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable in September.  Cable referred to a study by the  High Pay Commission , a
pressure group that pushes for curbs on top earners, which found
British directors’ salaries increased by 64 percent over the
past decade, while the average year-end share price of companies
in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index declined by 71 percent. The
average annual bonus for directors rose 187 percent, according
to the commission.  ‘Corrosive’ Effect  When it issued its final report in November, the panel said
the soaring earnings of top bankers are having a “corrosive”
effect on the U.K. economy. It noted that the then chief
executive officer of Barclays Plc,  John Varley , was awarded 4.4
million pounds ($6.8 million) in 2010, 169 times that of the
average worker in the U.K. and 4,899 percent more than his
predecessor earned in 1980, when the Barclays boss earned 13
times more than the average worker.  In October, Incomes Data Services said directors of the
largest British companies saw their earnings jump by 49 percent
in the last financial year to an average of 2.7 million pounds,
driven by bonuses and long-term incentive awards.  The FTSE 100 rose 4 percent in the 12 months through March
last year and fell 5.6 percent during 2011 as a whole. Average
earnings in the economy as a whole rose 2 percent in October
from a year earlier to 24,128 pounds.  ‘If They’re Succeeding’  “I’m all for people being well-paid if they’re
succeeding,” Cameron said today.  The opposition  Labour Party  accused the premier of
constantly talking about capping pay, yet failing to act.  “The prime minister claims to recognize the importance of
responsibility at the top as well as the bottom of society but
he has been in power for 20 months and failed to act on excess
in the boardroom and in the City,”  London ’s financial district,
Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said in an e-mailed
statement. He said budget measures announced by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  in November “take three times as
much from families with children as they do from the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 