-- CBOE Stock Exchange Buys Market in Bid to Diversify Trading Client Roster
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-01-06T20:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cboe-stock-exchange-buys-market-in-bid-to-diversify-trading-client-roster.html
A market partly owned by  CBOE
Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , which runs the largest U.S. options exchange,
acquired the 127-year-old National Stock Exchange to get access
to new types of customers.  CBOE Stock Exchange, owned by Chicago-based CBOE Holdings
and nine companies including  Interactive Brokers Group Inc. (IBKR)  and
Susquehanna International Group LLP, completed its purchase of
NSX on Dec. 30, according to David Harris, president and chief
executive officer of CBSX. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.
Harris is now also chairman and CEO of Jersey City, New Jersey-
based NSX, founded in 1885 as the Cincinnati Stock Exchange.  Owning the venue gives CBSX more flexibility to experiment
with fees and rules to appeal to different types of investors
and a new business serving electronic communications networks,
which are required to display their quotes publicly. The service
NSX provides, called order delivery, reduces the chance that
bids and offers from market makers will get executed on both the
ECN and the exchange where they’re displayed.  “It’s another revenue stream,” said Sang Lee, managing
partner at Boston-based Aite Group LLC. “Especially for a small
player, that piece of the business can be important.”  NSX and CBSX each account for less than 1 percent of U.S.
equities volume, Harris said in a phone interview.  ECNs over the past dozen years forced exchanges to compete
more vigorously for orders by making their systems faster,
allowing investors to trade electronically and improving prices,
Lee said.  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS)  of Lenexa,  Kansas , and Jersey
City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC became the
largest ECNs after rules implemented in 2007 boosted competition
for shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange. They later
converted their platforms into exchanges.  More Competition  “ECNs gave us increased market competition that changed
the behavior of entrenched incumbent exchanges to the point
where the market looks completely different,” Lee said in a
phone interview. While these venues no longer serve the same
role and have led to the fragmentation of trading among more
venues, they’re markets that can still innovate and offer new
services, he said.  Trading in the U.S. is spread over 13 exchanges, several
ECNs and more than 40 dark pools, or private venues that don’t
display bids and offers. Broker-dealers can also internalize
orders from securities firms serving retail investors by trading
against them within their walls, or finding counterparties for
institutional customers to trade with away from exchanges.  Bloomberg Tradebook , owned by Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP, runs an ECN.  Citigroup, Credit Suisse  The National Stock Exchange will continue to provide order
delivery for market makers and firms using  LavaFlow ECN , owned
by Citigroup Inc., and Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG’s
Light Pool, Harris said. LavaFlow accounts for about 1 percent
of U.S. equities volume, according to John Procopion, president
of the market and head of transactions and execution services at
New York-based Citigroup.  “They have a very nice business providing order delivery
for ECNs,” Harris said about NSX. “It’s a business that serves
an important role in the national market system in that it
allows broker-dealers to operate lit pools,” or markets that
display prices and compete with exchanges. “ECNs offer a
competitive accelerator to change in the markets,” he said.  CBSX’s purchase of NSX leaves only one out of 13 equities
exchanges run as a single market. NYSE Euronext, which operates
the New York Stock Exchange, and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  each own
three venues. Bats, Direct Edge and now CBSX have two each.  Founded in 1882  The  Chicago  Stock Exchange, founded in 1882, is the last
independent venue. It’s open to a deal, according to Chief
Executive Officer David Herron. Bank of America Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and E*Trade Financial
Corp. own almost 37 percent of the company, which was
“marginally profitable” in 2010, he said.  “We’re not currently actively exploring anything, but
we’re open to the possibility” of a sale, Herron said in a
phone interview. “Many other exchanges have been absorbed or
partnered with others, and it makes sense to leverage
infrastructure to support more than one product line.”  The consolidation of U.S. exchanges under common ownership
resulted from the transition to electronic markets starting in
the 1990s. Over the last decade, NYSE and  Nasdaq  bought ECN
markets that flourished after new Securities and Exchange
Commission rules created opportunities for automated venues to
challenge them.  Same Technology  NYSE and Nasdaq eventually acquired and maintained separate
exchanges on the same technology infrastructure so they could
employ different trading rules and fees to appeal to different
types of customers with minimal additional costs.  NSX, then called the Cincinnati exchange, became in 1980
the first exchange globally to shift to electronic trading from
transactions handled by humans. By 2007, 84 more  stock exchanges 
were fully electronic, according to  data  compiled by the World
Federation of Exchanges.  The National and Chicago exchanges, CBSX and NYSE Amex are
typically the smallest U.S. equity exchanges, Herron said.  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  bought the American Stock Exchange for $260 million in
2008. Amex was earlier known as the “curb market” because it
developed in the streets outside NYSE in lower  Manhattan . The
five regional markets over the last two decades were the
Chicago, National, Boston, Philadelphia and Pacific exchanges.  Regional venues developed in most large U.S. cities in the
19th and 20th centuries to let investors buy and sell shares of
local companies and trade stocks listed on NYSE. As insurance
companies and other institutions increased their trading in the
1960s, some regional exchanges also provided cheaper
alternatives to trading on NYSE, according to  research  from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.  Denver, Spokane  Exchanges that merged with those in nearby cities or shut
down over the last century include markets in Baltimore;
Buffalo,  New York ;  Cleveland ; Denver;  Detroit ;  Los Angeles ;  New
Orleans ; Salt Lake City;  St. Louis ; Spokane,  Washington ; and the
nation’s capital, according to annual SEC reports. Exchanges
exempt from SEC registration existed in  Colorado  Springs,
Colorado; Honolulu; Seattle and Wheeling,  West Virginia .  From the late 1990s until the mid-2000s, more than a dozen
ECNs emerged to draw Nasdaq and then Amex and NYSE trading. As
the primary markets that list and trade stocks converted from
membership-based organizations to for-profit companies, ECNs and
regional exchanges sold stakes to more than 100 brokers and
firms, many of which owned portions of other systems. Ownership
gave brokers a hedge against price hikes and decisions by what
was called the NYSE and Nasdaq duopoly.  BRUT, INET  Nasdaq bought electronic rivals BRUT LLC in 2004 and INET
ECN in 2005. The Boston and Philadelphia exchanges are now owned
by the company that became Nasdaq OMX.  Archipelago Holdings
Inc. (AX) , which ran an alternative electronic market in Chicago,
bought the Pacific Exchange in 2005, before being acquired by
NYSE in 2006. It’s now called NYSE Arca.  Competition after 2007 took place mainly through Bats and
Direct Edge instead of regional markets because broker-run
venues are regulated more lightly than exchanges and have more
flexible rules, Herron said. Brokers wanted platforms to cater
to their needs ahead of those of shareholders and systems that
were nimble and fast, he said.  “It was possible for large proprietary trading firms to
own virtually all of Bats in the beginning, instead of sharing
ownership with others at regional exchanges,” he said.  CBSX, which receives technology and operational support
from the parent of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, acquired
about 45 people from NSX, who will join the four from the
smaller exchange, Harris said. Both will be based in  Jersey
City , where orders for the markets will also be matched. While
CBSX was profitable in 2010, it wasn’t last year because of the
acquisition, Harris said. NSX was unprofitable, he said.  Fees, Rules  Running two markets will allow CBSX to operate venues with
different  fees , rules and services, Harris said. It also gives
CBSX control over an exchange license. CBSX uses the CBOE
license to trade stocks. NSX owns its own computer system to
match orders and has a brokerage that can route unmatched trade
requests to other venues, he added.  “We’ve long wanted to have multiple books,” Harris said,
referring to an exchange’s electronic list of buy and sell
orders. “Regional exchanges that are single books have a more
difficult business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 