-- Chevron’s Bid to Block Ecuadorean Asset Collection Denied
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-06T21:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/chevron-fails-in-u-s-court-bid-to-restrain-ecuadorean-assets.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s bid to protect assets
that could be seized as part of an $18 billion environmental
damages verdict against it in  Ecuador  was denied by a U.S.
judge, who said the request could be renewed at a later date.  Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, asked U.S.
District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in  New York  to block the collection
of the judgment and the “dissipating” of any proceeds pending
resolution of a lawsuit alleging that the plaintiffs engaged in
fraud to win the Ecuadorean judgment. The company sought to
“temporarily ensure the availability” of all assets while the
U.S. case proceeds.  “Chevron has made no effort to quantify the damages it
alleged has been sustained to date, let alone to support any
damage claim with evidence,” Kaplan said in his ruling today.  Chevron was ordered on Feb. 14 to pay as much as
$18 billion in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco
Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the
Ecuadorean jungle from 1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an
18-year-old lawsuit decided by a judge in  Lago Agrio , a
provincial capital near the Colombian border.  Full Opinion  On Jan. 3, an Ecuadorean appeals court upheld the February
ruling “in all of its parts, including the conviction for moral
reparation or its alternative and costs,” according to the
decision. Chevron can appeal the decision to the next level of
Ecuador’s judiciary, a company spokesman said at the time.  A U.S. appeals panel in September rejected Kaplan’s March
decision blocking collection of the Ecuadorean judgment. The
appeals court hasn’t issued a full opinion in the matter.  Chevron denies wrongdoing in the Lago Agrio lawsuit. The
company says Texaco cleaned up its share of the pollution at its
former  oil fields , which were taken over by PetroEcuador,
Ecuador’s state-owned oil company. Chevron says it was released
from any future liability by an agreement between Texaco and
Ecuador. Chevron acquired Texaco in 2001.  The  San Ramon , California-based company alleged in a U.S.
suit before Kaplan that lawyers for the Ecuadoreans conspired to
fabricate evidence. Attorneys for the Latin American plaintiffs
said the lawsuit is an unjustified attempt to derail the
pollution lawsuit damages.  ‘Narrow Grounds’  Kent Robertson, a spokesman for Chevron, said in an e-mail
that “we appreciate the court’s prompt response to our motion.
The court decided the motion on very narrow grounds and did not
question the strength of Chevron’s fraud evidence. Clearly the
court has left the door open to a future attachment filing. We
look forward to the balance of our racketeering case proceeding
and remain committed to holding the plaintiffs’ lawyers
accountable for their misconduct.”  Karen Hinton , a U.S. spokeswoman for the Ecuadorean
plaintiffs, said in an e-mail that “it is clear that Chevron’s
motion had no legal basis and was designed yet again to distract
attention from the company’s fraudulent misconduct in Ecuador as
well as its obligation to clean up its toxic waste in Ecuador’s
Amazon that threatens the lives of thousands of people.”  The racketeering case is Chevron v. Donziger, 11-00691,
U.S. District Court, District of New York ( Manhattan ). The case
in Ecuador is Maria Aquinda v. Chevron, 002-2003, Superior Court
of Nueva Loja, Lago Agrio, Ecuador.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 