-- Chick-fil-A Joins McDonald’s in Cutting Calories in Kids’ Meals
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-01-06T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/chick-fil-a-joins-mcdonald-s-in-cutting-calories-in-kids-meals.html
Chick-fil-A Inc., overseer of 1,600
fast-food chicken restaurants in the U.S., will sell lower-
calorie kids’ meals, joining other eateries in promoting menu
options billed as healthier.  The Atlanta-based chain will start offering grilled-chicken
nuggets on Jan. 9, helping to reduce the calories and fat in
kids’ meals by more than half, said Woody Faulk, vice president
of brand strategy and design. Chick-fil-A will shun drinks with
high-fructose corn syrup, and embrace milk, apple juice,
lemonade and water for kids.  “It’s very crucial for fast food to be some of the people
to take the first step,” Faulk said in a telephone interview.
“It’s irresponsible not to do it.”  The chain, whose annual sales grew 11 percent to about $3.5
billion in 2010, added a fruit cup to its menu in 2004 and
started selling multigrain oatmeal last year.  Chick-fil-A is also cutting sodium in other menu items,
such as char-grilled chicken, dressings, sauces and bread, Faulk
said. The new kids’ meals and foods won’t affect sales, he said.  “It’s going to have a neutral financial impact,” Faulk
said.  The chain features breaded and fried chicken and waffle
fries. Founder Truett Cathy established the brand in the 1960s.
Now, 41 units are owned by closely held Chick-fil-A, and the
rest by independent companies under contracts.  Apple Slices  In July,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant
company, said it would begin putting apple slices and smaller
portions of french fries in all Happy Meals at U.S. units,
reducing calories about 20 percent. Nationally, of children ages
2 to 19, about 12.5 million, or 17 percent, are obese, according
to the  website  of the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention.  A McDonald’s four-piece Chicken McNugget Happy Meal with
apples and milk has 330 calories, according to the company’s
website. A Chick-fil-A kids’ meal with grilled nuggets, a fruit
cup and milk has 210 calories, according to that chain.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , who brands include  Olive Garden ,
Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse, has also committed to cut
calories and salt in its food during the next 10 years. The
company in September agreed to work with  Michelle Obama ’s Let’s
Move! campaign to fight  childhood obesity . Darden has made
fruits or vegetables the default side dish in its children’s
meals.  At Chick-fil-A, a four-piece chicken-nugget meal costs
about $3.15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  