-- Chinese Companies Prefer Dying to Being Bought, JinkoSolar Says
-- B y   F e i f e i   S h e n
-- 2012-01-06T05:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/chinese-firms-prefer-dying-to-being-bought-jinkosolar-says-1-.html
Chinese solar-panel makers, which
supply more than half the world market, will respond to the
supply glut by shutting factories or their entire businesses
rather than merging, a  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  official said.  The weakest companies should “weed out” about 75 percent
of output capacity so that China has a “reasonable” 20
gigawatts compared with 75 gigawatts estimated by the second
quarter of 2013, Zhang Longgen, chief financial officer of the
Shanghai-based solar module maker, said in a Jan. 4 telephone
interview.  “We won’t see many mergers and acquisitions at home,”
Zhang said. “Many Chinese companies are more willing to die
rather than be bought because it is against their culture to be
acquired.”  The remarks by JinkoSolar, the eighth-biggest producer,
shed light on how China may deal with a global oversupply that
it helped provoke by accelerating factory expansion and pushing
down product prices by almost 50 percent last year.  The crash helped drive three U.S. solar companies including
 Solyndra LLC (SWV)  out of business in 2011.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  and  Q-Cells
SE (QCE) ,  Germany ’s biggest solar cell and panel makers, reported
wider-than-expected losses, as demand slows and prices weaken.  The surplus across the solar-components chain that stemmed
from cuts in subsidies by European governments and overcapacity
has led to speculation that the industry is ripe for
consolidation through mergers and acquisitions.  The number of domestic manufacturers will shrink to 15
within five years, according to China’s Energy Research
Institute at the National Development and Reform Commission.  Organic Growth  “A consolidation through the closure of businesses may be
better for the industry as it will ease the oversupply in the
entire range of solar products,” Peter Yao, an analyst at Bank
of China International Holdings Ltd., said today by phone.
“Companies looking to expand may find that it is cheaper to do
this organically than buying companies.”  Prices for solar panels, or modules, dropped 47 percent
last year to $0.94 a watt after the 10 largest makers of the
traditional silicon-based panels, including China’s  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest, and No. 2-ranked  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ,
together doubled production capacity in 2010, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The companies forecast a decline
in shipments for the fourth quarter of last year.  LDK is planning the first Chinese purchase in Germany, the
world’s biggest market for installations, with its 24.2 million-
euro ($31 million) bid for module maker Sunways AG.  Solar-Fabrik Talks  The deal sparked speculation that Chinese companies are
sizing up assets in  Europe . Germany’s  Solar-Fabrik AG (SFX)  is in
talks with other companies in the industry, including some from
China, over possible cooperation agreements, Chief Executive
Officer Guenter Weinberger said Jan. 2.  JinkoSolar has no plans to acquire companies abroad, though
it is planning a joint venture in  Canada  to make solar modules
to supply the local market, Zhang said, without disclosing
details.  The company may also build an assembly plant in the U.S.,
if the nation sets anti-dumping and countervailing duties on
Chinese solar imports, Zhang said. The U.S. Commerce Department
will make a preliminary determination Feb. 13 on whether to add
tariffs on Chinese solar-equipment imports.  U.S. manufacturers said they are being harmed because
China’s government uses cash grants, discounts on raw materials,
preferential loans and tax incentives, and manipulates its
currency to boost exports of solar cells, the device attached to
panels that converts sunlight into electricity.  Likeliest Survivors  The global supply glut will lead to intense competition
among Chinese manufactures, Zhang said. State-owned companies
and those whose shares are listed in  China  are the likeliest to
survive the shakeout, he said.  “The power of these companies is very incredible as they
have enough capital to overcome difficult market conditions,”
he said. “They can shut factories temporarily and resume
production when the market recovers.”  There is a “small” chance that prices start to recover in
the third quarter, Zhang predicted. “We hope the recovery takes
a little longer to stabilize the industry and drive the weakest
out of the business.”  Prices of modules may decline further, especially if spot
prices of polysilicon, their raw material, continue to slump, he
said. Polysilicon prices declined 62 percent in 2011.  Zhang expects demand for the industry in the first quarter
of 2012 to fall 10 to 20 percent from the fourth quarter.  “I’m not optimistic about a recovery in global demand,”
he said, though the company plans to maintain its production
capacity of 1.2 gigawatts this year, Zhang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  