-- Chinese Central Bank Suspends Bill Sales Ahead of Lunar New Year Holiday
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-06T07:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/chinese-central-bank-suspends-bill-sales-ahead-of-lunar-new-year-holiday.html
The People’s Bank of  China , which
refrained from selling three-month  bills (PBOC3M)  for a second week, said
it will suspend debt sales ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday.  The monetary authority will conduct reverse-repurchase
operations based on demand, according to a statement posted on
the central bank’s website. The monetary authority  added (PBOCNET)  a net
51 billion yuan ($8.1 billion) to the banking system this week,
the biggest increase in eight weeks, to help stem an increase in
money-market rates as banks hoard cash before the week-long
holiday starts on Jan. 23.  “This will ensure a continued positive flow of cash to the
interbank market in this period of tight liquidity,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong
Kong . “We still expect a reserve-ratio cut before the Lunar New
Year.”  The monetary authority will boost the availability of cash
by cutting lenders’  reserve requirements (CHRRDEPC)  before the holiday,
economists at  Barclays Capital  and Bank of America Corp.
predict. The central bank cut the amount of cash that lenders
must set aside as reserves for the first time since 2008 last
month as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for exports and
growth.  The  seven-day repurchase rate (CNRR007) , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 20 basis points this
week to 4.31 percent in  Shanghai , based on a daily fixing by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It reached a five-month high
of 5.60 percent on Dec. 30.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said business conditions may be
“relatively difficult” this quarter and monetary policy will
be fine-tuned as needed.  The economy expanded 8.6 percent from a year earlier in the
fourth quarter of 2011, the least since June 2009, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
data due later this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  