-- KPMG Quits as China Forestry Auditor, Deepening Concerns About Accounting
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-01-06T10:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/china-forestry-auditor-kpmg-resigns-citing-valuation-concerns.html
China Forestry Holdings Co. (930) , the
Chinese timber company whose shares have been suspended since
January last year because of accounting irregularities, said its
auditor  KPMG  LLC resigned citing valuation concerns.  China Forestry needs to verify the ownership and valuation
of its plantations and log inventories, a statement yesterday
from the Beijing-based company cited KPMG as saying. The former
auditor also said it was still awaiting results from a broader
probe into the irregularities it identified last year.  The resignation comes as investors increase scrutiny of
accounting standards of Chinese companies, which intensified
last June when short-seller Carson Block alleged Sino-Forest
Ltd. overstated its assets and cash balances. Vegetable producer
 Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)  and software maker
Longtop Financial Technologies are among companies halted from
trading after fraud allegations were made against them.  “We’re very sensitive to any statement an auditor makes,
or resignation in this case,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating
officer at KGI Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Chinese private
companies tend to not be very transparent and we’ve had bad
experience in the past where accounts are not reliable and the
companies’ conduct not very ethical after they go public.”  KPMG won’t stand for reappointment and the board will find
a new auditor “as soon as practicable,” the timber company
partly owned by the  Carlyle Group  said in the statement. KPMG
declined to comment when reached by phone today.  Independent Investigation  “We don’t have a clear idea about when the independent
investigations will be complete,” Raymond Tong, China
Forestry’s chief financial officer, said by phone from  Hong
Kong . “The investigations are completely independent so
management doesn’t have access to them.”  That broader investigation should “identify all
irregularities that may have occurred and all management and
officers involved in the irregularities, trace where the group
spent the proceeds from the initial public offering and
reconcile the details of recorded plantation assets,” KPMG told
the company along with its resignation in letters dated Dec. 30
last year and Jan. 5, China Forestry said in the statement. Last
year, KPMG said there was “serious doubt over the authenticity
and reliability of records and documents of the group.”  The forest operator reported last August a first-half net
loss of 130 million yuan ($21 million) as it didn’t conduct
harvesting in the first six months due to the irregularities and
a change in management, the company said in a filing.  Silvercorp, Real Gold  KPMG was hired to carry out a forensic investigation by
 Silvercorp Metals Inc. (SVM) , a Chinese miner listed in Toronto and
 New York , after websites, including Alfredlittle.com, wrote
reports alleging fraud. KPMG’s findings didn’t support the
claims, Silvercorp said last October.  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , the former auditor for Hong Kong-
listed  Real Gold Mining Ltd. (246) , also resigned last October, saying
the company failed to disclose material information.  China Forestry formed a committee of independent directors
in January to carry out an initial investigation. Its former
chief executive officer, Li Han Chun, was detained by police in
Guizhou province in February for alleged embezzlement of 30
million yuan. Li was replaced by Li Jian as CEO.  The committee found its former management team faked bank
documents and logging permits, China Forestry said last April.  The company owns forestry rights to about 231,000 hectares
in Sichuan province, Yunnan province, and Guizhou province as of
June 30 last year, it said in its interim report. It had a cash
balance of about 1.2 million yuan as of Aug. 26, it said.  Forest Assets  “For forestry companies, it’s hard to confirm the
existence of their asset ownership,” said KGI’s Kwong. “You
can’t go and count every single tree. We can only rely on
professional audit and accounting firms to do this work.”  Sino-Forest, which counts  Richard Chandler  Corp. as its
largest shareholder, dropped 74 percent on the Toronto stock
exchange after Block’s research firm Muddy Waters LLC issued a
report against the company. Sino-Forest denies the allegations.  Its shares remain suspended as it delayed its earnings and
defaulted on two sets of bond payments last month. Richard
Chandler, a billionaire investor whose investment company owns
19 percent of Sino-Forest according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, said the timber company needs to change its CEO and
appoint new directors.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Michelle Yun at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  