-- China’s Stocks Rebound on Banks’ Reserve-Ratio Cut Speculation
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-01-06T08:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/china-s-stocks-rebound-on-speculation-reserve-ratio-cut-may-boost-lending.html
China’s stocks (SHCOMP)  rose for the first
time this year on speculation the central bank will cut banks’
reserve-requirement ratios as early as today to boost lending to
small companies hurt by a cash crunch.  China Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  and  China Citic Bank Corp. (601998) 
advanced more than 1 percent after the government said it will
suspend its bill sales before this month’s Lunar New Year
holiday.  PetroChina Co. (601857) , the nation’s biggest energy producer,
gained 1.6 percent after China raised the threshold of a
windfall tax on crude.  Tsinghua Tongfang Co. (600100) , a computer maker,
jumped 6.1 percent, helping technology companies to pare the
second-biggest weekly losses among 10 industry groups.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 0.7 percent to 2,163.40 as of the
close, erasing a drop of as much as 0.7 percent. The measure
lost 1.6 percent this holiday-shortened week, the longest losing
streak since the week ended June 25, 2004. The CSI 300 Index
gained 0.6 percent to 2,290.60 today.  “Every time the stocks fall considerably, there’s
speculation there’ll be reserve-ratio cuts,” said Zhang Gang, a
strategist at Central China Securities Holdings Co. in  Shanghai .
“The weekend’s here and there’s always the optimism it may
happen. Such a rebound may not last unless the cut really
happens.”  The Shanghai Composite  trades (SHCOMP)  at 8.8 times estimated
earnings, a record low according to Bloomberg data dating back
to 2006, after plunging 22 percent last year on concern
increases in borrowing costs and  Europe ’s debt crisis will
derail economic growth. The CSI 300 slid 25 percent in 2011.  Small Companies Drop  Small-company stocks plunged this week because of investor
disappointment that lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios haven’t
been cut amid signs of a cash crunch as households prepare for
Lunar celebrations that start Jan. 23. The Shenzhen Composite
Index slumped 5.6 percent since the start of the new year. The
ChiNext index of start-up companies fell 8.2 percent this week.  The central bank said today it will suspend its bill sales
ahead of the Chinese new year holiday and will conduct reverse
repo operations based on actual demand.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest bank, rose 0.7 percent to 4.28 yuan. China Construction
Bank, the second-biggest lender, increased 1.5 percent to 4.65
yuan and China Citic Bank added 1.2 percent to 4.15 yuan.  The People’s Bank of China is injecting the most funds in
eight weeks into the financial system. The central bank added a
net 51 billion yuan ($8.1 billion) to the banking system this
week as bill redemptions exceeded issuance, and canceled a
second straight auction of three-month notes yesterday.  Reserve Ratios  China’s seven-day repo rate fell 17 basis points to 4.30
percent in Shanghai, based on a daily fixing by the National
Interbank Funding Center. That compares with an average 3.82
percent for the fourth quarter of 2011. Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA said policy
makers may be targeting a rate of no more than 3 percent.  Economists at  Barclays Capital  and Bank of America Corp.
say the central bank will cut reserve ratios before the Chinese
holiday, the second reduction since 2008. The central bank
raised reserve ratios six times last year to cool inflation that
accelerated to its fastest pace in three years in July.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said more cuts in banks reserve-
ratio requirements and loosening of loan quotas are needed to
ease liquidity and that there will be no imminent recovery for
A-shares until liquidity is “sufficiently supportive.”  China’s economic growth will continue to weaken with
relatively tight liquidity in the real economy and earnings
growth forecasts facing downward pressure, Goldman Sachs said in
a report dated Jan. 3. The earnings downgrade risk for  small (SH000905)  and
mid-caps is “still high” given tight liquidity, it said.  Technology Stocks  The gauge for technology shares in the CSI 300 Index gained
1.9 percent today, narrowing this week’s loss to 4.9 percent,
the most after drugmakers. Tsinghua Tongfang surged 6.1 percent
to 8.67 yuan today, while Shenzhen Laibao High-technology Co.
advanced 4 percent to 15.10 yuan.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission should raise the
acceptable non-performing loan ratio in lending for small
technology companies, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing Wang Huaqing, the regulator’s disciplinary
commissioner.  The Chinese economy expanded 8.6 percent from a year
earlier in the fourth quarter, the least since June 2009,
according to the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Export growth slowed to a two-year low of 13.5
percent in December.  China will roll out measures to boost consumption this year
as it strives to meet challenges posed by a global slowdown,
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said.  Windfall Tax  The government is studying policies to encourage spending
on energy-saving products, and will take other measures
including the promotion of online shopping and tourism, Chen
told the ministry’s annual works conference, according to a
statement posted on its website yesterday.  PetroChina gained 1.6 percent to 9.96 yuan after China’s
finance ministry increased the threshold of the tax to $55 per
barrel from $40, effective Nov. 1, 2011.  Citigroup Inc. estimated a 16 percent “positive impact”
on PetroChina full-year earnings from the cut in the windfall
profit tax. PetroChina became the top pick among three large-cap
China oil stocks instead of China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.
because of PetroChina’s “higher sensitivity” to the  tax cut 
and Sinopec’s recent outperformance, Citigroup analyst Graham Cunningham said in a report dated yesterday.  Sinopec increased 0.8 percent to 7.48 yuan.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  