-- China Unicom Offers Free IPhone 4S for $45 Monthly Contract
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-06T09:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/china-unicom-offers-free-iphone-4s-for-45-monthly-contract.html
China United Network Communications
Group (CHTZ) , the nation’s second-largest wireless carrier, will give
users an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone 4S if they sign multiyear service
contracts costing as little as 286 yuan ($45) a month.  The promotion starting Jan. 13 offers a 32-gigabyte model
with a three-year plan, while a commitment to two years for a
monthly fee of 386 yuan allows users to get the 16-gigabyte
model, the company known as China Unicom said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday.  China Unicom, the only one of the nation’s three carriers
offering the iPhone with a service contract, is using the
handset to woo high-end subscribers who play games and watch
online videos using their phones. The user growth comes at a
price as Unicom’s 3G subsidy costs in the first half of 2011
ballooned almost fourfold, driven by support for the iPhone.  “After subsidizing the iPhone, the operator will have less
money for subsidizing other smartphone users that could be more
profitable,” Steven Liu, a Hong Kong-based analyst with
Standard Chartered Bank, said in an e-mail today. He  rates (762)  the
shares “underperform” and said the company’s subscriber growth
will “slow down despite iPhone.”  China Unicom (762)  (Hong Kong) Ltd., the company’s publicly
 traded (762)  unit, fell 1.3 percent to HK$16.42 at the close in Hong
Kong, its largest decline since Dec. 15. That compared with a
1.2 percent drop in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Sophia Tso, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for China Unicom,
said she couldn’t immediately comment on what the iPhone 4S
pricing plan would mean for its subsidy costs.  Data Surge  China Unicom is increasingly relying on subscribers who
access the Web on their phones as growth in voice traffic slows.
In August, the Beijing-based company said 51 percent of  sales
growth (762)  in the first half of last year came from non-voice
services, while data traffic on its 3G network jumped almost
sevenfold in the same period.  The iPhone 4S features a virtual personal assistant called
Siri that uses voice-recognition software. That feature prompts
owners to use almost twice as much data as the device’s
predecessors, network firm Arieso Ltd. estimates. While Siri
currently functions only in English, French and German, Apple
has pledged to make a Chinese-language version available this
year, according to a statement on its website.  Users of high-speed third-generation networks in  China  more
than doubled in the first 11 months of last year to 117 million,
according to monthly figures from the mobile operators.  Subsidy Cost  China Unicom had 36.5 million 3G users at the end of
November, or about 31 percent of the nation’s total. It trails
 China Mobile Communications Corp. (CHMOBZ) , which had 48 million 3G
users.  China Unicom’s 3G subsidy costs and related marketing
expenses in the first half of 2011 jumped to 5.94 billion yuan,
from 1.62 million yuan in the same period in 2010, the company
said in August. Those costs ate up 45 percent of revenue at the
operator’s money-losing 3G service in the first six months of
last year, company data show.  Chairman Chang Xiaobing pledged in August to make the 3G
unit profitable in the second half of 2011 by reining in subsidy
costs and expanding sales of smartphones costing 1,000 yuan or
less, such as ZTE Corp.’s V880 handset.  The mobile operator had a target of adding 25 million 3G
users in 2011, of which it had gained 22.5 million through the
end of November. The company, which reported the figure last
month, doesn’t provide a breakdown of users by device.  Subsidizing the iPhone at as little as 286 yuan a month
“would hit their near-term subsidy expense,” said Alen Lin,
who rates Unicom shares “hold” at BNP Paribas Securities  Asia 
in  Hong Kong . The company had originally subsidized the iPhone 4
at that level and stopped because of the expense, he said.  “The 286-yuan plan was previously available with a two-
year contract, but was later removed because Unicom lost
money,” Lin said in an e-mail today. “So, now it’s back with a
three-year contract. The justification would be they will have
one additional year to recover the expense.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  