-- Citigroup Said to Halt Talks on Sale of Its OneMain Consumer Lending Unit
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/citigroup-said-to-halt-talks-on-onemain-sale-after-failing-to-reach-deal.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S.
bank by assets, halted talks to sell its OneMain consumer-
lending subsidiary after failing to reach agreement with
potential buyers, according to a person with direct knowledge of
the matter.  Citigroup and interested buyers Centerbridge Capital
Partners LLC,  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  and Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , mutually agreed to end negotiations,
said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private. The New York-based bank may pursue a deal
again when the credit markets that OneMain relies on for funding
improve, the person said.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit, 54, tagged
the unit and other assets for sale and placed them in the  Citi
Holdings  portfolio after the bank’s $45 billion bailout by
taxpayers in 2008. He renamed the business OneMain in December
2010 and began an auction process last year.  “The objective of Citi Holdings is to reduce non-core
assets in an economically rational manner that is in the best
interests of our stakeholders,” Citigroup said in an e-mailed
statement.  OneMain lends money for purposes including auto repairs and
remodeling kitchens, according to its website. Founded in 1912
as Commercial Credit, it now provides service at 1,300 U.S.
branches, according to the bank. Citigroup valued the company at
about $2 billion, net of liabilities, people briefed on the
bidding said last March.  The Wall Street Journal reported the decision to end
discussions earlier.  Citigroup  shares (C)  rose 1.2 percent to $28.51 in New York
trading yesterday. They tumbled 44 percent last year amid a
global slump for financial firms facing stricter capital rules
and slowing economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  