-- Colder Weather May Arrive in U.S. Northeast by Mid-January
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-01-06T14:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/colder-weather-may-arrive-in-u-s-northeast-by-mid-january.html
The U.S. Northeast may get another
blast of cold air by mid-January, according to forecasters.  Commodity Weather Group LLC and  MDA EarthSat Weather  both
predict temperatures will drop at least 3 degrees Fahrenheit
(1.7 Celsius) below normal across parts of the Northeast from
Jan. 16 to Jan. 20.  “A polar trough is expected to shift south and east into
 Canada  and will help release a shot of potent cold out of
western Canada into the Northeast U.S.,” MDA, in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, said in its 11- to 15-day forecast.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according
to Energy Department data.  A long-term weather pattern that has kept milder air in the
eastern U.S. shows indications of breaking up, which may mean
colder weather will take hold, said Jon Gottschalck, head of
forecast operations for the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center  in
Camp Springs, Maryland.  That pattern, known as the Arctic Oscillation, may change
to a neutral or negative phase in coming weeks, Gottschalk said
by e-mail. When the oscillation moves to a negative phase,
colder air is able to move farther south from the Arctic and
linger longer over parts of the U.S.  Near-Term Warmth  Much of the northern U.S. will experience above-normal
temperatures into early next week, according to 1- to 5-day
outlooks from both MDA and Commodity Weather, based in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  That may give way to more seasonal weather by the middle of
next week, said MDA and Commodity President  Matt Rogers .  Weather Derivatives’ 6- to 10-day forecast for Jan. 12 to
Jan. 18 predicts much of the U.S. East Coast will be about 2
degrees above normal, with parts of northern New England and  New
York  about 6 degrees higher.  Texas and the U.S. Gulf Coast will probably be cooler than
normal, according to Weather Derivatives owner  David Salmon  in
Belton, Missouri.  The normal average temperature in New York for Jan. 12 is
about 33 degrees, according to MDA. The average is 29 in Boston,
23 in Chicago, 43 in Atlanta, 42 in Seattle, 53 in Houston, and
55 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  