-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Unchanged as Unemployment Rate Falls
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-01-06T22:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/company-credit-default-swaps-index-in-u-s-declines-as-jobless-rate-drops.html
A benchmark gauge of company credit
risk was unchanged as concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis may intensify outweighed an unexpected drop in U.S.
unemployment to the lowest level in almost three years.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
rose by 0.1 basis point to 120.1 basis points at 4:39 p.m. in
 New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Swaps on McDonald’s
Corp., the world’s largest restaurant company, fell about 2
basis points to 22.7, according to data provider CMA.  While a Labor Department report showed the U.S.
unemployment rate fell last month to 8.5 percent, the lowest
level since February 2009, European economic data deepened
concern that the region’s fiscal upheaval could cause
recession and infect bank balance sheets worldwide.  “Today’s jobs report was good in that perspective, but the
market didn’t seem to care,” Anthony Valeri, a San Diego-based
market strategist at  LPL Financial , which manages $330 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s focusing on Europe.”  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Factory orders in  Germany ,
the region’s largest economy, dropped 4.8 percent in November,
the most in almost three years, according to the Economy
Ministry in Berlin.  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has climbed
from 118.1 on Jan. 3.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 