-- Corn Advances as Dry Weather May Cut Production in Argentina, Brazil
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-06T14:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/corn-advances-as-dry-weather-may-cut-production-in-argentina-brazil.html
Corn and soybean futures climbed in
Chicago, reversing earlier declines, amid speculation dry
weather in  Argentina  and  Brazil  will cut production and prompt
the U.S. government to reduce its outlook for global stockpiles.  Argentina’s corn crop is likely to miss government
estimates on a worse-than-expected drought, corn-farming
association Maizar said yesterday. The corn harvest in  Rio
Grande  so Sul, Brazil’s most southern state, will be 25 percent
lower than expected because of dry weather, the state crop
research agency said yesterday.  “Rain is still expected for Argentina starting Tuesday and
this is becoming very urgent, irreversible damage has already
been observed, mainly in corn,” Paris-based farm adviser
Agritel wrote in a note today.  Corn for March delivery rose 0.7 percent to $6.48 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time, and is
headed for a 0.2 percent rise this week.  Argentina’s corn crop may be as low as 22 million metric
tons as the La Nina weather event causes a “much worse”
drought than expected, Martin Fraguio, executive director of
Maizar, said yesterday. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
 forecasts (US09PRAR)  the country, the world’s second-largest corn shipper,
will harvest 29 million tons.  The corn harvest in Rio Grande do Sul will drop to 3.97
million tons or less from 5.78 million tons in 2011, less than
the 5.3 million tons previously forecast, the state crop
research agency known as Emater said in a report yesterday.  Soybeans for delivery in March rose 0.6 percent to $12.1675
a bushel, set for a 0.8 percent gain this week.  Argentina’s Soybean Crop  Argentina’s soybean crop, the world’s third-largest, may
drop to 48 million metric tons this year from 49 million tons in
2011, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said today. The
USDA last month  forecast (US38PRAR)  output would rise to 52 million tons,
and will release its next outlook on Jan. 12 in  Washington .  While rains forecast next week may help contain losses to
the Argentine soybean crop, “prices will quickly build further
if the outlook continues to show a lack of alleviating rain,”
Victor Thianpiriya, an agricultural analyst at ANZ, said in a
report e-mailed today.  Global soybean inventories may drop to 63.02 million tons,
Allendale Inc. said in a forecast e-mailed yesterday. The USDA
estimated in December that inventories will be at 64.5 million
tons at the end of this season.  Rainfall Next Week  Argentina’s corn and soybean growing regions may get 12 to
50 millimeters (0.5 to 2 inches) of rainfall early next week,
reducing the soil moisture deficit and aiding damaged crops,
said  Bryce Anderson , an agricultural meteorologist at Omaha,
Nebraska-based Telvent DTN Inc.  “It will certainly be beneficial to crops,” Anderson said
by phone today. Still, “the soil moisture supply is not going
to be relieved or completely restocked with just one rain
event.”  Wheat for March delivery gained 1 percent to $6.3525 a
bushel in Chicago, trimming the weekly loss to 2.7 percent.
Milling wheat for delivery the same month traded on NYSE Liffe
in Paris added 1.4 percent to 196.25 euros ($249.92) a ton,
gaining 0.5 percent this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  