-- Cornelis Van der Klugt, Who Led Philips Electronics in Late 1980s, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-06T19:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cornelis-van-der-klugt-who-led-philips-electronics-in-late-1980s-dies.html
Cornelis van der Klugt, who led Royal
 Philips (PHIA)  Electronics NV from 1986 to 1990 and was pushed out a
year before his scheduled retirement because of a drop in
 earnings (PHIA) , has died. He was 86.  The company announced his death in a news release today,
recalling him as “a driven manager” who “made a great
contribution.” No details were given on the cause or when he
died.  Van der Klugt was president and chairman of Philips, which
today is the world’s biggest maker of  light bulbs  and  Europe ’s
largest  consumer-electronics (PHIA)  company.  During his tenure leading what was then known as Philips
NV, he carried out a multiyear plan to cut costs and reduce the
workforce. The company, then based in Eindhoven,  Netherlands ,
spun off its heavy-appliances division into a venture with
Whirlpool Corp. and sold some of its military-electronics
business to Thomson-CSF SA of  France , according to a 1990 story
in the New York Times.  Van der Klugt’s troubles began on May 3, 1990, when Philips
surprised investors by saying its earnings on normal operations
had fallen by 97.3 percent in the first quarter, the Times said.
Three weeks earlier, at the company’s annual shareholders
meeting, he had said earnings in 1990 would rise from the
previous year.  Early Retirement  At a news conference on May 15, 1990, Philips said van der
Klugt would resign effective July 1 and be replaced by Jan D. Timmer, director of the consumer-electronics division since
1987. The transition to Timmer had already been planned, but not
until July 1, 1991, when van der Klugt would have retired at age
65, the Times said.  Timmer led Philips, which is now based in Amsterdam, until
1996. An article that year in the Harvard Business Review
credited Timmer with imposing a “shock treatment” that
succeeded in changing the mindset of employees, something van
der Klugt had not done. Among other steps, Timmer had division
managers attest in writing to being personally committed to
targeted reductions in staff and operating costs, according to
the article.  Van Der Klugt joined Philips in 1950 and held various
positions in  South America  before returning to the company’s
headquarters in 1978, the Times reported in 1985, when he was
named as the company’s next president and chairman. Until then
he was vice president and deputy chairman under Wisse Dekker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  