-- Crude Oil Futures Head for Weekly Gain on U.S. Economy, Iranian Tensions
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-06T13:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/crude-oil-futures-head-for-weekly-gain-on-u-s-economy-iranian-tensions.html
Oil headed for a weekly gain in  New
York  on signs that the U.S. economic recovery is gaining
momentum and concern that tensions with Iran may lead to a
disruption in Middle East exports.  West Texas Intermediate futures have advanced 3.7 percent
this week. U.S. employers added more workers to payrolls than
forecast in December and the jobless rate declined to an almost
three-year low, the Labor Department said today. The European
Union is working to halt oil purchases from Iran, said  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department spokeswoman. European foreign
ministers aim to announce harsher penalties on the Persian Gulf
nation’s energy and banking industries at a meeting Jan. 30,
according to EU spokesman  Michael Mann .  “The recent string of better-than-expected macroeconomic
indicators from the U.S. has rebuilt some of the optimism and
risk appetite,” said Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank
AB in Oslo. “ Iran  has threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz,
which would have an immense effect on the global oil market.”  Crude for February delivery rose as much as 99 cents, or 1
percent, to $102.80 a barrel and was at $102.46 at 1:40 p.m.
London time. Yesterday, the contract fell $1.41 to $101.81, the
lowest settlement this week. Prices gained 8.2 percent in 2011.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange rose 51 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$113.25 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
$10.79 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate crude.
The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Sanctions  Brent’s premium has widened from $7.93 a barrel on Dec. 27
amid heightened tension over sanctions aimed at curbing  Iran’s
nuclear program . The country, the third-largest oil exporter
globally, has threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s oil.  Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti yesterday questioned the
scope and timing of possible European Union sanctions against
Iran, raising an obstacle to stiffer penalties.  Oil in New York may fall next week on concern that Europe
will struggle to contain its debt crisis, a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Fifteen of 32 analysts and traders, or 47
percent, forecast futures will decrease through Jan. 13.
Fourteen predicted prices will rise.  “The bigger issues are the geopolitical crisis with Iran
and the European debt crisis, pushing and pulling against the
market,” said  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for risk
management at Mitsubishi Corp. in  Tokyo , who described the U.S.
stockpile data as bearish. “We had an overreaction to the
upside and people are coming back to the reality that the
European crisis will still be a big drag on the economy.”  U.S. Supplies  The Energy Department said yesterday U.S.  crude stockpiles (DOESCRUD) 
climbed 2.2 million barrels last week. A decline of 1 million
barrels was forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Gasoline stockpiles in the U.S., the world’s biggest oil
consumer, rose 2.48 million barrels in the week ended Dec. 30,
the Energy Department report also showed. Supplies were  forecast (DOEASMGS) 
to gain 1 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Distillate-fuel (DOESDIST) 
inventories, which include heating oil and diesel, were up 3.22
million barrels, more than three times the estimated increase of
1 million barrels.  Gasoline supplies in independent storage climbed to the
highest level in almost six months in the European hub of
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp, according to PJK International BV.
Stockpiles rose 14 percent to 706,000 metric tons in the week to
yesterday, the researcher in Breda,  Netherlands , said yesterday.  Employment Growth  The 200,000 increase in U.S. payrolls last month followed a
revised 100,000 gain in November that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
December gain of 155,000. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
fell to 8.5 percent, the lowest since February 2009, while hours
worked and earnings climbed.  Retail sales in the  euro zone  dropped 0.8 percent in
November, compared with a median forecast of 0.4 percent, and
 consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in more than two years
last month, in line with forecasts. Factory orders in  Germany ,
the Europe’s largest economy, dropped 4.8 percent in November,
the most in almost three years and more than an estimated
decline of 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  