-- Cuomo Budget Fixes Prolong New York Tax Debt’s Biggest Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cuomo-budget-fixes-prolong-new-york-tax-debt-s-biggest-rally-muni-credit.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s deals with
 New York (STONY1)  lawmakers and unions to raise taxes and freeze pay may
help extend the biggest rally in a year for the state’s income-
tax bonds.  The difference in yield between a top-rated New York bond
backed by personal-income taxes and due in 2017, and an index of
similar-maturity tax-exempt debt, has fallen 34 basis points
since Oct. 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the most since a 51-basis-point narrowing at the beginning of
last year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  New York’s state and local governments borrowed about $34
billion of fixed-rate debt last year, the most within any state,
according to Bloomberg data. Sales still fell 13 percent from
2010 as issuers restrained spending after the longest recession
since the 1930s.  New York  bonds “will probably be supported due to the
improving picture in  Albany ,” said Matt Dalton, who manages
$925 million of munis as chief executive officer of Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York. “Demand
outstripping supply is a bigger force than the market paying
attention to Cuomo.”  The premium demanded by investors to hold the income-tax
bonds reached its 2011 high of 55 basis points on Oct. 27, after
U.S. municipal-bond sales surged and as the state faced a $350
million midyear budget deficit and a $3.5 billion gap next
fiscal year. Last month, the Albany-based Legislature approved 
Cuomo’s plan to raise taxes on those earning $2 million or more
and cut them for the middle class. Extra revenue from the new
brackets lowered the estimated 2013 deficit to $2 billion.  Union Agreements  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, also instituted a property-
tax cap and got New York’s two biggest government-worker unions
to agree to pay freezes and furloughs last year.  A poll by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
conducted after the tax changes put Cuomo’s  approval rating  at
68 percent, two percentage points higher than the record set in
July 2002 by Republican Governor  George Pataki .  “He’s shaping up as a good leader,” said Rob Amodeo, head
of municipal investments at Western Asset Management in New
York. “As an investor, it gives you confidence that there’s
good leadership and they’re going to do the right thing.”  New York’s finances are stronger than some other large
states, Amodeo said. The $146.9 billion pension has the best
ratio of assets to expected liabilities, at 101.5 percent,
according to a study by Bloomberg Rankings. Illinois is the
worst-funded, with assets to pay 45.4 percent of obligations.  Better Than Treasuries  New York’s personal-income tax bonds are rated AAA by
 Standard & Poor’s , its top grade and higher than U.S.
Treasuries. The bonds make up about 40 percent of the state’s
outstanding securities. Only $3.5 billion are general
obligations.  Legislation enacted in 2001 authorized five state agencies,
including the Thruway Authority and the Dormitory Authority, to
issue revenue bonds backed by state income taxes.  The legislation provides that 25 percent of personal-income
tax receipts, or $6 billion, whichever is greater, be deposited
into a fund to cover debt payments.  There’s room for spreads on New York’s personal-income tax
bonds to narrow further because their tax-adjusted yields are
double those of Treasuries, Amodeo said.  A dealer bought $500,000 of 10-year income-tax debt issued
by the Dormitory Authority at 118.5 cents on the dollar Jan. 4
to yield 2.4 percent, or about 0.4 percentage point more than a
Treasury. The taxable-equivalent yield for the dormitory bond
for an investor in the top tax bracket is 3.69 percent.  Lingering Challenges  New York still faces financial challenges, such as reliance
on  Wall Street  for  tax revenue . The securities industry lost
almost $3 billion in the third quarter of 2011, cutting year-to-
date profits to $9.6 billion, Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli 
reported Dec. 15. He forecast in October that the industry may
lose almost 10,000 jobs by the end of 2012.  Lower Wall Street bonuses won’t cause the income-tax-bond
spread to widen, said Michael Brooks, a senior portfolio manager
at AllianceBernstein Holding LP in New York.  “You need something to really scare people in a big way
for it to have some sort of an impact,” Brooks said.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  METRO WASTEWATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT, COLORADO (27661MF) , which
serves 1.7 million people in and around Denver, plans to sell
$380 million of sewer-improvement bonds through competitive bid
on Jan. 11, according to offering documents. The bonds are rated
Aa1, Moody’s Investors Service’s second-highest investment
grade. (Added Jan. 6)  ALLEGHENY COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA (9442MF) , the second-most-populous
county in the state and home to Pittsburgh, will borrow as soon
as next week $175 million of tax- and revenue-anticipation
notes. The debt matures July 2012 and will help the county meet
spending needs until it receives tax collections later this
year, according to sale documents. The notes will price
competitively. The deal is rated SP-1+, Standard & Poor’s
highest short-term investment grade. (Added Jan. 6)  NASHUA, NEW HAMPSHIRE, 45 miles (52 kilometers) northwest
of  Boston , plans to sell as soon as next week $150 million of
taxable general-obligation bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt matures from 2013 through 2027. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. is the underwriter. Moody’s downgraded Nashua’s $173
million of general-obligation debt outstanding yesterday by one
level to Aa2, its third-highest rating. (Added Jan. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  