-- Cyprus Can Be Reunified Before Natural Gas Exports to EU, Minister Says
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-01-06T07:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/cyprus-can-be-reunified-before-natural-gas-exports-to-eu-minister-says.html
Cyprus, the divided Mediterranean
island that announced its first offshore gas find last week,
said revenues will benefit Greek and Turkish Cypriots because
reunification will be achieved before the fuel is shipped.  “Revenues are not envisaged to start accruing before a
number of years pass because we need a number of years to
develop the necessary infrastructure,” Praxoula Antoniadou,
minister for commerce, industry and tourism, said in an
interview in Nicosia. “Our vision is that the Cyprus problem
will be solved much sooner, within months.”  Cyprus’s Greek and Turkish-speaking communities have been
divided since 1974, when  Turkey  invaded the north of the island.
Exploration drilling last year by the U.S.’s  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) 
prompted Turkey, which doesn’t recognize the Greek Cypriot
government, to send warships to the area. It has urged Cyprus to
freeze oil exploration until a settlement is reached so that the
Turkish Cypriot community can benefit from revenues.  Noble’s gas field, containing as much as 8 trillion cubic
feet of fuel, “enhances the probability” that other sites off
Cyprus may also hold hydrocarbons, Antoniadou said Jan. 4. The
government announced a second oil and gas licensing round on
Nov. 23, covering 12 of 13 blocks, and will invite expressions
of interest “in about a month’s time,” the minister said.  Export to Europe  The nation is seeking to export gas to western  Europe  as
demand for the cleaner-burning fuel grows and the region strives
to cut its reliance on Russian supply. Shipment options,
complicated by the 38-year division of Cyprus’s two communities,
include delivery as liquefied gas or by pipeline.  “What is currently under consideration is primarily the
process of liquefaction,” Antoniadou said. “These types of
decisions are being discussed and cannot be limited to just this
first discovery. It would include the current discovery and
other future discoveries.”  The tensions between Greek and Turkish Cypriots may hamper
plans for a  gas pipeline  because any export link would have to
connect to an existing network crossing Turkey, Pierre Godec, an
oil-industry consultant, said last week. Gas liquefaction, a
more costly alternative, would allow exporters to ship supplies
by seaborne tanker instead.  Antoniadou, co-author of “The Day After” trilogy that set
out the economic benefits of reunification for the island’s
economy, for Turkey and for  Greece , said there’s time for the
two communities to agree on a “bizonal, bicommunal federation”
before gas revenues accrue in a “number of years.”  Israeli Partners  Noble, based in Houston, is developing the Cyprus Block 12
field with Israeli partners Delek Drilling LP and  Avner Oil
Exploration LLP (AVNRL) , which hold a combined 30 percent stake.  Israel , whose relations with Turkey were strained by the
killing of activists on an aid ship in 2010, is boosting
cooperation with Cyprus over energy resources, Antoniadou said.
The two countries are negotiating a “unitization agreement”
for hydrocarbon reserves that straddle the border between their
respective “exclusive economic zones,” she said. Turkey was
until recently Israel’s closest regional ally.  Cypriot President Demetris Christofias has repeatedly
stated that the island’s “natural wealth” belongs to all
Cypriots, said Antoniadou, who also chairs the United Democrats,
a pro-reunification political party. Christofias “has indicated
that through the reunification of our country, Turkish Cypriots
can enjoy any benefits accruing from the exploitation of gas
reserves,” she said.  New York  Talks  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon summoned
Christofias and Dervish Eroglu, the leader of the Turkish
Cypriot community and president of the Turkish Republic of
 Northern Cyprus , recognized only by Turkey, to New York for
talks this month to reunify the island.  Christofias, who said Sept. 22 that Turkish Cypriots will
gain from oil and gas finds even if no political solution is
reached, said Jan. 4 a joint meeting “would be meaningless”
while the gulf between the two sides remains. The president,
whose popularity slumped after a July 11 explosion knocked out
half of the island’s power generation capacity, hasn’t clarified
how Turkish Cypriots would benefit from the energy discoveries.  The leaders of the two communities haven’t found agreement
on governance and power-sharing, property, territory and
citizenship, Alexander Downer, special adviser to the UN
secretary-general, said Jan. 4 in a  statement  published on
Cyprus’s Press and Information Office website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at
   sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  