-- Thieves Defy Death to Tap Metal Price Boom as U.K. Cracks Down
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/death-defying-metal-thieves-tap-soaring-prices-as-u-k-tightens-sales-law.html
Thieves in the U.K. are stealing
sculptures, copper cabling from railroad tracks, church roofs,
bells, manhole covers and even hospital equipment as demand
increases for metals on the world’s commodities markets.  At least  two people a month  are killed trying to take
copper power cables, railway scrap metal and lead from church
roofs, according to  London ’s Metropolitan Police, which formed a
special unit last month to tackle the crime. With copper prices
forecast to jump this year, police said reported thefts are at a
record, as are insurance claims by churches.  “Britain is under attack from metal thieves,” Dyan
Crowther, Network Rail Ltd.’s director of operational services,
said by e-mail. “The only way to significantly reduce metal
crime is to take away the illegal market.”  Scrap metal is a 5 billion-pound ($7.7 billion) industry in
the U.K. and the government is cracking down on the
proliferation of illegal trading by requiring sellers to undergo
identity checks and banning cash transactions, Home Office
Minister Lord Henley said  yesterday .  Each year about 15,000 tons of scrap is stolen, according
to the  British Broadcasting Corp.  That’s roughly equivalent to
the combined weight of three Royal Navy warships. The
Association of Chief Police Officers estimates metal theft costs
the economy about 770 million pounds a year in disruption to
services and replacing the stolen components.  “The idea that you could possibly go cashless is something
we’re considering,” Henley said. “At the moment you can just
go there and sign in as  Mickey Mouse  or whoever.”  Electrocution  As the British economy stutters, thieves also are taking
risks that can be more severe than being caught by police.  Two brothers from south London, Jason and John Tusting,
were jailed last August for stealing copper cable from a railway
line; they were caught selling the metal to a scrap dealer three
hours after their accomplice,  James Smith , 28, was electrocuted
and died during the theft, police said.  “It’s extremely dangerous,” said Tony Glover, a spokesman
for the  Energy Networks Association  in London. “They are
playing with up to 33,000 volts, sometimes in a very confined
space. There are many dramatic near-misses when people have had
their faces blown away but survived with surgery.”  Rail-related metal theft rose to a record 2,627 incidents
last year, up 9.6 percent from 2010, the  British Transport
Police  said. Network Rail, the operator of the U.K.’s railways,
estimates it has lost 43 million pounds in compensation and
repair costs in England,  Scotland  and  Wales  since 2009.  1960s Law  The government plans to update the ineffective  Scrap Metal
Dealers Act of 1964 . Sellers will be required to show
identification, rather than simply offering their name and
address under the current system, and higher fines and harsher
restrictions will be introduced.  “Metal theft is a serious and growing problem and the
government is working hard with industry, police and law
enforcement agencies to tackle it,” Home Office Minister Henley
said in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 4. “It is clear law
dating back to the 1960s is not sufficient to deal with an
increasingly organized crime.”  A metric ton of lead was worth $2,049 yesterday, according
to the London Metal Exchange. The price of lead on the LME has
doubled since 2008, according to exchange data.  Copper prices are forecast by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
climb 26 percent to $9,500 a ton in the next 12 months, while
analysts at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are forecasting a shortfall of 234,000
tons as demand rises 2.5 percent next year.  Church Roofs  Churches, many with a large proportion of copper and lead
on their roofs, as well as bells and lightning conductors, have
for years been targeted by thieves. Last year, Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Group Plc, which specializes in church property, said 
it recorded  more than 2,500 claims , beating the previous record 
of 2,400 in 2008.  The Church of England Diocese of Chelmsford in Essex, east
of London, was worst hit, with 409 out of 600 churches stripped
of metals, causing 944,000 pounds in damage over the past five
years, according to James Bettley, chairman of the  Diocese
Advisory Committee .  “In some cases parishioners have slept in their churches,
and the thefts still take place,” Bettley said in a telephone
interview on Jan. 3. “People will take absolutely anything
metal now and ask questions later.”  The diocese’s most targeted church is Hatfield Broad Oak,
which dates from the 13th century and whose roof was stripped
six times in the second half of last year by thieves, causing at
least 100,000 pounds worth of damage. Bettley said the diocese
may use fiberglass or coated stainless steel as a replacement.  Opportunists, Gangs  About 10 churches a day are being targeted in  England ,
Janet Gough, director of the Cathedral and Church Buildings
Division of the Church of England, said by phone.  “It’s a combination of opportunistic crime as well as the
gangs that are taking the metal out of the country,” said
Gough. “The regulation of the scrap metal industry is the
single biggest thing that can make a difference. Cash
transactions have to be banned.”  Stolen scrap metal finds its way onto major corporations’
assembly lines once it’s mixed with legitimate scrap in large
processing yards. Often street collectors, known in the U.K. as
rag and bone men, act as middle-men. They collect the stolen
scrap from local yards where any identifying marks are burned
off, Ian Hetherington, director general of the  British Metals
Recycling Association , said by telephone on Jan. 4.  In cases of organized crime, gangs use social networks to
arrange to collect stolen metal at a temporary site and smuggle
it out the country, Hetherington said. In the U.S., gangs use
disused service stations, and in  France , where cash transactions
have been banned, they move metal in containers, he said.  Supply Chain  The association opposes banning cash deals, because it
believes it would create a black market.  “At some point we all acknowledge that this material may
well enter the legitimate supply chain,” Hetherington said.
“Once you’re faced with material that’s been compressed,
distorted, and possibly delivered in 40 ton containers, it’s
very difficult to identify single items that might have been
stolen,” he said. “The rules are ridiculously slack.”  Scotland Yard in December created its first dedicated unit,
the  Waste and Metal Theft Taskforce . Officers staged 275
inspections and searches of scrap-metal dealers’ yards in the 
first two weeks of the month, resulting in 15 arrests for 
offenses ranging from burglary to transporting scrap without a 
license, the Metropolitan Police said.  Telephone Cables  BT Group Plc (BT\A) , the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company,
saw 12 percent more attacks on its networks last year compared
with 2010. It recovered 204 tons of stolen metal by visiting
scrap metal dealers and working with police, Luke Beeson,
general manager of BT Group security, said in an e-mail.  Part of the dramatic rise in metal thefts has been the
plundering of statues and monuments.  In mid-December, a bronze sculpture by Barbara Hepworth,
entitled Two Forms (Divided Circle) was cut from its plinth in
Dulwich Park, south London. The two meter-high piece was insured
for 500,000 pounds, though would fetch about 1,500 pounds as
scrap, according to  Art History News .  Brass and copper plaques listing the dead of two world wars
were stolen at a peak rate of two or three a week in October and
early November, according to the War Memorial Trust. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  called the thefts “an absolutely
sickening and disgusting crime.”  Brian Souter, chief executive officer of rail and bus
operator  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , called on the authorities to
clamp down on all metal theft.  “The organized theft of metals is having a huge impact on
the rail industry and its passengers, as well as on other
critical aspects of the national infrastructure,” Souter said
in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 3. “As well as the human cost
of disruption, criminal activity in this area is now so damaging
to our wider economy that we simply must act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  