-- Dell Names Felice Chief Commercial Officer to Boost Sales
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-01-06T21:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/dell-names-felice-commercial-chief-in-bid-to-sell-more-service-packages.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  named Steve Felice
president and chief commercial officer, overseeing all its sales
and marketing efforts as the company aims to sell more packages
of technology products and services to businesses.  Felice had been president of the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker’s consumer and small-and-midsize
business sales and will now head all corporate, consumer and
government units, Dell said in a statement. Paul Bell, who ran
sales to large businesses and governments, will retire in March.  The moves are designed to help Dell develop and market
groups of products that better meet customers’ needs, the
company said.  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell is seeking to
transform from a low-cost PC maker into a broader supplier of
computing devices, data-center equipment, software and
technology services.  “This is still a company in transition,” said Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in San Francisco, in a
telephone interview. Felice, who headed the company’s Asian
operations until 2010, may help as it seeks more sales outside
the U.S., Wu said.  “He definitely has a track record of
execution,” said Wu, who  rates (DELL)  the shares “neutral.”  Broadening Business  Dell, which is competing in markets for servers, storage,
networking and technology services with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , has used  acquisitions (DELL)  of companies such as
Perot Systems Corp. to expand in those areas.  Felice, 53, joined Dell in 1999. In 2010, Dell moved him
from  Singapore  to its Texas headquarters to manage sales to
small-and-midsize businesses, and last year gave him the
company’s low-margin consumer PC business. Profit from the
consumer arm has improved as Dell has pared back its product
line and walked away from price battles with rivals.  Bell, 51, may pursue more personal philanthropy, said
spokesman  David Frink . Bell, who was president of the company’s
large enterprise and public-sector units, joined Dell 15 years
ago.  Frink said Felice wasn’t available for an interview.  Dell gained 1.1 percent to $15.34 at the close in New York
trading. The shares  rose (DELL)  8 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  