-- Denmark Assessing All Consequences of Imposing Iran Oil Embargo
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-01-06T13:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/denmark-assessing-all-consequences-of-imposing-iran-oil-embargo.html
Denmark’s Foreign Minister Villy Soevndal said all consequences are being studied as the European
Union deliberates whether to impose oil sanctions on  Iran .  “We’re definitely assessing all consequences of an
embargo,” Soevndal, whose government this month took over EU’s
rotating presidency, said today in Copenhagen. “But regardless
of their impact, what is at risk is that an Iran with nuclear
weapons will spur a weapons of mass destruction arms race in the
 Middle East , which could see first the Saudis and possibly the
Turks getting nukes. And then the situation is way out of
control.”  The EU may agree to an embargo on Iranian oil at a meeting
Jan. 30, officials said this week. U.S. sanctions imposed last
year seek to cut off dealings with Iran’s banking system, making
it difficult for consumers to buy the country’s oil, in an
effort to force Iran to abandon nuclear work that the U.S. and
allies say may be intended for weapons development.  Iran threatened last month to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions
are imposed on its crude exports. Concern that supplies may be
disrupted helped boost  oil prices , with  Brent crude  advancing
3.5 percent this week.  The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps will hold large-scale
exercises in the Strait of Hormuz and the  Persian Gulf  next
month as tensions mount. The drills will be the “greatest naval
war games” to be conducted by the Iranian military’s elite
corps, Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi, the defense minister, was
cited as saying by the state-run Fars news agency.  “One of the reasons we’re seeing the saber rattling around
the Hormuz Strait is that the current sanctions are working and
that Iran is afraid the oil sanctions will also work,” said
Soevndal.  The EU and the U.S. are joined by the  United Nations  in
levying punitive measures on Iran over the nuclear program. Iran
says its nuclear efforts are for civilian purposes and to
generate electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  