-- Obama’s DOD Strategy May Benefit Northrop
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-06T14:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/dod-strategy-may-benefit-northrop-huntington.html
Builders of naval vessels led by
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and makers of surveillance
aircraft such as  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  may benefit once
President  Barack Obama ’s new military strategy is translated
into dollars.  The strategy presented by Obama and military leaders at the
Pentagon yesterday emphasizes “the Asia-Pacific and the  Middle
East ,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said at a news
conference. Specifics won’t come until Obama presents his budget
proposal next month, the first step in an effort to cut Pentagon
spending by almost $490 billion through 2021.  The approach is likely to place a premium on naval power
and drones, radar, tactical missiles and aircraft in order to
thwart any effort by nations such as China or Iran to deny U.S.
access to strategic regions including the South China Sea or the
Persian Gulf, according to Jim McAleese of McAleese &
Associates, a government-contracts consultant in Sterling,
Virginia.  “Navy shipbuilding is the biggest winner because that
addresses the fundamental area-denial threat, and Air Force
aircraft is the second-biggest winner,” McAleese said in an
interview yesterday.  Huntington of  Newport News , Virginia, is the U.S. Navy’s
largest builder of surface-warfare vessels. The company shares
work on nuclear-powered submarines with  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) 
of Falls Church, Virginia.  Cybersecurity Companies  The strategy’s emphasis on cybersecurity may benefit
companies that can help conduct attacks on adversaries’ computer
networks as well as shield U.S. systems, Rodney Joffe, a senior
vice president for  NeuStar Inc. (NSR) , a Sterling, Virginia-based
data-management company, said in an interview.  “One of the ways I think we can get great bang for the
buck is creating what our enemy already has -- really good
offensive cyber capabilities,” Joffe said. “We should be able
to get enormous leverage from investments in offensive
cybersecurity.”  The strategy review also pledged to give priority to space
programs. That may benefit  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s Advanced
Extremely High Frequency satellite and its Space-Based Infrared
System, Scott Pace, director of the Space Policy Institute at
George Washington University in Washington, said in an
interview.  Fewer Ground Vehicles  While deficit reduction will depend in part on reducing
military personnel, makers of ground vehicles may be affected by
cuts in Army procurement. Companies such as  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) ,
 Navistar International Corp. (NAV) ,  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and General
Dynamics may be hurt by the shift in strategy, Robert Spingarn,
an analyst in  New York  with Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a
note to clients.  Force reductions and troop withdrawals from Iraq and
Afghanistan may result in cutting spending on body armor, night-
vision equipment, backpacks and small arms, according to a
Bloomberg Government study in June by Sopen Shah, a defense
analyst.  While the Pentagon strategy signaled areas that may benefit
defense contractors, “we have no idea until we see the budget
numbers,” said Michael Herson, president of American Defense
International, a Washington lobbying and consulting firm whose
clients include Northrop of  Falls Church , Virginia, and General
Atomics of  San Diego , California.  No Dollar Signs  “We didn’t find a single dollar sign in the 16-page
document summarizing the new strategy,”  Byron Callan , director
of defense analysis for Washington-based Capital Alpha Parters
LLC, said in an e-mail.  Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Jonathan Greenert gave
some hints last month of how the U.S. will increase its Asia
presence and what companies may benefit. The Navy plans to
station several of its new Littoral Combat Ships in  Singapore  to
counter piracy and in Bahrain for Persian Gulf mine-sweeping
operations, Greenert wrote in Proceedings Magazine, published by
the U.S. Naval Institute.  The deployments will add to the role of what’s now a 55-
ship, $37.4 billion program produced in separate designs by
teams of Lockheed of Bethesda, Maryland and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  of
Henderson, Australia.  Greenert also said the Navy will deploy on its vessels a
“larger and improved force” of rotary-wing drones such as
Northrop’s Fire Scout.  Stealth Bomber  The military strategy calls for development of a new long-
range stealth bomber as part of the strategy’s goal to have
weapons able to reach areas far from bases where “our access
and freedom to operate are challenged.”  The development of the aircraft will be the first new
bomber design in about three decades, since Northrop’s B-2.
Lockheed and Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  may compete for the
aircraft.  The strategy offered yesterday may be moot if Congress and
Obama don’t agree on ways to undo an additional $500 billion in
defense cuts slated to start in January 2013, said Herson of
American Defense International.  Defense budget decisions this year will be sharply
disputed, Tom Captain, U.S. sector leader for aerospace and
defense at Deloitte LLP in New York, said in an interview.  “The real challenge is being able to afford these non-
negotiable new requirements,” Captain said. “My question is
how can we afford all this.”  A congressional supercommittee assigned to reduce the
deficit by at least $1.2 trillion failed to reach agreement in
November. That triggered automatic defense cuts of $500 billion,
excluding interest savings, as stipulated under the budget
control act Obama signed into law in August.  In addition, Obama’s strategic priorities may be undone if
he is defeated by a Republican in the November elections, Herson
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  