-- Dollar Index May Advance to 17-Month High on Bollinger: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-01-06T03:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/dollar-index-may-advance-to-17-month-high-on-bollinger-technical-analysis.html
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  may climb to a 17-
month high, according to Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd.,
citing trading patterns.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s index, which tracks the
greenback versus the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, surpassed the higher range of the so-called Bollinger
band yesterday for the first time in three weeks.  Given that the gauge’s 25-day moving average has risen
since November, the Dollar Index may advance further, said
Takuya Kawabata, a researcher in Tokyo at a unit of  Japan ’s
largest currency margin company.  “The Dollar Index is in an upward trend on the weekly
Bollinger chart as well,” he said. The gauge may head for 81.61,
Kawabata said. That’s near the higher range of the band.  The index’s next target will be the 61.8 percent
retracement level of 82.591 from the high in June 2010 to the
low in May last year on the Fibonacci chart, according to
Kawabata. Beyond that, the Dollar Index may rise to 83.559
reached in August 2010, he said.  The index was little changed at 80.883 as of 12:01 p.m. in
 Tokyo  after touching a one-year high of 81.016 yesterday.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low. A
break above resistance, or below support, indicates it may move
to the next level. Support refers to an area where buy orders
may cluster. Resistance is where there may be orders to sell.  Bollinger bands display a  candle chart (DXY)  of historical prices
and show standard-deviation-based ranges around a specified
moving average.  In  technical analysis (DXY) , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security, commodity,
currency or index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  