-- Dutch Premier Rutte Says ESM at $638 Billion Is ‘Enough’
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-06T14:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/dutch-premier-rutte-says-esm-at-638-billion-is-enough-1-.html
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said
the plan to stock  Europe ’s permanent rescue fund with 500
billion euros ($638 billion) and increase the lending volume of
the  International Monetary Fund  is “enough.”  Rutte, speaking to reporters in the Bavarian town of
Wildbad Kreuth today, where he attended a meeting of the
 Christian Social Union , Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition
ally, said he backs  Germany ’s stance on the current volume of
the fund, known as the European Stability Mechanism.  “It was an important step taken at the Dec. 8-9 summit to
agree to boost the IMF by 200 billion euros,” he said. “It was
about creating enough strength. As with the ESM we need to
create enough strength and that’s there in the plan.”  Rutte’s comments underline the difference in views between
the financially mostly sound states in Europe’s north and the
cash-strapped members in the south. Merkel has resisted calls to
ratchet up bailout funding, insisting instead that budget
discipline is the best means to stem the debt crisis now in its
third year.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in an interview
with Le Figaro newspaper that the size of the euro region’s
current financial backstop, the European Financial Stability
Facility, “remains insufficient.”  ‘Adequately Funded’  “The ESM is adequately funded,” CSU Chairman  Horst Seehofer  told reporters in the spa town in the Bavarian Alps.
“It’s better than the EFSF and we need to get it up and running
fast.”  Merkel will meet French President Nicolas Sarkozy in Berlin
on Jan. 9 to hammer out details of a crisis-fighting strategy
that European leaders aim to complete by the end of March.
Merkel’s coalition lawmakers will probably resist increasing
funds for European bailouts to ease the debt crisis, two CSU
members said yesterday.  “I completely agree with Mrs. Merkel that we cannot solve
this crisis with a big bang but we must try to win back the
confidence of financial markets step by step,” Rutte said.
“Idealism here isn’t harmful but our policy should be to follow
a line between idealism and skepticism.”  Rutte said he agrees with the CSU in rejecting both joint
euro-region bond sales and the idea of ejecting states from the
euro that persistently fail to follow new fiscal rules or are
unable to stick to them. He said he backs CSU support of
automatic sanctions for rule breakers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  