-- Confidence in Euro Region at Two-Year Low as German Orders Slide: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-06T12:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/economic-confidence-in-euro-region-declines-to-two-year-low-on-debt-crisis.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook fell to the lowest in more than two years and German
factory orders plunged as the euro area’s leaders struggled to
contain a worsening fiscal crisis and global demand weakened.  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s in line with the
median of  19 economists’ estimates (EUESEMU)  in a Bloomberg survey.
Factory orders in  Germany , the region’s largest economy, dropped
4.8 percent in November, the most in almost three years,
according to the Economy Ministry in Berlin.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet on Jan. 9 to discuss Europe’s new fiscal
pact before a European Union summit at the end of the month. As
governments tighten austerity measures amid high  unemployment (UMRTEMU) ,
households and businesses are more reluctant to spend and the
prospect of a recession looms.  “Things are really starting to slow down,”  Jennifer McKeown , senior European economist at  Capital Economics  in
London, said by telephone. “There’s an underlying economic
downturn going on at the same time as the peripheral debt crisis
continues. Even the strongest parts of the euro-zone economy are
beginning to falter. We see the euro zone beginning to break up,
perhaps as soon as this year.”  Recession of Unknown Scope  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said on Jan.
4 that the EU is on the brink of a recession of unknown scope.
The European Central Bank forecasts that the euro region’s
economy will expand 0.3 percent in 2012, while the European
Commission sees growth at 0.5 percent.  The euro is headed for a fifth weekly loss against the
dollar. The single currency erased gains after the German data
were released, trading at $1.2785 at 12:19 p.m. in  Frankfurt ,
down less than 0.1 percent on the day.  The euro-area unemployment rate remained at a 13-year high
of 10.3 percent in November, a separate report showed. Spain
recorded the region’s highest unemployment rate of 22.9 percent.
Among young Spaniards the rate rose to 49.6 percent. Euro-area
retail sales slipped 0.8 percent in November.  The gloomy economic indicators in  Europe  followed the news
from  Asia  that  Japan ’s recovery from the aftermath of a record
earthquake was probably cut short in the fourth quarter as the
impact of the euro-area fiscal crisis outweighed the support
from reconstruction spending.  U.S. Payrolls  Gross domestic product (JGDPAGDP)  probably shrank in October and
November, pointing to a 0.1 percent contraction for the quarter,
according to calculations by the Japan Center for Economic
Research, an independent analysis group in  Tokyo . A third
contraction in four quarters would widen Japan’s gap with  China ,
which overtook it as the world’s second-largest economy in 2010.  This contrasted with the U.S., where hiring probably
accelerated in December for a second month, pointing to a
strengthening labor market heading into 2012, economists said
before a report later today.  Payrolls climbed by 155,000 workers after rising 120,000
the previous month, according to the median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  unemployment rate 
rose after dropping in November to the lowest level in more than
two years, the report may also show.  ‘Strong Showing’  While Europe’s debt crisis has clouded Germany’s economic
outlook and cooling global growth is hurting export orders, the
country may still avert a recession. Unemployment at a two-
decade low is helping to bolster consumer sentiment and business
confidence unexpectedly rose for a second month in December.  Orders had “a strong showing in the previous month,” said
Johannes Mayr, an economist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich.
“The euro debt crisis is an issue for manufacturers as it damps
foreign orders, but we expect the domestic economy to be strong
enough to avoid a severe weakness overall.”  Industrial orders across the euro area increased 1.8
percent in October, less than economists had estimated,
according to the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg. On Jan. 2, London-based Markit Economics said a
manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers in
the euro region rose slightly in December, though it still
indicated a fifth month of shrinking output.  A gauge of confidence among European manufacturers held at
minus 7.1 in December, the lowest since April 2010, the European
Commission said today.  “Confidence has been ebbing away for some time now and
there’s no reason to suppose economic confidence is going to
turn up any time soon,” said  Peter Dixon , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  London . “Depending on how deep the recession
ends up being we could see further dramatic declines.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  