-- Egyptian Envoy to U.S. Says Israel Peace Treaty Secure, Defends NGO Raids
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/egypt-s-envoy-says-israel-treaty-secure-defends-raids-on-democracy-groups.html
Egypt ’s ambassador to the U.S. pushed
back against calls in Washington to withhold more than $1
billion in U.S. aid following raids on democracy groups in Cairo
and dismissed concerns that his nation may abandon its peace
treaty with  Israel .  “The Egyptian public recognizes the importance” of the
accord with Israel and the stability it promotes, Ambassador
Sameh Shoukry said in an interview yesterday at the Bloomberg
Washington bureau. “Egypt has no motivation to abrogate the
treaty.”  Shoukry downplayed comments attributed Jan. 1 to the deputy
chief of the Muslim Brotherhood movement, whose Justice and
Freedom Party is leading Egypt’s parliamentary elections. Rashad
al-Bayoumi was quoted by Al-Hayat newspaper as saying the peace
treaty might be put to a future referendum.  The 1978 treaty might not survive a referendum, according
to a poll released in April by Pew Global Attitudes Project. It
found that 54 percent of Egyptians favor annulling the peace
treaty and 36 percent want to maintain it.  While “there is always a possibility by the agreement of
both parties to re-discuss certain areas” of the Camp David
Accords if mutually beneficial, Shoukry said, there is “really
no pending threat to the peace treaty.”  On other matters, he said that promised international
assistance has been slow to materialize and that Egyptian
authorities are taking steps to prevent a recurrence of the
recent violence against protesters who continue to challenge the
interim military leadership.  NGO Raids  Shoukry, a career diplomat who stayed in his post following
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , said there has been an
overreaction in  Washington  to the Dec. 29 raids at offices of
Egyptian and foreign civil society groups. The searches and
seizures, he said, were ordered by independent judges
investigating alleged violations of Egypt’s laws on funding and
registration for non-governmental organizations.  The Obama administration has condemned the raids on NGOs,
which included three U.S.-based pro-democracy groups. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  called his counterpart last week to
express “deep concern,” and State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland yesterday said “the issue has not yet been
resolved.”  The Working Group on Egypt, an influential bipartisan group
that advises the administration, and Representative Frank Wolf,
a Virginia Republican and senior member of the House
Appropriations committee, have called for the suspension of U.S.
aid to Egypt over the raids.  ‘Not Helpful’  “It’s not helpful to the relationship when the issue of
assistance is presented as a form of punishment,” Shoukry said.
“We were hopeful that the U.S. would recognize the legal
nature” of the searches and “wait for the results of that
investigation and not jump to any preconceived ideas.”  Shoukry said that there are 35,000 NGOs operating in Egypt,
and that the government supports their “valuable role.” There
“might be a need to revisit” some of the laws that “were put
on the books in previous times, but until” changes are made,
the laws apply, he said.  Nuland, speaking to reporters in Washington, said Assistant
Secretary of State  Jeffrey Feltman , who was visiting Cairo
yesterday, told Egyptian authorities that the U.S.-based
democracy groups “have been willing to register” in compliance
with the law, and that “it’s the Egyptian government that
hasn’t made a decision whether it wants to register them.”  “What these NGOs have been doing is helping provide some
of the basic tools” for a democracy, such as voter education
and media training, Feltman told reporters in Cairo.  U.S. Commitment  Egypt, at $1.56 billion, is the fifth-largest recipient of
U.S. foreign assistance in the Obama administration’s request
for fiscal year 2012. The White House sought $3 billion for
Israel, the second-largest aid recipient.  Shoukry said that aid to both Egypt and Israel is “a
commitment by the  United States ” under the Camp David peace
accords and the U.S. has derived at least as much benefit from
the aid as has Egypt. U.S. aid has facilitated close ties with
the Egyptian military, enabling the U.S. to maintain security in
the region and access facilities and logistical support during
the  Iraq War , he said.  “If we wanted to calculate it,” the benefits to the U.S.
“would far, far exceed the actual sum of assistance received”
by Egypt, he said.  Aid Lags  Egyptian Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri, in Cairo Jan. 4,
in lamented that Western countries and Arab states had not made
good on promises of stepped-up aid following the uprising that
ousted Mubarak nearly a year ago.  Last May, Obama announced the U.S. would arrange $1 billion
in debt relief and $1 billion in loan guarantees for Egypt. The
European Union pledged to boost its aid by $1.75 billion at a
meeting of the Group of Eight industrial countries in Deauville,
 France .  “The monies have not been provided,” Shoukry said, “not
only as far as the U.S. was concerned, but as far as the G-8
Deauville initiative. There have been no cash injections into
the Egyptian economy to support the transition and to address
the difficulties and the challenges that we have faced because
of our declining tourist revenues and the lack of productivity
related to the turbulence of the revolution.”  Loan Guarantees  Unrest in Egypt slowed economic growth in the fiscal year
that ended in June to 1.8 percent from 5.1 percent the previous
year, and drained 50 percent of the nation’s foreign  reserves (EGIRES)  in
2011.  Shoukry said Egypt understands the delays in U.S. aid stem
in part from the lack of a legislative framework. The loan
guarantees are “a very complicated issue,” he said. Egyptian
“financial institutions are still seeking clarifications from
the U.S. on the costs related to the loan guarantees. I know
that some of them are not eager to engage, because they feel
those costs might not be rewarding to them from an economic
perspective.”  As for U.S. and domestic criticism of the Egyptian
authorities’ violent handling of recent protests, there has been
an official recognition that mistakes were made, Shoukry said.  “There’s been apologies issued by the government and the
military council, and there has been an ongoing judicial
investigation to define responsibility for the loss of life and
for the circumstances surrounding some of these
demonstrations,” he said.  Egypt held its third round of parliamentary elections this
week, and a presidential vote is scheduled to take place by the
end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  