-- Zell Entitled to Option on Archstone, Judge Says in Rejecting Lehman Bid
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/lehman-bankruptcy-judge-refuses-to-block-banks-archstone-deal-with-zell.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. lost a
bid to block  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  from giving
 Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential an option to buy 26.5 percent of
Archstone when a judge said Zell was entitled to the option.  Bankrupt Lehman tried to block the deal, saying it would be
forced to pay more than the $2.6 billion it planned for the
banks’ 53 percent stake in Archstone. Lehman may be insolvent,
yet it is “cash-rich,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said
in a court hearing yesterday in  Manhattan . Lehman and its
affiliates had $27.2 billion of cash and investments on Nov. 30,
according to filings.  Peck said he assumed the Zell company would bid about $1.4
billion for half of the banks’ stake, because if Lehman matches
his offer,  Equity Residential (EQR)  would get a so-called breakup fee
in compensation.  The banks’ deal with Zell is really “a disguised sale of
100 percent of the banks’ stake to Lehman,” designed to get a
good price, Peck said. “I know it.” However, he said, the Zell
company is entitled to exercise its option, denying Lehman’s
request for a preliminary injunction.  Peck said he agreed with the banks, which argued that the
fight over Archstone “is simply about money.” Lehman wouldn’t
be immediately harmed if the deal went forward, he said. Peck
said he sided with the Zell company, which argued it would be
harmed if Lehman blocked the deal because it had spent time and
money on the investment, and would end up with nothing.  The judge didn’t rule on the merits of Lehman’s case, said
Jeff Fitts, co-head of Lehman’s real estate division.  ‘Breached’ Obligations  “We continue to maintain that BofA and Barclays breached
their obligations to the estate and are pleased that the court
noted that both banks have affirmatively waived any limitation
on monetary damages the estate may seek as a result of their
actions,” Fitts said in an e-mailed statement.  Lehman, which has said it wants to sell Archstone for
$6 billion to help pay creditors, is first seeking to gain
control by buying the banks’ stakes. Zell’s Chicago-based
company is Archstone’s biggest rival in the apartment business,
referred to by Peck as “the elephant in the room.”  Archstone is Lehman’s biggest real estate asset. Lehman
currently owns 47 percent. Its move to buy the first half of the
banks’ stake is “on the court calendar” for Jan. 11, Fitts
said.  Before ruling, Peck asked London-based Barclays and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America to confirm that
Lehman was entitled to a refund if a judge determined that it
had overpaid for their stakes. Lawyers for both banks stood up
and confirmed that was the case, according to an agreement.  Liquidation Plan  Lehman is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after
three years in  bankruptcy court . After agreeing to pay the banks
$1.3 billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, Lehman asked Peck to
rule that it has the right to take Zell’s option to the rest of
the banks’ stake at the same price.  Joseph Frank, a lawyer for Barclays, told Peck that the
banks have a right to sell their Archstone stakes at a market
price. If Zell values the second piece of their holding at more
money, Lehman should match his offer, he said.  Lehman sued the banks on Dec. 15 for breach of contract,
saying they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company,
Archstone’s “largest competitor.” As part of the suit, Lehman
asked Peck to block the deal with Zell.  Equity Residential, with a minority stake, could use its
leverage to gain all of Archstone, so Lehman would have to
defend itself by buying the stake he bid for, Lehman’s lawyer,
Paul DeFilippo, said yesterday.  Leveraged Buyout  Zell’s Equity Residential, an investor in multifamily
housing, took an option to invest in Archstone because it shares
the view that there is value in the apartment company, even if
its estimate is $1 billion less than the $6 billion valuation of
Lehman, Craig White, a lawyer for Equity Residential, told Peck.  The Zell company originally bid for all of Archstone and
lost because of the $1 billion difference with Lehman over
values, he said.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 