-- HeidelbergCement Finds Mild Winter Shields Chilly Economy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-06T11:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/heidelbergcement-finds-mild-winter-a-shelter-from-chilly-economy.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) ,  Schwenk Zement
KG  and other European building-material suppliers are getting a
reprieve from the region’s faltering economies as mild winter
temperatures extend the building season.  Germany  had its fifth-warmest December on record, according
weather bureau  DWD . The benign start to winter has boosted Ulm,
Germany-based Schwenk Zement’s sales by about 2 percentage
points, Managing Director Gerhard Hirth said in an interview.
HeidelbergCement, Europe’s third-largest cement maker, said
plants in Germany are continuing to run at a time normally
associated with seasonal stoppages.  “2011 was such a rare year for us in Germany,”
HeidelbergCement Chief Executive Officer Bernd Scheifele said by
e-mail yesterday. “Normally, cold weather means we shut down
plants for a time and get on with maintenance. There’s only been
a few years when we have been able to keep cement production
running for an entire year.”  Temperate weather, contrasting with the blizzards across
swathes of  Europe  last year, is a welcome tailwind for suppliers
of cement and crushed rock as they grapple with a struggling
construction  industry  (UKNASADJ) and cutbacks in  government spending .
HeidelbergCement, like larger competitor  Lafarge SA (LG)  of  France ,
is cutting costs and selling assets to lower acquisition-fueled
borrowings.  The 24-member STOXX 600 Construction & Materials Index
declined 20 percent last year, after falling 4.8 percent in
2010. HeidelbergCement, which generates about one-third of sales
in western and northern Europe,  dropped (HEI)  30 percent. Lafarge, the
world’s No. 1 cement maker,  fell (LG)  42 percent, and  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  of
 Switzerland ,  slid (HOLN)  27 percent. HeidelbergCement rose as much as
1.5 percent to 34.1 euros in  Frankfurt  today.  Winter Doldrums  “Usually, construction companies lay down their tools in
November or December and go on a winter break,” Schwenk’s Hirth
said in the Jan. 3 phone interview. “This year, they continued
to work, so there’s demand for cement.”  The closely held company boosted sales by more than 10
percent in 2011, Hirth said. It reported 271.4 million euros
($348 million) in revenue in 2010. Hirth predicted the overall
industry saw a similar growth rate.  In Germany alone, building companies would normally shed as
many as 150,000 employees to survive the winter doldrums, said
Harald Schroeer, deputy managing director of Germany’s ZDB
construction-industry group. This time around, workers are being
kept on, he added.  Holcim  With the mild temperatures, fourth-quarter sales across the
industry should be “reasonably good” in volume terms, said  Tim
Cahill , a Dublin-based analyst at J&E Davy Holdings.  Europe’s debt crisis is clouding the economic outlook for
2012, with the Bundesbank cutting its German growth forecast
last month to 0.6 percent from 1.8 percent.  “We hear industry sources saying December was a positive
month due to the weather,” said Cahill. “Still, companies are
very careful to not create a false sense of optimism.”  Holcim’s Swiss factories had been running well in the first
part of December, before the weather turned colder, according to
spokesman Markus Gerber. The plunge in temperatures from mid-
December then led to a pull-back in construction activity to
regular seasonal levels, he said.  Swiss cement shipments rose 2.9 percent in 2011, according
to figures released today by cemsuisse.  HeidelbergCement is behind schedule with plans to cut
borrowings inflated by the $18 billion acquisition of Hanson in
2007. It’s now closely looking at disposals in a bid to regain
an investment grade  credit rating .  Lafarge, based in Paris, is facing similar challenges.
Efforts to reduce debt failed to stop its credit rating being
moved to junk last year. Lafarge sold or agreed to sell more
than 2 billion euros of assets in 2011 and aims to reduce costs
by 500 million euros, mainly this year.  2012 Forecasts  Cahill said quantifying the effect of better weather on
fourth-quarter results is almost impossible and lower energy
prices and weaker year-earlier figures will be bigger factors.  The benefit may grow if weather forecasters have got the
outlook right.  Warmer-than-usual temperatures throughout Europe should
last through the 2011-12 winter, potentially making this year’s
season Europe’s mildest in four years, Weather Services
International of Andover,  Massachusetts , said on Dec. 19.  In the U.K., 2011 was the second-warmest year on record,
the  Met Office , Britain’s state forecaster, said Dec. 30. After
“fairly widespread mild temperatures” in December,
temperatures will “often be around average or slightly above”
through Jan. 20, it added.  “The worst thing for the industry is snow either in early
December, or in the first two weeks on January,” Peter Tom,
chief executive of  Breedon Aggregates Ltd. (BREE)  of the U.K., said in
a telephone interview. “This year, it looks like we’ll be
fortunate. The weather is reasonably mild, and it looks like
it’ll remain mild this week and next, and that’s important.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  