-- Emerging Stocks Fall Third Day, Trim Weekly Gain; Forint Rallies
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-06T13:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/emerging-stocks-fall-third-day-trim-weekly-gain-forint-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day, paring the benchmark index’s weekly gain, on concern
Europe’s worsening debt crisis will hurt exports to the region.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  sank 0.4 percent to 928.13
at 12:26 p.m. in  London , cutting this week’s gain to 1.4
percent. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.1 percent as financial
regulators said they were investigating the spreading of rumors
about an explosion in North Korea. Hungary’s forint rallied and
the  BUX Index (BUX)  rose 1.2 percent, rebounding from a two-month low.  German factory orders dropped the most in almost three
years in November as the euro region economy edged toward a
recession and global demand weakened. Hungarian Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  said the country needed to get an International
Monetary Fund aid deal, after the forint sank to a record and a
debt auction fell short of the target. Fitch Ratings said it was
downgrading Hungary to junk level.  “Investors are hopeful that the current low-valuation base
across emerging-market equities provides a good basis for
performance this year but clearly remain wary of the threat to
global growth posed by the unresolved euro-zone debt crisis,”
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said
in an e-mailed comment.  The MSCI emerging-market index slipped 20 percent last
year, while the MSCI World Index of developed nations lost 7.6
percent amid concern  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis and slowing
global growth will hurt corporate earnings. The gauge of
developing nations is valued at 9.5 times  estimated profit (MXEF) ,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 11.6 times.  Hiring in the U.S. probably accelerated in December for a
second month, economists said before a Labor Department report
today.  Fund Inflows  Emerging-stock funds had a second straight week of inflows,
taking in $800 million in the week ended Jan. 4, Markus Rosgen,
an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report today, citing
figures compiled by EPFR Global. Global equity funds had
outflows of $400 million, according to the report.  The South Korean won declined as much as 0.9 percent to its
weakest level since Dec. 20. No evidence has come to support
rumors which centered on speculation of an explosion in  North
Korea , Kim Soo Mi, a spokeswoman for the Financial Supervisory
Service, said in Seoul.  Hungarian stocks rebounded following their 5.3 percent
slide in the preceding three sessions. The forint strengthened
as much as 1.1 percent against the euro and 10-year  government
bonds (GHGB10YR)  in forint rose, cutting the yield 32 basis points to
10.077 percent, as Orban pledged to cooperate with central bank
President Andras Simor after a dispute about the bank’s
independence threatened the country’s bailout. The forint pared
gains and appreciated 0.4 percent after Fitch Ratings said it
was downgrading Hungary to BB+, the highest junk level, with a
negative outlook.  Stocks, Ruble  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  gained 0.8 percent in Moscow The ruble
gained 0.3 percent against the dollar as oil rose in  New York .
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  advanced 0.7 percent in
Johannesburg.  The Indian rupee gained 0.5 percent and Indonesia’s rupiah
appreciated 0.7 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.7 percent, snapping a
two-day, 2.3 percent drop, on speculation the central bank will
cut banks’ reserve-requirement ratios to boost lending to small
companies hurt by a cash crunch.  “The weekend’s here and there’s always the optimism it may
happen,” said Zhang Gang, a strategist at Central  China 
Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai. “Such a rebound may not
last unless the cut really happens.”  China Shanshui Cement Group Ltd. (691)  slid 7.8 percent, the
worst performer in MSCI’s emerging-market index, leading
declines among cement producers listed in  Hong Kong , on
speculation their earnings will be hurt by a possible carbon
tax. China is considering imposing the tax in the middle or end
of the 2011-2015 period, the Economic Information Daily
reported.  The extra  yield (JPEGSOSD)  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 418, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index (ITXSCE)  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps fell six basis
points to 361, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  