-- U.S. December Hiring Probably Accelerated
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-06T09:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/employment-gains-in-u-s-probably-accelerated-in-december-for-second-month.html
Hiring in the U.S. probably
accelerated in December for a second month, pointing to a
strengthening labor market heading into 2012, economists said
before a report this week.  Payrolls climbed by 155,000 workers after rising 120,000
the previous month, according to the median forecast of 84
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The unemployment rate
rose after dropping in November to the lowest level in more than
two years, the report may also show.  Sustained payroll gains are needed to chip away at
joblessness and support household spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy. At the same
time, the financial crisis in  Europe  and political stalemate
over ways to pare the  U.S. budget deficit  may be prompting
companies to hold back amid concern the expansion will slow.  “It’s still moderate employment growth at a respectable
pace,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4cast Inc. in
 New York . “We still do see a lot of uncertainty in the
background that will probably be restraining hiring.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg survey estimates ranged from increases of
80,000 to 220,000. The U.S. jobless rate climbed to 8.7 percent
in December from 8.6 percent the prior month, which was the
lowest since March 2009, according to the survey median.  Today’s report will also include benchmark revisions to the
household survey, which is used to calculate the monthly
unemployment rate. Data for the past five years are under
review.  Jobless Rate  European stocks advanced before the payrolls report, with
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  extending its third weekly gain. It
was up 0.3 percent to 248.14 as of 9:37 a.m. in  London , while
London’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.2 percent.  U.S. index futures were little changed. The March contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent.  Employers added 1.45 million workers last year through
November. The increase shows the economy has made little headway
in recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession that ended in June 2009.  The projected payroll gain would bring the average for July
through December to 136,000, compared with 131,000 in the first
six months of the year.  ‘Robust’  The employment report may also show private employment,
which excludes government jobs, climbed 178,000 after a 140,000
gain in November.  “Sales are robust, merchandise margins are strong,
operating margins are growing,” Alexander Smith, chief
executive officer of  Fort Worth , Texas-based  Pier 1 Imports
Inc. (PIR) , said on a Dec. 15 conference call with analysts. “There’s
going to be a little more hiring in the first part of the year
without a doubt.”  Other companies saw increased demand last month during the
 holiday shopping season . Same-store sales at U.S. retailers
excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc. rose 3.5 percent in December from
a year earlier, according to figures yesterday from the
 International Council of Shopping Centers .  Recent reports showing faster manufacturing, fewer
Americans filing jobless claims, less household pessimism and
stabilization in housing have helped spur share prices. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has gained 7.4 percent since a
recent low on Nov. 28.  In the final three months of 2011, “clear signs emerged
that U.S. consumers are more confident and that other
underpinnings of our economy are either stable or slowly
improving,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales for
General Motors Co., said on a Jan. 4 conference call.  Faster job gains than those generated in 2011 may be needed
to reduce unemployment. That’s one reason policy makers remain
concerned.  “While indicators point to some improvement in overall
labor market conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains
elevated,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other
members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement
at the conclusion of a meeting last month in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  