-- Australia Routs India in Sydney to Take 2-0 Lead in Test Cricket Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-06T08:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/tendulkar-hits-unbeaten-70-as-india-trails-australia-by-225-runs-in-sydney.html
Australia  routed India by an innings
and 68 runs with a day to spare in the second cricket Test in
Sydney to take a 2-0 lead in their four-match series.  Australia, which had secured a 468-run first innings lead
following captain  Michael Clarke ’s record-setting 329 not out,
dismissed India for 400 in its second innings as the touring
team lost its last seven wickets for 129 runs on day four.  Ben Hilfenhaus  led Australia’s bowlers with 5-106, while
Clarke sparked the collapse by dismissing  Sachin Tendulkar  for
80 to end a 103-run stand between Tendulkar and VVS Laxman at
the Sydney Cricket Ground.  “It’s a huge series for this team,” Clarke, 30, said at a
news conference. “It’s the first series I’ve been full-time
captain in Australia in front of my home fans and the Australian
public, so it’s important I stand up.”  Australia won the opening match by 122 runs to end an
eight-Test winless streak against  India , which extended its
streak of never having won a series in Australia. The third Test
starts Jan. 13 in Perth before the final match in Adelaide.  Four years ago, India was in a similar position, going 2-0
down at the SCG before hitting back in Perth and drawing the
final match.  “We have lost the chance of winning the series,” India
captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said at a news conference. “With
two more Test matches to go we can level the series, so that’s
what we’re looking to do.”  Triple Century  Clarke was named man of the match after hitting 329 not
out, the highest score in 100 elite Tests at the SCG, before
declaring Australia’s first-innings at 659-4. Only Matthew Hayden with 380, and Don Bradman and  Mark Taylor  with 334, have
scored more runs for Australia in a Test innings.  Clarke was one of three century-makers in Australia’s
innings.  Mike Hussey  hit 150 not out, while  Ricky Ponting  ended
his two-year century drought by scoring 134.  Clarke today left Tendulkar 20 runs short of an
unprecedented 100th century in international cricket.  The right-hander had added 10 runs to his lunch score of 70
before edging part-time spin bowler Clarke behind, where the
ball deflected off wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin ’s gloves to Hussey.  Tendulkar, whose 99th century in Test and one-day matches
was at the  World Cup  in March, made scores of 73 and 32 in last
week’s series opener in  Melbourne  and 41 on day one in Sydney.  “He’s still making a lot of runs,” Clarke said of
Tendulkar. “I wish he wasn’t making as many as he is.”  Wickets Fall  Hilfenhaus removed Laxman for 66, clipping the off stump
with his first delivery with the second new ball, and then
removed Dhoni caught and bowled. The on-field umpires referred
the decision to the third umpire and television replays showed
that Dhoni had spooned the ball back to the bowler.  Virat Kohli, who was yesterday fined 50 percent of his
match fee for making a one-fingered gesture to the crowd on day
two, was trapped leg-before-wicket for 9 by a James Pattinson
delivery that kept low.  Zaheer Khan  and Ravichandran Ashwin then shared a 56-run
stand before Zaheer sliced a Peter Siddle delivery to a
backpedaling Shaun Marsh at extra cover for the eighth wicket.
Spin bowler Nathan Lyon trapped Ishant Sharma lbw after tea
before Hilfenhaus wrapped up the victory by having Ashwin caught
by Lyon for 62.  India, which resumed today at 114-2, earlier added 129 runs
for the loss of just one wicket in the morning session. Siddle
got the only breakthrough before lunch when he had  Gautam Gambhir , on 83, caught by  David Warner .  The middle-order collapse then ensured a four-day finish
for the second match in a row.  “We’re really happy with two Test match victories but we
know there’s a long way to go,” Clarke added. “We would love
to win the series in Perth so there’s still a lot for us to play
for. We haven’t won the series yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  