-- ENRC Sues Former Human-Resource Executive in Dispute Over $154,500 Raise
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-06T15:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/enrc-sues-former-executive-in-dispute-over-dishonest-raise.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) , the
producer of metals in  Kazakhstan , sued its former head of human
resources Andrew Balgarnie, accusing the ex-Morgan Stanley
banker of dishonestly giving himself a 100,000 pound ($154,500)
raise.  ENRC filed the counterclaim against Balgarnie last month,
according to court documents. The move follows Balgarnie’s
decision to sue ENRC for wrongful dismissal in November,
claiming he is owed 310,000 pounds in back pay and bonuses.  Balgarnie “is an individual who appears to operate on the
basis that wrongdoing on the part of a senior executive is
acceptable so long as he can get away with it,” ENRC said in
court papers filed on Dec. 22. The company said it is seeking
the return of 74,000 pounds which resulted from a pay increase
not properly approved by Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis.  ENRC, which held a three-month review of its corporate
governance last year amid conflicts between the board and
shareholders, agreed yesterday to acquire First Quantum Minerals
Ltd.’s assets in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo for $1.25
billion, ending a legal dispute between the companies over the
Kolwezi copper project.  “The allegations of misconduct and dishonesty as set out
in ENRC’s counterclaim are vigorously resisted,” Balgarnie’s
lawyer  James Cox  said in an e-mailed statement.  Vulis resigned in February of last year only to be re-
appointed as CEO seven months later following a management
review that began when shareholders voted against rehiring
independent directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth Olisa in June.  Executive Pay Review  ENRC’s three founders, Alexander Machkevitch, Alijan
Ibragimov and Patokh Chodiev, hold 14.6 percent of the company,
which makes ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum and power in
Kazakhstan.  “Mr. Balgarnie’s claims are unfounded and ENRC is
vigorously defending its position,” the company said in a
statement.  Balgarnie was asked to carry out a review of executive pay
in November 2010 and appointed management consultants to help
with the task, London-based ENRC said in its counterclaim.  He told the consultants his basic salary was 300,000 pounds
despite knowing it was in fact 200,000 pounds. When Vulis
confronted him, Balgarnie “concealed his earlier dishonesty,”
ENRC said.  Vulis signed but didn’t read a service agreement about
Balgarnie’s increased pay because “he trusted the claimant not
to act dishonestly.”  In his complaint against ENRC, Balgarnie said both Vulis
and the remuneration committee had approved his pay. He claims
he was fired without notice in April 2011 when he “was
telephoned by Mr. Vulis and accused of cutting himself a check
for 70,000 pounds and receiving a 200,000 pound bonus,”
according to court papers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  