-- Ethiopia’s Central Bank Loosens Monetary Policy to Boost Lending by Banks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-06T09:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/ethiopian-central-bank-loosens-monetary-policy-to-boost-lending-by-banks.html
Ethiopia ’s central bank loosened its
monetary policy in a move economists said is aimed at increasing
the amount of cash that banks have available for lending.  The National Bank of Ethiopia cut the minimum ratio of
deposits to be held in reserve to 10 percent from 15 percent
with effect from Jan. 2, according to a directive issued by the
Addis Ababa-based central bank and obtained by Bloomberg. The
document was confirmed by Alemayehu Kebede, director of the
bank’s communication directorate. The amount of “liquid assets”
to be held as a proportion of deposits was also reduced to 20
percent from 25 percent, it said.  Lending to exporters and other businesses declined after
the central bank issued a directive in April ordering banks to
each month buy government securities equivalent to 27 percent of
their total loans to help fund infrastructure projects, said
Eyob Tesfaye, an independent economist who previously worked for
the Ethiopian government. A slowdown in deposits also curbed
banks’ ability to lend, he said in a phone interview today.  The central bank’s directive is “the right decision,” Eyob
said. “You cannot strangle your export sector”.  Ethiopia is Africa’s second-biggest coffee exporter,
according to data from the  International Coffee Organization ,
and ships other commodities including gold, oil seeds and qhat,
a narcotic leaf.  The  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  said in
August that restrictions on lending to private industry may
constrain growth in Africa’s second-most populous nation. The
government is targeting annual economic growth of 11.2 percent
to 14.9 percent through mid-2015, while the IMF and World Bank
say the country’s growth potential is as much as 8 percent.  The looser monetary policy will “definitely increase” money
supply in Ethiopia and may result in higher inflation, Eyob
said. Annual consumer inflation stood at 39.2 percent in
November, according to data released by the Central Statistical
Agency last month. The government has blamed the surge in
consumer prices last year on high global commodity prices and
increased money supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 