-- EU Iran Oil Sanctions Likely to Be Phased In Over Time, Official Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-06T14:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/eu-iran-oil-sanctions-may-be-phased-to-protect-some-nations-official-says.html
A European Union embargo on Iranian
oil will probably be phased in to protect countries with the
greatest reliance on imports from the country, according to an
EU official familiar with the talks.  EU foreign ministers are likely to agree to block Iranian
oil imports at a meeting in Brussels on Jan. 30, and working
groups are negotiating the details of how the embargo will be
imposed, said the official, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  Countries with the biggest dependence on Iranian oil,
including  Italy ,  Greece  and Spain, have raised concerns over how
existing contracts should be treated when the embargo is
imposed, the official said. Phasing in the sanctions would help
to ensure that  Iran , rather than the European countries, loses
out as a result of the embargo, he said.  France,  Germany  and the U.K. are taking the lead in pushing
for the embargo to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear
program, the official said, adding that it has the support in
principle of all 27 member states. Western countries allege that
Iran’s nuclear-development plans are aimed at building atomic
weapons. Iran says they are for civilian purposes and to
generate electricity.  Europe ’s sanctions threat and an Iranian demand that U.S.
warships stay out of the Persian Gulf have stirred new tensions
between Iran and the West, contributing to higher energy prices.
Crude oil traded in  New York  for February delivery was at
$102.23, up 42 cents, at 12:46 p.m. London time, heading for a
weekly gain.  Debts to Eni  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has said that an embargo
should exempt crude sold by Iran to pay off debts to Rome-based
 Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil company.  “An oil embargo is conceivable as long as it remains
gradual and excludes the deliveries that serve to reimburse the
billion of euros in debts that Iran owes to Eni, our national
company,” Monti told  France ’s  Le Figaro  newspaper in an
interview published yesterday.  Italy gets 13 percent of its imported crude from Iran,
Monti said, making it more sensitive to a supply shock than
other European countries. France taps Iran for only 3 percent of
its oil imports, he said.  Greece, which relied on Iran for 14 percent of its oil
imports in the first half of 2011, according to the U.S. Energy
Department’s Energy Information Administration, has decided to
abide by any curbs after blocking them last month, an official
at the Greek Environment, Energy and Climate Ministry said on
Jan. 3 on condition of anonymity.  The U.S. tightened its Iran sanctions on Dec. 31 and is
pushing the EU to follow suit.  The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps will hold large-scale
exercises in the Strait of Hormuz and the  Persian Gulf  next
month, the state-run Fars news agency reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  