-- Euro Heads for Fifth Weekly Loss on Confidence
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-01-06T12:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/euro-near-15-month-low-against-dollar-before-reports-on-confidence-sales.html
The dollar headed for weekly gains
versus the yen and the euro before a U.S. report forecast to
show employers added the most jobs in three months, adding to
signs the world’s largest economy is gaining momentum.  The euro traded about 0.1 percent from the weakest in 11
years against the yen after reports showed confidence in the
European economic outlook fell to a two-year low and German
factory orders dropped by the most in almost three years. The
euro is poised for a fifth weekly loss against the dollar, the
longest run since February 2010. Hungary’s forint strengthened
for a second day against the euro.  “Signs of strength in the U.S. economic recovery at the
time  Europe  is in recession may at the margin help support the
dollar against the euro,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We
may see a weaker dollar against higher-yielding currencies such
as the Australian,  New Zealand  and Canadian dollars.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.2798 per euro at 6:54
a.m. in  New York , having gained 1.2 percent this week. It
earlier rose to $1.2764, the strongest since September 2010.
The greenback was unchanged at 77.12 yen, having risen 0.3
percent this week. The euro was little changed at 98.71 yen
after sliding to 98.48 yesterday, the least since December 2000.  U.S. Jobs  U.S. employers hired 155,000 workers last month, after
adding 120,000 in November, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s Labor Department report. That would be the most
since September. The  jobless rate (USURTOT)  rose to 8.7 percent from 8.6
percent, a separate survey showed. U.S. companies added 325,000
workers in December, the most in records going back to 2001, ADP
Employer Services said yesterday.  “The news coming from the U.S. has been OK,” said Derek Mumford, a director in Sydney at Rochford Capital, a currency-
risk management company. “We’re seeing just generally some U.S.
dollar strength, which is mainly reflected in the euro.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was little changed today to 80.930 after rising to
81.062, the highest level since Jan. 11, 2011.  The euro headed for a weekly loss against 14 of its 16
major counterparts after the European Commission said its index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro area declined to
93.3 in December from a revised 93.8 in the previous month.  The  unemployment rate  held at 10.3 percent in November, a
separate report showed. German factory  orders (GRIORTMM) , adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, slipped 4.8 percent in November
from the prior month, when they increased 5 percent, the  Economy
Ministry  said. That’s the biggest drop since January 2009.  ‘Negative Sentiment’  “There’s still negative sentiment surrounding the euro,
and it’s likely to weaken further,” Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s
Hardman said. “Today’s data will likely confirm declining
business and consumer confidence. The market has almost fully
priced in a recession in Europe. The question is how deep and
prolonged that will be.”  The euro fell yesterday after France sold 10-year bonds at
an average yield of 3.29 percent, compared with 3.18 percent at
a sale on Dec. 1. The bid-to-cover ratio, or the number of bids
received for each unit of debt sold, fell to 1.64 from 3.05.
France’s credit outlook was lowered by  Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 16.  Spain is scheduled to sell bonds maturing in 2015 and 2016
on Jan. 12. Italy will auction debt the following day.  Merkel, Sarkozy  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet French President
Nicolas Sarkozy on Jan. 9 in Berlin to talk about increasing
fiscal coordination among euro-area states before the European
Union leaders’ summit at the end of the month.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today he
understands the weakening of the euro against the yen will have
a significant impact on companies that export their goods to the
region.  Japan  sold the yen three times last year as its strength
threatened to derail an export-led recovery.  The forint pared its weekly decline as  Hungary ’s Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  met central bank President Andras Simor
amid a dispute about the bank’s independence that threatens the
country’s bailout.  Orban met with Simor and Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy ,
the premier told reporters in Budapest today. Hungary needs a
“quick” deal on aid with the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union and is ready to discuss the conditions, Tamas Fellegi, the minister assigned to lead the aid talks, told
reporters yesterday.  “Early forint action shows that markets are happy with
this” meeting, Simon Quijano-Evans, an economist at  ING Groep
NV (INGA)  in London, wrote in a research report today. “It would be
great to say that after 18 months of noise, we are seeing light
at the end of the tunnel. All the more so since Orban and Simor
are apparently meeting now.”  Hungary’s currency gained 0.7 percent to 316.82 per euro,
trimming this week’s decline to 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  