-- European Stocks Close Little Changed After U.S. Payrolls Report
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-06T17:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-u-s-jobs-data.html
European stocks (SXXP)  closed little
changed, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index completing its third
straight weekly gain, as a report showed U.S. employers added
more jobs than economists had predicted.  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led automakers
lower.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  sank 11 percent, bringing its three-day
plunge to 37 percent.  Mitchells & Butlers (MAB)  Plc, the Birmingham,
England-based pub owner, jumped 8.7 percent after Morgan Stanley
recommended the stock.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
247.53 at the close of trading, having earlier climbed as much
as 0.9 percent and fallen 0.3 percent. The gauge advanced 1.2
percent this week and has  rallied 15 percent (SXXP)  from last year’s
lowest level on Sept. 22 as U.S. economic reports showed the
recovery is gathering pace and optimism grew that euro-area
policy makers will contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “The U.S. can’t exonerate the rest of the world,” said
Emmanuel Soupre, who helps oversee $5.7 billion at Neuflize
Private Assets in Paris. “The problems in  Europe  are chronic.
Foreseeing an improvement in the U.S. doesn’t mean the
improvements will extend beyond America. It’s best to remain
cautious.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 14 western
European markets open today. Germany’s DAX Index slipped 0.6
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.2 percent. The U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index rose 0.5 percent. Markets were closed in  Greece ,
Finland,  Sweden  and Austria for a holiday.  U.S. Jobs Data  U.S. employers added 200,000 jobs last month, following a
revised 100,000 gain in November that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed. The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey called for a December gain of
155,000. The  unemployment rate (USURTOT)  unexpectedly fell to 8.5 percent,
the lowest since February 2009, while hours worked and earnings
climbed.  It’s “very hard to believe these numbers are sustainable
going forward or suggest meaningful employment,” said Ioan Smith, a director at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. in London.
“People are dropping off the claiming system, not looking for
work.”  Euro-area  consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in more
than two years and unemployment remained at a 13-year high,
according to data released today.  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December from a revised 93.8 in
November, the European Commission in Brussels said. That was in
line with the  median of 19 economists’ estimates (EUESEMU)  in a Bloomberg
survey. The  unemployment rate (UMRTEMU)  held at 10.3 percent in November,
a separate report showed.  German Support  European Central Bank Governing Council member Klaas Knot
said  Germany  should support increasing the euro area’s bailout
fund to help end the debt crisis.  “The most important obstacle lies in Germany, not in the
Netherlands,” Knot said in an interview on Dutch public
television last night. “I think that more money is needed and
we will use the time to convince our German colleagues.”  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President  William Dudley 
called on the U.S. government to try new programs to revive the
housing market while saying the central bank may still consider
ways to cut  interest rates .  “Implementing such policies would improve the economic
outlook and make monetary accommodation more effective,” Dudley
said today in a speech to bankers in Iselin, New Jersey. At the
same time, it’s “appropriate” for the Fed to consider steps to
ease monetary policy, he said.  BMW, Daimler Fall  BMW and Daimler each slid 1.1 percent, to 55.55 euros and
36.47 euros respectively. Automakers fell 0.7 percent, among the
largest drop of 19  industry groups (SXXP)  in the Stoxx 600.  UniCredit tumbled 11 percent to 3.98 euros, the lowest
level since 1992, after  Italy ’s biggest bank priced a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.6 billion) rights offer at a discount on Jan.
4. The Italian market regulator, Consob, said yesterday that
it’s investigating the share move to verify whether its ban on
short selling in financial stocks has been respected.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  fell 8.4 percent to 112.7 pence, the lowest
in 11 years, after analysts cut their earnings estimates on the
world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund manager.  RBC Capital Markets analyst Peter Lenardos lowered Man to
“sector perform” from “outperform” after concluding that
fourth-quarter outflows from the company’s hedge funds and
investment losses were worse than he initially assumed,
according to a note sent to clients today. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts cut their earnings-per-share estimate for Man Group to
5.7 pence next year from a previous estimate of 25.7 pence.  M&B, Vodafone Upgrades  Mitchells & Butlers advanced 8.7 percent to 249.8 pence.
The operator of Harvester and Toby Carvery chains was upgraded
to “overweight” from “equal weight” at Morgan Stanley.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone
operator, climbed 1.2 percent to 179.5 pence after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded the shares to “buy” from “neutral,”
saying a merger between the British company and Verizon
Communications Inc. may be “attractive.”  Clariant AG (CLN)  advanced 3.2 percent to 10.52 Swiss francs
after UBS AG said analysts have cut the company’s earnings
estimates “too far.”  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  rose 3.1 percent to 395.2 pence after reporting
a 13 percent increase in passenger numbers in December, compared
with the same month in the previous year.  ITV (ITV)  Plc increased 2.7 percent to 71.35 pence as Morgan
Stanley upgraded the U.K.’s largest terrestrial commercial
broadcaster to “overweight” from “equal weight,” saying the
media industry is in “structurally better shape with the long
digital de-rating of the early 2000s now largely over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  