-- European Union November Milk Prices Rose 6%, LTO Reports
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-06T16:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/european-union-november-milk-prices-rose-6-lto-reports-1-.html
European Union cow’s milk prices rose
in November as dairies in the U.K. and the Netherlands paid more
to suppliers, farm organization LTO-Nederland said.  The average milk price EU dairies paid farmers in November
was 35.59 euros ($45.31) per 100 kilograms (220 pounds), up 6
percent from 33.56 euros a year earlier, farm organization LTO-
Nederland wrote in its monthly online  milk-price report . The
average price climbed from 35.48 euros in October.  The  dairy-price index (FAOFDARY)  tracked by the  United Nations ’  Food
and Agriculture Organization  fell for a fifth month in November
to the lowest level in more than a year. Dairy demand in China
and  Russia  fell in the second half of 2011, and the market is
“cautious” as global supply increases, according to LTO.  “Anxiety that the continuous financial and economic
turmoil will put sales perspectives on the dairy market under
pressure has led to an uncertain sentiment,” LTO said. “The
most important question is whether demand can keep up with the
relatively high global growth in milk production.”  Milk-powder prices were stable in the last quarter of 2011,
while butter prices declined, according to LTO.  “Growth in milk production in Oceania,  Europe  and the U.S.
might become a leading factor for  price levels  in 2012,” LTO
wrote in the report. “Because of lower domestic demand in the
last two mentioned regions, there will be more milk available
for export.”  In the U.K., Dairy Crest Group Plc raised prices, while
Royal Friesland Campina NV in the Netherlands also paid more in
November, according to LTO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  