-- Gupta, Wells Fargo, News Corp., Bayer, SK, J&J in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-06T11:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/ex-goldman-director-gupta-wells-fargo-bayer-sk-in-court-news.html
Rajat Gupta, the former  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)  director indicted last year for insider trading,
illegally tipped now-convicted hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam 
about P&G’s 2008 sale of Folgers Coffee Co. to  J.M. Smucker Co. (SJM) ,
federal prosecutors said.  J.M. Smucker, the Orrville, Ohio-based maker of jams and
other food products, bought Folgers for about $3 billion in June
2008. Prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan yesterday at a pre-trial hearing that the government
may file a superseding indictment against Gupta, also a former
director of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , by the end of the month.  Also yesterday, Rakoff said Gupta should “not be too
optimistic” about his request to bar Rajaratnam’s wiretapped
calls as evidence in the case.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , asked Rakoff to direct
prosecutors to provide more specific details about their case
against his client. Naftalis described as “vague” the
indictment filed in October which alleges Gupta passed tips
about Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble, Goldman Sachs, and
other “companies.”  “In June 2008, Procter & Gamble sold its Folgers Coffee
business to J.M. Smucker,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard
Tarlowe told Rakoff in court yesterday. “The allegation is that
Mr. Gupta disclosed the information about that before it was
public to Mr. Rajaratnam.”  When asked by Naftalis to identify any other co-
conspirators in the case against Gupta or sources of illegal
tips, prosecutors said Gupta was the sole source of inside
information for any trading done by Rajaratnam.  “We have no evidence whatsoever that anyone other than Mr.
Gupta tipped Mr. Rajaratnam,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed
Brodsky said.  The U.S. will probably argue at the April 9 trial that
Rajaratnam told another person that Gupta gave him illegal tips,
defense lawyers said in a Jan. 3 filing. Gupta contends that
prosecutors are trying to make Rajaratnam a government witness
by using statements he made about his alleged sources of inside
information. Defense lawyers note that prosecutors at the same
time have challenged Rajaratnam’s veracity, and even called the
Galleon Group LLC co-founder a liar.  Gupta’s lawyers said they may argue that the government
can’t claim that Rajaratnam, convicted of directing the biggest
insider-trading scheme in a generation, is believable on
statements identifying Gupta as his source for illegal tips when
prosecutors have cast doubt on his truthfulness.  Gupta, 63, who also led McKinsey & Co., was indicted in
October on accusations that he passed inside information to
Rajaratnam.  He was charged with five counts of securities fraud and one
count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. If convicted, he
faces as many as 20 years in prison on each of the securities
fraud counts and as long as five years on the conspiracy charge.
He denies wrongdoing.  Rajaratnam, 54, who was convicted by a jury last year, is
serving an 11-year prison term.  Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for Preet Bharara, U.S. Attorney
in Manhattan;  Jim Margolin , the Federal Bureau of Investigation
spokesman; and Naftalis declined to comment on Gupta’s court
filing.  The cases are U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, and SEC v. Gupta,
11-cv-07566, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lehman Seeks Option to Buy All of Archstone Company  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. told a judge it wants the
right to buy all of a 53 percent stake in Archstone held by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for $2.6 billion.  Bankrupt Lehman, which has said it plans to sell Archstone
for $6 billion to help pay creditors, first seeks to gain
control by buying the banks’ stake. Sam Zell’s  Equity
Residential (EQR) , Archstone’s rival in the apartment business, holds
an option to buy half of the banks’ stake in the company.  Through the option, “EQR got the cheapest seat at the
table that it could,” Paul DeFilippo, a lawyer for Lehman, said
at a court hearing yesterday before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan. “It could exert leverage to buy 100 percent
of Archstone.”  Archstone is the largest real-estate asset of Lehman, which
is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after three years
in bankruptcy court. After agreeing to pay the banks $1.3
billion for 26.5 percent of Archstone, Lehman is asking Peck to
rule that it has the right to take Zell’s option to the rest of
the banks’ stake at the same price.  Joseph Frank, a lawyer for London-based Barclays, told Peck
that the banks have a right to sell their Archstone stakes at a
market price. If Zell values the second piece of their holding
at more money, Lehman should match his offer, Frank said.  According to Frank, Lehman executives told directors at a
Dec. 8 board meeting that they expected to pay about $1.4
billion for the second half of the banks’ stake, not $1.3
billion.  “That was before Lehman sued us,” he said.  Lehman sued the banks on Dec. 15 for breach of contract,
saying they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company,
Archstone’s “largest competitor.”  “Lehman doesn’t like Equity Residential,” Frank said.
“If they want to keep the elephant out of the tent they can.
They just have to pony up.”  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Alabama Sheriff Can’t Halt Lawsuits, Bankruptcy Judge Rules  The sheriff of Jefferson County, Alabama, and his deputies
can’t temporarily avoid lawsuits as a result of the county’s
bankruptcy, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett said civil rights
and other suits against Sheriff Mike Hale may proceed so long as
the plaintiffs understand they won’t collect any money from the
county while it’s in bankruptcy. The sheriff’s department is
funded by the county, which may be forced to pay the sheriff’s
legal bills.  Plaintiffs who win a judgment against the sheriff will have
to return to court for a separate ruling after the bankruptcy is
over to collect any money from the county, Bennett said.  “Why would you want to go forward if you have to come back
and re-litigate?” Bennett asked lawyers for a group of people
suing the sheriff’s department.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy last year after the
county, state officials and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement that would have cut debt by about $1
billion.  Hale asked Bennett to determine whether the sheriff’s
department is entitled to the so-called automatic stay of
lawsuits granted the county when it filed bankruptcy in
November.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  WikiLeaks Backers Lose Bid to Keep Twitter Data From U.S.  Three WikiLeaks backers lost their bid to keep information
on them collected from their Twitter Inc. accounts from being
turned over to U.S. prosecutors who are investigating the
group’s publication of classified information.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria, Virginia,
denied Jan. 4 a request by the backers that the information
sought by prosecutors be blocked while a federal appeals court
considers their challenge. O’Grady, in his ruling, said the
appeal has little chance of success because existing case law
“overwhelmingly” supports the government’s position.  “Litigation of these issues has already denied the
government lawful access to potential evidence for more than a
year,” O’Grady said in his ruling. “The public interest
therefore weighs strongly against further delay.”  The litigation over the Twitter data was the first public
skirmish in the government’s criminal investigation of
WikiLeaks’s leader, Julian Assange, and others who may have
helped leak diplomatic cables and classified military documents
through the WikiLeaks website.  The subscribers challenging the order include Birgitta
Jonsdottir, a member of the Icelandic parliament; Jacob
Appelbaum, a computer security researcher who represented
WikiLeaks at a 2010 hacker’s conference in New York; and Rop
Gonggrijp, described in court papers as a Dutch activist and
businessman.  The three subscribers argued that the U.S. subpoena to
Twitter violated their privacy and their rights under the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.  “We’re obviously disappointed by this ruling and we think
the judge got it wrong,” said Aden Fine, a lawyer with the
American Civil Liberties Union who represents Jonsdottir. Fine
said his client is considering her options, which include asking
the appeals court to delay turning over the data.  They filed an appeal with the U.S. Appeals Court in
Richmond, Virginia, last month after O’Grady upheld a magistrate
judge’s ruling that required San Francisco-based Twitter to give
investigators data on subscribers “associated with WikiLeaks,”
including Assange and Bradley Manning, a U.S. soldier charged
with leaking classified information.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
declined to comment on O’Grady’s ruling.  The district court case is In re Application of the U.S.
for an Order Pursuant to 18 USC 2703(d), 11-dm-00003, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria). The
appeal is In re: 2703(d) Application, 11-5151, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Potential Lawsuits  Wells Fargo Faces Scrutiny by Investors on Mortgage Bonds  A bondholder group that won an $8.5 billion  settlement (BAC)  from
Bank of America Corp. on securities backed by soured home loans
may also seek payments from  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the nation’s
biggest mortgage lender.  The law firm Gibbs & Bruns LLP said in a statement
yesterday it’s seeking information on pools securing more than
$19 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities issued by
affiliates of Wells Fargo.  Faulty mortgages and  foreclosures (HOMFCLOS)  have cost the five
largest U.S. home lenders about $70 billion since the start of
2007 and helped drive Bank of America’s shares down almost 60
percent in the past 12 months. Gibbs & Bruns said last month it
may also seek reimbursements from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
biggest and most profitable U.S. bank.  “Our clients continue to seek a comprehensive solution to
the problems of ineligible mortgages in RMBS pools and deficient
servicing of those loans,” Kathy Patrick, the Houston-based law
firm’s lead counsel on the case, said in the statement.  Mary
Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, didn’t
have an immediate comment.  Trials/Appeals  News Corp. Pushes Voicemail-Hacking Settlements as Trial Nears  News Corp.’s (NWSA)  British newspaper unit is pursuing settlements
of at least 10 lawsuits by politicians, movie-stars and other
prominent victims of phone hacking before the first civil trial
over the scandal starts next month.  Labour party lawmaker Chris Bryant and celebrity lawyer
Graham Shear, whose phones were hacked to get stories for News
Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, are close to settling their
claims, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg News. Their
lawsuits were joined with four other “test cases” for a three-
week trial scheduled to start Feb. 13 in  London .  “Some of the criticism of News Corp.’s conduct to date has
been about their use of confidential settlements in the past to
prevent facts coming into the public domain, so when it comes to
settling any of these test cases, they should tread carefully,”
said Mark Watts, a data-privacy lawyer at Bristows in London.  If settlements are reached, about two dozen other backup
cases are available, though several of those are also close to
settling, including suits filed by ex-lawmaker George Galloway
and former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, according
to the document.  The trial is intended to give guidance on money damages for
70 cases and potentially hundreds of out-of-court settlements.  Judge Geoffrey Vos created the test-case procedure in May,
two months before News Corp. closed the 168-year-old News of the
World and dropped its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  to contain
public outrage over the five-year-old scandal.  “They’re trying to avoid the judge making awards that will
set a dangerous precedent for further claims,” said Niri Shan,
a media lawyer with Taylor Wessing LLP in London. “They’re
buying off the risk of that, and it’s not unheard of for cases
to settle at the last minute -- even at the door of the court.”  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment on the settlement talks.  Tamsin Allen, the lawyer for Bryant and Prescott, confirmed
that settlement talks are under way. Shear, the celebrity
lawyer, didn’t return a call for comment.  For more, click here.  Bayer Judge Postpones First Yaz Trial to Have Cases Mediated [bn:WBTKR=BAYN:GR]   Bayer AG (BAYN)  [], Germany’s largest drugmaker, won’t face the first
trial next week over claims its birth-control pills caused blood
clots after a judge appointed a mediator in hopes of settling
the cases.  U.S. District Judge David Herndon in Illinois last week
postponed the Jan. 9 trial of a lawsuit accusing Bayer and some
of its units of misleading women about the health risks of its
Yasmin family of birth-control pills. The case was the first of
more than 10,000 suits over injuries allegedly caused by the
drugs, which include the Yaz contraceptive.  Instead, Herndon ordered Bayer and lawyers for women suing
the company to meet with mediator Stephen Saltzburg, a George
Washington University law professor, to explore the possibility
of “settlements in this litigation,” the judge said in a Dec.
31 order.  “While continuing to defend the litigation, the company is
engaged in mediation and settlement discussions,” Rosemarie
Yancosek, a Bayer spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The cases filed in federal courts were consolidated before
Herndon in  East St. Louis, Illinois , for pretrial information
exchanges.  Herndon scheduled a series of trials for early this year so
juries could begin weighing claims that Bayer and its units
marketed Yaz and other contraceptives as safer than rivals’
products while knowing they posed a higher risk of clots.  After Bayer officials protested that so-called bellwether
trials wouldn’t provide much guidance on the validity of
plaintiffs’ claims, Herndon called in Saltzburg as a mediator,
Michael Papantonio, a Pensacola, Florida-based lawyer for women
suing Bayer, said earlier this week. He was slated to be one of
the lead lawyers for Kerry Sims, whose case was scheduled to
begin Jan. 9.  “Bayer didn’t want to go to trial and the judge decided to
see whether they wanted to seek a solution outside the
courtroom,” Papantonio said. “He’s giving both sides a chance
to be creative.”  The case is In re Yasmin and Yaz (Drospirenone) Marketing,
Sales Practices and Product Liability Litigation, 09-md-02100,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Illinois (East St.
Louis).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  SK Chairman Chey Indicted by South Korean Prosecutors  Chey Tae Won, the chairman of South Korea’s third-largest
industrial group, was indicted on charges that he embezzled
funds from  SK Holdings Co. (003600)  affiliates to cover investment losses
by him and his younger brother.  Seoul prosecutors, who held a televised briefing on Chey’s
indictment yesterday, didn’t detain the 51-year-old. The
chairman hasn’t used any company money inappropriately and will
prove his innocence in court, SK said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  SK Holdings has businesses including oil exploration and
refining, chemicals, telecommunications and transportation. The
indictment came on the same day that  SK group (SKGZ)  companies said
they would more than double investment to 19 trillion won ($16.5
billion) this year from 2011 and hire 7,000 more workers.  The investigation may have a “psychological” impact on SK
companies while it shouldn’t affect the day-to-day running of
individual businesses, said Lee Jin Woo, a fund manager at
Seoul-based KTB Asset Management Co.  Chey, who in 2008 was pardoned by President  Lee Myung Bak 
of a fraud conviction, pledged to keep his businesses unaffected
by the current investigation, SK said in a statement on Dec. 23.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  J&J Said to Agree to Pay $1 Billion in Risperdal Marketing Probe  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  will pay more than $1 billion to the U.S.
and most states to resolve a civil investigation into marketing
of the antipsychotic Risperdal, according to people familiar
with the matter.  J&J, the world’s largest health products company, reached
an agreement last week with the U.S. attorney in Philadelphia,
according to the people, who weren’t authorized to speak about
the matter. Negotiations over a possible criminal plea are still
under way, they said.  The U.S. government has been investigating Risperdal sales
practices since 2004, including allegations the company marketed
the drug for unapproved uses, J&J has said in Securities and
Exchange Commission  filings (JNJ) . The company said it has been in
negotiations with the U.S. to settle the investigation.  J&J, based in New Brunswick,  New Jersey , disclosed in
August that it reached an agreement to settle a misdemeanor
criminal charge related to Risperdal marketing. The company is
discussing paying about $400 million more to settle that portion
of the investigation, one of the people said.  “We’re not going to comment on rumor or speculation,”
Teresa Mueller, a J&J spokeswoman, said in a phone interview.  The Food and Drug Administration approved Risperdal in 1993
for psychotic disorders including schizophrenia. That market is
limited, and J&J’s Janssen unit sought to sell Risperdal for
bipolar disorder, dementia, mood and anxiety disorders and other
unapproved uses, according to documents in a lawsuit against J&J
by the state of Louisiana. It was later approved for other uses.  For more, click here.  Actavis Will Pay $118.6 Million to End Drug-Pricing Claims  Units of  Actavis Group Hf (ACT)  agreed to pay $118.6 million to
resolve claims that they caused the U.S. and four state
governments to overpay for drugs.  The settlement, filed Dec. 29 in federal court in Boston,
followed an $84 million accord announced a day earlier in a
lawsuit by the  state of Texas (STOTX1) , bringing the total to $202.6
million. In February, a state court jury in Austin ordered units
of the Iceland-based company to pay $170 million for inflating
billings to the Texas Medicaid program.  In the larger accord, Actavis settled with the U.S., New
York, Florida, South Carolina and Iowa. The U.S., Florida and
Texas cases were filed by Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys Inc., a
specialty pharmacy which prosecuted them civilly.  Ven-A-Care sued under the U.S. False Claims Act and similar
statutes in Florida and Texas, which lets whistle-blowers sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery. The states
pursued their cases separately.  Gerard Farrell, a spokesman for Actavis Inc., the U.S. unit
based in Morristown, New Jersey, had no immediate comment on the
settlement.  Ven-A-Care settled more than 20 lawsuits since 2000 that
allowed state and federal governments to collect about $3
billion. Ven-A-Care collected more than $400 million in whistle-
blower fees during that period.  “Ven-A-Care is pleased to have resolved all of its matters
with the Actavis group of companies,” said its attorney, James
Breen.  Ven-A-Care claimed that Actavis defrauded the U.S. and
state governments by falsely reporting inflated prices of drugs.
Actavis knew that the governments would use those false reports
to set higher reimbursement rates for Medicaid, Ven-A-Care
claimed. Actavis denied wrongdoing in the settlements.  The Justice Department didn’t join the case, although it
recovered $108 million. Between the two cases, Ven-A-Care
collected $15.6 million, court records show.  “The U.S. declined to intervene, which means the Justice
Department didn’t invest any resources in the case,” Breen
said. “Ven-A-Care and its legal team funded and pursued the
case, took all the risks, and will return over $108 million to
the federal government. That’s exactly the way the False Claims
Act is supposed to work.”  The case is In re Pharmaceutical Average Wholesale Price
Litigation, MDL No. 1456, U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts (Boston). The Texas case is State of Texas Ex.
Rel. Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys Inc., D-1-GV-08-1566, Texas
District Court, Travis County (Austin).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 