-- MF Global U.K. Unit Has 4,500 Claims for $1.2 Billion in Cash, KPMG Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-06T20:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/mf-global-u-k-unit-has-4-500-claims-for-1-2-billion-in-cash-kpmg-says.html
MF Global UK has 4,500 claims for
about $1.2 billion in cash it has to distribute to clients of
the failed broker-dealer, said  KPMG , the administrator of the
estate.  The U.K. unit of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  is winding down
under KPMG’s oversight. Applications for claims are still being
evaluated, and some may be duplicates, Katie Hunt, a KPMG
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. Clients and creditors must
give written details of their claims by today to vote at a
creditors’ meeting on Jan. 9, she said.  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey Governor
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman Jon Corzine, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after a wrong-way $6.3
billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s
most indebted nations.  The parent company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy to
apportion returns to creditors, including bondholders and
lenders such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Its U.S. brokerage, MF
Global Inc., is winding down under trustee James Giddens,
appointed under the Securities Investor Protection Act.  An estimated $1.2 billion is missing from MF Global’s
segregated accounts, according to Giddens. In the U.K.
proceeding, KPMG has said it’s seeking to return some money to
the broker’s clients by March.  Giddens is in talks with KPMG as he tries to recover about
$700 million from the U.K. unit to distribute to U.S. customers.
He already has returned more than $4 billion to U.S. customers,
leaving them short about 28 percent of their assets.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 