-- MF Global Regulatory Probe Includes Review of CME Audit
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-01-06T22:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/mf-global-regulatory-probe-includes-review-of-cme-group-s-audit.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is reviewing actions by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s
largest futures exchange, as part of its investigation into the
bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings Ltd, according to a person
briefed on the probe.  The CFTC is reviewing CME Group’s audit of MF Global prior
to the collapse of the New York-based broker, during which as
much as $1.2 billion in client funds went missing. The CFTC,
Securities and Exchange Commission,  Justice Department  and
bankruptcy trustee overseeing the MF Global liquidation are
investigating the possible misuse of client funds.  The CFTC’s five commissioners haven’t voted to begin a
formal investigation into CME Group, according to the person
briefed on the matter, who requested anonymity because the
investigation is private. CME Group was MF Global’s primary
auditor.  “We haven’t been notified that we’re under
investigation,” Anita Liskey, a CME Group spokeswoman, said
today in an interview. “We would expect it and we welcome it,”
she said of the CFTC review. “That is their job to investigate
MF Global and all that’s happened, and we’re a part of that.”  The brokerage reported to CME Group more than $200 million
in excess customer funds as of Oct. 28 with no indication then
that protected money had gone missing, she said. CFTC has also
assigned the CME Group to do 33 “limited reviews” of other
futures brokers to ensure segregated accounts are accounted for,
Liskey said. So far, 31 of the reviews have been completed and
the last two are expected to be finished “very soon,” she
said.  MF Global used about $700 million of customer funds to
“meet liquidity issues” at its broker-dealer in the days prior
to the bankruptcy, according to CME Group. MF Global filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31. The New York Times
reported earlier on the review of CME.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  