-- False Politics of Austerity Hurt Democrats: Thomas B. Edsall
-- B y   T h o m a s   B .   E d s a l l
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/false-politics-of-austerity-hurt-democrats-thomas-b-edsall.html
The U.S. faces daunting economic
and budgetary  challenges (FDDSGDP) , and a variety of factors make the
current situation more serious than other periods of
crisis, including the Great Depression.  First and foremost, in the past, the general
expectation -- and expectations are a powerful force in
economics -- was that the economy would recover, the war
would end, and the nation would get back on an even keel.
Today, the expectation is for only a short-term return to
economic growth and declining deficits.  Recently, people’s anxiety about the economy has
centered on the issue of the national debt. But the real
concerns lie in the distant outlook. According to some
scenarios, long-term budget  shortfalls (GDDBUNST)  could trigger a
political or market reaction that brings a sudden change in
 interest rates , exchange rates, capital outflows, etc.
Avoiding these outcomes will require significant and
sustained changes to federal spending and revenue policies.  This means substantial cuts in widely popular
programs, as well as tax hikes, the bete noire of American
politics. Ever since 1984, when Democratic presidential
nominee Walter F. Mondale famously proposed raising taxes, only
to lose every state except his native Minnesota to  Ronald Reagan , proposals to raise revenues have been shunned by both
parties.  No New Taxes  For Republicans, this stance is deeply ingrained
orthodoxy. For Democrats, it is a matter of survival on
Election Day. The reality, however, is that if long-range
 deficit reduction  is the goal, a failure to raise taxes
means disproportionately penalizing Democratic
constituencies. So for Democrats seeking to represent the
interests of core constituencies, a substantial tax hike
would seem to be an essential policy tool.  Given that the deficit and the debt will be part of
the 2012 election debate, it will be difficult for
Democrats to evade the subject of raising taxes. For the
Republicans, on the other hand, the focus of attention on
the debt is a win-win situation. Republicans experienced
striking success in early skirmishes over the budget for
fiscal year 2011, giving additional momentum to the
austerity movement. On April 8, 2011, they triumphed in
pressing President  Barack Obama  and  Senate Democrats  to agree
to a record-setting $38 billion in spending cuts, some $5
billion more than House Speaker  John Boehner  had originally
called for.  At the same time, House passage of Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s version of the budget -- which proposed
dismantling much of the modern welfare state -- forced the
Obama administration to radically alter its budget proposal
for fiscal year 2012 and to produce a plan calling for
major surgery on federal spending, including reductions in
entitlement programs.  Early polling showed widespread opposition to some of
the Ryan committee proposals, especially the conversion of
Medicare from an entitlement into a voucher program that
would not cover the full cost of medical treatment. Even Republican  Newt Gingrich , recognizing its political liabilities,
described the plan as “right-wing social engineering.”  Victory for Conservatism  Despite these concerns, the public, according to an
April 2011 Gallup poll, was evenly  split  when asked to
choose between the Ryan committee budget (43 percent) and
the Obama budget (44 percent). Yet the very fighting
between the Republican House and the Obama administration
over competing plans to slash federal spending was a huge
victory for conservatism. The movement’s starve-the-beast
strategy had finally forced Democrats and Republicans to
consider austerity measures.  Many, if not most, economists argue that substantial
revenue increases are a necessary part of long-term deficit
reduction and that new levies should be more substantial
than Obama’s proposal to impose a tax hike only on the
rich.  In addition, while there is general consensus that the
growing debt is unsustainable, some credible economists
dissent from this view. James K. Galbraith of the  University of
Texas , for example, contends that everything depends on
interest rates. People assume rates will rise. But if you
suppose, more realistically, that they’ll stay close to
what they are now, says Galbraith, “then the current
primary deficits are not unsustainable, and all the attacks
on Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid are revealed
for what they are: the same old crowd going after their
habitual target.”  The economist  Michael Spence , a 2001 Nobel Prize  winner ,
argues that obsessive concern with deficits and debt
oversimplifies, and perhaps masks, a more complex problem:
the increasing role of  emerging markets  in shaping the  U.S.
economy , especially the job market.  It would be difficult to overestimate the detrimental
consequences of these developments for American confidence.
Globalization, according to Spence and other observers, has
put America in an uncomfortably passive position, subject
to external forces it cannot control but only, at best,
moderate or fine-tune. Employment exported from the U.S.
started with low-skilled jobs and, over time, moved up the
ladder to higher-skilled, better-paying work.  Exporting Jobs  Spence and his co-author Sandile Hlatshwayo, a researcher
at New York University’s Stern School of Business,  use  the
shifting pattern of exports from  China  to illustrate the
point. In 1992, exports from China were dominated by
textiles, apparel and footwear. By 2005, Spence and
Hlatshwayo wrote, export production in China had shifted to
telecommunications, office machines and electronic
machinery. In other words, China was taking many more
skilled and well-paying jobs from developed countries in
2005 than it had 13 years earlier.  Until the start of the Great Recession, the U.S. was
able to absorb this loss of  jobs (USURTOT)  because of strong
employment growth in work that can be done only within the
U.S., especially in government and health care. Now,
however, American governments at every level are shedding
jobs, while simultaneously searching for ways to reduce
health-care costs. The U.S. is caught in a tightening free-
market vise.  The global economy has an abundance of human
resources, and as emerging economies develop, the supply
only increases. The sectors of the supply chain in which
these economies have the potential to be competitive are
enlarging. And, as a result, first low-skill, then mid-
skill and increasingly high-skill workers in the U.S. are
seeing their job options narrow and their incomes stagnate.  This is not because of liberal policies, market
failure or a calculated effort on the part of foreign
powers to undermine the U.S. It is just a natural outcome
of market competition.  A policy of strict austerity will not change the
situation, because the problem is not debt but rather a
lack of demand -- and, therefore, of consumption and
investment. Extreme belt-tightening only curtails demand.
Conservatives and others who think a balanced budget will
produce a balanced economy are mistaken.  (Thomas B. Edsall, a former political reporter for the
Washington Post, is a professor of journalism at  Columbia
University , an online columnist for the New York Times and
the author of “The New Politics of Inequality,” “Chain
Reaction” and other books. This is an excerpt from his
book, “The Age of Austerity: How Scarcity Will Remake American
Politics,” to be published this month by Doubleday. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Thomas Edsall at  t.edsall@verizon.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 