-- Fed’s Dudley Calls for Government Action to Revive Housing
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-01-06T15:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fed-s-dudley-calls-for-action-to-revive-housing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  called on the U.S. government to try
new programs to revive the housing market while saying the
central bank may still consider ways to cut interest rates.  “Implementing such policies would improve the economic
outlook and make monetary accommodation more effective,” Dudley
said today in a speech to bankers in Iselin, New Jersey. At the
same time, it’s “appropriate” for the Fed to consider steps to
ease monetary policy, he said.  Policy makers are considering further monetary easing to
help lower an  unemployment rate  that registered 8.5 percent in
December, according to a Labor Department report released today
before Dudley spoke. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week
urged Congress to do more to revive the housing market, calling
it an impediment to the economic recovery.  “Because the outlook for unemployment is unacceptably high
relative to our dual mandate and the outlook for inflation is
moderate, I believe it is also appropriate to continue to
evaluate whether we could provide additional accommodation in a
manner that produces more benefits than costs, regardless of
whether action in housing is undertaken or not,” Dudley said in
remarks to a New Jersey Bankers Association economic forum.  Dudley, 59, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economist,
said in response to audience questions that the excess of
housing in the U.S. is “not that large.” He serves as vice
chairman of the central bank’s policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee .  ‘Relatively Quickly’  “You could actually see a turnaround in the housing market
relatively quickly, within a year or two,” he said. “What I’d
like to do though is make that sooner rather than later. That’s
why I think some of these programs would be helpful in that
regard.”  The Labor Department said today that 200,000 jobs were
added to payrolls in December, the most since September. The
jobless rate declined to 8.5 percent, the lowest since February
2009, from a revised 8.7 percent in November. Dudley didn’t
discuss today’s jobs report in his prepared text.  The  U.S. economy  probably grew at a 3.6 percent rate during
the fourth quarter, according to  Macroeconomic Advisers , a St.
Louis-based forecasting company. That would be the fastest rate
since the second quarter of 2010 and double the third quarter’s
1.8 percent growth.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell three
basis point to 1.97 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Stock Index declined 0.4 percent to 1,276.48 at 9:46 a.m.  Alter Language  The Fed said this week it will begin publishing officials’
projections for the benchmark  interest rate  with the next
meeting Jan. 24-25 and signaled it may alter language saying
rates are likely to stay near zero until at least mid-2013.  In September, the Fed decided to reinvest maturing housing
debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries to
support housing. Bernanke has said the central bank may embark
on another round of asset purchases to lower borrowing costs and
spur the two-year expansion.  Fed officials have been increasing their calls for
government measures to boost the housing market after record-low
interest rates failed to spur borrowing. Bernanke this week sent
Congress a staff study discussing policy options to help boost
the housing market.  ‘One Factor’  Dudley said that while the housing market is “only one
factor behind the frustratingly slow” recovery, it’s an
“important one that deserves our attention.” There’s a risk
that housing will “linger in an extremely weak state for longer
than is necessary,” he said.  He detailed options designed to prevent foreclosures, ease
refinancing of mortgages and get renters into lender-owned
properties.  “I would like to see refinancing made broadly available on
streamlined terms and with moderate fees to all prime conforming
borrowers who are current on their payments,” Dudley said.  Dudley called on Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  to play a
greater role in the housing recovery, including by reducing the
principal of loans they guarantee. He said the government-
sponsored-enterprises should allow underwater borrowers, those
who owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth, to pay
off their loan below par if certain conditions are met including
that the borrower stays current on payments.  Stay Current  “I believe we should also develop a program for earned
principal reduction for borrowers who are underwater but keep on
making their mortgage payments,” Dudley said. “Such a program
would strengthen the incentives for mortgage holders who are
underwater to continue to stay current on their loans, and
reduce the likely number of defaults” and real estate owned
sales.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , which is charged with
conserving  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac assets, has opposed such a
move. Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco has said forcing the
companies to lower interest rates on loans they own or guarantee
could require them to post even bigger losses. That in turn
would force them to draw more aid and raise the cost of the
bailout.  One of Dudley’s ideas appeals to patriotism: create a tax
credit or other subsidy to help U.S. war veterans buy homes.
Many veterans “might otherwise not be able to purchase homes
today,” Dudley said. “Our nation owes them a great debt, and
such a policy would provide a boost to housing demand quickly.”  Broader Recovery  The study sent by Bernanke said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
might have to bear greater losses to stoke a broader recovery
and noted “tension” between aiding the economy and minimizing
losses of the bailed-out government-sponsored enterprises.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac depend on taxpayer aid for survival.  Bernanke, in a cover letter, said that “restoring the
health of the housing market is a necessary part of a broader
strategy for economic recovery.” The paper notes that  home
prices  have fallen an average of about 33 percent from their
2006 peak, resulting in the loss of $7 trillion in household
wealth that has weighed on consumption.  The average rate for a 30-year mortgage fell to 3.91
percent in the week ended yesterday, matching the lowest level
in records dating to 1971, from 3.95 percent, Freddie Mac said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Iselin,  New Jersey , at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  