-- Fed Officials Say Housing Market Needs More Aid to Boost Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fed-policy-makers-urge-more-housing-aid-while-split-on-central-bank-s-role.html
Three Federal Reserve policy makers
said the U.S. government should try new ways to spur the housing
market without agreeing about how much more the central bank
needs to do to bring down  interest rates .  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said in  New Jersey 
yesterday that “additional housing policy interventions” can
help boost growth, even as the Fed should consider further
easing. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , speaking in
Connecticut, took the more-aggressive position of supporting the
purchase of mortgage-backed securities, while Fed Governor
Elizabeth Duke said in  Virginia  that the central bank’s current
monetary stance is “appropriate.”  The comments underscore concerns by Fed officials that they
may be reaching the limits of their power to boost growth and
lower unemployment through three years of near-zero interest
rates and unconventional policy tools. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
this week urged lawmakers to do more to revive the housing
market, calling it an impediment to the economic recovery. He
delivered a 26-page staff report to Congress outlining possible
solutions.  “Bernanke realizes that we need to boost housing and if
housing does not recover, what the Fed does will be for
naught,” said Sung Won Sohn, former chief economist at  Wells
Fargo & Co . who is now a professor at California State
University-Channel Islands in Camarillo.  The chairman and his colleagues “are trying to jawbone”
the Obama administration, Congress,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
to support the housing recovery, Sohn said.  Jobless Rate Falls  Fed officials who spoke yesterday gave little indication
that their monetary-policy views were swayed by yesterday’s
Labor Department report showing that the  jobless rate (USURTOT)  fell to
8.5 percent in December, the lowest since February 2009.
Payrolls rose by 200,000 workers, more than economists forecast.  The Standard and Poor’s 500 fell 0.3 percent to 1,277.81 in
New York, while yields on 10-year Treasuries fell four basis
points to 1.96 percent.  The central bank’s policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  meets Jan. 24-25 in  Washington , where governors and
regional-bank presidents will for the first time present
projections for the benchmark federal funds rate. The Fed
signaled this week in minutes of December’s session that it may
alter language saying rates will probably stay near zero until
at least mid-2013.  The central bank cut its main interest rate almost to zero
in December 2008. Bernanke has said the Fed is considering
additional actions, including a third round of large-scale asset
purchases.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  Dudley, 59, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  economist who
serves as FOMC vice chairman, said that while the housing market
is “only one factor behind the frustratingly slow” recovery,
it’s an “important one that deserves our attention.”  He detailed options designed to prevent foreclosures, ease
refinancing of mortgages and get renters into lender-owned
properties.  Even so, “because the outlook for unemployment is
unacceptably high relative to our dual mandate and the outlook
for inflation is moderate, I believe it is also appropriate to
continue to evaluate whether we could provide additional
accommodation in a manner that produces more benefits than
costs, regardless of whether action in housing is undertaken or
not,” Dudley said to a New Jersey Bankers Association economic
forum in Iselin.  Rosengren, speaking in Hartford to the  Connecticut  Business
& Industry Association and MetroHartford Alliance, said buying
more MBS “would in my view help provide a more rapid recovery
in housing, by reducing the costs of refinancing or purchasing
new homes.”  More Effective  “Of course, these Fed actions would be even more effective
if accompanied by fiscal policies designed to speed the recovery
in housing,” said Rosengren, 54, who has previously supported
additional action by the FOMC.  Duke, 59, said in Richmond that “forceful and effective
housing policies have the potential to significantly influence
the speed and strength of our economic recovery.”  Evidence including advertising and employer surveys
“suggests that the job market is not poised for marked
improvement,” Duke said. “While the trend in unemployment will
be gradually lower, the path to get there might be choppy.” She
didn’t voice support for additional monetary easing while
reiterating the FOMC statement that policy makers “are prepared
to employ our tools as appropriate to foster economic recovery
in a context of  price stability .”  ‘Stubbornly High’  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , the only official not to
discuss housing in a speech yesterday, said the central bank is
taking the right steps to lower borrowing costs and address
“stubbornly high” unemployment.  “Although the pace of employment growth has picked up in
recent months and the  unemployment rate  has fallen some, the
labor market remains quite weak,” she said to bankers in
Baltimore.  Raskin has a speech scheduled for tomorrow on the topic of
mortgage servicing and foreclosure challenges, according to the
Fed.  Home construction is running at about one-fourth of its
peak last decade, and the number of mortgages becoming
delinquent “remains very elevated” and rose in the third
quarter, Dudley said. He cited data from the Mortgage Bankers
Association of America showing that there were about 1.5 million
first lien mortgages 90 or more days past due. Another 2 million
were in “some stage of foreclosure,” Dudley said.  “There’s no question housing continues to be a very, very
weak part of the economy,” said James Hamilton, an economics
professor at the University of  California , San Diego, and former
Fed research adviser and visiting scholar. “The Fed is raising
the possibility for Congress to consider legislation outside
what monetary policy can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  