-- Fed’s Duke Sees ‘Choppy’ U.S. Job Market
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-06T17:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fed-s-duke-sees-choppy-u-s-job-market.html
Federal Reserve  Governor Elizabeth Duke said the economy will continue on a gradual path of
recovery this year and that the current stance of monetary
policy is “appropriate.”  “My forecast is for the  unemployment rate  to gradually and
perhaps fitfully move lower and for inflation to settle over
coming quarters at or below levels consistent with the Federal
Reserve’s dual mandate,” Duke said in the text of her remarks
to the Virginia Bankers Association and Virginia Chamber of
Commerce in Richmond.  Employers added 200,000 jobs to their payrolls in December,
the most in three months, a Labor Department report showed
today. The jobless rate declined to 8.5 percent, the lowest
since February 2009, from 8.7 percent in November.  Sustained payroll gains are needed to chip away at the
still-high rate of unemployment and support household spending,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the world’s largest
economy. The labor market figures follow recent data showing
increased manufacturing and a rebound in consumer sentiment that
show the U.S. is weathering  Europe ’s debt crisis for now.  Duke said intensifying financial strains in Europe would
represent a downside risk to her outlook, while improving
consumer access to credit is an “upside risk.”  The Fed governor said that today’s labor data don’t portend
a robust job market ahead.  No ‘Marked Improvement’  “The bulk of the evidence, including help-wanted
advertising and surveys of employers’ hiring plans, suggests
that the job market is not poised for marked improvement,” she
said. “While the trend in unemployment will be gradually lower,
the path to get there might be choppy.”  Duke said that without stronger job growth,  household
income  may not support sustained increases in spending. Cuts in
government outlays will also be a drag on growth, she said.  What’s more, “forceful and effective housing policies”
could result in a faster and stronger economic recovery, Duke
said.  “Policies that increase credit availability for homeowners
or investors seeking to purchase a home or to refinance an
existing mortgage would allow more borrowers to access lower
 interest rates  and thus improve the transmission of monetary
policy to the economy,” Duke said. “Renewed attention to a
broad menu of options to modify existing mortgages would provide
aid to struggling homeowners.”  Housing Market  Fed officials have been increasing their calls for
government measures to boost the housing market after record-low
interest rates failed to spur borrowing.  Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley today called on the government to try new programs to
revive housing while saying the central bank may still consider
ways to cut interest rates.  The Boston Fed’s  Eric Rosengren , in a separate speech
today, said the central bank could strengthen the economy by
targeting stimulus policies at housing and loans to small
businesses.  “Further purchases of mortgage-backed securities would in
my view help provide a more rapid recovery in housing, by
reducing the costs of refinancing or purchasing new homes,”
Rosengren said in the text of remarks in Hartford,  Connecticut .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week sent Congress a
staff study discussing policy options to help boost the
residential real estate market.  The average rate for a 30-year mortgage fell to 3.91
percent in the week ended yesterday, matching the lowest level
in records dating to 1971, from 3.95 percent,  Freddie Mac  said
in a statement.  Duke is a past president of the Virginia Bankers
Association. Her term as a Fed governor expires at the end of
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  