-- Fed Nears Adoption of an Inflation Target as Bernanke Pushes Transparency
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-06T18:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fed-nears-adoption-of-price-goal-as-bernanke-pushes-openness.html
Federal Reserve officials are nearing
agreement on adopting an inflation goal as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  extends his push for improving transparency and
communications with the public.  “We are very close to having inflation targeting in the
U.S.,”  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 St. Louis , said in a radio interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Surveillance hosted by  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “We are
getting closer to being able to make a committee-wide statement
about these longer-term policy goal issues.”  An explicit numeric inflation objective would mark another
step in Bernanke’s unprecedented campaign to open the Fed’s
policy process to public view to boost accountability and
effectiveness. The Fed chairman has also introduced regular
press conferences and will publish the central bank’s own
forecasts for the benchmark lending rate this month. At the same
time, Bernanke is following a road already taken by central
banks from  Sweden  to  New Zealand .  “We’re in a situation where everyone is starting to
appreciate the benefits of having the Fed be able to provide
clear signals,” said  Mark Gertler , a New York University
economist and research co-author with Bernanke.  Deciding on the rate of inflation the Fed should shoot for
is within reach, said Columbia University economist Frederic Mishkin, who helped shape the Fed’s approach to the question as
a governor from 2006 to 2008.  More difficult will be agreeing on how to define full
employment, which is also part of the Fed’s marching orders from
Congress.  ‘Sorted Out’  The inflation goal “has been sorted out” by the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said Mishkin, who co-
authored a 1999 book with Bernanke on inflation targeting. “The
big problem is how you talk about the second part of the dual
mandate. There are different views.”  Proponents of adopting an inflation target, such as Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , point
out that monetary policy directly influences prices. On the
other hand, the rate of maximum employment the economy can
sustain before wages and prices rise is dependent on other
variables, such as the infusion of technology into the economy,
which boosts productivity.  Mishkin said economists could argue that estimates for full
employment today might range from a jobless rate of 4.5 percent
to 7 percent. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.5
percent in December, the lowest since February 2009, from 8.7
percent the month before, Labor Department figures showed today.  ‘Unacceptably High’  William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 New York , said in a speech today that the outlook for
unemployment “is unacceptably high relative to our dual mandate
and the outlook for inflation is moderate.”  As a result, he said, it’s “appropriate to continue to
evaluate whether we could provide additional accommodation in a
manner that produces more benefits than costs.”  The 58-year-old Bernanke was a leading advocate of
inflation targeting as a Princeton University professor when he
co-authored the book “Inflation Targeting: Lessons from the
International Experience” with Mishkin, Bank of England
Monetary Policy Committee member  Adam Posen  and economist Thomas
Laubach. At his nomination hearing in November, 2005, he said a
numeric inflation goal would be a step “toward greater
transparency.”  Yellen Panel  A subcommittee created by Bernanke and headed by Fed Board
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  has been looking at ways to improve
Fed communications. Its working tool to broker consensus on the
dual objective of stable prices and maximum employment is a
statement of the committee’s “longer-run goals and policy
strategy.”  The statement “would name a target but it would also
reiterate things we have said over the years about how keeping
inflation low and stable contributes to great economic
performance over all,” Bullard said in yesterday’s interview.  Inflation will most likely be expressed in terms of changes
to the personal consumption expenditures price index, Bullard
said. The index rose 2.5 percent for the 12 months ending
November. That’s above the Fed’s longer-run forecast which
centers around 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  The presentation may even soften the notion of a target and
simply describe a specific level of inflation that would help
the Fed achieve its mandate of full employment over time,
according to a person familiar with the discussions.  Tactical Tool  Gertler said a numeric inflation target would serve as both
a tactical and transparency tool for the committee. Policy
makers should communicate under what inflation conditions they’d
start to withdraw their record stimulus, he said. The Fed has
kept its key  interest rate  near zero since December 2008, and
last month repeated a pledge to keep it there until at least
mid-2013.  “One thing that’s probably worth clarifying is whether the
Fed treats the target symmetrically, whether they view 2.5
percent inflation as worse than 1.5 percent inflation,” Gertler
said. “As inflation gets to 2 percent, is the Fed going to
aggressively tighten? As long as output is low, will they let it
creep up?”  Policy makers’ speeches and statements haven’t made that
clear, Gertler said. Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
has advocated a promise to keep interest rates low until either
unemployment falls below 7 percent or the medium-term inflation
outlook rises above 3 percent. Plosser has pushed for an
inflation objective of 2 percent.  Getting Consensus  “The chairman would like to get consensus on this one,”
Mishkin said. “It is not easy to get everyone on board.”  FOMC participants “commented” on the draft statement in
December, according to minutes of the meeting published this
week. Bernanke “encouraged” the communications subcommittee to
make refinements and present it to the FOMC again at the Jan.
24-25 meeting.  “Everybody on the committee is in favor of enhanced
clarity, and exactly how you do it is the debate,” Gertler
said. “They’re slowly making progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  