-- Fed’s New Wordplay to Yield Negligible Results: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fed-s-new-wordplay-to-yield-negligible-results-caroline-baum.html
A forecast is a forecast. In many
cases, it’s not worth the paper it’s printed on.  Some forecasts are more important than others, which is not
to say they’re more accurate, just that they matter more. The
 Federal Reserve ’s forecasts belong in this category.  Unlike the average Wall Street prognosticator, the Fed has
the unique ability to make its forecast become reality through
its manipulation of the federal funds rate (the overnight rate
at which banks lend to one another) and control of the  monetary
base (ARDIMTBA) . That’s why the central bank’s forecasts, and what’s
required to achieve them, matter.  Starting with the Jan. 24-25 meeting, we will learn for the
first time what funds rate is associated with the Fed’s
 projections  for inflation, unemployment and real gross-domestic-
product growth in the current year, the next few calendar years
and “over the longer run,” according to  minutes  of the Dec. 13
meeting released this week.  “Over the longer run” can only mean the rate that will
keep the economy growing at its non-inflationary potential in
perpetuity, otherwise known as the neutral funds rate. It will
be an interesting academic exercise to see what neutral rate the
Fed expects to yield real GDP growth of 2.4 percent to 2.7
percent; an unemployment rate of 5.2 percent to 6 percent; and
inflation of 1.7 percent to 2 percent -- the central bank’s
current long-term targets. How this will affect investment and
spending decisions in the short run remains to be seen.  Unintended Consequences  The argument in favor of greater transparency on the
expected interest-rate path is that it provides greater clarity
and certainty for business investment.  It could have the opposite effect. If the Fed projects slow
growth, elevated  unemployment (USURTOT) , benign inflation and a funds rate
of zero to 0.25 percent through 2014, businesses might be lulled
into inaction. Why invest now? What’s the rush? My widgets
aren’t flying off the shelf, and everything I read says
consumers don’t have the wherewithal to spend.  Transparency is better than the alternative. Still, one can
envision potential landmines down the road.  For starters, forecasting is an art, not a science. What
happens when the Fed is forced to reverse its accommodative
policy quickly because inflation isn’t behaving as it’s supposed
to (even with food, energy and half of the consumer-price index
excluded),  inflation expectations (FED5YEAR)  lose their mooring, the U.S.
economy gathers steam, or signs of froth appear in some asset
market, the product of years of near-zero  interest rates ?
Goodbye, certainty; hello, volatility.  Second, even in the normal course of the  business cycle ,
projecting a higher funds rate may have untoward consequences.  “It’s a tricky situation going forward, when the time
comes to start normalizing policy and the Fed reveals
projections of a rising funds rate,” says  Dana Saporta , a U.S.
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “We could get an
outsized, undesirable market response: one of the risks of
enhanced transparency.”  Would other short-term rates adjust instantaneously? What
about long-term rates?  “The markets are looking at the same data as the Fed,”
says Scott Sumner, a professor of economics at Bentley
University in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  In other words, the Fed will be behind the curve.  Finally, the Fed is opening itself up to increased
political pressure. Some members of Congress may not see the
need for higher interest rates, telegraphed by the Fed, at a
time when unemployment is unacceptably high.  That said, it’s “a tiny baby step forward and better than
what the Fed did in  August ,” which was to make an unconditional
pledge to hold the funds rate near zero at least until mid-2013,
Sumner says. Under the new procedure, which is “not a very
precise or effective tool,” the promise about the funds rate is
at least “contingent on an outcome for the economy.”  Window Dressing  The biggest problem with the Fed’s elevation of
communication to the level of policy tool is that it’s a poor
substitute for the real thing. Just because short-term rates are
close to zero doesn’t mean the Fed is out of bullets.  As I wrote in a column two months ago, the Fed has a
powerful tool in the printing press. If policy makers determine
that more stimulus is warranted, and I’m not saying it is, they
should crank up the presses. Everything else is window dressing
-- and some of it more effective than mere talk.  Want banks to lend? Stop paying them 0.25 percent interest
on the $1.5 trillion they’re holding on deposit at the Fed in
the form of  excess reserves (ARDIERNA) . Better yet, charge them a fee for
holding those deposits.  David Beckworth, an economist at Texas State University in
San Marco,  compared  the new strategy to a ship’s captain
focusing on the rudder instead of the destination. (“Full
employment” and “ price stability ” are both fuzzy.) Both he
and Sumner advocate targeting nominal GDP. The decline in NGDP
in 2008 and 2009, the biggest since the Great Depression, was a
sign that  monetary policy  was too tight.  Monetary policy can only affect nominal aggregates, Sumner
explained in a recent  online interview  with EconTalk’s Russ Roberts. “Real outcomes” depend on things such as structural
factors, government policy and productivity, he said.  When the economy experiences a deep contraction, the
presumption is that for any given increase in nominal income,
the split between growth and inflation will favor the former.  For the moment, the Fed seems content to tinker around the
edges.  “Why did the Fed put all this effort into this maybe-it-
adds-something policy” when it could do something that really
makes a difference? Beckworth asks.  Answer: Transparency is good. Talk is cheap. It won’t do
much harm. The unintended consequences can be dealt with later.  ( Caroline Baum , the author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 