-- Fewer, Better Nuclear Weapons Can Make the U.S. Stronger: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-06T00:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/fewer-better-nuclear-weapons-can-make-the-u-s-stronger-view.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama , Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman
General Martin Dempsey unveiled a new long-term defense strategy
on Wednesday designed to save money while adapting U.S. forces
to tomorrow’s security challenges.  While short on specifics about individual programs -- those
will come later this month in an official  budget (USBODEFN)  request -- the
Defense Strategic Review is realistic about trims in force size
and retiree costs, and rightly calls for an increased focus on
 Asia  and the Pacific Ocean, counterterrorism and cybersecurity.  In particular, we applaud the insistence that U.S.
“deterrence goals can be achieved with a smaller nuclear
force.” Unlike many other areas of the Pentagon budget, in
which strategists and number crunchers should be able to
negotiate their way to fiscal detente, the nuclear issue
requires a complete rethinking of long-term strategy and
philosophy.  Today’s world calls for a two-part nuclear strategy:
ensuring that the U.S. has a robust retaliatory force against a
major power (a resurgent  Russia  or a rising  China ) in a large-
scale nuclear war, and maintaining a flexible deterrent to deal
with regional challenges in a proliferating world (think Iran,
North Korea and, perhaps,  Pakistan ). The key is making certain
that the arsenal is optimal in terms of size, cost and, most
important, capability.  Check Major Powers  The U.S. has 5,000 or so warheads (fewer than half of which
are deployed at a given time), down from 31,225 during the  Cold
War . Under the 2010 New Start treaty, by 2018 the U.S. will be
limited to 1,550 strategic warheads, most of which are on long-
range ballistic missiles in U.S. silos or aboard one of 14 Ohio-
class submarines. These are the high-yield Strangelovian weapons
that we (and any potential enemies) know are very unlikely to be
used. They are of little good against, say,  North Korea , given
that the radioactive fallout would endanger millions in  South
Korea  and, depending on the winds, in Japan or China. We need
only maintain enough of them to provide a check on other major
powers.  There are plenty of good ideas for achieving cost savings
on this front. Senator  Tom Coburn , Republican of  Oklahoma , has
outlined a $79 billion savings plan that would include cutting
the ballistic-missile submarine fleet to 11 from 14 (this could
involve increasing the number of missiles per boat or warheads
per missile); eliminating 200 of our estimated 500
intercontinental ballistic missiles and limiting reserves to
1,100 weapons. It’s a sensible place to start the discussion,
although we think the cuts could be deeper.  The second part of the strategy involves the highly
accurate, low-yield weapons now carried by bombers and some
fighters. These arms are better suited -- because of their
limited fallout -- to an age in which weak rogue states
increasingly rely on nuclear threats. Obviously, the idea of
using a tactical nuclear weapon on the battlefield is no less
horrifying than employing the strategic variety, but all the
same, maintaining the ability to do so is a vital check on the
ambitions of a nation such as  Iran . And here is where we may
have to spend more rather than less, at least initially.  The nuclear-equipped B-52 fleet is creaky and the B-2
bomber’s stealth technology is becoming outdated. It’s unclear
if future F-16 or next-generation F-35 jet fighters will have
nuclear capability (if, indeed, the latter will ever see the
light of day). Furthermore, the cruise missiles that the bombers
use to deliver nuclear warheads are old and failure-prone. The
easiest and quickest step would be to upgrade the cruise
missiles to improve reliability and accuracy while renovating
the current fleet of B-52 bombers. This would have costs, but be
vastly cheaper than developing a new generation of aircraft. It
is also worth devoting research dollars to improving the
accuracy of submarine-borne missiles, using GPS or some other
technology, to make them viable for low-yield payloads despite
the enormous distances they travel.  Beyond the Pentagon  The benefits of a smarter  nuclear-weapons  policy will
spread beyond the Pentagon. The Energy Department should be able
to trim billions as well from its related spending, starting
with a halt on a plutonium storage and production facility at
Los Alamos National Laboratory in  New Mexico .  The most controversial aspect of the review will probably
be its finding that, instead of being able to fight two wars
simultaneously, the U.S. will have the capacity only to carry
out one major conflict while “denying the objectives of -- or
imposing unacceptable costs on -- an opportunistic aggressor in
a second region.” Deterrence is the key to such a strategy, and
it can be best achieved with a smarter, smaller nuclear arsenal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 