-- Foreclosures Worsen in New York, New Jersey as Arizona Improves
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-01-06T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/foreclosures-worsen-in-new-york-new-jersey-as-arizona-improves.html
The number of homes in the
 foreclosure (HOMFCLOS)  pipeline is increasing in states including  New York ,
 New Jersey  and Connecticut, where the process is slowed by
courts, as  Arizona ,  California  and  Nevada  digest their backlog.  Home loans that were delinquent or in foreclosure fell in
three states hit hard by the housing market collapse, dropping
19 percent in Nevada, 21 percent in California and 25 percent in
Arizona in the year through Nov. 30, Lender Processing Services
Inc. reported today. At the same time, they rose 7.4 percent in
New Jersey, 5.2 percent in Connecticut and 2 percent in New
York, as mandatory judicial procedures delayed seizures.  It’s “a tale of two countries,” Herb Blecher, senior vice
president at LPS Applied Analytics, a unit of the Jacksonville,
Florida-based mortgage-services company, said in a telephone
interview from Denver. “There are certainly two different
scenarios that can play out.”  The pace of foreclosures slowed in the past year in so-
called judicial states after banks and loan servicers faced
investigations over documentation procedures used to seize
property. Speedier foreclosures may allow housing markets to
recover faster while not giving homeowners as much opportunity
to stop the repossession of their properties, Blecher said.  The 24 judicial states include  Florida , where 23 percent of
homes with a mortgage were delinquent or in foreclosure, the
most of any state, Lender Processing Services said. The state
also took the longest to foreclose, with an average of 1,017
days of delinquency in November, followed by  Maine , New York,
Vermont and New Jersey, all judicial states.  Sold at Auction  The average U.S. loan was 667 days delinquent when a
foreclosure sale was held. The average was 839 days for judicial
states and 587 for non-judicial states. Homes sold in
foreclosure auctions were an average of 659 days delinquent in
California, 629 days in Nevada and 541 days in Arizona, where
court approval isn’t needed.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week called
the weakness in the housing market a “significant barrier” to
U.S. economic health and said Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , the
government sponsored enterprises that control the majority of
mortgages, might have to bear greater losses to stoke a broader
recovery.  “The large inventory of foreclosed or surrendered
properties is contributing to excess supply in the for-sale
market, placing downward pressure on house prices and
exacerbating the loss in aggregate housing wealth,” he said in
a Jan. 4 report to congressional leaders.  The U.S.  delinquency (DLQTDLQT)  rate fell to 7.7 percent in November
for mortgages more than 90 days late, compared with 8.2 percent
a year earlier, according to Lender Processing Services. The
total number of loans that were delinquent or in foreclosure
fell to 6.26 million, down 24 percent from their January 2010
peak. The number of homes that had received a foreclosure notice
and were awaiting seizure by a bank was 2.12 million, little
changed from a record 2.22 million in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  