-- Hungary’s Pledge to Work With IMF on Loan Boosts Markets After Bond Rout
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-06T12:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/forint-rallies-as-orban-meeting-hungarian-central-bank-eases-aid-concern.html
Hungary ’s bonds and the forint
rallied for a second day as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged
to cooperate with central bank President Andras Simor after a
dispute about the bank’s independence threatened the country’s
bailout.  Ten-year  government bonds (GHGB10YR)  in forint climbed, cutting the
yield 34 basis points to 10.06 percent, according to generic
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Hungary’s currency appreciated as
much as 1 percent and traded 0.4 percent stronger at 317.77 per
euro by 12:26 a.m. in Budapest, paring this week’s loss to 0.9
percent after reaching a record low of 324.24 yesterday.  It’s in Hungary’s interest to get an International Monetary
Fund agreement “as soon as possible” and there’s a “good
chance” for swift talks, Orban told reporters in Budapest after
meeting with Simor today. The government will hold daily
consultations with the central bank and do “everything” to
help the institution maintain economic stability, Orban said.  “The government’s commitment to an agreement with the IMF
and EU has increased,” Levente Papa, a Budapest-based
strategist at  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, said by
e-mail today. “That’s shown by the fact that the prime minister
met the central bank president despite the earlier tensions.
Today’s developments certainly ease market concerns.”  The cost of insuring Hungary’s debt through credit-default
swaps reached an all-time high this week and the forint touched
a record low against the euro after aid negotiations with the
IMF and the European Union broke off because of new laws that
threaten to undermine the central bank’s independence.  The CDS contracts fell to 695 basis points from 735 basis
points yesterday, the highest close on record, data provider CMA
said.  The central bank confirmed in a statement today that it
will hold “regular consultations” with the government.  The central bank law is “fully compatible” with EU
regulations and the government will continue to respect the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s independence, Economy Minister  Gyorgy
Matolcsy  said in a letter sent to European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  and published by the ministry yesterday.  Orban’s comments may not have a longer-term impact on the
forint as Hungary still needs to change its central bank law to
get an IMF agreement, Raffaella Tenconi, a London-based
economist at Bank of America Corp., said in a telephone
interview today.  “It will depend on how quickly and how smoothly the
negotiations go,” Tenconi said.  The benchmark  BUX (BUX)  stock index rose 0.9 percent as OTP Bank
advanced 2.1 percent and Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the country’s
former phone monopoly, rose 1.5 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  