-- Gingrich Leaves Freddie Mac Contract Release to His Partners
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-01-06T19:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/freddie-mac-says-gingrich-is-welcome-to-release-his-contracts-as-adviser.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  said today that he still can’t release his
contract with  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  -- even though the mortgage finance
company gave him permission to do so -- because the decision is
up to his business partners in his consulting firm.  Gingrich’s comments came after  Freddie Mac  told Bloomberg
News yesterday that the former U.S. House speaker was cleared to
make the documents public. Before that, Gingrich said the reason
he couldn’t release the contract was that Freddie Mac wouldn’t
waive a confidentiality agreement.  Gingrich’s consulting firm was paid at least $1.6 million
over eight years for his services.  Gingrich does not have the power to make decisions about
releasing the contract because he is only one partner in the
Center for Health Transformation, the consulting firm that he
founded, Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond said in an interview
today.  “It’s their decision,” Hammond said.  “His partners have
to sign off on it.”  The Center for Health Transformation will not release the
documents today, Susan Meyers, the firm’s director of media
relations, said.  Lawyers Still Deliberating  “The lawyers are still reviewing the files to see if it is
possible to even release it at all based on the language of the
consulting contracts signed long ago,” Meyers said in an e-
mail.  Gingrich said in a Dec. 30 interview with Bloomberg News
that his campaign had asked Freddie Mac to lift the
confidentiality clause but “they wouldn’t do it.”  Freddie Mac Vice President Sharon McHale said in an
interview yesterday that Gingrich was “welcome to release the
contract.”  Gingrich has faced questions in debates from his Republican
presidential rivals about his relationship with the mortgage
finance company. Freddie Mac and its sister company,  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,
have drawn about $153 billion in taxpayer aid since losses from
risky mortgages caused them to be brought under U.S.
conservatorship in September 2008.  Unanswered Questions  The contract presumably would answer some of the
outstanding questions surrounding the deal, including what
Gingrich was paid and how much of it went directly to him. Since
Bloomberg News first reported the story on Nov. 16, these
accounts have varied, with the former speaker lately claiming
his firm was paid at least $1.6 million while he personally only
got about $35,000 a year.  Gingrich’s description of the work he performed has
differed from that of company insiders.  During a Nov. 9 Republican debate, Gingrich initially said
he was paid to offer Freddie Mac advice as a “historian” and
warned officials that its business model was “insane.”  Former Freddie Mac officials familiar with Gingrich’s work
for the company said he didn’t disparage their business model
and instead was paid to build bridges to Capitol Hill
Republicans and develop an argument on behalf of the company’s
public-private structure that would resonate with opponents
seeking to dismantle it.  Attack Ads  The former House speaker, who didn’t register as a
lobbyist, has a lot of attack TV ads about his relationship with
Freddie Mac, which have coincided with a decline in his poll
standings. He finished a distant fourth in the Jan. 3  Iowa 
caucuses, behind Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , and Texas Representative  Ron Paul , respectively.  From Dec. 1 through Dec. 29, 45 percent of all ads airing
in Iowa highlighted Gingrich’s shifting policy positions and
advocacy for Freddie Mac, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising. The
commercials were financed primarily by Paul, Perry and an
outside committee that backs Romney.  In the Dec. 30 interview with Bloomberg, Gingrich said he
personally received only about $35,000 a year. The rest of the
money went to his firm, he said.  According to three people familiar with Gingrich’s contract
with Freddie Mac, the company was paying Gingrich’s firm only
for the services of Gingrich himself, not for work by any of his
staff.  First Contract  Gingrich’s first contract with the mortgage company was in
1999, five months after he resigned from Congress and as House
speaker, according to a Freddie Mac press release.  His consulting firm was paid a self-renewing, monthly
retainer of $25,000 to $30,000 between May 1999 until 2002,
according to three people familiar with aspects of the business
agreement.  Gingrich’s second contract with Freddie Mac was a two-year
retainer for which he was paid a total of $600,000, said two
people familiar with the agreement.  Throughout the campaign, Gingrich has distanced himself
from Freddie Mac, criticizing its business model and even
suggesting some Democrats should be jailed for associating with
the company’s officials at a time when the  housing market (ETSLTOTL)  was
about to collapse.  “You ought to start with  Barney Frank ,” when talking
about people to put in jail, Gingrich said during an Oct. 11
Republican presidential debate, referring to the Massachusetts
congressman who serves as the ranking Democrat on the House
Financial Services Committee. “Go back and look at the
lobbyists he was close to at Freddie Mac,” Gingrich said in the
debate, sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  