-- GE, Siemens Win India Solar Turbine Orders to Offset U.S. Slump
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-01-06T06:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/ge-siemens-win-india-solar-turbine-orders-to-offset-u-s-slump.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and
 Areva SA (AREVA)  have won orders from  India ’s largest solar plants
requiring conventional turbines, helping to offset a slump in
the U.S. where developers are scrapping such projects.  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani ,
and  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  are among seven companies building a
third of India’s planned sun-powered capacity to 2013 using
solar-thermal technology which concentrates sunlight to boil
water to power steam turbines.  Four have ordered units from Siemens, one from GE and one
from Areva, according to interviews this week and documents
obtained from the companies by Bloomberg News. Aurum Renewable
Energy Pvt. expects to select a supplier this month and is
considering GE, Siemens and  Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd.’s
Shin Nippon Machinery Co. (6302)   The contracts help offset dwindling demand in the U.S.,
where developers have ditched solar-thermal technology for
cheaper, silicon-based panels. GE, Siemens and Areva acquired
stakes in the last three years in solar-thermal equipment
makers, backing a technology valued for its ability to store and
supply power around the clock unlike photovoltaic, or PV, panels
which directly convert sunlight into electricity.  “Siemens has the greatest market share,” because it got
in early with turbines sized correctly for solar-thermal plants,
said  Nathaniel Bullard , a San Francisco-based solar analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “But Japanese companies were
known to be pursuing orders for U.S. projects that are now
defunct.”  Orders Value  The Indian developers declined to disclose the value of the
turbine orders. In total, the units may be worth approximately
$150 million, according to Jenny Chase, New Energy Finance’s
lead solar analyst.  The Indian government awarded licenses for 470 megawatts of
solar-thermal capacity to Lanco, Reliance Power, Aurum,  Godawari
Power & Ispat Ltd. (GODPI) , KVK Energy & Infrastructure Pvt., Megha
Engineering & Infrastructures Ltd, and Abhijeet Group’s
Corporate Ispat Alloys Ltd. The plants, ranging in size from 20
to 100 megawatts each, will be the biggest of the 1,500
megawatts of solar capacity planned in India by early 2013.  The companies won the contracts in December 2010 by
outbidding experienced solar-thermal developers like Spain’s
 Abengoa SA (ABG)  and to sell power at an average price of 11,650
rupees ($220) a megawatt-hour when complete. That’s about 18
percent below the global average, according to New Energy
Finance’s data.  Fundings  Reliance Power ordered units from Areva for its 100-
megawatt plant, according to a presentation the company e-mailed
to Bloomberg News on Jan. 3. It declined to provide details on
how the project is funded.  Megha Engineering ordered a 50-megawatt turbine from GE in
November, and raised financing from a group of banks led by  IDBI
Bank Ltd. (IDBI) , Uma Maheshwar, associate vice president at Megha’s
clean energy unit said in a phone interview on Jan. 3.
Abhijeet’s Corporate Ispat ordered a 50-megawatt Siemens turbine
in September and raised money from the Bank of India and the
 Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) , M.K. Prasad, senior vice president of
solar at parent Abhijeet Group, said by phone on Jan. 3.  Lanco, which is setting up its own 100-megawatt plant and
also building and procuring for KVK Energy’s 100-megawatt plant,
has ordered Siemens turbines, Lanco Solar Chief Executive
Officer V. Saibaba said in a November interview.  Godawari ordered a Siemens turbine for its 50-megawatt
project and awarded a $123 million contract to India’s  Jyoti
Structures Ltd. (JYS)  and Abilene, Texas-based Lauren Engineers &
Constructors to design and build the plant, Godawari Managing
Director B.L. Agrawal said by telephone on Jan. 4. The Bank of
Baroda is financing the project.  Suppliers, Lenders  Aurum expects to select its supplier for its 20-megawatt
plant by Jan. 20, Chief Operating Officer Shreerang Athalye said
by phone this week. Work on the site has begun and the company
is in talks with lenders for the project at Porbandar, Gujarat.  An inability to raise money prompted NTR Plc, the Dublin-
based owner of Tessera Solar, to write off 42.4 million euros
($54.2 million), its entire investment in solar-thermal, in
August after selling two U.S. projects to developers who chose
to dump the technology.  Germany ’s Solar Millennium AG scrapped
thermal devices for PV panels at the world’s largest solar
project in  California  before filing for bankruptcy last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 