-- Georgia’s Cartu Blames Cargo Damage on Owner’s Political Plans
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-01-06T14:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/georgia-s-cartu-blames-cargo-damage-on-owner-s-political-plans.html
Georgia ’s Cartu Group said customs
officials are intentionally damaging its shipments because
billionaire owner Bidzina Ivanishvili began a public movement
aimed at challenging President Mikheil Saakashvili’s party.  Shipments of equipment for Cartu’s charitable and
construction projects are “stopped, thoroughly checked and
deliberately damaged at customs terminals only because
Ivanishvili announced his political plans,” Giorgi Liluashvili,
a logistics manager in Tbilisi, said by telephone today. As much
as $500,000 of goods including musical, studio and medical
equipment has been destroyed, he said.  Cartu gave documents about the shipment violations to
international organizations and embassies, said Tina Khidasheli,
a leader of the opposition  Republican Party  and Ivanishvili’s
political ally. Ivanishvili plans to expand the party’s
political campaign across Georgia, she said in an interview.  Liluashvili said there is “no point” in sending the
documents to the government and that Cartu plans to sue and
present its evidence in court.  Georgia’s Revenue Service, which is responsible for customs
and income tax, wasn’t available to comment because today is a
national holiday.  Ivanishvili, whose net worth was put at $5.5 billion by
Forbes in March, held talks with opposition leaders in October
after announcing his political plans and lost his Georgian
citizenship that month. He then renounced his French nationality
after giving up a Russian passport in the hopes of restoring his
Georgian nationality.  Police last year seized several million dollars and euros
from an armored delivery van belonging to Ivanishvili’s Cartu
Bank as part of a money-laundering probe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  