-- German Factory Orders Declined Most in Almost Three Years
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-06T11:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/german-november-factory-orders-decline-more-than-forecast-on-weak-demand.html
German factory orders dropped the
most in almost three years in November as the euro region
economy edged toward a recession and global demand weakened.  Orders (GRIORTMM) , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, slipped
4.8 percent from October, when they surged a revised 5 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement today. That’s
the biggest drop since January 2009. Economists forecast a
decline of 1.8 percent, according to the median of 25 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey (GRIORTMM) .  While the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis has clouded
the outlook and cooling global growth is hurting export orders,
 Europe ’s biggest economy may still avert a recession.
Unemployment at a two-decade low is helping to bolster consumer
sentiment,  service industries  expanded in December and  business
confidence (GRIFPBUS)  unexpectedly rose for a second month.  “It’s quite clear that we’re heading into a pretty sharp
downturn even in Germany, which has been one of the strongest of
the euro zone’s economies,” said  Jennifer McKeown , an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . “Orders are very clearly
on a downward trend, as is industrial production itself.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.2798 at 12:46 p.m. in Frankfurt. The currency has weakened
4.6 percent against the dollar over the past month. Germany’s
 DAX benchmark index (DAX)  pared its gain after the release.  German Slowdown  From a year ago,  orders (GEIOYY)  fell 4.3 percent in November when
adjusted for work days, today’s report showed. The ministry had
previously reported a gain of 5.2 percent in October from
September.  Orders from euro-region nations fell 4.1 percent from
October, when they rose 8.2 percent, today’s report showed.
Orders from outside the currency union slumped 10.3 percent,
while domestic orders slipped 1.1 percent. Demand for investment
goods fell 6.5 percent in the month, while declining 2 percent
for  consumer goods .  German economic growth will slow this year as demand from
its main euro-area trading partners slumps, two economic
institutes that advise Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government
said last month. The Kiel-based IfW institute said growth will
slow to 0.5 percent from 2.9 percent in 2011, while the RWI in
Essen sees expansion decelerating to 0.6 percent from 3 percent.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, forecast
stagnant 2012 profits in November.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  Chief
Executive Officer  Bernd Scheifele  told Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung he
expects a “difficult” business environment because of rising
energy costs and the sovereign debt crisis.  European Confidence  European economic confidence fell to the lowest in  more
than two years last month and  unemployment (UMRTEMU)  remained at a 13-year
high in November, two reports showed today. Euro-region retail
sales dropped 0.8 percent in November from the previous month,
when they rose 0.1 percent, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said.  The  European Central Bank  lowered its benchmark rate to 1
percent last month, matching a record low. Euro-region inflation
slowed for the first time in five months in December, to 2.8
percent, giving the ECB room to lower borrowing costs further.
ECB council members will hold their next rate meeting on Jan. 12
in Frankfurt.  Some German companies may benefit from export demand
outside Europe.  Porsche SE (PAH3)  anticipates U.S. sales to rise to
more than 30,000 cars next year on demand for the revamped 911
sports car.  Daimler AG (DAI)  wants to produce a record 988,110
Mercedes-Benz brand cars and sport utility vehicles in Germany
in 2012, Automotive News Europe reported Jan. 1, citing internal
company documents.  Still, the labor union-affiliated IMK economic institute
said Jan. 3 that Germany’s economy will shrink 0.1 percent this
year. Austerity measures by euro-area governments are weighing
on demand, making a recession in the 17-nation bloc
“unavoidable,” the Dusseldorf-based institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  