-- Germany’s Solar Surge Leaves Biggest Market Steady in 2011
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-06T18:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/germany-s-solar-surge-leaves-biggest-market-steady-in-2011.html
German solar power installations
surged in December as developers rushed to finish projects
before subsidy reductions, keeping the market for new facilities
powered by the sun near the record achieved in 2010.  Developers installed panels with 2 gigawatts to 3 gigawatts
in capacity last month, meaning installations for the full year
will be near the 7 gigawatts recorded in 2010, the BSW-Solar
lobby group said in an e-mailed statement.  The figures add to pressure on Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government to rein in subsidies that helped trigger a boom over
the past three years, making Germany the world’s biggest market
for solar power. They also indicate strength in demand that may
help offset a plunge in prices for panels, which has depressed
the shares of manufactures from  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  to  LDK Solar (LDK)  Co.  “That’s probably the largest end of year rush ever,”
Jenny Chase, the lead solar analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in  London , said by e-mail. “The German government’s
attempt to use the ratcheting down feed-in tariff mechanism to
bring the country’s market back to 3.5 gigawatts a year is not
proving notably effective.”  The strength of the installations probably will trigger an
automatic 15 percent cut in subsidies beginning in July, the
lobby group said.  New Energy Finance had expected installations from 6
gigawatts to 6.5 gigawatts last year. Germany installed about
7.4 gigawatts of solar panels in 2010 before Merkel’s government
trimmed subsidies. About 3.4 gigawatts of panels were installed
in the first nine months of the year, according to
Bundesnetzagentur, the grid regulator.  Solar Boom  Mild weather in December and lower prices for panels helped
trigger the surge,  Carsten Koernig , the head of the lobby,
said by phone.  The country’s solar industry struggled with slowing demand
in the first half of last year amid rising competition from
manufacturers in  China . Berlin-based module maker  Solon SE (SOO1)  and
 Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , with headquarters in Erlangen, filed for
insolvency last month. Q-Cells is looking for a buyer.  Last month’s figures leave Germany on track to exceed the
52 gigawatts it aims to install by 2020, based on its National
Renewable Energy Action Plan, New Energy Finance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  