-- Spanish and Italian Bonds Decline as Confidence in European Economy Wanes
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-06T17:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/german-two-year-government-yields-approach-record-low-french-bonds-drop.html
Spanish and Italian bonds declined as
European confidence in the economic outlook fell to a two-year
low, fueling concern that the region’s most-indebted countries
will struggle to cut budget deficits amid a slowdown.  Spain ’s 10-year yields had the biggest weekly increase in
almost 17 years. The unemployment rate among the nation’s young
people rose to 49.6 percent in November, the European Union’s
statistics institute said today. French 10-year bonds slipped
for an eighth day, yielding more than the European bailout fund
in which the country is a main guarantor. German bonds posted a
weekly decline as stocks advanced and U.S. employers added more
workers to payrolls in December than predicted by economists.  “The data was weak, reflecting the drag on euro-zone
economies from the debt crisis,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“Bunds are taking their cue from the more positive U.S. data.”  Spain’s 5.5 percent bond due April 2021 fell for a fifth
day, pushing the yield up seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 5.71 percent at 4:46 p.m.  London  time. The yield is 62
basis points higher this week, the biggest advance since August
1994, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on  Italy’s 10-year (GBTPGR10)  bond rose four basis points to
7.13 percent, after rising to 7.18 percent, the highest since
Nov. 30. The bonds fell even as the  European Central Bank  was
said to be buying the countries’ debt securities.  Sentiment Gauge  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December from a revised 93.8
the previous month, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. That’s in line with the median of  19 economist estimates (EUESEMU) 
in a Bloomberg survey. The  unemployment rate  held at 10.3
percent in November, a separate report showed.  Spain’s overall unemployment rate was 22.9 percent, the
highest in the EU and the most on record for the country, up
from 22.7 percent in October, Eurostat said.  The extra yield, or spread, that investors receive for
holding Italian and Spanish 10-year bonds instead of bunds also
rose as ECB Governing Council member Klaas Knot said  Germany  was
the “most important obstacle” to raising the region’s bailout
fund limit. French 10-year bonds posted their longest run of
declines since June 2006.  Austrian 10-year yields climbed to the highest since Dec. 1
after Hungary’s credit grade was cut to junk by  Fitch Ratings .  ‘Concern Lurking’  “There is obviously some concern lurking around, with
sovereign debt downgrades hanging over a lot of countries,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “The market is continuing to
punish peripherals.”  The French 10-year yield increased two basis points to 3.37
percent, climbing for an eight consecutive day. The yield on the
European Financial Stability Facility’s 3.375 percent bond due
in July 2021 was at 3.19 percent today. The EFSF owes its top
credit ratings to guarantees from nations including  France .  “The market is saying the risk of France going bust is
greater than the EFSF,” Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund
manager  at M&G Investments, said by e-mail. “France is one of
the main guarantors and the EFSF can’t work without it, so this
distortion fundamentally shouldn’t happen.”  The 10-year bund yield climbed three basis points this week
to 1.86 percent. It rose as much as four basis points
immediately after the U.S. payrolls data was published today.  U.S. Payrolls  German bonds are little changed this year, after gaining
9.7 percent in 2011, the most since the financial crisis of
2008, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. The 10-year yield has increased from a record low 1.636
percent in September, as reports signaled that Germany is
sustaining its economic recovery.  The 200,000 increase in U.S. payrolls followed a revised
100,000 gain in November that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed in  Washington . The
median projection in a Bloomberg News survey called for a
December gain of 155,000. The unemployment rate fell to 8.5
percent, the lowest since February 2009.  Volatility on Swiss sovereign debt was the highest in
 Europe  today, followed by  Norway , according to measures of 10-
year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and credit-default
swaps. Neither of the countries are members of the euro area.
Ireland had the biggest swings in the currency bloc.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained as much as 0.9 percent
today. For the week, it’s 1.2 percent higher. The Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index was little changed for the day and up 1.9
percent since Dec. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  