-- Giants’ Cruz Dances Way to Possible $45 Million NFL Payday
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-06T16:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/giants-cruz-dancing-way-to-possible-45-million-payday-from-nfl-minimum.html
New York Giants wide receiver  Victor Cruz  is taking his scoring, sales appeal and salsa steps into
the National Football League playoffs with a possible $45
million payoff in sight.  An undrafted player out of the University of  Massachusetts ,
Cruz has set a record for yards receiving for one of the NFL’s
oldest franchises in his second professional season.  His performance helped spur the Giants to a postseason
return after a two-year absence, with a first-round game against
the  Atlanta Falcons  on Jan. 8. It also has the 25-year-old
Paterson, New Jersey, native poised for a potentially
significant pay raise after making $405,000 this season, about 5
percent of the salary of Giants quarterback Eli Manning.  “Anytime you put up those kind of numbers, he’s going to
be in for a really good payday,” said Roddy White, a receiver
who has a six-year, $48 million contract with the Falcons. “He
deserves it.”  The Giants are 3-point favorites at for their 1 p.m. game
at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, against the
Falcons, one of four  postseason games this weekend. The
 Cincinnati Bengals  visit the Houston Texans at 4:30 p.m. as 3-
point underdogs, and the  New Orleans Saints  host the  Detroit
Lions  at 8 p.m. as 10-point favorites tomorrow. The Pittsburgh
Steelers are at the  Denver Broncos  and favored by 8 points the
following day at 4:30 p.m..  Cruz, who performs a salsa-style dance after touchdowns,
said he’s focused on his first playoff appearance and not
looking to the future. He has one season and $490,000 remaining
on his rookie deal that had no signing bonus and three years of
minimum salary.  Jersey Sales  Cruz has emerged as one of the Giants’ most valuable and
popular players. His No. 80 jersey is the team’s second-best
seller for the season behind Manning and the 13th-best seller in
the league last month, according to NFLShop.com. Cruz is ninth
on the ranking of rising sports stars issued today by  Irvine ,
California-based Brand Affinity Technologies, which calculates
consumer appeal based on performance, media exposure, popularity
and other indicators among more than 45,000 athletes and
celebrities.  Andrew Brandt, an NFL analyst for ESPN who was a vice
president with the  Green Bay Packers  from 1999 to 2008, said in
a telephone interview that he expected the Giants to approach
Cruz about a contract extension by midseason of 2012, if the
receiver continues to perform well.  Recent Signings  Cruz could expect to make as much as $45 million based on 
players with similar statistics. Among recent contracts for top 
NFL receivers, Brandt pointed to Brandon Marshall, who has a 
five-year, $47.3 million contract with the  Miami Dolphins ; 
Santonio Holmes, who got $45 million over five years from the 
 New York  Jets, and  Miles Austin , who received a seven-year, 
$57.2 million deal from the  Dallas Cowboys . Like Cruz, Austin 
wasn’t drafted by any of the NFL’s 32 teams.  The Giants declined to comment on potential contract
negotiations. Jack Huntington, Cruz’s agent, didn’t return calls
or e-mails seeking comment on his client’s deal.  Cruz didn’t catch any passes in three games as a rookie
before going on injured reserve. This year, he had 1,536 yards
receiving to break Amani Toomer’s team record and finish third
in the NFL. He caught 82 passes, tied for second place in team
history, and scored nine touchdowns.  Cruz punctuated his most recent scores with his end zone
dance as shouts of “Cruuuuuz,” echoed through MetLife Stadium.
He had a 99-yard touchdown reception in a victory against the
Jets on Dec. 25 and a 74-yard scoring play that sparked the
Giants’ win against the Cowboys that put New York in the
playoffs as the National Football Conference East division
champion.  ‘Truly Amazing’  “When you look at this last part of the season and the
number of plays the young man has made which has given us a
spark or put us in position to win games, it is truly amazing,”
Giants coach Tom Coughlin told reporters this week.  Cruz’s play has already helped him in business, with local
retailers lining up orders from his clothing company,  Young
Whales , which he started with former Giants teammate Nate
Collins. Almost all inventory has been distributed or sold, with
a portion of the proceeds to be donated to local charities, said
operations manager Elaina Watley, who is Cruz’s girlfriend of 10
years.  Cruz grew up in Paterson, a northeastern  New Jersey  city
where the median  household income  is about  $34,000  -- less than
half the state average -- and almost 25 percent of residents
live in poverty. After high school, Cruz wanted to play at
Rutgers University, but the Piscataway, New Jersey-based
school’s last football scholarship went to Devin McCourty, who
was a 2010 first-round draft pick of the  New England Patriots .  Massachusetts Days  Cruz ended up at Massachusetts, which doesn’t play at
college football’s top level and competes against schools
including Holy Cross and Central Connecticut. He was
academically ineligible to play during his second year at UMass
and kicked off the team again in 2007 for bad grades. Given
another chance, Cruz took advantage and totaled 130 catches for
1,932 yards and 11 touchdowns over his final two seasons.  Cruz scored three touchdowns in a preseason game against
the Jets as a rookie, a performance that drew praise from
basketball All-Star LeBron James on Twitter. After a hamstring
injury ended his first season, Cruz’s role expanded this year
when  Steve Smith  left the team.  Cruz caught two passes in the first two games, broke out
with two touchdowns in Week 3 against the  Philadelphia Eagles 
and has become the team’s most explosive offensive player.  “To be able to come in and do some positive things in that
game and do some things that were above my expectations, it was
amazing for my confidence,” Cruz said. “I kind of carried that
over to each week moving forward.”  Team Records  He had seven 100-yard receiving games, breaking the
franchise record of five, and is pro football’s first wide
receiver with four touchdown catches of more than 70 yards in a
season since Otis Taylor of the 1966  Kansas City Chiefs .  Atlanta cornerback Dunta Robinson probably will be
defending Cruz most of the time in this weekend’s game and said
he has great respect for him. He said he also expects Cruz’s
performance has set him up for a big payday.  “What he’s doing is amazing,” Robinson said in an
interview. “It lets other guys know that you don’t have to be a
high draft pick to come out here and make plays. If he keeps
playing like that, he’ll get whatever he wants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  