-- Gilt Purchases by U.K. Pension Funds Double to Record in 2011
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 2012-01-06T17:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/gilt-purchases-by-u-k-pension-funds-double-to-record-in-2011.html
U.K. pension funds invested a record
12.8 billion pounds ($20 billion) in gilts in the first three
quarters of 2011, more than double the 5.6 billion pounds bought
in the year-earlier period.  The purchases increased the amount of U.K. government debt
owned by domestic funds by 10 percent from the 122 billion
pounds they held at the end of 2010, according to figures from
the  Office of National Statistics  released on Dec. 21.  A continuation at that pace in the fourth quarter would
drive the annual amount of gilt buying to almost 10 times its
six-year average, according to an analysis of the ONS data
published in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter. The funds owned
more government debt than either equities or corporate bonds at
the end of 2010 for the first time, the figures show.  Overseas investors boosted their U.K. government bond
holdings by the most in more than three years in November as
they sought refuge from the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis.  Net purchases climbed to 16.3 billion pounds, the biggest
monthly increase in holdings since September 2008, according to
 Bank of England  figures published Jan. 4. That compares with net
buying of 12.5 billion pounds the previous month.  Domestic investments in gilts may increase further after
the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority
confirmed its intention to apply lower insurance-like discount
rates to defined-benefit pension liabilities in an October
discussion paper, prompting warnings from the U.K. National
Association of Pension Funds about the effect of the changes.  Accelerating Trend  “This is one of the key issues that have been raised, and
the trend away from U.K. equities and corporate bonds into gilts
has become apparent in recent years,”  James Walsh , senior policy
director at the NAPF, said in a telephone interview. “We feel
that the new proposals would accelerate the trend from corporate
securities into gilts.”  The NAPF estimates that the effect of applying a swap-based
discount rate to U.K. defined benefit pension plans would
increase liabilities by 337 billion euros ($429 billion),
according to the trade body’s submission to EIOPA published on
Jan. 4. Analysts at JPMorgan Asset Management have estimated
that figure at 600 billion pounds.  The U.K. Financial Reporting Council has called for a study
of the effect of the changes before the proposals are finalized.
“The FRC is particularly concerned about the large increase in
the regulatory burden that Solvency II-style regulation would
impose,” the group said in an e-mailed statement on Jan. 4. “The
FRC strongly urges EIOPA to carry out a thorough impact analysis
before making any recommendations to the EC.”  Seeking Exemption  Pension funds have been lobbying for exemptions to the
rules. “The use of a risk-free discount rate is inappropriate
for long-term pension provision, not least if we wish to
encourage pension schemes to invest at least partly in risk-
seeking, higher-return assets,” the NAPF submission said.  Gilts returned 17 percent last year, including reinvested
interest, the most among 26 government markets tracked by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. The  10-year gilt (GUKG10)  currently yields 2.03 percent, after
reaching a record 1.93 percent on Dec. 30. The two-year yield is
0.41 percent, up from an all-time low of 0.271 percent at the
end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at   ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  