-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley Profit Estimates Reduced on Trading Outlook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-01-06T16:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-profit-estimates-reduced-on-trading-outlook.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , the major U.S. banks most reliant on trading, had their
earnings estimates reduced by analysts as a weak fourth quarter
dimmed prospects for a capital-markets rebound in the first half
of 2012.  Sanford C. Bernstein’s Brad Hintz cut his fourth-quarter
estimate for Goldman Sachs by 76 percent and almost quadrupled
his expected loss for Morgan Stanley as “already anxious
clients grew increasingly cautious,” he wrote in a note to
investors today. Doug Sipkin, an analyst at Ticonderoga
Securities LLC, lowered his 2012 Goldman Sachs estimate by 23
percent on a more pessimistic view of the firm’s fixed-income
trading revenue.  The two New York-based banks will probably still more than
double their earnings per share this year, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The firms’  2011 results (GS)  are likely to
fall short of estimates made at the start of last year on a
decline in trading volume, concern that the European debt crisis
would spread and one-time items such as preferred-share
redemptions.  “We believe the threat emanating from  Europe  will dominate
customer activity, and we see little hope of any resolution in
the first half of the year,” Hintz wrote. “Regulatory concerns
and the overall pace of the global economic recovery pose
incremental headwinds for the large brokerage firms.”  Through 2013  JPMorgan (JPM)  Cazenove analysts led by Kian Abouhossein cut
their earnings outlook for investment banks for 2011, 2012 and
2013, citing worsening conditions in fixed income and equities.
In a note today, the analysts lowered their Goldman Sachs 2012
estimate by 19 percent and Morgan Stanley’s figure by 17
percent.  Hintz reduced his fourth-quarter estimate for Goldman Sachs
to 77 cents a share, from $3.15, and Morgan Stanley to a loss of
75 cents, from a 19-cent loss. Sipkin dropped his Goldman Sachs
fourth-quarter estimate to 97 cents, from $4.12, and now expects
a 59-cent loss for Morgan Stanley, after previously estimating a
40-cent profit.  Fiona Swaffield, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote
in a note yesterday that she has cut her 2012 earnings estimates
for Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley by 27 percent and 33
percent, respectively, since June.  Return on Equity  A “lackluster” estimated revenue increase has led to
concerns about the long-term return on equity investment banks
can produce, Swaffield wrote. Investment-banking divisions
likely had ROE of 5 percent to 9 percent in 2011, when measured
against risk-weighted assets calculated under new capital rules
known as Basel 3, she wrote.  The lowered earnings expectations didn’t change the
analysts’  stock ratings (GS) . Abouhossein rates Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley “overweight.” Hintz has an “outperform”
rating on both and wrote that “current valuation levels imply a
near worst case scenario for these stocks.”  Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein,
57, said in November that global growth will “snap back”
faster than most forecasters expect. He said he didn’t know when
that will happen.  Some analysts still see reason for optimism for a rebound
in investment-banking and trading revenue, which has likely
fallen in each of the past two years. In 2011, global stock
offerings plunged 29 percent from 2010 and U.S. bond issuance
fell 6.7 percent as companies delayed plans to raise capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Handful of Catalysts’  “We see a handful of catalysts -- like plenty of cash on
the sidelines, a pickup in M&A activity, large investment-
banking backlogs” and the need for  hedge funds  to try to
outperform their benchmarks,  Glenn Schorr , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in a note today. “That could boost
activity levels over the next few quarters.”  If that pickup doesn’t occur, investment banks may chop
more jobs, Abouhossein said. Morgan Stanley said last month that
it’s eliminating 1,600 positions, and Goldman Sachs said in July
it would cut  headcount (GS)  by about 1,000. Staffing at U.S. and
European investment banks could fall 5 percent to 10 percent by
the second half of 2012, Abouhossein wrote.  “The response of the banks to the lower revenue
environment has been less robust than we would have hoped to
date,” Swaffield wrote. “So far in 2011, headcount is down to
a limited extent versus 2007 pre-crisis, yet revenues are down
on average by a third.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  