-- ETF Trades Increasingly Affect Stock Prices
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-01-06T20:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/goldman-sachs-sees-correlation-boost-from-etfs-tracking-sectors.html
Stock prices are being increasingly
influenced by the trading of exchange-traded funds, with real
estate investment trusts as well as energy and consumer
companies most affected, according to a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
study.  REITs and energy companies accounted for eight of the top
10 firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index whose trading volume
was most driven by trading in ETFs, Robert D. Boroujerdi, a
Goldman Sachs analyst, and three colleagues wrote in a paper
released today. Consumer retailers accounted for the five most
affected companies in the Russell 2000 Index, which tracks
small-capitalization stocks.  ETFs have come under increased scrutiny in the past two
years over whether their trading has increased market volatility
and correlation between individual stocks. The growing impact of
ETF trading on the price movements of individual stocks has
discouraged some companies from publicly listing, according to
 Harold Bradley , chief investment officer at the nonprofit Ewing
Marion Kauffman Foundation, who testified in October before a
Senate subcommittee examining the impact of the products.  The Goldman Sachs analysis is aimed at showing investment
managers “which sectors are most conducive to single-stock
selection and which are more macro bets,” Boroujerdi, the New
York firm’s co-director of Americas equity research, said in an
e-mail.  ETF Assets Soar  ETFs, including exchange-traded notes and trusts, held
$1.54 trillion in assets worldwide at the end of November,
according to data compiled by New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Correlation between the share prices of companies within
the same industry groups has increased as ETF assets and trading
volume have soared, the study said. Higher correlations indicate
that stock prices are rising or falling in tandem.  Global ETF assets rose 70 percent from the end of 2007
through November 2011, faster than mutual fund assets, which are
roughly in line with their 2007 levels, Goldman Sachs said,
citing data from the  Investment Company Institute  and BlackRock.
While equity ETFs have less than 10 percent of assets held by
their mutual-fund counterparts, they account for 25 percent to
30 percent of total equity dollar trading volume. That volume is
up from 10 percent to 15 percent in 2004, according to the
study.  Sector ETFs  ETF investors tend to concentrate their industry-focused
bets in relatively few products, according to the study. The 20
most heavily traded ETFs that invest in a specific industry
accounted for 85 percent of the total average daily value traded
among all U.S.-listed sector ETFs with assets of at least $100
million, Goldman Sachs said, citing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies included in three of the four most actively
traded industry ETFs showed a higher correlation at the end of
2011 than during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, the
study said.  The report examines the relationship between ETFs and
correlation on an industry group level “and there is an
impact,” Boroujerdi said in the e-mail.  Stage Stores, FMC  The Goldman Sachs analysts also estimated the impact of
ETFs on the trading volume of individual stocks. Smaller
companies were more affected. Among Russell 2000 companies,
three had more than 60 percent of their volume driven by ETF
trading, led by Houston-based retailer  Stage Stores Inc. (SSI)  at 66
percent.  Among S&P 500 companies, Houston-based  FMC Technologies
Inc. (FTI) , an offshore-drilling technology firm, topped the list with
an estimated 23 percent of volume driven by ETF trades.  The study didn’t examine the impact from trading in
leveraged ETFs, which make use of derivatives to amplify their
bets, or those that are predominantly based in swaps, futures or
other non-single equity securities.  Almost all ETFs invest shareholder money in a basket of
stocks, bonds or commodities that tracks the performance of an
index. Unlike mutual funds, their shares trade throughout the
day on an exchange like stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  