-- Gross Says U.S. Labor Market Faces Tough Slog: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-06T15:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/gross-says-u-s-employment-market-faces-tough-slog-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said a strengthening U.S. employment market still
faces a “tough slog” even after a government reports showed
that more jobs than forecast were added last month.  The U.S. is benefitting from a weaker  dollar, (DXY)  the  Federal
Reserve ’s accommodative monetary policy and relatively less
fiscal drag compared with other countries, yet the economy still
faces challenges, Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  U.S. employers added more workers than forecast in December
and the jobless rate declined to an almost three-year low. The
200,000 increase last month followed a revised 100,000 gain in
November that was smaller than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed in  Washington . The median projection
in a Bloomberg News survey called for a December gain of
155,000. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.5 percent,
the lowest since February 2009.  Employment has been “on an uptrend as opposed to static
and negative, and we should applaud that,” Gross said.
Improvement will remain slow as “employment on a secular basis
is really a function these days of globalization, technology as
well as demographics. Technology destroys jobs and globalization
continues to send them to  China  for cheap labor.”  Revised Outlook  Earlier this week, Gross backed away from Pimco’s “new
normal” outlook after lagging behind the majority of his peers
during the biggest bond-market rally in nine years. The period
of muted growth in developed economies, high unemployment and
“relatively orderly” deleveraging that Mohamed El-Erian, who
shares the title of chief investment officer with Gross, coined
in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis is morphing into a
world of credit and zero-bound interest-rate risk, Gross wrote
in his monthly investment  commentary  released two days ago.  “There is potential for a paranormal, a bi-model world”
Gross said today, referring statistical models that signal about
equal probability of different outcomes. The two worlds are ones
“of deflation and one of re-flation.”  Pimco advised investors to buy  U.S. Treasuries , long-term
inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , “high-quality” corporates, senior
bank debt and municipal securities. The recommendations are a
departure from Gross’s call last year, when he advised buying
emerging-market debt and cautioned investors to stay away from
the U.S., noting that growth would be higher in developing
economies, while excessive borrowing would lead to inflation.  ‘Fat-Tailed World’  Gross eliminated his holdings of Treasuries in February and
had a net bet against the securities in the $244 billion Total
Return Fund, missing the biggest rally in Treasuries since 2008.
Gross issued a “ Mea Culpa ” to investors in October and boosted
the debt to 23 percent of the portfolio by the end of November.  “We are looking at either higher inflation or a declining
rate of inflation that promotes debt deflation,” Gross said.
“It’s a fat-tailed world. Bond investors have to prepare for
that. You buy Treasuries in a safe-haven world.”  Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, while Gross’s
Total Return Fund gained 4.2 percent, underperforming about 70
percent of its rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bonds worldwide returned 5.9 percent last year, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. That
was the biggest increase since a gain of 8.9 percent in 2002.  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had $5 billion in client
redemptions last year, its first year of withdrawals in records
going back to 1993, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , a Chicago-
based research firm. Overall, Pimco had $60 billion in net
deposits last year as investors put money into stock funds and
products designed to weather falling markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  