-- Thierry Henry Completes Arsenal Loan Move, May Play Cup Match With Leeds
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-06T12:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/thierry-henry-completes-arsenal-loan-move-may-play-cup-match-with-leeds.html
Thierry Henry , Arsenal’s record
goalscorer, will return to the English team on a two-month loan
from  Major League Soccer ’s New York Red Bulls.  Henry, who scored 226 goals for the north  London  team
before leaving for Barcelona in 2007, agreed last week to a two-
month loan stint. The deal had been held up over negotiations of
an insurance package.  “I am very happy,” manager  Arsene Wenger  said on
Arsenal’s website. “We will have Thierry for January and in
February. I am sure during these two months he will be a massive
asset to the team in the dressing room and on the pitch.”  Henry, 34, will be available when Arsenal hosts Leeds in
the third round of the F.A. Cup in three days. He’ll provide the
club with coverage up front for strikers Gervinho and Marouane
Chamakh, who will leave for the African Cup of Nations this
month.  “It is unreal to be honest,” Henry said. “But when it
comes to Arsenal my heart will always do the talking. Once I
knew the plan behind it, I was OK with it.”  Henry, who helped the team win two league championships,
started working out with the club after the MLS season ended in
November. He’ll return to the Red Bulls in March for the start
of the U.S. season.  “I am not coming here to be a hero or prove anything,”
said Henry, who recently was honored with a statue outside the
Emirates Stadium. “I am just coming here to help.”  Since Henry’s departure from Arsenal, the top striker’s
role has been taken on by captain  Robin van Persie . The
Netherlands national team player leads the Premier League with
17 goals this season and scored 35 during the 2011 calendar
year, one off the league mark set by Alan Shearer in 1995.  Henry was third in MLS with 16 goals last season. He joined
the Red Bulls in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 