-- Time Warner, KKR, TPG Said to Be in Talks to Buy Calik Media
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-01-06T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/time-warner-kkr-tpg-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-media-assets-from-calik.html
TPG Capital,  KKR & Co LP (KKR)  and  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX)  are in talks to buy media assets from Turkey’s Calik
Holding AS, which include Sabah newspaper and ATV television,
four people familiar with the situation said.  Calik Holding, the Istanbul-based group with interests in
energy, construction, finance and telecommunications, hired
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to advise on the sale, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Calik  Holding , with  sales  of $2 billion in 2010, paid the
government $1.25 billion for Turkey’s second-biggest media group
after winning loans from state-run banks and its Qatari partner
in 2008. The company is managed by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak.  Calik bought Sabah and ATV when the assets were put up for
sale after they were seized by Turkish regulators from a
previous owner. Calik was the only bidder in the auction for
Sabah and ATV after RTL Group SA,  Europe ’s biggest broadcaster,
had abandoned plans to submit a joint bid with two Turkish
partners. Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. also pulled out.  Gavin Davis, a spokesman for TPG at public relations agency
Pelham Bell Pottinger, said TPG declined to comment. Serhat
Albayrak, deputy chairman at Turkuvaz Media Group, Calik
Holding’s unit that owns Sabah newspaper and ATV channels,
didn’t reply to e-mailed questions from Bloomberg seeking
comment. “KKR does not comment on market speculation,” Edward
Simpkins, a spokesman for KKR at public relations company
Finsbury Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed statement. Time
Warner’s chief in Turkey, Efe Onbilgin, didn’t respond to calls
to his cell phone seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  