-- Indian Rupee Completes First Weekly Gain in a Month on Inflows
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-01-06T12:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/indian-rupee-completes-first-weekly-gain-in-a-month-on-inflows.html
India ’s rupee completed its first
weekly gain in a month on speculation foreign funds will step up
purchases of the nation’s assets after the central bank signaled
it may cut borrowing costs.  The currency was also boosted as the  Reserve Bank  of India
eased rules for companies to borrow from abroad, according to a
statement on the monetary authority’s website yesterday. Foreign
funds boosted holdings of Indian shares by $102 million this
week through Jan. 4, exchange data show, after the government
allowed overseas individual investors to directly buy local
equities. RBI Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  reiterated yesterday
that India’s cycle of monetary tightening has “peaked” and a
reversal will depend on inflation and economic growth.  “All these positive developments will have a stabilizing
effect on the rupee,” analysts at Morgan Stanley, including
Hong Kong-based Stewart Newnham, wrote in a report published
yesterday. That said, downside risks “have not been totally
extinguished,” according to the report.  The rupee gained 0.7 percent this week to 52.7225 per
dollar in Mumbai, boosted by a 0.5 percent advance today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency tumbled 16
percent last year, more than triple the loss in the next worst
performer among  Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies, and reached a
record low of 54.3050 on Dec. 15. Morgan Stanley predicts the
rupee will reach 54.80 by mid-2012.  The central bank is “very concerned” about the impact of
the rupee’s depreciation on inflation, Gokarn said at a
conference in  Singapore  yesterday. Increases in India’s living
costs averaged 9.6 percent in the first 11 months of last year,
government data show.  Three-month offshore forwards for the rupee traded at 53.71
to the dollar, compared with 53.92 yesterday. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 