-- Indiana Republicans Pick Union Fight Where Michigan’s Snyder Doesn’t Dare
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-06T18:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/indiana-republicans-pick-union-fight-where-michigan-s-snyder-doesn-t-dare.html
The fight is on in  Indiana (STOIN1)  over
another Republican attempt to weaken unions amid signs that the
party’s appetite for war with organized labor isn’t matched in
other states.  In Wisconsin, Governor  Scott Walker  faces an ouster
campaign after pushing restrictions last year on government
workers’ collective bargaining. Ohio voters repudiated Governor
 John Kasich ’s similar curbs on labor in November.  So as Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  and Republican
lawmakers try to prohibit mandatory union dues in private
workplaces, others keep their distance in an election year.  “I don’t think it’s an appropriate subject for us to be
dealing with today,”  Michigan (STOMI1) ’s Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
said in a Dec. 12 interview on Detroit radio station WJR.  Snyder, who said in 2010 that he would sign so-called
right-to-work legislation, now calls such efforts “divisive.”  The battle in Indiana this week resembles last year’s
fractious session. House of Representatives Democrats, who
oppose the right-to-work bill, spent the session’s first two
days in caucus, effectively preventing the chamber from
conducting business. Last year, they fled the state to block
labor-law changes.  ‘Mean Spirited’  “Right to work will only enforce Indiana’s negative image
as a mean-spirited, backward state,” Morton Marcus, an
economist and former director of the Indiana Business Research
Center, testified today before a committee considering the bill.  Keith Busse, former chief executive officer of  Steel
Dynamics Inc. (STLD) , a steelmaker in  Fort Wayne , told the committee 
that right-to-work “would be a jobs boon.”  With Indianapolis hosting the  Super Bowl  on Feb. 5, the NFL
Players Association issued a news release that called the bill
“a political ploy designed to destroy basic workers’ rights.”  Union  membership  in the U.S. has been declining for
decades. In 2010, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics,
the percentage of unionized workers was 11.9 percent. That’s
down from 20.1 percent in 1983. In Indiana, 10.9 percent of
workers are organized, according to the agency.  Walker’s move last year restricting collective-bargaining
rights for most public-employee unions triggered weeks of
protests in Madison,  Wisconsin ’s capital, and led to recalls of
two Republican state senators. Union members are helping the
drive that has collected more than a half-million signatures
seeking the governor’s ouster.  Walker’s Misstep  Walker, who was in  Washington  yesterday speaking to the
 American Enterprise Institute  and raising money to oppose the
recall campaign, said he miscalculated how successful unions
would be in framing the debate.  “Labor unions can unite and be very effective when they
see their fundamental interests threatened,” said John C. Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron in Ohio.
“And there’s a real risk of provoking them in an election year
because of their capacity to mobilize voters.”  Issues that anger voters may raise turnout and influence
other statewide races, Green said. That is especially important
in Midwest battleground states that have decided presidential
elections, he said.  ‘Heavy Lift’  In  Ohio , a ballot-proposal effort has begun to make it a
right-to-work state.  “It’s a heavy lift right now,” said Chris Littleton, a
member of the committee called Ohioans for Workplace Freedom
that is organizing the drive. “For some it is a political hot
button and a no-no.”  Ohio is important for Democratic President  Barack Obama ,
who won it in 2008. Republicans are concentrating on defeating
Obama and Democratic U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown in November and
a right-to-work fight might be a costly distraction, Green said.
Kasich’s approval rating dropped to 36 percent after the union
fight, according to an October poll by  Quinnipiac University  of
Hamden,  Connecticut .  In  Michigan , considered the birthplace of U.S. organized
labor, Republican state Representative Mike Shirkey said he is
confident the House will pass a right-to-work bill over Snyder’s
objections.  “I talked with the governor,” Shirkey said in a telephone
interview. “He says there’s a time and a place for everything.
Well, this is the time and this is the place.”  “Sometimes it’s necessary to do things recognizing there
will be unintended consequences that may be uncomfortable,”
Shirkey said.  Hunting Work  Indiana  Republican House Speaker Brian Bosma said he would
ignore any pressure to back off from national party leaders
eager to recapture the state that Obama won four years ago.  “We’re not worried about the next election,” Bosma said
in a telephone interview. “We’re worried about jobs here.”  Although 22 states have enacted the ban, none have in the
industrial Midwest, according to the National Right-to-Work
Legal Defense Foundation Inc., based in Springfield, Virginia.  Oklahoma (STOOK1)  was the last state to enact a right-to-work law,
in 2001. Democrats say the measures lower paychecks for working
families.  The average worker in a right-to-work state is paid $30,167
a year, or about $5,333 less than workers in states that don’t
have the rule, according to U.S. Labor Department data.  The measure in Indiana, which already prohibits collective
bargaining by state workers, extends the attacks on public-
employee unions last year to private business.  In Wisconsin, public and private sector unions worked
together last year in the face of a common threat, said  Charles Franklin , a political scientist at the  University of Wisconsin 
in Madison.  “All of this blew up,” Franklin said in an interview.
“Wisconsin and Ohio demonstrate that you’re opening the door to
a costly and prolonged political battle. You may win in the end,
you may lose in the end, but it will surely be costly to both
sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  