-- IRS: Americans Underpaid Taxes by $385B in 2006
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-06T21:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/irs-says-u-s-tax-compliance-gap-reached-385-billion-in-2006.html
The  Internal Revenue Service 
 estimates  that U.S. companies and individuals failed to pay $385
billion in taxes they owed in 2006, an increase from $290
billion five years earlier.  The agency said the rate of compliance remained almost
unchanged at 85.5 percent, down slightly from 86.3 percent in
2001. The IRS announcement today is the first update to the so-
called tax gap estimate in five years. The gap grew because the
income base expanded between 2001 and 2006, the agency said.  The U.S. recorded a $248.2 billion budget  deficit (EHBBUS)  in 2006,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget. If
the IRS had collected all of the taxes owed that year, the U.S.
could have had a surplus of as much as $136.8 billion.  “This report shows that closing the tax gap needs to be a
major focus of  tax reform ,” Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said in a statement. “In an era
when we’re squeezing the federal budget for every dollar of
savings, we have to make every effort to recover these lost
funds.”  The estimate is a comprehensive measure of the taxes the
U.S. is owed and includes income taxes, the estate tax,
employment and excise taxes.  Better Estimates  The IRS uses computer models to estimate the amount owed by
individuals and businesses that don’t pay their taxes or don’t
pay their full tax bill. The agency said it is getting better at
estimating the tax gap in part because of better data on small
corporations.  The biggest chunk of money that goes uncollected -- $235
billion -- comes from individuals, the IRS said. Of that, $122
billion is estimated to be taxes owed on business income that
would be reported on an individual return.  The IRS estimated that $67 billion in corporate income tax
wasn’t collected in 2006. Most of that -- $48 billion -- was
from large corporations with more than $10 million in assets,
the agency said.  The IRS said compliance is highest in sectors where
information reporting or withholding are required. Business
groups have successfully fought these types of regulations.  Rule Repeal  Congress repealed a rule in November that required
governments to withhold 3 percent of payments to contractors.
Lawmakers also scrapped a provision of the 2010 health-care law
that sought to curb underreporting of income by compelling
businesses to report more transactions to the IRS.  Meanwhile, the IRS is delaying a law that mandates overseas
banks to withhold from some U.S. customers and a separate law
requiring companies that process and settle credit-card
transactions to report payment amounts to the U.S.  Lawmakers and regulators should be cautious in rolling back
other reporting or withholding requirements, said Elizabeth
Dold, a principal at Groom Law Group Chartered in  Washington  who
led the IRS’s information-reporting advisory committee last
year.  “Reporting and withholding are two very critical tools to
close the tax gap,” she said. “They should be used
carefully.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  