-- Mishkin’s Mixes Jewish Cuisine, Pork, Guantanamo: London Dining
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/mishkin-s-mixes-jewish-cuisine-pork-guantanamo-london-dining.html
A Jewish deli with pork sausages?  It’s not difficult to see why Mishkin’s has some diners a
tad confused and others irritated: This restaurant in London’s
Covent Garden isn’t what it seems and certainly isn’t kosher.  It’s a homage to a New York style of venue rather than to
the dietary laws of  kashrut . The man behind it,  Russell Norman ,
specializes in this sort of thing with Lower East Side-type
London establishments Polpo, Polpetto, Da Polpo and Spuntino.  The cuisines vary yet much of the rest is constant: low
prices, high customer turnover, staffers picked for enthusiasm
and cool looks rather than experience, and obsessive attention
to detail manifested everywhere from the coat hooks through the
wobbly furniture to the tumblers in which wine is served.  For Norman and his business partner Richard Beatty,
Mishkin’s is the fifth such restaurant in just over two years.
That’s a fast pace and somewhere along the line -- with Da
Polpo, to be precise -- I wondered if the virtue of consistency
wasn’t flirting too much with the vice of repetition.  Norman, 46, has spent his life in hospitality -- starting
as a waiter at Joe Allen’s and progressing to operations
director at Caprice Holdings Ltd. -- and the ideas keep flowing.
So now we have Mishkin’s, where the menu features Jewish-
influenced dishes such as latkes, smoked eel, apple sauce & sour
cream; and Whitefish & spinach knish with parsley liquor.  BBC Booth  The basic look is similar to the other outlets, yet with
nice individual touches such as the polished steel bar and
 London ’s smallest private dining room: It’s a table housed
within a former sound booth from the British Broadcasting Corp.,
with an “On Air” light you can switch on for service. It’s
like an airline call button. Maybe the waitresses should wear
uniforms.  The chopped chicken liver (with schmaltzed radish) that
made its excellent debut at Polpo is there, along with new
options such as Brick Lane Salt beef with Colman’s mustard &
pickles, served with or without fat. (I was force-fed corned
beef at school and can’t bear the stuff.)  The all-pork  Big Apple hot dog  was devoured by a guest of
mine who enjoys such things. The meatballs come in three
varieties -- lamb & pistachio; ground beef & peppercorns;
chickpea, spinach & ricotta -- and you can try them all for 6
pounds ($9.35). Norman’s excellent macaroni and cheese (from
Spuntino) is there. The cod-cheek popcorn needs a sauce. The
fries and the onion rings are good. The meat loaf comes with an
egg concealed inside. It’s a surprise, unless you have read
this. The malted milkshakes are alone worth a visit.  You may have gathered that the food is far from gourmet. So
are the prices. No individual dish on the menu is more than 10
pounds and most of the desserts are 5 pounds. I’d like to see
more choice of wines -- there’s little here I would opt to drink
-- and in the democratic spirit of sharing, I wish the only
Champagne weren’t Jacquesson at 60 pounds.  A warning for potential diners who are no longer teenagers:
Mid-evening, they turn down the lights and turn up the volume.
It’s disorienting: You can’t read the menu or hear yourself.
It’s Guantanamo Bay hospitality.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 25 pounds a head plus drinks.  Sound level? Starts at 70 decibels and rises rapidly.  Inside tip? People think you can’t book: You can.  Special feature? The sound booth.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes, especially the private room.  Rating? **½.  Mishkin’s, 25 Catherine Street, Covent Garden, London, WC2B
5JS. Information: +44-20-7240-2078 or
 http://www.mishkins.co.uk/ .  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 