-- Italy Last Among Libya Friends for Potential Oil Concessions
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-01-06T14:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/italy-last-among-libya-s-friends-for-potential-oil-concessions.html
Libya’s new leaders will remember who
provided the most help in overthrowing  Muammar Qaddafi , when it
comes to new oil concessions.  Italy , the biggest investor in the
country, may find itself at a disadvantage.  Libya has the world’s ninth-largest proven reserves of oil,
estimated at more than 46 billion barrels, according to the
Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook. Much of the oil is
prized for being low-sulfur.  France  and the U.S. haven’t come across as “someone who is
basically grabbing” and are “playing it right,” former Libyan
Oil Minister Ali Tarhouni, who quit shortly after the capture
and death of Qaddafi, said in an interview yesterday in
Washington. Italy “will take time to figure it out.”  At stake is Italy’s position as the top energy investor in
Libya, where its closest rivals are  Total SA (FP)  of France, which
was the first country to recognize the Libyan opposition, and
 Russia ’s  Gazprom OAO. (GAZP)  The U.S. and the U.K. joined France in
leading efforts to win United Nations approval for air strikes
against Qaddafi’s forces.  “We are indebted to the French, and I cannot find the
right words to say it,” Tarhouni said, listing Libya’s
“friends” in the following order: France, the U.S., Britain
and Italy. “If everything else is the same, of course we will
remember our friends.”  Eni, Exxon, BP  Italy’s Eni has been working in the former Italian colony
since 1959 and generated 13 percent of its revenue there before
the conflict. Before the war broke out in February,  Eni (ENI) ’s Libyan
oil and natural gas volumes were an estimated 280,000 barrels a
day, while Total produced 55,000 barrels a day.  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  also operate in the North African country.  Crude for February delivery was at $102.60, up 79 cents, at
8:46 a.m. in  New York . Yesterday, the contract fell $1.41 to
$101.81, the lowest settlement this week. Prices gained 8.2
percent in 2011.  No new concessions will be given until after elections
scheduled for June, Tarhouni said.  Oil production today is already more than 1 million barrels
a day, and by June it will be just 200,000 barrels short of the
1.6 million barrels the North African country was pumping before
the armed uprising, according to Tarhouni.  “These  oil fields  weren’t in as bad shape as we thought,”
he said. “The damage was less than 10 percent and tended to be
localized. That made a big difference.”  Starting ‘From Nothing’  Restoring oil production was the easy part. Shaking off the
legacy of a four-decade dictatorship and carving a democratic
state out of a country devoid of political parties or even a
constitution has been far more problematic, Tarhouni said.  “We are literally starting things from nothing,” he said.
“Building a political party? We don’t even know how to do that.
The process requires tools, and we don’t have them.”  He said he declined a Cabinet post because he thought he
could “do a better job outside the government” to help build
what he calls a “ Libya  coalition” that can attract moderate
Muslims. He explained that in Libya a secular government,
understood in the west to mean the separation of church and
state, is impossible.  “That will never happen” in this region, he said. “We
are looking at a different model.”  The National Transitional Council has made clear that the
backbone of the new constitution will be Islamic law, though how
it will be interpreted is unclear.  Exclusion of Women  One of the main flaws in the transition from revolution to
democracy has been the potential exclusion of women, who played
an instrumental role in the overthrow of Qaddafi. Over the
eight-month conflict, women nursed the wounded, cooked meals,
raised money for weapons and, in some cases, even took up arms.  Still, though half of Libya’s 5.5 million people are women,
they may be limited to 20 seats in a 200-member constituent
assembly to be elected in six months.  Tarhouni acknowledged that such a low representation isn’t
acceptable in a country where women are highly educated and
there are “more women physicians than there are men.” While
they enjoy more privileges than women in  Saudi Arabia , who are
forbidden from driving, he said they are still far from gaining
equal rights with men.  Libya also has economic difficulties.  At least a quarter of the population is unemployed, and
those who work earn a “meager” salary of $200 a month,
according to Tarhouni. Although Libya has the potential to be
“tremendously wealthy,” the government is still in dire need
of the money, he said.  Since Qaddafi’s demise, the new leadership has recovered
only a fraction of the estimated $168 billion in assets abroad
that were frozen in March by the  UN Security Council .  Even as the U.S., U.K. and  Europe  have taken steps to
release $18 billion held in their banks, legal hurdles have
meant that only about $3 billion has reached Tripoli. To free up
cash, Libya’s central bank and its overseas subsidiary were
taken off the UN sanctions list on Dec. 16.  -- With assistance from Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome . Editors:
John Walcott, Jim Rubin, Heather Langan, Ben Holland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net . 