-- Italy in Ohio So Cheap Bravo Brio Proves Takeover Bait: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-06T21:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/italy-in-ohio-so-cheap-bravo-brio-eatery-becomes-takeover-target-real-m-a.html
To get one of the best deals in the
restaurant industry, potential acquirers can look to a chain of
Italian eateries in  Ohio .  Bravo Brio Restaurant Group Inc. (BBRG) , which lost more than a
third of its market value since reaching a high six months ago,
yesterday traded at 14.7 times  free cash flow (BBRG) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest among comparable
companies from  BJ’s Restaurants Inc. (BJRI)  to  Texas Roadhouse Inc. (TXRH)  and
less than half the median restaurant, the data show.  Bravo Brio, which has more than 90 locations in Ohio and 29
other states, may now attract interest from  Darden Restaurants
Inc. (DRI) , owner of  Olive Garden (BRI)  and Red Lobster, with its Brio
Tuscan Grille chain of upscale Italian eateries, according to
Miller Tabak & Co. Brinker International Inc. would also make
sense as a buyer, B. Riley & Co. said. With Bravo Brio offering
more long-term earnings growth at a  cheaper price (BBRG)  than all its
competitors, the company may command a 50 percent premium in a
takeover, according to Fifth Third Asset Management.  “This is a company that clearly has some runway of growth
in front of it,” Destin Tompkins, a Nashville, Tennessee-based
analyst at Morgan Keegan & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“It becomes potentially an acquisition target.”  Ashley Swenson, a spokeswoman for Columbus, Ohio-based
Bravo Brio, said it isn’t considering selling itself and hasn’t
been approached about a deal by either Darden or  Brinker. (EAT)   Bravo Brio Chief Executive Officer Saed Mohseni is “very
confident that as a standalone company we can continue to
grow,” Swenson said via telephone.  Today’s Trading  Rich Jeffers, a spokesman for  Orlando , Florida-based
Darden, and Maureen Locus of Dallas-based Brinker said their
companies don’t comment on takeover speculation.  Bravo Brio shares climbed 2.5 percent to $16.48 today in
New York, the  third-biggest gain (RGUSDSRT)  in the Russell 2000 Restaurants
Index of 28 companies.  Founded in 1992, Bravo Brio has 47  Bravo! Cucina Italiana 
restaurants that focus on casual dining with chefs that cook
pizza, pasta and steak in view of its patrons, its website said.
The company also operates 37 Brio Tuscan Grille eateries.  After raising $161 million in its October 2010 initial
public offering, shares of Bravo Brio surged 78 percent to
$24.96 a share on June 28. The stock then  retreated (BBRG)  as much as
42 percent on concern a deteriorating U.S. economic recovery
would curb demand for higher-end restaurants, according to
Stephen Anderson, a New York-based analyst at  Miller Tabak .  Relative Value  Bravo Brio ended at $16.08 a share yesterday, or about 14.7
times its  cash from operations (BBRG)  of $1.09 a share, after deducting
capital expenses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The median multiple for comparable “high-growth”
restaurants cited by Miller Tabak stood at 37.7 times free cash,
while Louisville, Kentucky-based Texas Roadhouse, the second-
cheapest eatery in the group, traded at 17.8 times.  Bravo Brio’s so-called PEG ratio, which compares a
company’s price-earnings ratio with its projected profit growth,
also shrank to 0.94, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That means
among its competitors, Bravo Brio offers buyers the greatest
potential earnings power at the lowest relative price.  Darden could use Bravo Brio to help counter a decline in
revenue at  Olive Garden , where same-store sales in November fell
by the most in almost two years, according to Miller Tabak’s
Anderson. Bravo Brio, which is opening more upscale restaurants
nationwide, could also boost Darden’s growth, he said.  Meal Prices  The average check at Brio Tuscan Grille was about $25 per
person, almost 60 percent higher than Olive Garden, which
 charged (CRI)  about $16 per guest, according to  company filings (BBRG) .  Darden as an acquirer “makes complete sense,” said Conrad Lyon, a Los Angeles-based analyst at B. Riley.  Bravo Brio “matches well with the likes of a Darden,” he
said. “It would assimilate well given the Italian concept --
that’s what they know with Olive Garden -- and with a
theoretically newer, more upscale brand.”  Brinker, with more than 1,500 restaurants in 32 countries,
may also be interested in bolstering its  Maggiano’s Little Italy 
chain by picking up Bravo Brio, according to B. Riley’s Lyon.  Analysts estimate that sales at Bravo Brio will increase 14
percent this year, versus a 2 percent increase for Brinker, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They’re very definitely poised to grow,” George Henning,
president and chairman of Pacific Global Investment Management
Co. in Glendale,  California , which manages about $450 million
and holds about 400,000 shares of Bravo Brio, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s definitely a chain that will get
close scrutiny” from potential acquirers, he said.  ‘Very Much Undervalued’  On its own, analysts estimate that Bravo Brio is worth
about $24.83 a share, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s 54
percent more than its closing price yesterday.  Scott Billeadeau, who helps oversee about $17 billion at
Fifth Third in  Minneapolis  and is considering buying shares of
Bravo Brio, says any potential acquirer would have to willing to
pay at least $25 a share to convince the board to sell.  Bravo Brio is “very much undervalued,” said Miller
Tabak’s Anderson. “At this kind of valuation, I wouldn’t be
surprised if it were a strategic acquisition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 