-- Japan to Express Concerns to U.S. Over Possible Iranian Oil Ban
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-01-06T08:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/japan-to-express-concerns-to-u-s-over-possible-iranian-oil-ban.html
Japan  plans to express its concerns
about a possible embargo on  Iranian crude oil (JPCIIRAN)  to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  when he visits Tokyo next week, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said.  Foreign Minister Koichi Gemba “expressed our concerns to
the U.S. government in December, including our worries about the
impact of a possible import ban on the Japanese and global
economy,” Fujimura told reporters in Tokyo today. “We are
maintaining that position.”  Japan, which imports almost all of its energy supplies, is
the world’s second-biggest buyer of Iranian crude after  China .
The threat of sanctions and an Iranian demand that U.S. warships
stay out of the Persian Gulf have stirred new tensions
between  Iran  and the West, contributing to higher energy prices.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. (5020) , Japan’s biggest refiner, said
yesterday it’s in talks with  Saudi Arabia  to replace crude
shipments in the event of an embargo on Iran.  Gemba yesterday left Japan to visit Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
the United Arab Emirates and Turkey for discussions on
strengthening relations with countries that are of “vital
importance” to Japan’s energy security, Fujimura said.  U.S. and European governments are seeking help from Asian
allies including Japan to reduce oil revenues for Iran, which
they say is trying to develop nuclear weapons, a claim the
Iranian government denies.  European foreign ministers plan to announce more sanctions
on Iran’s energy and banking industries at a meeting on Jan. 30
after  Greece  ended its objections to an oil embargo.  U.S. Talks  Japan is in talks with the U.S. about how to respond to
measures against Iran signed into law by President Barack Obama
on Dec. 31, trade and industry minister Yukio Edano told
reporters today.  “We are having discussions with the U.S. taking into
considerations the international community’s stance on the
nuclear issue,” he said. “We are trying our best to minimize
the impact on our economy as well as the global economy.”  Obama’s measures deny access to the U.S. financial system
for any overseas bank that conducts business with the Central
Bank of Iran. The law includes language that allows the
president to waive the sanctions if he determines they would
threaten national security.  Geithner will travel to  Tokyo  and Beijing next week for
talks that will include discussions on the standoff with Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  