-- Japan Likely Relapsed Into Contraction in Fourth Quarter of 2011: Economy
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-01-06T04:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/japan-relapse-to-contraction-seen-as-reconstruction-insufficient-economy.html
Japan ’s rebound from the aftermath of
a record earthquake was probably cut short in the fourth quarter
as the impact of Europe’s crisis outweighed the support from
reconstruction spending.  Gross domestic product (JGDPAGDP)  probably shrank in October and
November, pointing to a 0.1 percent contraction for the quarter,
according to calculations by the Japan Center for  Economic
Research , an independent analysis group in Tokyo. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. is among banks cutting projections for GDP in the period.  “It was a very tough quarter for the Japanese economy,”
said Yuki Masujima, a senior economist at JCER who used to
compile economic forecasts at the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  “The biggest
risk this year is the double-hit from the European crisis --
first from the strong yen that will make it harder for exporters
to sell their products, then from the drop in real demand.”  A third contraction in four quarters would widen Japan’s
gap with  China , which overtook it as the world’s second-largest
economy in 2010, and undermine a global recovery clouded by
Europe’s failure to contain the debt crisis. It also risks
deepening public opposition to Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
plan, approved by the cabinet today, to double the nation’s 5
percent sales tax by 2015. Lawmakers from the opposition, along
with some ruling-party members, have said a higher levy would
undermine Japan’s fight against more than a decade of deflation.  Production, Exports  Fourth-quarter GDP data are scheduled for release Feb. 13
by the Cabinet Office. Key economic indicators for December are
due late this month. In November, industrial output slid 2.6
percent and exports tumbled 4.5 percent, missing economists’
forecasts and signaling weakness in an export-driven economy
that’s failed to contribute to global growth.  The world’s third-largest economy shrank 0.3 percent in
October and 0.5 percent in November, according to estimates made
by JCER, which tracks GDP on a monthly basis. JPMorgan yesterday
lowered its forecast to an annualized 0.6 percent contraction
for the fourth quarter, compared with a previous estimate of 0.5
percent growth. It also said GDP will rise 1.3 percent this year,
less than an earlier projection of 1.9 percent. GDP jumped at an
annualized 5.6 percent in the three months through September.  Exacerbating the drop in overseas demand is a strengthening
in the yen, which reached an 11-year high of 98.48 per euro
yesterday and a post-war record of 75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31.
Japanese authorities intervened in the foreign-exchange market
at least three times last year to keep the currency’s gains from
hobbling the post-disaster recovery. The yen traded at 77.19
against the dollar at 1:44 p.m. and 98.67 against the euro in
 Tokyo  today.  ‘Big Impact’  “The weakening euro has had a big impact on Japan,
especially on the industries exporting to Europe,” Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today in Tokyo. “I’d like
this situation to be resolved as soon as possible.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 1.2 percent to 114.09
after a French bond auction stoked concern Europe’s debt crisis
is deepening.  In Europe, reports may show consumer prices in  Switzerland 
fell 0.1 last month from November, German factory orders sank
1.8 percent in November from a month earlier and  Norway ’s
manufacturing production dropped 0.1 percent in November from
the prior month, according to the median forecasts of economists
surveyed.  Other reports may indicate  consumer confidence  across the
euro area deteriorated in December, while region-wide retail
sales may have slumped 0.4 percent in November from the prior
month, according to the median estimates of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Jobs  In the U.S., the Labor Department is scheduled to release
its monthly employment report, which economists surveyed expect
will show an increase in non-farm payrolls last month of 155,000
jobs from a 120,000 gain the previous month. The nation’s
unemployment rate is forecast at 8.7 percent.  Europe’s slump is beginning to damp domestic demand in
Japan, with sentiment among small merchants and consumers
worsening in the most recent surveys. Private-sector economists
surveyed by the Cabinet Office between Nov. 24 and Dec. 1 cut
their forecasts for fourth quarter annualized growth to 0.7
percent expansion from the 2.1 percent forecast they made a
month earlier.  That doesn’t bode well for Noda’s plan to raise the 5
percent sales tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and to 10 percent
in October 2015. The blueprint -- based on the ruling party’s
recommendations published last month -- stipulates that a
variety of economic indicators should be examined before the
government actually raises the levy.  JCER’s Masujima said the economy will begin to pick up
“gradually” starting in this quarter as more of the 20
trillion yen ($259 billion) in reconstruction money is deployed
to the disaster-stricken northeast.  “It will be a tug of war between the reconstruction demand
and further drops in overseas demand,” said Masujima. “It all
depends on how the situation in  Europe  evolves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  