-- Jefferson County Judge Limits Authority of Sewer Receiver
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r t i n   B r a u n
-- 2012-01-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/jefferson-county-bankruptcy-judge-limits-power-of-sewer-system-s-receiver.html
The bankruptcy of Jefferson County,
 Alabama , imposes limits on the power of the receiver who runs
the county’s insolvent sewer system on behalf of bondholders
owed more than $3 billion, a judge ruled.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham ruled
yesterday that when the county filed its Chapter 9 case, the
state court that appointed the receiver lost its authority over
the sewer system. Bondholders, the bonds’ insurers and the
receiver, John S. Young Jr., wanted the same judge who stripped
the county of the sewer system in 2010 to have final approval
over rate increases.  Bennett said Young may continue to receive and distribute
revenue from the system to bondholders as long as operating
expenses are paid first.  The ruling may make it harder for Young to negotiate with
the county on behalf of bondholders because it “ties one hand
behind his back,” Alan M. Schankel, director of fixed income at
Janney Capital Markets in Philadelphia.  “I am not sure the receiver’s role is important if this
stands,” Schankel said in an interview. Allowing Young to
continue to collect and distribute revenues to bondholders means
the ruling wasn’t a total defeat for bondholders, Schankel said.  Young didn’t return calls for comment.  Lawyers for the receiver and the bondholders cited the
county’s past mismanagement in arguing that the system should
remain under state court authority and Young’s management. In
his ruling, Bennett said a new group of elected officials should
be given a chance to operate the system.  ‘Same Ilk’  “The current commissioners are not of the same ilk as the
former ones,” Bennett wrote.  “It looks like this is good news for the county,”
Commissioner Jimmie Stephens, head of the commission’s finance
committee, said in an interview.  The ruling that limits Young’s powers means receivership
isn’t as good a remedy as the municipal  bond market  had
believed, Matt Fabian, a managing director at Municipal Market
Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts , said in an interview
yesterday.  “Every investor needs to judge revenue bonds as a bit
riskier than before,” he said.  Bondholders avoided the “catastrophe” of having their
lien on the sewer revenue interrupted. Disrupting that payment
stream would have redefined how the municipal bond market thinks
about revenue bonds, Fabian said.  Largest Municipal Bankruptcy  Allowing the state court to retain jurisdiction over the
sewer system would make it more difficult for the county to
resolve the largest municipal bankruptcy in the U.S., Bennett
said.  Jefferson County filed bankruptcy in November, more than a
year after a state court gave Young control of the sewer system.  The county, state officials, the receiver and bondholders
failed to implement a tentative agreement that would have
required the sewer debt to be cut by about $1 billion, rates to
increase and the Alabama Legislature to enact new laws to
benefit the county’s finances.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  Bribery Conviction  Former Commissioner  Larry Langford  was convicted on charges
of accepting bribes. In 2008, a derivative-laden refinancing set
up by JPMorgan unraveled as fallout from the subprime-mortgage
market collapse rippled through  Wall Street , sending debt costs
soaring.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment on the ruling.  Jefferson County was the 13th Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing
last year. Three other municipalities filed: Boise County,
 Idaho ;  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island ; and Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania .  The rest were special-purpose districts and public-benefit
corporations eligible to use Chapter 9.  A bankruptcy judge dismissed Harrisburg’s case last month,
saying it wasn’t properly authorized.  The average price on a Jefferson County sewer bond maturing
in 2027 declined to 51.8 cents on the dollar yesterday from
55 cents on Dec. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The trades were for small blocks of $5,000 or $10,000 of debt.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  --Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham, Alabama. Editors: Stephen
Farr, Fred Strasser  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  