-- Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund Drops 51% in ‘Aberrational Year’
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-01-06T23:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/john-paulson-s-advantage-plus-hedge-fund-drops-51-in-aberrational-year-.html
John Paulson , the billionaire money
manager mired in the worst slump of his career, lost 51 percent
in one of his largest funds last year amid a failed bet on an
economic rebound.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, declined 8.6 percent last month,
according to an investor update, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The fund’s gold share class dropped 10 percent
in December and 36 percent last year.  “Clearly, this has been an aberrational year for us,”
Paulson wrote yesterday in a signed letter to investors that was
released with the update. “Going forward, we remain committed
to restoring all of our funds to profitability.”  Paulson, 56, has scaled back bullish bets across his funds
after suffering losses from holdings ranging from Citigroup Inc.
to Sino-Forest Corp., the Chinese forestry company accused by
short-seller Carson Block of overstating timberland holdings.
One bet that worked for Paulson in the first part of the year
was gold, which slumped 14 percent in the final four months of
2011, leaving his Gold Fund, which can buy derivatives and other
gold-related securities, with an 11 percent loss last year. The
fund declined 20 percent in December.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the firm’s returns.  Advantage Funds  Paulson’s biggest funds, Advantage Plus and Advantage,
employ similar strategies and have $11 billion in combined
assets, which are mostly invested in shares of banks, insurance
companies and other financial services firms. The dollar-
denominated Advantage Fund fell 6.2 percent in December and 36
percent last year. Its gold share class slumped 11 percent last
month and 22 percent in 2011. Paulson investors can choose
between dollar-and gold-denominated versions for most of the
firm’s funds.  Last year was the first time in the firm’s history that
Paulson’s Partners Enhanced, Advantage Plus, Advantage and
Credit Opportunities funds posted negative annual returns, and
the second time his Partners fund lost money during a year, he
said in the letter.  Paulson has been betting on a U.S. economic recovery by the
end of this year, which led to losses as the European sovereign-
debt crisis roiled stock markets and spurred sharp price swings
in equities. His bullishness on the economy drove bets in favor
of U.S. financial companies, the biggest and worst performing
component of the Advantage funds, according to a letter sent to
investors in October.  ‘Overly Optimistic’  “At the beginning of the year, we positioned our
portfolios with net equity exposure appropriate for growth in
the U.S. and an orderly resumption of  Europe ’s sovereign credit
issues,” the firm wrote in the letter. “However, as the year
progressed, our assumptions proved overly optimistic.”  The Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson believes
will benefit from a long-term economic upturn, including hotels,
financial services and real estate companies, rose less than 0.1
percent in December and fell 28 percent last year. The gold
share class declined 6.4 percent last month and 18 percent in
2011.  The Paulson Partners Enhanced Fund, which invests in the
shares of merging companies, decreased 2 percent last month and
19 percent last year. Its gold share class declined 8.7 percent
in December and 9.5 percent in 2011.  Credit Opportunities Fund  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund slumped 0.2 percent
last month and 18 percent last year. Its gold shares dropped 6.2
percent in December and 5.8 percent in 2011.  Hedge funds  fell 4.9 percent last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as global stock markets slumped and the
European debt crisis spread and managers struggled with
increased market volatility. Hedge funds, which are investment
pools that can wager on or against any asset, hold $1.97
trillion, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  