-- Kingfisher Air Falls as Regulator Seeks ‘Firm’ Recovery Timeline
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-01-06T06:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/kingfisher-air-falls-as-regulator-seeks-firm-recovery-timeline.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that has cut flights amid a cash shortage, dropped the
most in three weeks after being asked to submit a “firm”
recovery plan to the nation’s aviation regulator next week.  The  airline (KAIR) , controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, fell
as much as 11 percent in Mumbai trading, the biggest intraday
decline since Dec. 15. It was down 6.1 percent at 19.20 rupees
as of 11:16 a.m. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation
requested plans with “firm” timelines from carriers including
Kingfisher after conducting financial and safety audits.  Kingfisher has sought new funds after posting  losses (KAIR) 
totaling about 47 billion rupees ($890 million) over the past
three fiscal years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Indian carriers have struggled to turn surging demand into
profits because of price wars, competition from state-owned  Air
India  Ltd. and a slumping rupee.  “Tough times continue for Kingfisher,” said Jitendra Panda, the head of broking at Future Capital Holdings Ltd. “It
will be difficult to execute whatever plans they have for a
turnaround given the slowdown in the Indian economy.”  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest carrier,
fell 2.9 percent to 170.40 rupees. Budget airline  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) 
dropped 0.6 percent.  Engine Shortage  The DGCA’s checks showed that Bangalore-based Kingfisher
had a number of planes out of service because of a shortage of
engines, according to a  statement  yesterday from the Ministry of
Civil Aviation.  Kingfisher has enough pilots and engineers to maintain
services and the regulator had no “significant findings or
concerns with regard to safety,” Sanjay Aggarwal, the airline’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement yesterday.  Neither the carrier nor the regulator elaborated on what
information would be needed in the recovery plan or what would
happen if the deadline was missed. Three calls to the mobile
phone of Kingfisher’s spokesman Prakash Mirpuri didn’t go
through, while a call to E.K. Bharat Bhushan, the director
general of civil aviation, went unanswered.  The regulator also found a shortage of training captains at
Air  India  Express and other pending safety issues, according to
the statement. The DGCA will undertake a financial check on Air
India next week, the ministry said.  Brand Pledge  State Bank  of India, Kingfisher’s biggest shareholder not
tied to Mallya, also yesterday said it would class loans to the
carrier as non-performing assets, a step toward writing them off.  Kingfisher has pledged its brand, office furniture and
other assets against debts to lenders of about $1.2 billion,
Junior Finance Minister Namo Narain Meena said in response to a
question in parliament in  New Delhi  last month.  The  airline (KAIR)  plunged 68 percent last year in Mumbai trading,
compared with a 25 percent slump in the benchmark Sensex. Jet
Airways and SpiceJet both fell almost 80 percent. Airlines in
India may lose $2.5 billion in the year ending March, according
to the CAPA Centre for Aviation, which advises carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 