-- Name-Calling on the Internet Is Serious Business: Susan Crawford
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/name-calling-on-the-internet-is-serious-business-susan-crawford.html
More than 5 billion additional people
 will connect  to the Internet in the next 20 years, and most of
the newcomers will not speak English. This next generation will
use the Internet in ways we cannot imagine, and its innovations
will change the world.  But if the debate in  Washington  over the creation of new
domain names goes the wrong way, Internet policy won’t help the
free flow of speech online. The U.S. can help by having the
courage to stay the course.  At issue is the Internet’s crabbed naming system. Right now
there are only 16 possible addresses in cyberspace to the right
of the dot -- so-called generic top-level domains such as .com
and .net -- that don’t refer to countries or territories, such
as .jp or .uk. They all use the Latin alphabet. For the last six
years, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
or ICANN, has been working to address the need for additional
top-level domains while protecting brands and consumers around
the world. ICANN, a private, nonprofit organization with an
international board, is finally ready to go ahead and add to the
number of generic top-level domain names -- including more names
in non-Latin characters. The program is scheduled to start next
week.  But it’s not that simple. After the U.S. Senate and House
hearings about new domain names last month, the Federal Trade
Commission  warned ICANN  that its “dramatic introduction” of new
names “poses significant risks to consumers” by increasing the
risk of online fraud, and would result in greater costs for
businesses to protect their brands online. A  series  of letters
 from members  of Congress has flooded into ICANN, all predicting
doom if its plan proceeds. What’s going on?  Special Pleading  What’s happening is that a group of people and companies
( led by  the Association of National Advertisers) that isn’t
happy with the results of the ICANN process is taking a second
bite at the apple by asking Congress and U.S. federal agencies
for help. How ICANN and the U.S. respond to this attempt at
relitigation will have a major effect on how other difficult
Internet policy decisions get made.  This is a preview of a battle we will see again and again
over the next decade: Should Internet policy be made by
governments working together with other stakeholders, as in the
ICANN model, or by governments alone? Our shared digital future
requires nothing less than a new model of governance, and ICANN
is an experiment in applying a stakeholder-governance model to a
limited set of issues: policies having to do with IP addresses
and domain names. We need to preserve that model as we confront
other, larger issues.  Let’s consider the 5 billion people who aren’t yet online.
Human rights advocates say that the advent of the Internet has
been the most important development in the field for the last 50
years. It’s important that the next 5 billion online have access
to a globally functioning Internet that allows for freely
flowing information. The model of governance that we choose for
Internet policy should prioritize global interoperability and
openness.  There are plenty of regimes out there, though, that would
like to see much greater governmental control over Internet
content. One efficient way to do that would be to put the names
and numbers that allow the Internet to function under the direct
control of the International Telecommunications Union, which is
part of the  United Nations . The risk is that only governments
have a vote in the ITU -- freedom of speech proponents and other
advocacy groups would not get a fair hearing. That’s why the
U.S., acting as a steward for the rest of the world and
reasoning that openness leads to growth and democracy, agreed in
1998 that names and numbers should be under the authority of a
private-sector organization, ICANN.  A Careful Process  ICANN operates by consensus, like many other Internet
standard-setting organizations. Its processes take awhile, but
ICANN brings together government representatives,
businesspeople, academics and individuals. (I was a member of
ICANN’s board of directors from 2005 to 2008.) ICANN’s goal is
to take into account everyone’s interests while not letting any
one sector dominate the proceedings.  It is this process that, after six years, has emerged with
a careful, layered application procedure for new top-level
domains that strongly protects the interests of corporate brand
holders. This process has multiple belts and numerous
suspenders. As the  Department of Commerce  pointed out  this
month , ICANN has not done a good job educating the American
companies that oppose the plan about the “purpose and scope of
the program as well as the mechanisms available to address their
concerns.” Names suggested by new applicants can be challenged
by a huge range of actors: governments, anyone with a
confusingly similar brand and anyone who says that the name is
“contrary to general principles of international law for
morality and public order.” There are high barriers to applying,
including steep application fees of as much as $185,000,
substantial technical requirements and a limited application
window, that will sharply narrow the number of resulting new
names.  ICANN’s policy isn’t perfect. But the introduction of new
top-level domains will lead to wider choices and lower prices
for consumers buying names down the line, and will provide a
welcome pressure valve for communities around the world that
want recognition in the namespace at the top level. (Right now,
for example, there is one globally recognized .net, but there is
nothing to stop an irritated group of people from setting up a
non-interoperable list of their own top-level domains with a
different .net.) Yes, countries often (regrettably) filter what
their citizens can see, but they don’t set up entirely separate
naming systems. There is only one google.com. You may not be
able to get to it reliably in  Syria , but Syria hasn’t set up its
own .com system that is different from the rest of the world’s.
Under ICANN’s plan, before too long and with regular checkups
along the way, the creation of new top-level domains will become
boring and routine.  A Crucial Time  We have to get this right, because this is a critical time
in the history of the Internet. Autocratic regimes would like
much greater governmental control over Internet content. If the
ITU takes control of the plumbing of the Internet, they will be
better able to do so. In June, Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  met with Hamadoun Toure, secretary general of the ITU.
According to a transcript of the meeting subsequently  published
by  the Russian government, Putin said: “We are thankful to you
for the ideas that you have proposed for discussion. One of them
is establishing international control over the Internet using
the monitoring and supervisory capabilities of the International
Telecommunication Union.”  This shortsighted U.S. fight over new names could be
extremely damaging to the Internet’s future.  Russia ,  China , and
other regimes already claim that ICANN is an instrument of the
U.S. government. When critics attack ICANN, and encourage the
federal government to step in, they play directly into the ITU’s
plans. This may lead to many other nations joining in a call for
government control of Internet resources around the world. The
result could be a global Internet content policy effectively
made by governments that are most interested in restricting
access to information. And that would be bad for the 5 billion
citizens of the world yet to connect to the Internet.  (Susan Crawford is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . In 2009, she was a special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net , or @scrawford on
Twitter.  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 