-- New York Mets Hire Turnaround Company CRG Partners, SBNation.com Reports
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-01-06T06:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/new-york-mets-hire-turnaround-company-crg-partners-sbnation-com-reports.html
The  New York Mets  hired  CRG Partners
Group LLC , which assisted the Texas Rangers in their bankruptcy
proceedings in 2010,  SBNation.com reported .  “Mets Limited Partnership engaged CRG Partners to provide
services in connection with financial reporting and budgeting
processes,” the Mets said, according to the sports website.  William Snyder, a managing partner at CRG, was the chief
restructuring officer in the Rangers bankruptcy. He pushed for
an auction, which increased the price paid for the team by  Chuck Greenberg  and Nolan Ryan to $593 million from $575 million. The
Rangers have reached the  World Series  the past two years.  Mets owner Fred Wilpon is being sued by the trustee for
convicted fraudster Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct firm to recover
investment gains from the team and the Wilpon family. The Mets
are offering minority stakes to raise additional capital. The
owners are unwilling to offer a majority position in the club,
which lost $70 million last season.  Jay Horwitz , a spokesman for the Mets, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Standard & Poor’s  last month cut its outlook to negative on
$695.4 million of debt raised to build Citi Field. Cash flow has
declined each year since the 42,000-seat stadium opened in 2009.
Last season, attendance fell 27 percent to 2.29 million.  The Mets also owe $25 million to Major League Baseball and
$40 million to Bank of America Corp., money that was borrowed to
pay operational expenses, the New York Times said.  The Mets may close on the first of several sales of
minority stakes for $20 million each by Jan. 31, MLB.com
reported, citing General Manager  Sandy Alderson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  