-- News Corp. Pushes Phone-Hacking Settlements as Trial Nears
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-01-06T10:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/news-corp-pushes-last-ditch-hacking-settlements-as-february-trial-nears.html
News Corp.’s (NWSA)  British newspaper unit
is close to settling at least 10 lawsuits by politicians,
athletes and other prominent victims of phone hacking before the
first civil trial over the scandal starts next month.  Labour party lawmaker  Chris Bryant  and celebrity lawyer
Graham Shear, whose voice mails were hacked to get stories for
News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, are among those near
settlements, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.
Their lawsuits were joined with four other “test cases” for a
three-week trial scheduled to start Feb. 13 in London.  “Some of the criticism of News Corp.’s conduct to date has
been about their use of confidential settlements in the past to
prevent facts coming into the public domain, so when it comes to
settling any of these test cases, they should tread carefully,”
said  Mark Watts , a data-privacy lawyer at Bristows in  London .  If settlements are reached, about two dozen backup cases
are available, though several of those are also close to
settling, including suits filed by ex-lawmaker George Galloway
and former U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  John Prescott , according
to the document.  The trial is intended to give guidance on damages for 70
current cases, as well as future lawsuits and out-of-court
settlements. The  Metropolitan Police Service  has said about 800
people may have been targeted by the tabloid.  Judge Geoffrey Vos created the test-case procedure in May,
two months before News Corp. closed the 168-year-old News of the
World and dropped its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.1 billion) bid for
full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  to contain
outrage over the five-year-old scandal.  ‘Dangerous Precedent’  “They’re trying to avoid the judge making awards that will
set a dangerous precedent,” Niri Shan, a media lawyer at Taylor
Wessing LLP in London, said of the settlement talks. “They’re
buying off the risk of that, and it’s not unheard of for cases
to settle at the last minute -- even at the door of the court.”  Victims who want to go to trial may be discouraged from
doing so by a U.K. law that could force them to pay News
International’s court costs if they decline a settlement offer
and then fail to beat that amount in a verdict, Shan said.  The highest profile victims in the trial are actor Jude Law
and sports agent Sky Andrew, who aren’t close to settling,
according to the document, which shows the status of the test
cases and was given to Vos at a hearing last month. Andrew was
one of the first victims to sue the News Corp. unit and seek a
court order forcing police to turn over evidence for his case.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International,
declined to comment on the settlement talks.  17th Arrest  London police, who failed to uncover the extent of the
scandal in 2006, today arrested a 17th person as part of a probe
opened last year. Former News of the World editor  Andy Coulson 
and ex-News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks
were arrested in July and are free on bail.  Tamsin Allen, the lawyer for Bryant and Prescott, confirmed
that settlement talks are under way. She said the trial is still
important because it “could set a tariff for compensation
payments which settlements do not, as they are just voluntary.”  Shear, the celebrity lawyer, didn’t return a call for
comment. Law’s lawyer,  Hugh Tomlinson , Galloway’s attorney,
Farooq Bajwa, and Andrew’s lawyer,  Charlotte Harris , didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  36 Victims  Out of 36 victims who agreed to be in the trial or act as
backups, half have settled or are near deals, according to the
document. Privacy experts expect the case to clarify rules for
privacy damages that are now contradictory or unclear, said  Mark Stephens , a lawyer for singer Dannii Minogue, a phone-hacking
victim and another backup case.  “Even if there are just a few cases left, the legal
principles need to be clarified in this trial -- there is such a
degree of uncertainty in the law,” said Stephens, who
represents Bloomberg News in some media cases. “Privacy is an
emerging tort in this country and there have only been a few
cases that have gone to a full judgment.”  News Corp.’s settlements with victims have varied widely
until now, from 20,000 pounds for sports commentator Andy Gray
to 3 million pounds for the family of murdered schoolgirl  Milly
Dowler , whose phone was hacked in 2002, when she was still
missing, to get stories about her disappearance.  Lawyers for News International told Vos at a hearing last
month it reached seven new settlements with victims, even as the
judge was making final rulings in preparation for the trial.
Those settlements involved at least three test cases, including
one by former lawmaker Mark Oaten.  7/7 Bombing Victim  Sheila Henry, the mother of a victim of the July 7, 2005,
terrorist attack in London, whose phone was hacked to get
stories about the bombing, is also in the trial.  The trial will help calculate what damages should be
awarded for different types of privacy violations and how the
personal information was used in stories. It will also help News
International’s out-of-court-settlement procedure, begun in
November, which is overseen by a former judge, Vos has said.  With the trial weeks away, News Corp. is still turning over
thousands of e-mails that may relate to phone-hacking, at the
request of the victims’ lawyers. The trial date was pushed pack
by several weeks to give the company time to do so.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  