-- Nicole Richie’s Cursing May Spur Court to Free Broadcasters
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-06T18:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/nicole-richie-s-cursing-may-spur-top-court-to-free-broadcasters.html
A  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  fight over
television profanity and nudity may usher in a new era for
broadcasters, potentially freeing them from federal restrictions
on the content of their programming.  The justices will hear arguments on Jan. 10 that the
Federal Communications Commission is violating the Constitution
by imposing fines for on-air indecency. The dispute centers on
expletives used by Cher and Nicole Richie on awards shows seen
on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox television and a scene featuring a naked
actress on “NYPD Blue,” aired on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC.  The court’s ruling may bring the biggest change in the
FCC’s regulation of broadcast content since the agency in 1987
stopped enforcing the Fairness Doctrine, which required
broadcasters to present both sides of controversial issues. Fox
and ABC are asking the court to overturn a 34-year-old ruling
that lets the FCC regulate broadcast indecency while exempting
cable and satellite television and the Internet.  “It just doesn’t make sense to say one rule applies to
everything else and then say one special rule applies to
broadcast television,” said Steven R. Shapiro, legal director
of the New York-based  American Civil Liberties Union , which
supports the broadcasters.  The court drew that distinction in 1978, when a majority
said the FCC could sanction a radio station for airing comedian
George Carlin’s profanity-laced “Seven Dirty Words” monologue.
The court said broadcast television and radio had a “uniquely
pervasive presence in the lives of all Americans” and were
“uniquely accessible to children.”  ‘Safe Medium’  The Obama administration and the FCC say that reasoning
remains valid, arguing in court papers that parents still depend
on broadcast television to be a “relatively safe medium for
their children.”  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS are
joining ABC and Fox in opposing the FCC.  The high court has championed free speech under Chief
Justice  John Roberts , striking down restrictions on violent
video games, pharmaceutical marketing and political spending. In
a 2009 ruling on the FCC’s indecency policy, justices in both
the majority and dissent pointed to First Amendment concerns
about the crackdown.  Led by Chairman Michael K. Powell, the FCC said in 2004
that it would begin punishing broadcasters for fleeting
expletives -- one-time utterances on live shows.  Prada Purse  Powell said in an interview this week that he now regrets
that vote, saying, “if I were voting again, I would have
dissented.” He also questioned the logic behind singling out
broadcasters for scrutiny at a time when cable and satellite
television reach at least 85 percent of American homes.  “I’ve always been deeply troubled by the way the First
Amendment changes when you change channels,” said Powell, now
president of the  National Cable & Telecommunications Association 
in  Washington , which represents Fox Networks Group along with
cable operators.  The Supreme Court case concerns incidents at the Billboard
Music Awards, shown on Fox. At the 2002 show, Cher referred to
critics of her work by saying, “F--- ‘em. I still have a job
and they don’t.” A year later, Richie said, “Have you ever
tried to get cow s--- out of a Prada purse? It’s not so f---ing
simple.”  The FCC concluded that the broadcasts violated its
indecency regulations, though the agency stopped short of
imposing fines. Federal law lets the FCC levy a $325,000 fine on
each station that airs indecent material between 6 a.m. and 10
p.m.  ‘NYPD Blue’  In the “NYPD Blue” case, the FCC would impose penalties
totaling $1.2 million on more than 40 ABC-affiliated stations.
The disputed 2003 episode shows actress Charlotte Ross’s
buttocks as she disrobes for a shower and later a frontal view,
with her hands covering her breasts and pubic area, after a
young boy inadvertently walks in.  A federal appeals court in  New York  said in rulings
favoring the broadcasters that the FCC had applied its rules
inconsistently. The panel pointed to the FCC’s conclusion that
“bulls---” was indecent while “dickhead” was permissible and
to the agency’s decision not to take action over ABC’s airing of
the profanity-laden movie “Saving Private Ryan.”  Broadcasters “are left to guess” whether the use of an
expletive will be permitted, the appeals court said.  The dispute concerns issues the  high court  didn’t resolve
when it temporarily revived the FCC’s anti-expletive policy in
2009, saying the agency had given a sufficient explanation to
comply with a law governing administrative agencies.  Debate Over Standards  The broadcasters say the FCC’s standards are so vague they
violate the Constitution. “The FCC’s discretion in these cases
is unbounded and thus unconstitutional,” Fox, NBC and CBS
argued in court papers.  Defenders of the FCC’s policy say the lines will become
clearer as the agency acts in more cases. Broadcasters already
have ample understanding of the proper boundaries, said Tim
Winter, president of the Parents Television Council, a Los
Angeles-based group that lobbies against indecent programming.  “It’s absurd for such brilliant, creative people all of a
sudden to become so stupid on the issue of indecency,” he said.  A ruling that the policy is too vague may let the FCC re-
enact its indecency rules with clearer guidelines. A decision
focused on the FCC’s power over broadcasters would have more
sweeping ramifications, perhaps affecting the agency’s limits on
cross-ownership of newspapers and broadcast outlets.  ‘Orphan Stepchildren’  “Why really should broadcasters be the orphan stepchildren
of the First Amendment parentage?” said  Carter Phillips , a
Washington appellate lawyer who will argue on behalf of Fox.
“We should at least be treated the same as cable.”  Winter said “the spigot will open” for profanity should
the high court free broadcasters from restrictions. Prime-time
use of the word f---, either bleeped or muted, already has risen
from 11 instances in 2005 to 276 instances in 2010, a study by
Winter’s organization found.  Winter says the FCC’s indecency rules are a small price for
broadcasters to pay for the right to use valuable public
airwaves.  “If you’re able to deliver into every living room in the
country for free, can’t you wait until 10:00 to be indecent?”
Winter said. “They want all the rights of a broadcast license
without any of the responsibilities.”  News Corp. (NWS)  and CBS are based in New York. Disney is based
in  Burbank ,  California  and Comcast is based in Philadelphia.  Bloomberg LP, which operates Bloomberg Television, isn’t
involved in the case.  The court will rule by July in the case, FCC v. Fox
Television Stations, 10-1293.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 