-- Nigeria Banks to Cut Services as Workers Plan General Strike
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-06T16:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/nigerian-banks-to-offer-limited-services-during-fuel-strike.html
Nigeria ’s  lenders (NGSEB10) , including  Diamond
Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , will run limited branch
services from Jan. 9 during a nationwide strike to protest the
scrapping of fuel subsidies that doubled gasoline prices.  “There will be skeletal services, people on essential
duties will come to work,” Abdulrahman Yinusa, chief financial
officer at Lagos-based Diamond Bank, which operates 220 branches
with 3,000 employees, said by phone today.  Trade unions called an indefinite nationwide strike and
threatened to shut down ports, fuel stations, banks and oil
operations in Africa’s largest crude producer if the government
fails to restore the fuel subsidy. President Goodluck Jonathan
will hold an emergency meeting with governors of 36 states
tonight in Abuja, the capital, to discuss measures that can help
ease higher prices.  “Going on strike or closing down government is not the
solution,” Gabriel Suswam, governor of Benue State, told
reporters in Abuja. “We need to stand up as a country together
and sacrifice so that we can guarantee the future of this
country.”  ‘Extremely Cautious’  Standard Chartered’s 29 branches and 683 workers will
“definitely” be affected by the strike, Diran Olojo, a Lagos-
based spokesman for the lender, said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. While branch operations may be affected, ATMs and
electronic banking services will be running, Udom Emmanuel,
 executive director  at  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , Nigeria’s second-biggest
lender by market value, said in a phone interview.  “We are being extremely cautious, the lives of our staff
come first,” Folanke Ani-Mumuney, a spokeswoman for Lagos-based
 First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) , the nation’s third-largest bank by
market value, with 648 branches, said by phone today. “Our
normal policy is to remain open.”  The  Bloomberg Nigerian Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the
performance of the 10 most capitalized banks, fell for a third
day, retreating 0.7 percent to 271.51 by the close in Lagos.  Jonathan abolished 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5 billion) of
subsidies on Jan. 1, promising to use the savings to boost
investment in power plants and roads in  Africa ’s most populous
nation. Nigeria imports more than 70 percent of its fuel because
of a lack of refining capacity.  Oil workers will join the strike called by the Trade Union
Congress and Nigerian Labor Congress, Nigeria’s two main labor
federations, according to Babatunde Ogun, president of the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria,
or Pengassan.  The naira dropped 1.4 percent to 162.05 per dollar, the
biggest decline since Dec. 27, as of 4:54 p.m. on the  interbank
market  in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, paring
its second weekly advance to 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  