-- Nobel Winner Diamond Says Washington Must Fix Jobs Before Budget Deficit
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-01-06T20:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/nobel-winner-diamond-says-washington-must-fix-jobs-before-budget-deficit.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Peter Diamond  said U.S. policy makers should focus on fighting long-
term unemployment because workers who lose skills present a
bigger challenge than the country’s budget deficit.  “We have an unemployment crisis and a debt problem, and
Washington is behaving as if we have a debt crisis and an
unemployment problem,” Diamond, a professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology since 1966, said during an
interview today on Bloomberg Television.  Young people who are unemployed for long periods are
forfeiting income not only today but “for years to come”
because they are losing workplace experience, Diamond said. The
government should take advantage of low borrowing costs to
finance infrastructure projects and research and development
that help put the unemployed to work, he said.  U.S. employers added more workers to payrolls than forecast
in December and the jobless rate declined to an almost three-
year low, a Labor Department report showed today. The 200,000
increase, which beat forecasts, followed a revised 100,000 gain
in November that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed. The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to
8.5 percent, while hours worked and earnings climbed.  Even so, the  unemployment rate  during the past three years
has marked the worst stretch of joblessness since 1939 to 1941.  Best Option  Government spending  is the best option for spurring
employment and economic growth, Diamond said. The benchmark 10-
year Treasury note yield has traded near 2 percent since
September.  “Fiscal is the only big gun around,” he said. While there
isn’t a risk of inflation, “fiscal tools right now are much
powerful than the monetary tools.”  Diamond spoke from Chicago, where the annual meeting of the
American Economic Association was taking place. He shared the
2010  Nobel Prize  in Economic Sciences with  Dale Mortensen  and
 Christopher Pissarides  for research into the difficulties of
matching supply and demand, particularly in the labor market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McKee in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  