-- Nokia Said to Announce Plans for First Microsoft Phone for AT&T
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-01-07T02:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/nokia-said-to-announce-plans-for-first-microsoft-phone-for-at-t.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK)  will unveil its first
Windows Phone for  AT&T Inc. (T)  at the  Consumer Electronics Show 
Jan. 9, two people familiar with the matter said, boosting an
effort by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to regain market share lost to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Nokia and AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier,
will announce plans to begin selling the Nokia Ace in the coming
months, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the arrangements are private. The handset will be the first
Windows Phone to use the next-generation wireless technology
known as long term evolution, or LTE, the people said.  AT&T is set to become the biggest U.S. carrier to announce
a Nokia Windows handset, underscoring the agreement’s importance
to Microsoft. Nokia is working to revive sales after it lost the
title of worldwide No. 1 smartphone maker to  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  in the third quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  The Nokia Ace will run the newest version of the Windows
Phone software, one of the people said. While the price hasn’t
been finalized, the device may sell for $249 with a two-year
contract, the person said.  AT&T is ahead of schedule expanding its LTE network, with
service in 26 U.S. cities, John Stankey, head of business
solutions at the Dallas-based company, said this week.  Smartphone Buyers  Last month, T-Mobile USA Inc. announced it would offer the
Lumia 710, the first Nokia phone to run Windows Phone software
in the U.S. The device, targeting first-time smartphone buyers,
will cost $49.99 after a $50 rebate and with a 24-month
contract. It will be available Jan. 11.  Google’s Android boosted its share of the smartphone
operating-system market to more than 50 percent in the third
quarter, according to Gartner, more than double its share from a
year earlier.  Espoo, Finland-based Nokia has revamped its smartphone
business around the Windows Phone operating system. The company
began selling Lumia phones in Europe and Asia last year.  Dawn Beauparlant, a spokeswoman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft, declined to comment.  Doug Dawson , a spokesman
for Nokia, and  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T, also both
declined to comment.  Plans by Nokia and Microsoft to unveil the phone were
reported by the  Supersite for Windows  blog on Dec. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  