-- Hoare Govett Executives May Team Up With Oriel for RBS Buyout
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-06T10:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hoare-govett-executives-may-team-up-with-oriel-securities-for-rbs-buyout.html
Hoare Govett Ltd.’s managing
directors are considering teaming up with Oriel Securities Ltd.
to buy out the U.K. broker from parent  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , two people with knowledge of the talks said.  A deal would allow RBS to save the costs of firing the
unit’s 30 or so employees, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Edinburgh-based RBS
would receive little if anything in cash for the unit, the
people said, adding that the process is at an early stage.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, is
shrinking the lender’s securities unit after the bank received
the biggest banking bailout in the world in 2008. The lender may
sell or shut its equities unit, which includes Hoare Govett, two
people with knowledge of the situation said on Dec. 19. A formal
announcement is expected by the time the Edinburgh-based bank
reports full-year earnings on Feb. 23, the people said.  The Scottish bank acquired the 90-year-old broker as part
of its 72 billion-euro ($92 billion) purchase of  ABN Amro  with
Fortis and  Spain ’s Banco Santander SA in 2007. A deal with Oriel
would reunite Hoare Govett with its former chairman, Peter Meinertzhagen, who became a director of the London-based broker
in December 2010. Oriel’s chief executive officer, Simon Bragg,
as well as its head of sales and head of equities all previously
worked at Hoare Govett. Oriel was founded by Bragg in 2002.  RBC, Barclays  RBS has hired Lazard Ltd. to advise on asset sales as it
shrinks from a global, universal bank into a smaller consumer
and corporate bank. The lender has already cut more than 30,000
jobs since its bailout. In August, the bank said it will cut a
further 2,000 job cuts at its securities unit over the next 12
to 18 months.  RBC Capital Markets , the investment banking arm of Toronto-
based  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
biggest lender by assets, may show an interest in Hoare Govett
because they are both seeking to expand their equities units,
one of the people said. Officials at Hoare Govett, Oriel,
Barclays, RBS and Lazard declined to comment. Meinertzhagen
didn’t return e-mails seeking comment.  Found only in the U.K., corporate brokers are appointed by
companies to liaise with institutional shareholders and offer
strategic advice, often leading to underwriting and corporate-
finance work. Hoare Govett’s clients include  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s largest pharmaceuticals company, and Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc, the maker of Rizla cigarette papers and
Cohiba cigars.  Meinertzhagen’s deals include the merger of Glaxo Wellcome
and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 and Vodafone’s spinoff from Racal
in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 Lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  