-- Obama Adopts Bush Plan to Cut U.S. Combat Brigades in Europe, Hammond Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-06T21:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-returns-to-bush-plan-to-cut-u-s-combat-brigades-in-europe-in-half.html
The Obama administration plans to
revert to a Bush-era plan to cut the number of U.S. Army combat
brigades in  Europe  in half as part of the Pentagon  budget (USBODEFN)  cuts
to be announced within weeks, U.K. Defense Secretary Philip Hammond said.  The decision is a retreat from the administration’s
previous determination, announced last April, to leave in place
three of the four brigade combat teams now stationed in Europe,
three in  Germany  and one airborne brigade in  Italy . A brigade
combat team usually has 3,000 to 5,000 soldiers.  “My understanding is that there will remain two
brigades,” Hammond said in an interview yesterday in  Washington 
after meeting U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  for their
first talks at the Pentagon since they each took office. “But
in addition to that, there will be some rotating presence” for
training and exercises, he said.  The Obama administration’s April announcement had reversed
a 2004 decision by the administration of President  George W. Bush  to cut the number of brigades in Europe from from four to
two, or by 6,000 to 10,000 troops.  As of December 2010, the U.S. had almost 80,000 military
personnel stationed in Europe, more than 54,000 of them in
Germany, according to the Defense Department’s website.  Panetta and other Pentagon officials who unveiled a revised
U.S. defense strategy yesterday refused to give specifics about
future force size or weapons systems.  “We’re not going to discuss details of any specific
programmatic or force-structure decisions right now,” Navy
Captain John Kirby, a Pentagon spokesman, said in response to
Hammond’s comment.  ‘Adapt and Evolve’  Panetta told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday that the
U.S. military’s force posture in Europe “will of necessity
continue to adapt and evolve,” citing “emerging strategic
priorities that we face elsewhere.”  A reduction of forces in Europe may limit the ability of
the U.S. to deploy combat troops rapidly to hot spots in the
 Middle East ,  Africa  and elsewhere. Many of the Americans sent to
fight in Iraq and  Afghanistan  in the past 10 years have come
from bases in Western Europe.  “The reason why they’re still in Germany has less to do
with Europe than it has to do with the fact that it’s a lot
easier to get to the Middle East from Europe” than from the
U.S., said Gary Schmitt, director of advanced strategic studies
at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a former Senate
Intelligence Committee staff member.  Air Force Capability  The U.S. still plans to keep facilities available and
maintain “significant Air Force capability in Europe,” Hammond
said. That element may protect the U.K. from too much impact of
American cuts because it hosts mostly U.S. Air Force units.  Returning the soldiers to the U.S. may not save much money
because they’ll require facilities at home, and deploying them
for meaningful exercises abroad is costly, Schmitt said.  European members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
will need to “respond in a mature way” to the U.S. plans,
Hammond told an audience at the Atlantic Council policy group
earlier yesterday, before his meetings.  “Reductions in U.S. troop numbers are not going to be
welcomed by European allies in the alliance,” Hammond said.
“But I think we all understand the budget pressure the U.S.,
like all of us, are under.”  Germany Not Surprised  The German Defense Ministry said it doesn’t have
information on possible U.S. base closings and isn’t surprised
by Pentagon force-reduction plans.  “It’s understandable, and we’re following it with
interest,” Stefan Paris, a ministry spokesman, said in an
interview in Berlin today. “We are engaged in a similar process
in Germany.”  Hammond said in the interview that he felt reassured by his
meetings at the Pentagon that the U.S. is sensitive to allies’
concerns about weapons systems. The U.K. is among the partner
nations in  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter,
which the country intends to use on two new aircraft carriers it
is building.  Joint Strike Fighter  “What I’ve heard today is reassuring on that score,”
Hammond said. “We’ve had a confirmation of an in-service date
for the carrier variant.”  He said he doesn’t see anything that would “drive a
significant increase in unit cost either.”  Pentagon officials also expressed recognition that such
programs are crucial to their allies, he said.  “If we’re going to have more programs in the future where
we’re working collaboratively across a number of nations, then
it’s very important that people can be confident that things
that happen domestically politically or budgetarily won’t
undermine those programs or undermine the position of the
allies,” he said.  Panetta and his staff also gave “very clear assurance”
that “nothing that’s being proposed by the Pentagon or the Navy
is going to impact” the completion dates for a new class of
American nuclear ballistic missile submarines, Hammond said.  The U.K. also is building a new submarine, and the two
nations are collaborating on a missile compartment for their
vessels.  Falls Church , Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and
 Newport News , Virginia-based  Huntington-Ingalls Industries, Inc (HII) .
are building the new U.S. submarines, while  BAE Systems Plc. (BA/) ,
based in  London , is building the British version.  “There will be no slippage in the design program” for the
compartment, he said, adding that it’s too soon to say whether
the compartment would be built in the U.S. or in the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  