-- Obama Team Dwarfs GOP in Early States
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-01-06T19:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-campaign-teams-in-early-states-dwarf-republican-operations.html
The biggest presidential primary
campaign team in  New Hampshire  is tucked on a Manchester side
street inside a four-story brick building and it belongs to the
best-financed candidate seeking nomination: President  Barack Obama .  The office is one of seven in the state and his re-election
campaign has about 20 paid employees. Former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , the two front-runners in the Republican presidential
primary after they emerged first and second in the  Iowa 
caucuses, each have one office. Romney has nine paid staffers in
the state and Santorum has eight.  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who skipped Iowa to
campaign full time in New Hampshire, showed up at more than 150
public events and recruited almost 1,000 volunteers, said
Michael Levoff, a Huntsman spokesman. Since Obama announced his
candidacy, his Granite State volunteers have held 500 events,
including house parties, phone banks and training sessions.  The Obama camp’s short-term goal is the same as the
Republican primary rivals, to turn out the vote on Jan. 10,
primary night. While his nomination isn’t on the line, his
support in the state has plunged. His team can use the event to
test its operations and score bragging rights if the party’s
turnout measures competitively with that in the contested
Republican primary.  ‘Important Test’  “The word is out that they want Democrats to show up and
vote in the primary and that they see this is an important test
run, they’re going to be identifying their voters,” said  Linda Fowler , a political scientist at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover.
“And that’s what it’s all about it in a tight state.”  Although the state controls just four Electoral College
votes,  David Axelrod , Obama’s chief political adviser, and  Jim Messina , his campaign manager, told reporters at a Dec. 13
briefing that New Hampshire is one of the eight states where the
general election will be fought and won.  The Granite State has shown a fickle nature in recent
elections.  Obama took the state by 9 percentage points against  John McCain  in 2008, though he lost the primary to  Hillary Clinton  39
percent to 37 percent. Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry , a
Democrat, carried the state in 2004 and then-Texas Governor
 George W. Bush , a Republican, won New Hampshire in 2000.  ‘Very Tight Race’  In 2010, two years after Obama’s victory, Republicans swept
the House and Senate races in the state. In a Nov. 10 Bloomberg
 poll  of likely New Hampshire primary voters, Romney was ahead of
Obama by 10 points, 50 percent to 40 percent.  “This is going to be a very tight race and therefore you
need to pay careful attention to all of the states that are in
play, even a small one like New Hampshire,” said Fowler, noting
that if Democrat  Al Gore  had won New Hampshire in 2000 the
outcome in Florida, determined after a recount fight went to the
U.S. Supreme Court, wouldn’t have mattered.  Evidence of the Obama re-election campaign’s extensive
ramp-up program lies beyond New Hampshire. There are 62
“tested, trained and mobilized neighborhood teams” in  Michigan 
and 71 in  Colorado , Messina said in a Jan. 4 conference call
with reporters. The re-election operation has contacted more
than 511,000 voters in  Nevada  and the  Florida  branch has
organized 2,633 events such as door-to-door canvasses and phone
banks.  “One of the most important things to remember about New
Hampshire is that we never left,” said Frank Benenati, an Obama
campaign spokesman, referring to “networks and relationships”
built over two and a half years by Organizing for America, the
president’s political arm outside the White House. Benenati said
the primary is a way to “further expand our organization.”  Old Brewery  On Dec. 27, a half-dozen Obama volunteers huddled on a
rainy, 30-degree night at an old beer brewery that is now home
to the campaign’s Portsmouth office. A Christmas tree strung
with multi-colored lights stood in the back of the room.  Mary McCarthy, a stay-at-home mother, spends four hours a
week at the Portsmouth office calling registered Democrats and
independents reminding them to vote in the primary. Most people
she calls say they will support the president though many of
them don’t know the primary date.  “Everyone in New Hampshire knows there’s a primary coming,
unless you live in your closet, but some need to be told the
date,” said McCarthy, 54. “Some think it’s just a Republican
primary and we remind them that no, it’s not a Republican
primary, it’s a primary for everybody.”  Nightly Calls  Over in Concord, the location of the campaign’s
headquarters is behind a small “2012” sign on a side door of a
three-story Victorian-style house that sits along a two-lane
street and is also home to the New Hampshire  Democratic Party ’s
headquarters.  In an empty room where volunteers make nightly calls, a dry
erase board is filled with persuasive messages: “8,300: # of
New Hampshire young people who have health coverage because of
the Affordable Care Act” and “$1,980 Obama’s payroll tax cut
for typical Granite State family.” A calendar lists daily phone
banks from 5 to 8 p.m. during the week of Jan. 2.  Obama, 50, has more money to build his organization in the
states. His campaign reported raising $88 million through Sept.
30, up from $80 million in 2007. That is more than twice the
amount of money raised by Romney, the leading Republican
presidential fundraiser.  Drawing Crowds  The president, whose name is one of 14 on the Democratic
ballot, also has another advantage of a sitting president: when
he visits, people show up.  Romney and Huntsman, the only candidates to visit the state
in the last week of December, were drawing 100 to 200 voters.
Romney leads his Republican rivals with 40 percent of likely
voters in their party’s New Hampshire primary, according to a
Suffolk University/7 News tracking poll taken Jan. 4-5.  On Dec. 27, about 200 people showed up at Geno’s Chowder
and Sandwich Shop, a gray clapboard restaurant on the banks of
the Piscataqua River in Portsmouth, to listen to Romney.  Since Obama took office, the president has made three trips
to New Hampshire, filling a Manchester high school auditorium to
capacity with 1,300 people on Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Nashua, New Hampshire at 
   kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  