-- U.S. Seeks Rule Change to Let Some Illegal Immigrants Remain With Families
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-01-06T21:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-administration-proposes-rule-change-to-help-immigrants.html
The Obama administration proposed
changing federal rules to let some undocumented immigrants stay
in the U.S. while seeking legal status, a move that would help
Hispanics, a key voting bloc in the 2012 election.  The proposal is aimed at spouses and children of U.S.
citizens who are eligible for a visa. The proposed change would
let them remain in the country while applying for a green card,
according to a statement by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services.  The law now calls for immigrants who have been in the
country illegally for 180 days or more to leave the U.S. to
apply for legal residence, a period that can last as long as 10
years. Because of the potentially long separation from their
families, immigrants who are eligible don’t apply for legal
status, according to the American Immigration Council, a
Washington-based pro-immigration group.  Congressional Republicans have stymied President  Barack Obama ’s drive to overhaul immigration laws to let temporary
foreign workers enter the U.S. and to help illegal immigrants on
a path toward citizenship. The proposed change doesn’t need
congressional approval.  It would “provide a more predictable and transparent
process and improved processing times,” according to the
immigration agency’s statement.  Hispanics contributed to Obama’s margin of victory in the
2008 presidential election. Exit polls on election day showed 67
percent of Hispanic voters supported him compared with 31
percent for Arizona Senator  John McCain , the Republican nominee.  States With Hispanics  That support helped Obama carry states with large Hispanic
populations, including  Florida ,  Colorado ,  Nevada  and  New Mexico .
The states are among the ones likely to be the most competitive
in this year’s presidential race.  The illegal immigration issue has sparked disputes in the
race among Republicans vying to be Obama’s opponent.  Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has said he
supports a path to legality for those with “deep ties” to
their communities. In a Dec. 15 debate, he gave as an example
undocumented immigrants who have been in the U.S. for 25 years.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, in a 2006
Bloomberg interview as he geared up for a 2008 presidential run,
took a similar position as Gingrich’s, saying some illegal
immigrants should be allowed to remain and get legal status.  In this campaign, Romney has criticized Gingrich’s
approach. He told voters in  Iowa  in November that he has always
believed illegal immigrants should be sent back to their
countries of origin to apply for legal status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington   jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  