-- Obama’s Consumer Watchdog Targets Mortgage, Payday Lenders
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-06T20:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-s-consumer-watchdog-targets-mortgage-firms-payday-lenders.html
Richard Cordray ’s appointment as
director of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau moves
the new agency nearer to fulfilling its intended role as a one-
stop shop for borrower safeguards.  Unlike the historically patchwork oversight of consumer
finance, the bureau centralizes the federal government’s
authority and in some cases extends it. Consumers may benefit
from its reach whenever they take out a payday loan, negotiate a
mortgage rate, borrow money for school or pay a credit card fee.
For those who think they’ve been wronged, there will be a
complaint system to help them fight back.  Cordray, 52, who was seated by President  Barack Obama  on
Jan. 4 over Republican objections, takes over a bureau created
under the Dodd-Frank Act in response to complaints that existing
regulators didn’t do enough to protect consumers before the 2008
credit crisis. The rules overhaul shifted consumer protection
from regulators responsible for banks’ financial stability,
removing a potential source of conflict.  “Consumers deserve to have someone who will stand on their
side, who will protect them against fraud, and who will ensure
they are treated fairly in the financial marketplace,” Cordray
said yesterday in a Washington speech. “The new consumer bureau
was created to make sure these things are achieved for all
Americans.”  Obama lauded the agency today as the way “to make sure the
rules of the road are enforced” on behalf of consumers.
“You’ve finally got a great director who was tailor-made to
lead this agency in Richard Cordray,” Obama said during a visit
with bureau staff in Washington.  Elizabeth Warren   Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard Law School professor credited
by Obama with conceiving the bureau, viewed it as a “cop on the
beat” to protect Americans against unscrupulous lenders by --
among other things -- eliminating jargon-filled loan documents
in favor of plain-English paperwork.  “It is impossible to buy a toaster that has a one-in-five
chance of bursting into flames and burning down your house,”
Warren wrote in the journal Democracy in 2007. “But it is
possible to refinance an existing home with a mortgage that has
the same one-in-five chance of putting the family out on the
street -- and the mortgage won’t even carry a disclosure of that
fact to the homeowner.”  The consumer bureau was envisioned as a bulwark against the
kind of credit bubble that inflated from 1999 to 2007, when
 household debt  tripled to more than $12 trillion, according to
the agency.  Foreclosures  Warren said effective federal consumer protection might
have kept banks from improperly foreclosing on homes after the
collapse of the U.S. mortgage market. The 14 largest mortgage
servicers entered a consent decree with the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency that cost  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  $1.1
billion. Consumer protection rules might also have prevented the
rise of so-called liar loans, mortgages that were given to
borrowers without documented evidence of ability to repay,
advocates for the bureau said.  The bureau’s creators also foresaw an agency that would
replace inconsistent state regulation with more stringent
federal rules on short-term, small-dollar lenders including
payday firms, whose annual  interest rates  can top 400 percent.  Disclosure Form  The agency, which Warren shaped while serving as an Obama
adviser, was churning out drafts of a model mortgage disclosure
form as part of an initiative dubbed “Know Before You Owe”
even before it officially began work on July 21. These forms are
intended to help consumers understand the costs of a mortgage
and shop around for the best deal.  Similar initiatives have been announced for credit cards
and  student loans , the other two leading types of  consumer
credit  in the U.S.  The bureau’s direct supervision of mortgage servicers,
payday lenders and private student-loan companies will give
consumers a watchdog to protect their interests in dealings with
nonbank firms “that often compete with banks but have largely
escaped meaningful federal oversight,” Cordray said yesterday
in a speech at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “This is an important step forward for protecting
consumers,” Cordray said in a statement on the bureau’s
website. “Holding both banks and nonbanks accountable to
consumer financial laws will help create a fairer, more
transparent market.” The speech was Cordray’s first since Obama
used a recess appointment to give him the top job.  Legality Questioned  Republican lawmakers are questioning the legality of the
move. Senator Charles Grassley of  Iowa , the top Republican on
the Judiciary Committee, asked the  Department of Justice  for
information on the appointment in a letter signed by seven other
Senate members.  Representative Spencer Bachus of  Alabama , the chairman of
the House Financial Services Committee, has begun an inquiry
into the appointment. He has requested from Attorney General
Eric Holder any information on the  Justice Department ’s role, as
well as its opinion on the legal basis for the decision.  “The rule of law and Congress’ constitutionally grounded
authority to conduct oversight of the executive branch requires
that the administration explain the basis for its actions,”
Bachus wrote to Holder in a letter dated today.  ‘Jeopardy’  Cordray, a Democrat who served as  Ohio ’s attorney general,
was tapped by Warren to run the bureau’s enforcement arm a month
after he lost a re-election bid in November 2010. Cordray had
previously served as Ohio’s treasurer, a state representative
and as a law clerk to the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) , and has personally
argued seven cases before the high court, according to his
official biography. He was also a five-time winner on the
television quiz show “Jeopardy.”  Congressional Republicans opposed the creation of the
consumer bureau during negotiations that led to enactment of
Dodd-Frank in 2010. Senate Republicans last year vowed to block
confirmation of any director nominee while seeking changes
including replacing the top job with a five-member commission
and subjecting the bureau’s budget to the congressional
appropriations process.  Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama led a group of 45
Republicans who vowed to deny Obama the 60 votes needed to
ensure confirmation by the 100-member Senate. He released a
statement Jan. 4 faulting Obama for bypassing lawmakers with an
“end run” to seat “an unaccountable bureaucrat who will have
immense power over the economy.”  Needless Bureaucracy  Lobby groups representing financial firms including
JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fought against the creation
of an independent consumer bureau, saying it would create
needless bureaucracy. Payday lenders like  Advance America Cash
Advance Centers Inc. (AEA)  won a rule preventing the agency from
limiting interest rates, but couldn’t avoid being covered by its
rules.  “It has been widely reported that we were against the
creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( C (C) .F.P.B.),”
JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  wrote
in an April 4 letter to shareholders. “We were not -- we were
against the creation of a standalone C.F.P.B., operating
separately and apart from whatever regulatory agency already had
oversight authority over banks.”  Complaint System  Consumers may benefit from the bureau’s complaint system,
its coming regulations and the corps of examiners it is building
to examine the books and practices of financial firms.  The bureau, which began taking complaints about credit
cards on July 21, said it had fielded 5,074 inquiries as of Oct.
21. The bureau said it would make complaint information
available -- without personal information -- to the public,
bucking objections from credit card issuers.  “The complaint system has identified recurring scams and
helped to obtain redress for defrauded consumers,” the bureau
said in a Nov. 30 report.  Supervision of financial services firms could turn out to
be a tactic for reducing the fees that consumers pay for
overdrawing their checking account. A study by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. published in 2008 concluded that 9
percent of customers paid 84 percent of all overdraft fees.  Felt, Not Seen  Jo Ann Barefoot, a consultant with Treliant Risk Advisors
in Washington, said the key tactic in reducing overdraft fees
could be supervision, work that would be felt, but not seen, by
consumers.  Traditionally, banking supervisors visit firms and examine
their records, and prompt changes “every day of the week,”
Barefoot said.  “Now for the first time, an agency is conducting
examinations with a focus on harm to the consumer,” Barefoot
said in an interview.  The existence of a new consumer bureau doesn’t mean that
every mortgage will be refinanced, or every bad debt forgiven,
 Travis Plunkett , director of legislative affairs for the
Consumer Federation of America, said in an interview.  “Americans have a right to expect that this new agency
will start to address some of the financial problems that are
affecting them,” Plunkett said. “That does not mean a startup
agency can work miracles.”  The agency begins its work in earnest with a structure that
will be largely invisible to the consumer.  Behind its website, consumerfinance.gov, lies the complaint
system -- which can also be accessed by mail or telephone. Apart
from the team that tends to that system, examiners will handle
the day-to-day scrutiny of banks and other consumer finance
companies.  Alleged lawbreakers will face its enforcement team, which
Cordray set up over the past year. And a research and
regulations team will both track industry developments, and
write and revise the rules of the road for consumer finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  