-- Obama Defense Plan Presented as Diagnosis Without Prescription
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-01-06T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-defense-plan-presented-as-diagnosis-without-prescription.html
President  Barack Obama  unveiled a new
military strategy to reduce defense spending while shifting the
U.S. focus from  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  toward the Pacific and
addressing evolving challenges from China and Iran.  The revamped plan, which lacked details and echoed previous
vows to build a leaner military, was driven by the need to cut
almost $490 billion from projected Pentagon spending through
2021, including about $261 billion through 2017. Still, the
president said yesterday at the Pentagon that the U.S. would
retain global military superiority, step up investment in cyber
security and space programs, and continue to attack what remains
of al-Qaeda.  The Pentagon’s strategy, which lists 10 primary military
missions ranging from counter-terrorism to humanitarian and
disaster relief assistance and projecting U.S. power in
contested areas of the world, is an “historic shift to the
future,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta told a news conference.  Asked for details on how the Defense Department may go
about meeting the goals, Panetta said those plans won’t be
released until the Pentagon presents its 2013 budget request to
Congress by early February.  The absence of details is like getting the “diagnosis
right, but it’s not sure what the prescription is or if they’ve
the resources to fill the prescription,” Andrew Krepinevich, a
military analyst at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments in  Washington , said in a telephone interview. “This
is strategy on an installment.”  Lacking Specifics  The lack of specifics is partly because of the strategy’s
multiple objectives, said a senior Pentagon official, who spoke
without authorization on condition of anonymity. In addition to
ending lengthy, costly and personnel-intensive nation-building
efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, the goals include ensuring that
the U.S. remains as dominant in space and cyberspace as it has
been on land, sea and air, the official said.  The strategy also is intended to counter Republican
election-year criticism that Obama is soft on defense, the
official said. Republican lawmakers were quick to criticize the
new strategy. Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of
 California , chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said
Obama has packaged “a retreat from the world.”  “An honest and valid strategy for national defense can’t
be founded on the premise that we must do more with less, or
even less with less,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Real Buy-in’  Still, Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said at the news conference with Panetta that
the strategy has “real buy-in” from senior military officers.  “This is not the strategy of a military in decline,” he
said. “This is a strategy and a joint force on which the nation
can depend.”  Faced with fewer resources, the Pentagon’s review, titled
“Sustaining U.S. Global Leadership: Priorities for 21st Century
Defense,” signals a departure from previous war-planning
assumptions that called for preparing to fight two conventional
wars simultaneously.  Instead, the Pentagon plans to organize U.S. forces to
“fully deny a capable state’s aggressive objectives in one
region by conducting” a full-scale war across all domains,
while being capable of “denying the objectives” of an
“opportunistic aggressor in a second region.”  Planning for two simultaneous wars on land, sea, air and in
space and cyberspace was always expensive and often left the
Pentagon short of equipment such as tankers and combat support,
retired Marine Corps General James Cartwright said in an
interview. Still, he said, “We advertised we could conduct the
two-war strategy, albeit with certain caveats” and in “limited
circumstances.”  Iran ,  North Korea   The new strategy must be careful not to convey that the
U.S. is “overly vulnerable during one conflict to the potential
of having to execute a second near-simultaneous conflict,” said
Cartwright, a former vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington.  If there’s a confrontation with Iran, “What about North
Korea?” said  William Cohen , a former defense secretary and
chairman of the Cohen Group, on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” “What do our allies in
the region think about that particular strategy?”  With U.S. troops now out of Iraq and a drawdown in
Afghanistan scheduled to be complete by the end of 2014, “we
will of necessity rebalance toward the Asia-Pacific region,”
the Pentagon document said.  India  Partnership  The U.S. will expand cooperation in the region and
strengthen existing alliances, as well as invest “in a long-
term strategic partnership with India,” so the South Asian
nation may serve as a regional economic anchor, the Pentagon
said.  The document did not say how the administration would
strengthen its ties to  New Delhi  while improving its shaky
relationship with  Pakistan , an important, nuclear-armed front in
the war against terrorism that regards India as a mortal enemy.  With countries such as China developing missiles, cyber
technologies, and sea mines to deter U.S. forces from entering
their nearby waters -- so-called anti-access and area-denial
strategies -- the Pentagon will develop a new stealth bomber,
undersea capabilities, space technologies and missile defenses,
the strategy said.  In the absence of details, it’s not clear how the
development of a stealth bomber can counter the anti-access
strategies being pursued by  China  and other countries, said
retired Admiral Dennis Blair, a former U.S. Director of National
Intelligence.  Chinese Subs  The main threat to U.S. naval forces in the Pacific come
from Chinese submarines and missiles, and the “role of a
stealth bomber in the contingencies in East  Asia  needs further
explanation to make a compelling case,” said Blair, who also
served as commander of the U.S. Pacific Command from 1999 to
2002.  The U.S. shift toward the Asia-Pacific region won’t come at
the cost of cooperation with European allies and NATO
responsibilities, Panetta said. Still, new strategic priorities
will mean the U.S. military posture in  Europe  will “continue to
adapt and evolve,” he said.  That evolution will include cutting to two from four the
number of Army combat brigades stationed in Europe, U.K. Defense
Secretary Philip Hammond said in an interview.  The move, which will leave between 6,000 and 10,000 fewer
American troops in position to deploy quickly to the  Middle
East ,  Africa  and elsewhere, is “not going to be welcomed by
European allies in the alliance,” Hammond said.  ‘Mature’ Response  “Europe needs to respond in a mature way, not in a
histrionic way,” to such changes, he said. European nations
need to work with the U.S. and make the case “for continuing
the Atlantic alliance, even while recognizing that some of the
new strategic challenges are elsewhere in the world.”  In pivoting toward Asia, where air and naval equipment are
more apt to dominate military planning, the Pentagon must be
cautious not to forget the lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan,
Blair said.  The counter-terrorism mission, one of the 10 listed in the
Pentagon’s strategy, is best carried out by helping other
countries police their borders, through training and capability
building, Blair said.  Unlike military units that carry out specific tasks such as
anti-submarine warfare, the Pentagon has not designated an
office to assist other nations on counter-terrorism
capabilities, Blair said.  “Given its druthers, the Pentagon traditionally would give
priority to classic force-on-force warfare and give short
shrift” to other kinds of missions, and then be surprised when
forced to conduct counter-terrorism operations, Blair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  