-- Obama Administration Lawyers Defend Health-Care Law at U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-01-06T22:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-lawyers-tell-high-court-2010-health-law-addressed-coverage-crisis-.html
The Obama administration defended the
2010 health-care law and its requirement that people obtain
insurance, telling the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  that the measure
addressed a “crisis in the national health-care market.”  In the first of several rounds of briefs that will be filed
before the justices hear arguments in late March, the government
argued that Congress could enact the so-called individual
mandate under its constitutional authority to regulate
interstate commerce.  “Congress has wide latitude when deciding how best to
achieve its constitutional objectives, and its decision to adopt
a minimum-coverage provision was eminently reasonable,” argued
U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the administration’s top
 Supreme Court  advocate.  Opponents of the law, including a group of 26 states led by
 Florida , contend that Congress exceeded that authority by
requiring people to buy insurance even if they say they want to
pay their own health expenses or don’t plan to ever seek medical
care. People who don’t comply with the provision, which takes
effect in 2014, must pay a penalty.  Those opponents today told the court that a decision
striking down the mandate should prompt the justices to
invalidate the entire measure, known as the Affordable Care Act.  “Without the individual mandate at its heart, no statute
remotely resembling the act would or could have been enacted,”
the  National Federation of Independent Business  argued in court
papers. A group of 36 Republican members of the  U.S. Senate  also
filed a brief calling on the justices to throw out the whole law
if the coverage requirement is unconstitutional.  Three-Day Argument  The law would expand coverage to an estimated 32 million
Americans who lack insurance, largely through an expansion of
the federal-state  Medicaid program (USBOMDCA)  for the poor and by setting
up “exchanges,” in which consumers will be able to buy
insurance.  The court will hear arguments March 26-28. The justices
have scheduled 5 1/2 hours for the arguments, an unusually large
amount of time at a court that typically holds one-hour argument
sessions.  Federal appeals courts are divided on whether Congress can
require insurance under its interstate commerce authority, with
two upholding the law, a third declaring it unconstitutional and
a fourth saying that a definitive ruling would be premature.  The Obama administration argues that uninsured people
inevitably need medical care -- and shift billions of dollars in
costs onto other participants in the system. The administration
says the individual mandate will help keep premiums low,
offsetting provisions that require insurers to offer coverage to
sick people at the same rates as other customers.  In a separate line of argument, the government points to
Congress’s constitutional power to impose taxes, calling that an
independent source of authority for the mandate and penalty.  The cases are National Federation of  Independent Business 
v. Sebelius, 11-393;  Department of Health  and Human Services v.
Florida, 11-398; and Florida v. Department of Health and Human
Services, 11-400.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  