-- Obama Says Jobs Number Shows U.S. Economy Starting to Mend
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-06T18:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/obama-says-jobs-number-shows-economy-starting-to-mend-correct-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
200,000 jobs added in the U.S. last month shows the economy is
mending and he appealed to lawmakers to extend a  payroll tax  cut
through the rest of the year to assure growth continues.  “We’re starting to rebound,” Obama said today at the
offices of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in
Washington. “We’re creating jobs on a consistent basis.”  The number of jobs created in December exceeded forecasts
and followed a revised 100,000 gain in November that was smaller
than initially estimated. The Labor Department reported that the
unemployment rate fell to  8.5 percent (USURTOT) , the lowest since February
2009, as hours worked and earnings climbed.  After three years of historically high joblessness, the
condition of the economy has become the focal point of the 2012
presidential campaign for both Obama and the Republicans seeking
to replace him in the White House.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and other
Republican candidates have cast Obama as an ineffective steward
of the economy and his policies, such as his 2009 stimulus, as
failures. Obama has pointed to progress in employment and the
challenge of confronting the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, while arguing that Republicans would return to
the policies of President  George W. Bush  that preceded the 2008
collapse of financial markets.  Payroll Tax Cut  The president and his top economic aide, Alan Krueger, the
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, argued
today that the Labor Department figures show that such  measures
as cutting the payroll tax for workers and spending on
infrastructure projects are the right prescription.  “The president has targeted the right course for the
economy,” Krueger said on Bloomberg Television.  The next task for Obama is getting Congress to extend the
payroll tax cut for the rest of the year. The temporary two-
percentage-point cut in the rate was extended for two months
before lawmakers left  Washington  last month for a holiday break
under an agreement that they would debate how to pay for a full-
year extension when they go back to work.  “When Congress returns, they should extend the middle-
class tax cut” for all of 2012, Obama said. “We should get it
done.”  Jobs Lost  Employers added 1.64 million workers in 2011, the most
since 2006, after a 940,000 increase in 2010. Still, little
headway has been made in recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost
as a result of the  recession (USRINDEX)  that ended in June 2009.  The unemployment rate is the economic indicator most
broadly followed by the public and may have a critical impact on
Obama’s chances for winning re-election.  The administration’s own forecast, issued Sept. 1, is for
the  unemployment rate  to remain above 8 percent in 2012. Since
World War II, only one U.S. president has been re-elected with a
jobless rate above 6 percent:  Ronald Reagan  won a second term
with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.2 percent, a drop of
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  Today’s jobs numbers won’t change the advice for Republican
presidential candidates, according to Matt Mackowiak, a
Republican strategist and president of Potomac Strategy Group
LLC in Washington.  “One good jobs number doesn’t erase a misery across the
country,” he said in an interview. “No one believes that
because the numbers were better than expected, that the economy
is in good shape.”  Bureau Visit  Obama stopped to talk with the staff at the consumer
protection bureau two days after he defied Senate Republicans by
using his authority to make appointments while Congress is in
recess to install Richard Cordray as the agency’s director.
Republican leaders have accused the president of breaking with
precedent to circumvent the confirmation process, arguing that
Congress was not officially in recess since so-called pro forma
sessions were being held every few days.  Obama said that the mission of the CFPB is “making sure
that everybody plays by the same rules” and “that the big
banks on Wall Street play by the same rules as community banks
on Main Street.”  Obama, who is making confrontation with Congress part of
his re-election strategy, also appointed three members of the
 National Labor Relations Board  at the same time as he named
Cordray. The NLRB has been a Republican target since it sued
Boeing Co. in April, arguing the aerospace giant opened a plant
in the  South Carolina  to thwart unions. The case was settled in
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  