-- Hockney Snipes at Hirst, Says Bring Back Boozing: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hockney-snipes-at-hirst-says-bring-back-boozing-martin-gayford.html
Artists are useful to society, David Hockney suggested to me last year, because they are natural
intellectual rebels.  “That’s why you need lots of artists, and all kinds of
artists,” he said over lunch at his house in Bridlington.
“They don’t all have to be painters. Artists look at life from
another angle. People who can see things at a slightly different
angle, don’t we need that?”  That might not be true of all artists, though it’s
certainly the case with Hockney. He is, as he says, “a bit of a
propagandist.” Readers of the  Guardian newspaper  regularly find
contributions from him on the letters page about such matters as
the use of the camera obscura by old masters and the case for
smoking. He recently ignited controversy with what sounded like
a dig at Damien Hirst’s factory system of producing art.  A minor, humorous branch of Hockney’s work consists of
what, for want of a better term, you may call “word art.” An
example from a few years ago consisted of a placard, such as
that held by a demonstrator at a protest, reading “Stop
Bossiness Now!” Another, more recent, takes the form of an
official notice of the kind that may be found on a cigarette
packet: “Death Awaits You Even If You Do Not Smoke.” He had a
T-shirt printed with the words, “I know I’m Right -- D
Hockney,” which friends used to say was characteristic of him.  He’s a proponent of old-style Bohemia, a world in which, he
approvingly remarks, people “smoked, drank and were merry.” He
laments its disappearance, a casualty of the increasing cost and
conformity of modern life.  Chasing Money  “The thing about Bohemia was that everybody knew you had
to have money to lubricate life, but you wouldn’t go chasing
it,” Hockney said. “They rather looked down on that. That’s
the Bohemia I knew in  London ,  New York  and LA, and it was a view
of life I liked. I’m not sure it exists in that way anymore.”  The New Year was scarcely two days old when Hockney stirred
an art-world storm with the seemingly unassuming words, “All
the works here were made by the artist himself, personally.”
This claim appears on a poster for his coming exhibition, “A
Bigger Picture,” at the  Royal Academy  in London, and was taken
to be a dig at contemporary artists such as Hirst whose work is
made by teams of assistants or “fabricators.”  Perhaps it was. Hockney is a great proponent of the
handmade image. Teaching someone to draw, he argues in my book
“A Bigger Message: Conversations With  David Hockney ,” is
teaching them to look. When, in the 1970s, life drawing began to
disappear from art schools in Britain, he argued it was vital.  Handmade Image  His opponents sneered, “So it’s back to the life room is
it, Hockney?” He replied, “No, forward to the life room!” His
reason was that without the handmade image, the only view of the
world we’d have is one that comes through the lens of a camera.
(Photography, and its shortcomings, is another of his themes).  I doubt he meant that art always had to be handmade or that
artists can’t have assistants. He has a team of helpers himself,
though they don’t work on his actual pictures. And he will be
exhibiting moving photo-collages made with nine high-definition
cameras at the RA. What he’s saying is that the craft of making,
and in particular the practice of drawing, remain at the core of
visual art. That, in 2012, is a controversial statement.  “A Bigger Picture” will be at the  Royal Academy , London,
from Jan. 21 to April 9. The show is sponsored by  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 