-- Oil Falls for Second Day as European Outlook Overshadows Iranian Tension
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-06T20:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/oil-futures-are-little-changed-in-new-york-reversing-earlier-gain-of-1-.html
Oil slipped for a second day as
speculation  Europe  is headed for a recession overshadowed
concern that tensions with Iran may lead to a disruption in
Middle East shipments.  Futures decreased 0.3 percent as the euro dropped to the
lowest level versus the dollar since September 2010. Crude
surged to the highest price in almost eight months this week
after Iran threatened to block the Strait of Hormuz and European
ministers discussed an embargo on oil imports from the country.  “The weaker euro is making people nervous and leading the
market lower,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas
Prime Brokerage Inc. in New York. “Iranian concerns aren’t on
the front page today. It was worries about  Iran  that sent us
higher earlier in the week.”  Crude oil for February delivery fell 25 cents to $101.56 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Dec. 30. The contract climbed 2.8 percent this
week. Prices advanced 8.2 percent in 2011.  Brent oil for February settlement increased 32 cents, or
0.3 percent, to end the session at $113.06 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The euro dropped 0.5 percent to $1.2723 at 3:05 p.m. New
York time after touching a 15-month low of $1.2698 in intraday
trading. A weaker common currency and stronger dollar decrease
oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Consumer Sentiment  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area declined to 93.3 in December, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. That’s in line with the
median of  19 economists’ estimates (EUESEMU)  in a Bloomberg survey. German
factory orders fell 4.8 percent in November, the most in almost
three years, according to the Economy Ministry in Berlin.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will meet on Jan. 9 to discuss Europe’s new fiscal
pact before a EU summit at the end of the month. Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said on Jan. 4 that the EU is
on the brink of a recession of unknown scope.  Futures rose as much as 1 percent earlier after U.S. Labor
Department figures showed a 200,000 increase in payrolls during
December and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.5 percent.  American employers were projected to add 155,000 jobs in
December, according to the median of 86 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. The unemployment rate, derived from a
separate survey of households, was forecast to climb to 8.7
percent, according to the survey median.  For all of 2011, employers added 1.64 million workers, the
best year for the American worker since 2006, after a 940,000
increase in 2010.  $90 Oil  “It’s clear that the  U.S. economy  is ticking along now,”
said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “If you take away Iran, we’re
still looking at $90 oil, even with the prospect of stronger
U.S. demand.”  A European Union embargo on Iranian oil will probably be
phased in to protect countries with the greatest reliance on
imports from the country, according to an EU official familiar
with the talks. Foreign ministers are likely to agree to block
Iranian oil imports at a meeting in Brussels on Jan. 30, and
working groups are negotiating the details, said the official,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private.  Japan plans to express its concerns about a possible
embargo on Iranian oil to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
when he visits Tokyo next week, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said. Japan, which imports almost all of its energy
supplies, is the world’s second-biggest buyer of Iranian crude
after  China .  Nuclear Program  Western countries have imposed sanctions on Iran because
they allege the country’s nuclear-development program is aimed
at building atomic weapons. Iran says the plans are for civilian
purposes and to generate electricity.  The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps will hold large-scale
exercises in the  Strait of Hormuz  and the Persian Gulf next
month, the state-run Fars news agency reported today. The
country, the third-largest oil exporter globally, has threatened
to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for almost a fifth
of the world’s oil.  “There’s no question that blocking the Strait of Hormuz
would cause a price spike, but there’s a growing realization
that it would be difficult for Iran to close it for any length
of time,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory
company Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan , Connecticut. “It
really doesn’t make a lot of sense for them to close it.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 529,093
contracts as of 3:05 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 580,873
contracts yesterday, 4 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million contracts, the highest level since
Nov. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  