-- Hong Kong Regulator Warns Banks on Complex Product Disclosure
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   G a r v e y
-- 2012-01-06T09:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/hong-kong-regulator-warns-banks-on-complex-product-disclosure.html
The  Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) 
urged banks in the city to ensure that customers understand the
risks of buying complex products such as subordinated bonds, in
the regulator’s latest effort to strengthen disclosure.  The city’s de facto central bank said in a letter to
financial institutions yesterday that they should explain to
clients that so-called junior securities “bear higher risks”
than senior debt. Subordinated debt doesn’t pay out in the case
of a default until after senior debt holders are paid in full.  “Disclosure and representation relating to credit
information should be clear and not misleading,” the authority
said. The circular said banks should refer customers to
documents detailing risks of other investments, particularly
exchange-traded funds.  The warning comes after the Securities and Futures
Commission, the investor protection watchdog, authorized six so-
called synthetic ETFs from  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  on Dec. 30. That
was the first time in 18 months the SFC has given permission for
such products, which mimic the behavior of exchange-traded funds
through the use of derivatives.  The approval comes more than three years after the
bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Following that
insolvency, financial institutions in the city faced criticism
for selling investment products containing derivatives to
individual investors.  A HKMA spokesman, who cited the regulator’s policy in
declining to be identified, said in e-mailed comments today that
the letter was part of regular efforts to ensure adequate
protection for investors. It wasn’t triggered by the SFC’s
recent authorization of synthetic ETFs, the person said.  The HKMA is responsible for the stability of the city’s
banking system. It has no statutory responsibility to protect
consumers, a role the SFC assumes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Garvey in  Hong Kong  at 
 bgarvey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  