-- How to Shorten the Long Presidential Campaign: Stephen L. Carter
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-01-06T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/how-to-shorten-the-long-presidential-campaign-stephen-l-carter.html
In the midst of his 1860 presidential
campaign against  Abraham Lincoln , Stephen Douglas announced that
he was leaving Washington to visit his ailing mother in upstate
 New York . Along the way, Douglas made campaign stops and speeches
throughout  New England .  According to the historian Paul F. Boller Jr.’s book,
“ Presidential Campaigns ,” newspapers were agog. One editorial
contended that Douglas “demeans himself … as no other candidate
ever yet has, who goes about begging, imploring, and beseeching
the people to grant him his wish.” Republicans distributed
satirical fliers titled “A Boy Lost!” to enlist the aid of the
public in tracking down Mrs. Douglas’s missing son, who had
vanished on his way to New York: “He has been heard from at
 Boston ,  Portland , Augusta, and Bangor.”  The reason for the surprise was that nobody had ever seen
such a thing. Candidates for president were not supposed to go
out on the hustings. Tradition forbade it. Such eagerness was
seen as evidence of the candidate’s unfitness for the office.
True,  Andrew Jackson  had done a bit of campaigning, but the
political establishment of the 19th century always regarded
Jackson as a vulgarian, exactly the sort of undignified fellow
who would do something as low-class as asking for votes.  This tale comes to mind this week as the exhausted
Republican presidential contenders finally leave Iowa, where over
the past year several have all but taken up residence. This
immersion in the politics of a single small Midwestern state is a
symbol of what has become known as the “long campaign” -- the
quest for the presidency that stretches into years. The endless
slog through fundraisers and town-hall meetings, all in the quest
for primary votes, might seem to bring “the people” into the
selection process. But its sheer mind-blanking endlessness has
become poisonous to electoral democracy.  From JFK to Today  Ironically, it was 52 years ago this week that Senator  John F. Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  announced his candidacy for
president. He wasn’t running in the Iowa caucuses, which nobody
really paid attention to until more than a decade later. He
hadn’t spent the previous year crisscrossing the country to raise
funds, or for that matter appearing on national television with
his opponents, offering scripted, empty 30-second responses to
complicated questions. Serious meetings with potential backers
had begun only a few months earlier. There was time back then to
ponder. By the time the young senator made up his mind, the
general election was only 10 months away.  Nowadays, such an approach is unimaginable. The faces of the
candidates are constantly before us. But sometimes the old ways
are better. Consider the case of Douglas’s opponent in that 1860
election, Lincoln, properly ranked by most historians as the
greatest president in American history. Lincoln made no official
campaign stops. In keeping with the tradition of the day, he
contented himself by corresponding with potential supporters and,
on rare occasion, meeting them behind closed doors. Public
appearances were widely considered beneath the dignity of any man
who sought to lead a great nation.  Similarly, when Lincoln ran for re-election in 1864, he
largely stayed in  Washington  and its environs. True, he was not
above horse-trading. He nominated Salmon P. Chase as chief
justice of the  Supreme Court , after Chase agreed to first give
campaign speeches for the incumbent in his native  Ohio  -- but
Lincoln himself stayed off the campaign trail.  The first candidate to be taken seriously as he traveled the
country seeking votes was William Jennings Bryan in 1896. But
even then, his campaign was seen as something of an oddity. By
the early 20th century, candidates were making whistlestop tours.
But the campaign itself still did not really begin until the
conventions; a man could wait until the very last minute to
declare himself.  Jimmy Carter ’s Innovation  Political historians tell us that we should thank the
anarchy of the 1968 Democratic National Convention in  Chicago  for
the unending primaries that have led to the world of the
permanent campaign. After Chicago, the Democratic establishment
began expanding the role of primaries in selecting its nominee,
hoping to calm the battles that were dividing the party --
although it is hardly likely that anyone expected the primaries
to become, within a decade, more important than the party
leaders.  Jimmy Carter famously exploded the old model in 1976, by
deciding to bet his candidacy on  Iowa , whose caucuses until then
had not been taken seriously, and all but changing his official
residence to the state during the year prior to the election.
Later candidates began to follow suit. Add in the 24-hour
commentary cycle, and the race to the bottom was on -- with the
bottom, in this case, the long campaign.  The time and money invested is doubly foolish given the
substantial evidence essentially confirming what is known as the
“minimal effects” hypothesis -- the theory that actual
campaigning has little or no effect on voting behavior. Social
scientists are able to build models that predict election results
with a fair degree of accuracy without accounting in any respect
for campaign activity.  I suppose one might argue for the entertainment value of the
long campaign -- certainly there are plenty of blogs and talk
shows that are fired by nothing else -- and if some people would
rather spend their time cheering on another partisan screed than
reading a truly challenging book, so be it. But it is not at all
obvious that this form of amusement represents a net social gain,
given the billions of dollars that must be raised to support it.
(And the entertainment itself can become ridiculous: Just days
after the 2008 election, one of the cable talk shows held a
roundtable discussion on the leading presidential contenders for
... 2016.)  The truth is that the long campaign has not served us well.
 Lyndon Johnson  might have survived something like the current
process, but Lincoln would have stood no chance. (William Seward
was the likeliest long campaigner that year.)  George Washington ,
if the historians have his character right, would not have wanted
the bother.  Two Suggested Reforms  We need to replace the long campaign with the short campaign
-- to fit presidential politics into a space that allows
candidates a chance to reflect and learn, and the rest of us a
year or more of peace. From the many proposals that have been put
forward to remedy our current difficulty, two seem particularly
worthy of mention:  [1] Repeal the $2,500 limit on individual campaign
contributions. The need to raise lots of money is one of the
principal drivers of the long campaign. The  academic evidence 
largely suggests that the contribution limits, like other
attempted financial reforms, simply increase the advantage of
incumbency. Many of the arguments in favor of the limitations
posit the evil billionaire who will fund a candidate he will then
control. But as long as disclosure is required, so we know who is
paying for whom, it isn’t obvious that the billionaire shouldn’t
be allowed to try. The quixotic 1968 presidential run of Senator
Eugene McCarthy, a campaign that forced President Johnson from
the race, was funded largely by a small number of wealthy
contributors, led by the philanthropist Stewart Mott. In the
current climate, McCarthy probably would not have run, and our
public dialogue would have been worse for it.  [2] Either reduce the number of primaries or find ways to
increase the number of unpledged convention delegates. The more
delegates that remain up for grabs, the later a candidate can
decide to get into the race. There is no particular reason to
reward those who choose to start their run early. Our ideal
should be to nominate the best possible candidates and elect the
best possible president, not to drive potential leaders to the
sidelines because they choose not to spend two or three years in
nonstop pursuit of the purple.  Roger Angell, the brilliant baseball essayist for the  New
Yorker , once commented that professional sports had undergone a
change for the worse, from a series of discrete events to which
one looked forward, to a nonstop flow of news in which one is
immersed. Elections are like that, too. The campaign never ends.
No doubt, the start will keep coming sooner and sooner, unless we
decide to stop it. The long campaign is swallowing the electoral
process, and that is a most undemocratic way to do business.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 