-- Patriots’ O’Brien Agrees to Become Penn State Football Coach, ESPN Reports
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-01-06T05:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/patriots-o-brien-agrees-to-become-penn-state-football-coach-espn-reports.html
New England Patriots offensive
coordinator Bill O’Brien has agreed to succeed  Joe Paterno  as
football coach at  Penn State  University,  ESPN reported , citing
unidentified sources.  O’Brien, 42, interviewed for the job yesterday, his agent
Joe Linta told the  Associated Press . The  Nittany Lions  will
announce the appointment tomorrow, ESPN said.  Paterno, 85, was fired Nov. 9 after 46 years as coach
because of the way he handled allegations of child molestation
by former Penn State assistant coach Jerry Sandusky.  Jeff Nelson, a spokesman for Penn State athletics, declined
to comment in an e-mail. Linta didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  “I believe the search is continuing and progressing very
well, as we hoped it would,” acting Athletic Director David Joyner said during a taped segment played at halftime of the
radio broadcast of last night’s basketball game between Purdue
and Penn State.  O’Brien was a linebacker and defensive end at Brown from
1990-92. He began his coaching career with the Bears and then
spent eight seasons at Georgia Tech, two years at  Maryland  and
two years at Duke. Paterno also played at Brown.  O’Brien joined the Patriots as a coaching assistant in 2007,
served as wide receivers coach in 2008 and quarterbacks coach in
2009-10 before taking over as offensive coordinator this season.  Leading Offense  The Patriots’ offense ranked second in the  National
Football League  this season by averaging 428 yards per contest
and was third in scoring with 32.1 points per game.  Sandusky, 67, whose defenses helped the school become known
as “Linebacker U,” was charged with 40 criminal counts tied to
alleged sexual molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009.
Sandusky has denied the charges against him.  Paterno and university President Graham B. Spanier, 63, who
weren’t charged, were fired amid criticism over the school’s
handling of the case. Spanier, who was president of the
university for 16 years after being chancellor of the University
of Nebraska-Lincoln, is a sociologist and a marriage and family
therapist.  Athletic Director Timothy Curley, 57, and  Gary Schultz , 62,
a senior vice president who oversaw university police, are
charged with perjury and failing to report that assistant coach
 Mike McQueary  told them he saw Sandusky molesting a boy. Curley
and Schultz, who remain free on bail, have denied the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  