-- Pay Jumps 25% for Brazilian Investment Bankers Ready to Defect to Rivals
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-01-06T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/pay-jumps-25-for-brazilian-investment-bankers-ready-to-defect-to-rivals.html
Brazilian investment bankers
defecting to competitors won pay increases of as much as 25
percent in 2011 amid a shortage of experienced executives in
 Latin America ’s largest economy.  While financial-services companies in London and New York
shrank headcount and reined in compensation, Brazilian lenders
and private-equity firms paid up for top bankers as they
expanded, according to research by executive-recruiting company
Options Group Inc.  “The talent pool is limited here,” Vinicius Bolotnicki, a
partner at Options Group in Brazil, said in an interview in  Sao
Paulo . Even after some headcount reductions at the end of last
year, there was a net increase in investment-banking jobs for
2011, Bolotnicki said.  Typical salaries for managing directors in Brazil are the
equivalent of about $350,000 to $500,000, not including bonuses,
compared with about $300,000 to $400,000 at top U.S. banks,
Bolotnicki estimated. Average pay for U.S. investment bankers
fell about 27 percent last year, while in Latin America it
declined 1 percent, according to New York-based Options Group.  “The local debt and credit markets will be the next big
thing,” Bolotnicki said, adding that foreign companies
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have been adding
employees to build local credit and bond services in Brazil.  Europe Fallout  The Brazil pay increases are still below the rate for 2010,
when executives switching firms commanded raises of as much as
35 percent, according to Options Group. Europe’s debt crisis has
forced some companies to pull back as estimates for economic
growth in Brazil decline.  Options Group predicted banks will continue to hire in
Latin America this year as long as the European crisis doesn’t
intensify. The biggest challenge for investment banks in Brazil
for 2012 will be to retain senior executives as fees decline
from underwriting stocks and bonds and from advising on mergers
and acquisitions, Bolotnicki said.  The industry’s total revenue from investment-banking fees
in  Brazil  was about $891 million last year, according to
Dealogic, an information and consulting service. That’s down
from $1.16 billion in 2010 and the record $1.6 billion in 2007.  “Senior executives will get a larger piece of a smaller
bonus pool, since they need to be retained,” Bolotnicki said.
“Because of that, we are anticipating a very disappointing
bonus season for the mid-level professionals, with very few
exceptions.”  First-Quarter Payout  Some of the mid-level executives may move to other firms
after the first quarter, when banks pay bonuses.  Brazilian banks typically pay their bonuses in cash, giving
them an advantage over international companies, which pay as
much as 70 percent of bonuses in shares to top executives,
according to Bolotnicki.  Average compensation fell last year in all six regions
researched by Options Group. Latin America’s 1 percent decline
was the smallest. It compared with a 27 percent drop in both the
U.S. and the  Europe , Middle East and Africa region. Compensation
declined 19 percent in the Asia region, 18 percent in  Japan  and
31 percent in  India .  “In Brazil we saw an increase in the compensation of
equity analysts and equity-derivatives teams,” Bolotnicki said,
with wages rising 15 percent in Latin America for those jobs.
Compensation at prime brokerages was up 10 percent in the
region, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  