-- Petroplus Closures to Boost Oil-Refining Profits: Energy Markets
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-01-06T13:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/petroplus-closures-to-boost-european-oil-refining-profits-energy-markets.html
The closing of three Petroplus
Holdings AG refineries in northwest  Europe  may increase first-
quarter profits from processing crude as fuel supplies are
curtailed.  Refiners in the region may earn $2.30 a barrel this month,
and $2.50 in February from processing  Brent crude  into products
such as gasoline, compared with a loss of 20 cents a barrel in
December, according to  Roy Jordan , an analyst at Facts Global
Energy Inc. in London who worked for more than 30 years as an
oil trader at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “The Petroplus closures do boost petroleum product margins
in the short term,”  Francisco Blanch , head of commodities
research at Bank of America Corp. in New York, said by phone on
Jan. 4. “We’ve always said closures need to happen. Now it’s
starting to happen because of the tighter credit situation.”  Profits for European refiners shrank after the 2008
recession reduced demand for fuels, leading to temporary plant
shutdowns and facilities being put up for sale or converted to
storage sites. Petroplus joins LyondellBasell Industries NV,  Eni
SpA (ENI)  and  Total SA (FP)  in closing unprofitable plants in Europe.  Petroplus, which spent more than $2.2 billion buying plants
since 2006 to become the region’s largest independent refiner,
is shutting sites after lenders froze more than $1 billion in
credit last month.  “A lot of refining capacity has already been shut and with
the start of Libyan production pressuring European physical
crude prices, the product cracks should improve,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, said by phone from
Oberwil,  Switzerland , on Jan. 4. “Europe will have to rely on
more imports of diesel from the U.S. and  India .”  Crack Rises  Gasoil’s crack, or its premium to Brent, rose as high as
$16.65 a barrel today from $16.24 at 4:30 p.m. local time
yesterday, according to data on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. That compares with $15.84 at the start of the year.  Stockpiles of  gasoil (ARASGO) , which includes heating oil and
diesel, in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub
fell 4.2 percent to 1.94 million metric tons in the week to
yesterday, according to PJK International BV, a researcher in
the Netherlands. That’s the least since Nov. 3 and is 32 percent
below levels at the end of 2010.  Petroplus, based in Zug, Switzerland, said last week it
would start “temporary economic shutdowns” at its  Antwerp (BEANCRUD) 
plant in Belgium,  Petit Couronne (SHPECRUD)  refinery in France and the
Swiss  Cressier (PECRCRUD)  facility in January. The plants can process
337,300 barrels of crude a day, or about 2 percent of Europe’s
capacity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said yesterday production at its two other
refineries, in the U.K. and  Germany , had dropped to 45 percent
and 55 percent of capacity, respectively.  Berre Shutdown  Lyondell is proceeding with the shutdown of its  Berre (SHFRCRUD) 
refinery in the south of  France  after failing to find a buyer
for the 105,000 barrel-a-day plant.  “Refining operations are being discontinued,”  David Harpole , a Houston-based spokesman for Lyondell, said in an e-
mailed statement Jan. 4. “Units will be mothballed for up to
two years, through Dec. 31, 2013, to preserve the opportunity to
sell the refinery should a credible purchaser emerge.”  Processing profits in northwest Europe plunged to 51 cents
a barrel in November, compared with $1.52 a month earlier, the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris said in a Dec. 13 report.  Repsol YPF SA halted a crude unit at its  Petronor (PEBICRUD)  refinery
in Bilbao, Spain, for at least two months, while stopping a
gasoline-making plant through January because of weaker profits.  Iran Embargo  A potential European Union ban on imports of Iranian crude
may erode margins as feedstock costs rise. Brent, trading today
at about $113 a barrel, may rally to $125 should the embargo be
enforced,  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe
Generale SA in  New York , said by phone Jan. 4. Futures may rise
to $200, Iran’s state-run Fars news agency cited Oil Minister
Rostam Qasemi as saying Jan. 1.  Beyond the first few months of the year, the Petroplus
halts won’t have a significant impact because of additions to
global refining capacity, according to analysts at Bank of
America and Barclays Plc.  “In the long term there won’t be a significant improvement
in margins because of Europe’s overcapacity,” Amrita Sen, an
analyst at Barclays, said by phone on Jan. 3. “The ones being
closed are gasoline-driven. Lots of refineries will still have
to close.”  Refining Surplus  Refining capacity closures will probably amount to about 1
million barrels a day globally in 2012 while crude distillation
unit additions will be double that, according to Blanch of Bank
of America. That will further exacerbate the refining surplus
later this year as worldwide oil demand is projected to expand
by “just” 1 million barrels daily, he said. In 2010, global
oil demand rose by 2.7 million barrels a day, or 3.2 percent,
according to the IEA.  Integrated oil companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,
and Shell started selling refineries at least five years ago to
focus on exploration and production where returns are greater.
Brent surged to a record closing price of $146.08 a barrel on
July 3, 2008, when gasoline was trading at a $3-a-barrel
 discount (PVMPPG1M)  to crude.  In 2008, Petroplus completed the acquisition of the Petit
Couronne and  Reichstett (SHRECRUD)  plants in France for $785 million from
Shell. A year earlier, it purchased the  Coryton (BPCOCRUD)  refinery in the
U.K. from BP for $1.4 billion. The refiner bought the Ingolstadt
facility in Germany from Exxon in 2006 for an undisclosed price.  Refinery Profit  Ingolstadt (EXINCRUD)  and Coryton were the most profitable of
Petroplus’s five facilities in the third quarter, making $6.98 a
barrel and $6.68, respectively, according to a company
 presentation . It closed its Reichstett site in France last year
and Teesside facility in the U.K. in 2009.  The company is considering a strategy whereby an  oil
company , trader or bank would own the crude in Petroplus’s
storage tanks until the oil is refined, as a means of mitigating
its credit exposure, according to a Dec. 8 analyst presentation.  “If Petroplus fails to obtain the credit it requires and
it is not able to sell the three refineries in an unattractive
European refining sector then Petroplus as we know it today will
shrink,” Jordan of Facts said.  “The banks would prefer to keep Petroplus in business
until any outstanding debts are cleared but this probably means
focusing on the refineries that are financially viable and
closing the others,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  