-- Philips Sues Zoll Over Infringement Claims on Defibrillators
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-06T15:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/philips-sues-zoll-over-infringement-claims-on-defibrillators.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHG) , which
gets more than a third of its revenue from medical systems,
filed a lawsuit claiming that Zoll Medical Corp. is infringing
patents related to devices used to restart hearts.  Philips contends that external defibrillators made by
Chelmsford, Massachusetts-based Zoll are infringing six patents.
It is seeking cash compensation and an order that would block
further use of its inventions, according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Seattle .  Philips, Zoll and Medtronic Inc. are the top makers of
the devices that police, firefighters and flight attendants
use to help people experiencing cardiac arrest. An external
defibrillator used in the first minutes after cardiac arrest can
triple the chances of survival, according to a study by
the  University of Pennsylvania .  The patents relate to ways of analyzing a patient’s
heart function, defibrillators with automatic and manual
modes, and methods to send medical information to and from
the machines as the patient is transferred to more advanced
medical care.  “Zoll does not have a license or permission to use”
the inventions, Philips said in the complaint. The Amsterdam
company said it has lost profits and potential sales “that
Philips would have made but for Zoll’s infringing acts.”  The suit targets the E Series, M Series and R Series
defibrillators made by Zoll, which reported $523.7 million in
sales last year, all from different types of resuscitation
devices. Officials with Zoll couldn’t immediately be reached to
comment.  Philips announced last month that it had imposed
controls on discretionary spending and scaled back hiring
after it forecast weakening demand for health-care equipment
in  Europe .  The case is Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV v.  Zoll
Medical Corp. (ZOLL) , 12cv18, U.S. District Court for the Western
District of  Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  