-- Pope Benedict Names 22 Cardinals, Including 16 From Europe, Two Americans
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-06T22:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-06/pope-benedict-names-22-cardinals-including-16-from-europe-two-americans.html
Archbishop Timothy Dolan, who has led
the 2.5 million-member Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York
since 2009, was named one of 22 cardinals-designate by  Pope Benedict XVI .  Dolan, 61, will become a prince of the church in Rome Feb.
18, he wrote today in a blog post hours after the pope made the
announcement during Mass at Saint Peter’s Basilica in  Vatican
City .  “As a kid, I just wanted to be a parish priest,” the
cardinal-designate said today at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in
 Manhattan . “And to think that now the pope has named me a
cardinal -- that’s awesome.”  The pope chooses cardinals as his principal assistants and
advisers in the administration of church affairs. As a member of
the College of Cardinals under age 80, Dolan will be eligible to
vote in selecting a new pope upon the death or resignation of
the current pontiff. Cardinal Edward Egan, whom Dolan succeeded
in the  New York  archbishop post in February 2009, will turn 80
in April and lose his voting eligibility.  “At 61 he will have moved into a position of leadership in
the church for almost 20 years,” said Thomas Groome, a religion
professor at Boston College and author of “Will There Be
Faith?,” published in 2011 by  HarperCollins . “He will be
listened to not just because he’s a cardinal but because he’s
from New York, with the largest population of U.S. Catholics.”  ‘Great’ for NYC  As president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops,
Dolan already has a network of political connections, Groome
said. The new appointments will raise to 214 the number of
cardinals, including 125 under age 80, he said.  Dolan oversees an archdiocese that spans about 180 miles
(290 kilometers), from the southern end of  New York City ’s
Staten Island borough north to rural Ulster County. The late
Pope  John Paul II  once called the position “the archbishop of
the capital of the world.”  “He’s a good guy, and I think it’s great for New York City
and great for the church,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
said today on his weekly radio show on WOR. The mayor is founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , in a statement, described Dolan as
“a faithful and dedicated leader, who has always put service to
others as his first priority.”  Irish Heritage  Dolan, born in  St. Louis  of Irish heritage, is New York’s
10th archbishop, a post held throughout history almost entirely
by Irish-Americans. He studied theology at the  Pontifical North
American College  in  Rome  and was ordained in 1976. He returned
to his alma mater as rector in 1994. He was named auxiliary
bishop to St. Louis in 2001 and became archbishop of  Milwaukee 
in 2002, according to the archdiocese.  In Milwaukee, Dolan won praise for tackling openly and
early allegations that high-ranking Catholic officials turned a
blind eye to priests who sexually abused children.  Eight of 10  archbishops in the New York archdiocese have
been cardinals.  “When he became archbishop of New York, everybody knew he
was going to be a cardinal someday -- it’s a given that whoever
is archbishop of New York is going to eventually be made a
cardinal,” said Thomas Reese, a Jesuit priest and senior fellow
at the Woodstock Theological Center at  Washington ’s Georgetown
University.  As New York’s Catholic leader, Dolan has pressed Congress
to extend  unemployment benefits  and to provide paths toward
legal status for illegal immigrants.  He opposed New York’s legalization of same-sex marriage
last year. He has also fought against abortion rights and
requirements that religious institutions include contraceptives
in health-insurance coverage as well as mandates that they offer
adoption services to gay couples.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at  edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  